Any employer desiring to establish an exemption from the overtime pay requirements of the Act with respect to employees whose employment and compensation may be considered to qualify therefor under section 13(b)(11) may petition the Administrator, in writing, for a finding under such section and this part. If the wage payment plan with respect to which the finding is sought has been the subject of collective bargaining with representatives of employees covered by the plan, the employer shall provide timely notice of such petition, in writing, to the authorized representatives or representatives of such employees and shall submit a copy of such notice to the Administrator.
§ 551.4
Requirements for petition.
A petition for a finding under section 13(b)(11) of the Act and this part shall include in such detail as the Administrator may deem necessary for evaluation under the standards provided by the statute and this part, all the information required by § 551.5. Such information may be presented in any form convenient to the petitioner; no particular form is prescribed for the petition. The petition shall also include, by attachment, a copy of any collective bargaining agreement or other document governing the method of payment for the work of employees covered by the wage payment plan with respect to which a finding is requested. The petition, together with any such documents, shall be filed with the Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, United States Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210.
§ 551.5
Information to be submitted.
Every petition filed under §§ 551.3 and 551.4 shall contain the following information:
(a) A full statement of the facts relied upon by the petitioner to establish, under the applicable definitions in § 551.8, that the wage payment plan submitted for consideration: (1) Applies to employees employed (i) as drivers or drivers' helpers, or both, (ii) in “making local deliveries” and (2) determines, “on the basis of trip rates or other delivery payment plan”, the compensation which such employees receive for such employment; and
(b) A complete description of the wage payment plan and full information concerning its application showing, among other things: (1) The method of compensation which it provides and the types of payments made to employees covered by the plan, together with such information as may be necessary to show how these payments are computed and how and to what extent they are actually used in determining
the total compensation received by employees covered by the plan, (2) a full description of all duties performed by the employees compensated under the plan, including information as to the types of goods delivered, their points of origin and destination and the purposes for and geographical area within which they are transported by the employees, the relationship of the employer to the consignor and consignee, and the numbers, (minimum, maximum, and average or typical) of round trips made by such employees in transporting such goods during the workday and of deliveries made during each such trip, and (3) other relevant information concerning the employees compensated under the plan including the total number of such employees employed full-time as drivers or drivers' helpers making local deliveries under the provisions of the plan during the most recent representative annual period as defined in § 551.8(g)(1), the weekly hours worked and the average workweek of such employees during such period and, if there are any significant variations in the number of such employees so employed in the particular workweeks within the period, a full statement of the facts concerning such variations, information as to any workweeks in which any employees compensated under the plan devote less than eighty percent of their worktime to duties as drivers or drivers' helpers making local deliveries; and
(c) A statement of the facts and reasons based on the history and application of the plan which are relied upon to support a finding that the plan has the general purpose and effect of reducing the hours worked by drivers or drivers' helpers covered by its provisions to, or below, the statutory maximum workweek applicable to them under the Act.
§ 551.6
Action on petition.
(a) Upon the filing of a petition as provided in this part, the Administrator will give consideration thereto, and make any further inquiry into the facts that he may deem necessary. The Administrator may require, before taking further action thereof, that notice of the petition be given to affected employees in such manner as he shall determine to be appropriate to afford them an opportunity to submit any facts or reasons supporting or opposing the finding prayed for in the petition. If the Administrator determines that the petition fails to satisfy any of the requirements of this part, he shall deny the request for a finding or, in his discretion, advise petitioners that further consideration will be given to the submission if the deficiencies are remedied within a specified time. No further consideration will be given, however, to a request for a finding if the Administrator determines that the factual situation as described in the petition is not one in which authority to make the finding is provided by section 13(b)(11) and this part.
(b) If the Administrator determines that a petition meets all requirements of this part and if he is satisfied from consideration of all relevant facts and information available to him that the wage payment plan submitted has, within the meaning of section 13(b)(11) of the Act and this part, the general purpose and effect with respect to drivers or drivers' helpers making local deliveries, who are employed pursuant to its provisions on the basis of trip rates or other delivery payment plan, of reducing the hours worked by such employees to, or below, the maximum workweek applicable to them under section 7(a) of the Act, the Administrator will make an appropriate finding to this effect, and notify the petitioner; otherwise the request for such a finding will be denied.
§ 551.7
Finding.
(a) A finding by the Administrator under paragraph (b) of § 551.6 that a wage payment plan has the purpose and effect required for exemption of employees under section 13(b)(11) and this part shall be effective in accordance with its terms upon notification to petitioners as provided in § 551.6(b). The finding shall include such terms and conditions and such limitations with respect to its application as the Administrator shall deem necessary to ensure that no exemption will be based thereon in the event of any significant change in any of the essential supporting facts.
(b) A finding made pursuant to this part may be amended or revoked by the Administrator at any time upon his own motion or upon written request of any interested person setting forth reasonable grounds therefor. Before taking such action, the Administrator shall afford opportunity to interested persons to present their views and shall give consideration to any relevant information that they may present.
§ 551.8
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor.
(b)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, United States Department of Labor.
(c)
Finding
means a finding made pursuant to section 13(b)(11) of the Fair Labor Standards Act as provided in this part.
(d)
Making local deliveries
includes the activities customarily and regularly performed in the physical transfer, to customers of a business establishment situated within the rural or urban community or metropolitan area in which the establishment is located, of goods sold or otherwise disposed of to such local customers by such establishment. Included are activities performed by the driver or driver's helpers as an incident to or in conjunction with making such deliveries, such as picking up and returning the delivery vehicle at the beginning and end of the workday, cleaning the vehicle, checking it to see that it is in operating condition, loading and unloading or assisting in loading or unloading the goods, and picking up empty containers or other goods from customers for return to the establishment. Not included in the making of local deliveries are such transportation as the carriage of passengers; the transportation of any load of goods that would normally require a round trip longer than a single workday for delivery and return to the starting point; any movement of goods which does not accomplish a transfer of possession from one person to another; transportation of goods as a part of a process of production; and transportation of goods within a local community or metropolitan area as an integral part of a carriage of such goods from a point outside such community or area to a destination within it, rather than as a part of the activities customarily performed in making local deliveries, as defined in this section, in the same manner as deliveries of goods held locally for local disposition.
(e)
Employee employed as a driver or driver's helper making local deliveries
includes any employee who is employed in any workweek:
(1) To drive a delivery vehicle used in making local deliveries, or
(2) To assist the driver of such a vehicle in making such deliveries, being required to ride on the vehicle to perform such work,
and whose work in making local deliveries, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section, accounts for at least 80 percent of his hours of work in such workweek. In making and applying any finding as provided in this part, no employee shall be considered to be employed as a driver or driver's helper making local deliveries in any workweek when more than 20 percent of his hours of work results from the performance of duties other than those included in making such local deliveries.
(f) A plan of compensation
on the basis of trip rates or other delivery payment plan
means any plan whereby employees employed as drivers or drivers' helpers making local deliveries are compensated for their employment on a basis such that the amount of payment which they receive is governed in substantial part by a system of wage payments based on units of work measurement such as numbers of trips taken, miles driven, stops made, or units of goods delivered (but not including any plan based solely on the number of hours worked) so that there is a substantial inducement to employees to minimize the number of hours worked.
(g) For purposes of determining whether and to what extent a plan of compensation on the basis of trip rates or other delivery payment plan has the effect of reducing the weekly hours worked by employees employed by an employer as drivers or drivers' helpers making local deliveries pursuant to such plan:
(1) The
most recently completed representative period of one year
(§ 551.2(c))
or
most recent representative annual period
(§ 551.5(b)(3)) shall mean a one-year period within which such employees were so employed on a regular full-time basis by such employer (or, if such employer has not previously used such plan, by another employer using the plan under substantially the same conditions, which period shall include a calendar or fiscal quarter-year ending not more than four months prior to the date as of which the effect of such plan is to be considered, together with the three quarter-year periods immediately preceding such recently completed quarter-year; and
(2) The
average weekly hours
or
average workweek
of the full-time employees so employed during such annual period shall mean the number of hours obtained by the following computation: (i) All the hours worked during such annual period by all the full-time employees regularly employed under the plan shall be totaled; (ii) the number of workweeks worked by each such employee during such annual period under such plan shall be computed, and the totals added together; and (iii) the average weekly hours, taken in the aggregate, of all such employees shall be computed by dividing the sum resulting from computation (i) by the sum resulting from computation (ii).
§ 551.9
Recordkeeping requirements.
The records which must be kept and the computations which must be made with respect to employees for whom the overtime pay exemption under section 13(b)(11) is taken are specified in § 516.15 of this chapter.
[35 FR 17841, Nov. 20, 1970]
Pt. 552

# PART 552—APPLICATION OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT TO DOMESTIC SERVICE

# Subpart A—General Regulations
Sec.
552.1
Terms used in regulations.
552.2
Purpose and scope.
552.3
Domestic service employment.
552.4
Babysitting services.
552.5
Casual basis.
552.6
Companionship services.

# Subpart B—Interpretations
552.99
Basis for coverage of domestic service employees.
552.100
Application of minimum wage and overtime provisions.
552.101
Domestic service employment.
552.102
Live-in domestic service employees.
552.103
Babysitting services in general.
552.104
Babysitting services performed on a casual basis.
552.105
Individuals performing babysitting services in their own homes.
552.106
Companionship services.
552.107
Yard maintenance workers.
552.108
Child labor provisions.
552.109
Third party employment.
552.110
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Authority:
Secs. 13(a)(15) and 13(b)(21) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 213(a)(15), (b)(21)), 88 Stat. 62; Sec. 29(b) of the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1974 (Pub. L. 93-259, 88 Stat. 76), unless otherwise noted.

# Source:
40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Regulations
§ 552.1
Terms used in regulations.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, or the Administrator's authorized representative.
(b)
Act
means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended.
§ 552.2
Purpose and scope.
(a) This part provides necessary rules for the application of the Act to domestic service employment in accordance with the following amendments made by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1974, 88 Stat. 55,
et seq.
(b) Section 2(a) of the Act finds that the “employment of persons in domestic service in households affects commerce.” Section 6(f) extends the minimum wage protection under section 6(b) to employees employed as domestic service employees under either of the following circumstances:
(1) If the employee's compensation for such services from his/her employer would constitute wages under section 209(a)(6) of title II of the Social Security Act, that is, if the cash remuneration during a calendar year is not less than $1,000 in 1995, or the amount designated for subsequent years pursuant
to the adjustment provision in section 3121(x) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or
(2) If the employee was employed in such domestic service work by one or more employers for more than 8 hours in the aggregate in any workweek.
Section 7(l) extends generally the protection of the overtime provisions of section 7(a) to such domestic service employees. Section 13(a)(15) provides both a minimum wage and overtime exemption for “employees employed on a casual basis in domestic service employment to provide babysitting services” and for domestic service employees employed” to provide companionship services for individuals who (because of age or infirmity) are unable to care for themselves.” Section 13(b)(21) provides an overtime exemption for domestic service employees who reside in the household in which they are employed.
(c) The definitions required by section 13(a)(15) are contained in §§ 552.3, 552.4, 552.5 and 552.6.
(Sec. 29(b), 88 Stat. 76; (29 U.S.C. 206(f)); Secretary's Order No. 16-75, dated Nov. 25, 1975 (40 FR 55913), and Employment Standards Order No. 76-2, dated Feb. 23, 1976 (41 FR 9016))
[40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, as amended at 44 FR 37221, June 26, 1979; 60 FR 46767, 46768, Sept. 8, 1995]
§ 552.3
Domestic service employment.
The term
domestic service employment
means services of a household nature performed by an employee in or about a private home (permanent or temporary). The term includes services performed by employees such as companions, babysitters, cooks, waiters, butlers, valets, maids, housekeepers, nannies, nurses, janitors, laundresses, caretakers, handymen, gardeners, home health aides, personal care aides, and chauffeurs of automobiles for family use. This listing is illustrative and not exhaustive.
[78 FR 60557, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 552.4
Babysitting services.
As used in section 13(a)(15) of the Act, the term
babysitting services
shall mean the custodial care and protection, during any part of the 24-hour day, of infants or children in or about the private home in which the infants or young children reside. The term “babysitting services” does not include services relating to the care and protection of infants or children which are performed by trained personnel, such as registered, vocational, or practical nurses. While such trained personnel do not qualify as babysitters, this fact does not remove them from the category of a covered domestic service employee when employed in or about a private household.
§ 552.5
Casual basis.
As used in section 13(a)(15) of the Act, the term
casual basis,
when applied to babysitting services, shall mean employment which is irregular or intermittent, and which is not performed by an individual whose vocation is babysitting. Casual babysitting services may include the performance of some household work not related to caring for the children:
Provided, however,
That such work is incidental,
i.e.,
does not exceed 20 percent of the total hours worked on the particular babysitting assignment.
§ 552.6
Companionship services.
(a) As used in section 13(a)(15) of the Act, the term
companionship services
means the provision of fellowship and protection for an elderly person or person with an illness, injury, or disability who requires assistance in caring for himself or herself. The provision of
fellowship
means to engage the person in social, physical, and mental activities, such as conversation, reading, games, crafts, or accompanying the person on walks, on errands, to appointments, or to social events. The provision of
protection
means to be present with the person in his or her home or to accompany the person when outside of the home to monitor the person's safety and well-being.
(b) The term
companionship services
also includes the provision of care if the care is provided attendant to and in conjunction with the provision of fellowship and protection and if it does not exceed 20 percent of the total hours worked per person and per workweek. The provision of
care
means to assist
the person with activities of daily living (such as dressing, grooming, feeding, bathing, toileting, and transferring) and instrumental activities of daily living, which are tasks that enable a person to live independently at home (such as meal preparation, driving, light housework, managing finances, assistance with the physical taking of medications, and arranging medical care).
(c) The term
companionship services
does not include domestic services performed primarily for the benefit of other members of the household.
(d) The term
companionship services
does not include the performance of medically related services provided for the person. The determination of whether services are medically related is based on whether the services typically require and are performed by trained personnel, such as registered nurses, licensed practical nurses, or certified nursing assistants; the determination is not based on the actual training or occupational title of the individual performing the services.
[78 FR 60557, Oct. 1, 2013]

# Subpart B—Interpretations
§ 552.99
Basis for coverage of domestic service employees.
Congress in section 2(a) of the Act specifically found that the employment of persons in domestic service in households affects commerce. In the legislative history it was pointed out that employees in domestic service employment handle goods such as soaps, mops, detergents, and vacuum cleaners that have moved in or were produced for interstate commerce and also that they free members of the household to themselves to engage in activities in interstate commerce (S. Rep. 93-690, pp. 21-22). The Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare “took note of the expanded use of the interstate commerce clause by the Supreme Court in numerous recent cases (particularly
Katzenbach
v.
McClung,
379 U.S. 294 (1964)),” and concluded “that coverage of domestic employees is a vital step in the direction of ensuring that all workers affecting interstate commerce are protected by the Fair Labor Standards Act” (S. Rep. 93-690, pp. 21-22).
§ 552.100
Application of minimum wage and overtime provisions.
(a)(1) Domestic service employees must receive for employment in any household a minimum wage of not less than that required by section 6(a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act.
(2) In addition, domestic service employees who work more than 40 hours in any one workweek for the same employer must be paid overtime compensation at a rate not less than one and one-half times the employee's regular rate of pay for such excess hours, unless the employee is one who resides in the employer's household. In the case of employees who reside in the household where they are employed, section 13(b)(21) of the Act provides an overtime, but not a minimum wage, exemption. See § 552.102.
(b) In meeting the wage responsibilities imposed by the Act, employers may take appropriate credit for the reasonable cost or fair value, as determined by the Administrator, of food, lodging and other facilities customarily furnished to the employee by the employer such as drugs, cosmetics, drycleaning, etc. See S. Rep. 93-690, p. 19, and section 3(m) of the Act. Credit may be taken for the reasonable cost or fair value of these facilities only when the employee's acceptance of them is voluntary and uncoerced. See regulations, part 531. Where uniforms are required by the employer, the cost of the uniforms and their care may not be included in such credit.
(c) For enforcement purposes, the Administrator will accept a credit taken by the employer of up to 37.5 percent of the statutory minimum hourly wage for a breakfast (if furnished), up to 50 percent of the statutory minimum hourly wage for a lunch (if furnished), and up to 62.5 percent of the statutory minimum hourly wage for a dinner (if furnished), which meal credits when combined do not in total exceed 150 percent of the statutory minimum hourly wage for any day. Nothing herein shall prevent employers from crediting themselves with the actual cost or fair value of furnishing meals, whichever is less, as determined in accordance with part 531 of this chapter, if such cost or fair value is different from the meal credits specified above:
Provided, however,
that employers keep, maintain and preserve (for a period of 3 years) the records on which they rely to justify such different cost figures.
(d) In the case of lodging furnished to live-in domestic service employees, the Administrator will accept a credit taken by the employer of up to seven and one-half times the statutory minimum hourly wage for each week lodging is furnished. Nothing herein shall prevent employers from crediting themselves with the actual cost or fair value of furnishing lodging, whichever is less, as determined in accordance with part 531 of this chapter, if such cost or fair value is different from the amount specified above,
provided, however,
that employers keep, maintain, and preserve (for a period of 3 years) the records on which they rely to justify such different cost figures. In determining reasonable cost or fair value, the regulations and rulings in 29 CFR part 531 are applicable.
(Sec. 29(b), 88 Stat. 76; (29 U.S.C. 206(f)); Secretary's Order No. 16-75, dated Nov. 25, 1975 (40 FR 55913), and Employment Standards Order No. 76-2, dated Feb. 23, 1976 (41 FR 9016))
[40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, as amended at 44 FR 6716, Feb. 2, 1979; 60 FR 46768, Sept. 8, 1995]
§ 552.101
Domestic service employment.
(a) The definition of
domestic service employment
contained in § 552.3 is derived from the regulations issued under the Social Security Act (20 CFR 404.1057) and from “the generally accepted meaning” of the term. Accordingly, the term includes persons who are frequently referred to as “private household workers.” See. S. Rep. 93-690, p. 20. The domestic service must be performed in or about a private home whether that home is a fixed place of abode or a temporary dwelling as in the case of an individual or family traveling on vacation. A separate and distinct dwelling maintained by an individual or a family in an apartment house, condominium or hotel may constitute a private home.
(b) Employees employed in dwelling places which are primarily rooming or boarding houses are not considered domestic service employees. The places where they work are not private homes but commercial or business establishments. Likewise, employees employed in connection with a business or professional service which is conducted in a home (such as a real estate, doctor's, dentist's or lawyer's office) are not domestic service employees.
(c) In determining the total hours worked, the employer must include all time the employee is required to be on the premises or on duty and all time the employee is suffered or permitted to work. Special rules for live-in domestic service employees are set forth in § 552.102.
[40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, as amended at 60 FR 46768, Sept. 8, 1995; 78 FR 60557, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 552.102
Live-in domestic service employees.
(a) Domestic service employees who reside in the household where they are employed are entitled to the same minimum wage as domestic service employees who work by the day. However, section 13(b)(21) provides an exemption from the Act's overtime requirements for domestic service employees who reside in the household where employed. But this exemption does not excuse the employer from paying the live-in worker at the applicable minimum wage rate for all hours worked. In determining the number of hours worked by a live-in worker, the employee and the employer may exclude, by agreement between themselves, the amount of sleeping time, meal time and other periods of complete freedom from all duties when the employee may either leave the premises or stay on the premises for purely personal pursuits. For periods of free time (other than those relating to meals and sleeping) to be excluded from hours worked, the periods must be of sufficient duration to enable the employee to make effective use of the time. If the sleeping time, meal periods or other periods of free time are interrupted by a call to duty, the interruption must be counted as hours worked. See regulations part 785, § 785.23.
(b) If it is found by the parties that there is a significant deviation from the initial agreement, the parties
should reach a new agreement that reflects the actual facts of the hours worked by the employee.
[40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, as amended at 78 FR 60557, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 552.103
Babysitting services in general.
The term “babysitting services” is defined in § 552.4. Babysitting is a form of domestic service, and babysitters other than those working on a casual basis are entitled to the same benefits under the Act as other domestic service employees.
§ 552.104
Babysitting services performed on a casual basis.
(a) Employees performing babysitting services on a casual basis, as defined in § 552.5 are excluded from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Act. The rationale for this exclusion is that such persons are usually not dependent upon the income from rendering such services for their livelihood. Such services are often provided by (1) Teenagers during non-school hours or for a short period after completing high school but prior to entering other employment as a vocation, or (2) older persons whose main source of livelihood is from other means.
(b) Employment in babysitting services would usually be on a “casual basis,” whether performed for one or more employees, if such employment by all such employers does not exceed 20 hours per week in the aggregate. Employment in excess of these hours may still be on a “casual basis” if the excessive hours of employment are without regularity or are for irregular or intermittent periods. Employment in babysitting services shall also be deemed to be on a “casual basis” (regardless of the number of weekly hours worked by the babysitter) in the case of individuals whose vocations are not domestic service who accompany families for a vacation period to take care of the children if the duration of such employment does not exceed 6 weeks.
(c) If the individual performing babysitting services on a “casual basis” devotes more than 20 percent of his or her time to household work during a babysitting assignment, the exemption for “babysitting services on a casual basis” does not apply during that assignment and the individual must be paid in accordance with the Act's minimum wage and overtime requirements. This does not affect the application of the exemption for previous or subsequent babysitting assignments where the 20 percent tolerance is not exceeded.
(d) Individuals who engage in babysitting as a full-time occupation are not employed on a “casual basis.”
[40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, as amended at 60 FR 46768, Sept. 8, 1995]
§ 552.105
Individuals performing babysitting services in their own homes.
(a) It is clear from the legislative history that the Act's new coverage of domestic service employees is limited to those persons who perform such services in or about the private household of the employer. Accordingly, if such services are performed away from the employer's permanent, or temporary household there is no coverage under sections 6(f) and 7(l) of the Act. A typical example would be an individual who cares for the children of others in her own home. This type of operation, however, could, depending on the particular facts, qualify as a preschool or day care center and thus be covered under section 3(s)(1)(B) of the Act in which case the person providing the service would be required to comply with the applicable provisions of the Act.
(b) An individual in a local neighborhood who takes four or five children into his or her home, which is operated as a day care home, and who does not have more than one employee or whose only employees are members of that individual's immediate family is not covered by the Fair Labor Standards Act.
[40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, as amended at 60 FR 46768, Sept. 8, 1995]
§ 552.106
Companionship services.
The term “companionship services” is defined in § 552.6. Persons who provide care and protection for babies and young children who do not have illnesses, injuries, or disabilities are considered babysitters, not companions. The companion must perform the services with respect to the elderly person
or person with an illness, injury, or disability and not generally to other persons. The “casual” limitation does not apply to companion services.
[78 FR 60557, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 552.107
Yard maintenance workers.
Persons who mow lawns and perform other yard work in a neighborhood community generally provide their own equipment, set their own work schedule and occasionally hire other individuals. Such persons will be recognized as independent contractors who are not covered by the Act as domestic service employees. On the other hand, gardeners and yardmen employed primarily by one household are not usually independent contractors.
§ 552.108
Child labor provisions.
Congress made no change in section 12 as regards domestic service employees. Accordingly, the child labor provisions of the Act do not apply unless the underaged minor (a) is individually engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, or (b) is employed by an enterprise meeting the coverage tests of sections 3(r) and 3(s)(1) of the Act, or (c) is employed in or about a home where work in the production of goods for commerce is performed.
§ 552.109
Third party employment.
(a) Third party employers of employees engaged in companionship services within the meaning of § 552.6 may not avail themselves of the minimum wage and overtime exemption provided by section 13(a)(15) of the Act, even if the employee is jointly employed by the individual or member of the family or household using the services. However, the individual or member of the family or household, even if considered a joint employer, is still entitled to assert the exemption, if the employee meets all of the requirements of § 552.6.
(b) Employees who are engaged in providing babysitting services and who are employed by an employer or agency other than the family or household using their services are not employed on a “casual basis” for purposes of the section 13(a)(15) exemption. Such employees are engaged in this occupation as a vocation.
(c) Third party employers of employees engaged in live-in domestic service employment within the meaning of § 552.102 may not avail themselves of the overtime exemption provided by section 13(b)(21) of the Act, even if the employee is jointly employed by the individual or member of the family or household using the services. However, the individual or member of the family or household, even if considered a joint employer, is still entitled to assert the exemption.
[40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, as amended at 78 FR 60557, Oct. 1, 2013]
§ 552.110
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The general recordkeeping regulations are found in part 516 of this chapter and they require that every employer having covered domestic service employees shall keep records which show for each such employee: (1) Name in full, (2) social security number, (3) address in full, including zip code, (4) total hours worked each week by the employee for the employer, (5) total cash wages paid each week to the employee by the employer, (6) weekly sums claimed by the employer for board, lodging or other facilities, and (7) extra pay for weekly hours worked in excess of 40 by the employee for the employer. No particular form of records is required, so long as the above information is recorded and the record is maintained and preserved for a period of 3 years.
(b) In the case of an employee who resides on the premises, the employer shall keep a copy of the agreement specified by § 552.102 and make, keep, and preserve a record showing the exact number of hours worked by the live-in domestic service employee. The provisions of § 516.2(c) of this chapter shall not apply to live-in domestic service employees.
(c) With the exception of live-in domestic service employees, where a domestic service employee works on a fixed schedule, the employer may use a schedule of daily and weekly hours that the employee normally works and either the employer or the employee may:
(1) Indicate by check marks, statement or other method that such hours were actually worked; and
(2) When more or less than the scheduled hours are worked, show the exact number of hours worked.
(d) The employer is required to maintain records of hours worked by each covered domestic service employee. However, the employer may require the domestic service employee to record the hours worked and submit such record to the employer.
(e) No records are required for casual babysitters.
[40 FR 7405, Feb. 20, 1975, as amended at 78 FR 60557, Oct. 1, 2013]
Pt. 553

# PART 553—APPLICATION OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT TO EMPLOYEES OF STATE AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS

# Subpart A—General

# Introduction
Sec.
553.1
Definitions.
553.2
Purpose and scope.
553.3
Coverage—general.

# Section 3(
e

# )(2)(C)—Exclusions
553.10
General.
553.11
Exclusion for elected officials and their appointees.
553.12
Exclusion for employees of legislative branches.

# Section 7(
o

# )—Compensatory Time and Compensatory Time Off
553.20
Introduction.
553.21
Statutory provisions.
553.22
“FLSA compensatory time” and “FLSA compensatory time off”.
553.23
Agreement or understanding prior to performance of work.
553.24
“Public safety”, “emergency response”, and “seasonal” activities.
553.25
Conditions for use of compensatory time (“reasonable period”, “unduly disrupt”).
553.26
Cash overtime payments.
553.27
Payments for unused compensatory time.
553.28
Other compensatory time.

# Other Exemptions
553.30
Occasional or sporadic employment—section 7(p)(2).
553.31
Substitution—section 7(p)(3).
553.32
Other FLSA exemptions.

# Recordkeeping
553.50
Records to be kept of compensatory time.
553.51
Records to be kept for employees paid pursuant to section 7(k).

# Subpart B—Volunteers
553.100
General.
553.101
“Volunteer” defined.
553.102
Employment by the same public agency.
553.103
“Same type of services” defined.
553.104
Private individuals who volunteer services to public agencies.
553.105
Mutual aid agreements.
553.106
Payment of expenses, benefits, or fees.

# Subpart C—Fire Protection and Law Enforcement Employees of Public Agencies

# General Principles
553.200
Statutory provisions: section 13(b)(20).
553.201
Statutory provisions: section 7(k).
553.202
Limitations.

# Exemption Requirements
553.210
Fire protection activities.
553.211
Law enforcement activities.
553.212
Twenty percent limitation on nonexempt work.
553.213
Public agency employees engaged in both fire protection and law enforcement activities.
553.214
Trainees.
553.215
[Reserved]
553.216
Other exemptions.

# Tour of Duty and Compensable Hours of Work Rules
553.220
“Tour of duty” defined.
553.221
Compensable hours of work.
553.222
Sleep time.
553.223
Meal time.
553.224
“Work period” defined.
553.225
Early relief.
553.226
Training time.
553.227
Outside employment.

# Overtime Compensation Rules
553.230
Maximum hours standards for work periods of 7 to 28 days—section 7(k).
553.231
Compensatory time off.
553.232
Overtime pay requirements.
553.233
“Regular rate” defined.

# Authority:
Secs. 1-19, 52 Stat. 1060, as amended (29 U.S.C. 201-219); Pub. L. 99-150, 99 Stat. 787 (29 U.S.C. 203, 207, 211). Pub. L. 106-151, 113 Stat. 1731 (29 U.S.C. 203(y)).

# Source:
52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Introduction
§ 553.1
Definitions.
(a)
Act
or
FLSA
means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201-219).
(b)
1985 Amendments
means the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1985 (Pub. L. 99-150).
(c)
Public agency
means a State, a political subdivision of a State or an interstate governmental agency.
(d)
State
means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other Territory or possession of the United States (29 U.S.C. 203(c) and 213(f)).
§ 553.2
Purpose and scope.
(a) The 1985 Amendments to the Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) changed certain provisions of the Act as they apply to employees of State and local public agencies. The purpose of part 553 is to set forth the regulations to carry out the provisions of these Amendments, as well as other FLSA provisions previously in existence relating to such public agency employees.
(b) The regulations in this part are divided into three subparts. Subpart A interprets and applies the special FLSA provisions that are generally applicable to all covered and nonexempt employees of State and local governments. Subpart A also contains provisions concerning certain individuals (
i.e.,
elected officials, their appointees, and legislative branch employees) who are excluded from the definition of “employee” and thus from FLSA coverage. This subpart also interprets and applies sections 7(o), and 7(p)(2), 7(p)(3), and 11(c) of the Act regarding compensatory time off, occasional or sporadic part-time employment, and the performance of substitute work by public agency employees, respectively.
(c) Subpart B of this part deals with “volunteer” services performed by individuals for public agencies. Subpart C applies various FLSA provisions as they relate to fire protection and law enforcement employees of public agencies.
§ 553.3
Coverage—general.
(a)(1) In 1966, Congress amended the FLSA to extend coverage to State and local government employees engaged in the operation of hospitals, nursing homes, schools, and mass transit systems.
(2) In 1972, the Education Amendments further extended coverage to employees of public preschools.
(3) In 1974, the FLSA Amendments extended coverage to virtually all of the remaining State and local government employees who were not covered as a result of the 1966 and 1972 legislation.
(b) Certain definitions already in the Act were modified by the 1974 Amendments. The definition of the term “employer” was changed to include public agencies and that of “employee” was amended to include individuals employed by public agencies. The definition of “enterprise” contained in section 3(r) of the Act was modified to provide that activities of a public agency are performed for a “business purpose.” The term “enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” defined in section 3(s) of the Act was expanded to include public agencies.

# Section 3(
e

# )(2)(C)—Exclusions
§ 553.10
General.
Section 3(e)(2)(C) of the Act excludes from the definition of “employee”, and thus from coverage, certain individuals employed by public agencies. This exclusion applies to elected public officials, their immediate advisors, and certain individuals whom they appoint or select to serve in various capacities. In addition, the 1985 Amendments exclude employees of legislative branches of State and local governments. A condition for exclusion is that the employee must not be subject to the civil service laws of the employing State or local agency.
§ 553.11
Exclusion for elected officials and their appointees.
(a) Section 3(e)(2)(C) provides an exclusion from the Act's coverage for officials elected by the voters of their jurisdictions. Also excluded under this provision are personal staff members
and officials in policymaking positions who are selected or appointed by the elected public officials and certain advisers to such officials.
(b) The statutory term “member of personal staff” generally includes only persons who are under the direct supervision of the selecting elected official and have regular contact with such official. The term typically does not include individuals who are directly supervised by someone other than the elected official even though they may have been selected by the official. For example, the term might include the elected official's personal secretary, but would not include the secretary to an assistant.
(c) In order to qualify as personal staff members or officials in policymaking positions, the individuals in question must not be subject to the civil service laws of their employing agencies. The term “civil service laws” refers to a personnel system established by law which is designed to protect employees from arbitrary action, personal favoritism, and political coercion, and which uses a competitive or merit examination process for selection and placement. Continued tenure of employment of employees under civil service, except for cause, is provided. In addition, such personal staff members must be appointed by, and serve solely at the pleasure or discretion of, the elected official.
(d) The exclusion for “immediate adviser” to elected officials is limited to staff who serve as advisers on constitutional or legal matters, and who are not subject to the civil service rules of their employing agency.
§ 553.12
Exclusion for employees of legislative branches.
(a) Section 3(e)(2)(C) of the Act provides an exclusion from the definition of the term “employee” for individuals who are not subject to the civil service laws of their employing agencies and are employed by legislative branches or bodies of States, their political subdivisions or interstate governmental agencies.
(b) Employees of State or local legislative libraries do not come within this statutory exclusion. Also, employees of school boards, other than elected officials and their appointees (as discussed in § 553.11), do not come within this exclusion.

# Section 7(
o

# )—Compensatory Time and Compensatory Time Off
§ 553.20
Introduction.
Section 7 of the FLSA requires that covered, nonexempt employees receive not less than one and one-half times their regular rates of pay for hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standards. However, section 7(o) of the Act provides an element of flexibility to State and local government employers and an element of choice to their employees or the representatives of their employees regarding compensation for statutory overtime hours. The exemption provided by this subsection authorizes a public agency which is a State, a political subdivision of a State, or an interstate governmental agency, to provide compensatory time off (with certain limitations, as provided in § 553.21) in lieu of monetary overtime compensation that would otherwise be required under section 7. Compensatory time received by an employee in lieu of cash must be at the rate of not less than one and one-half hours of compensatory time for each hour of overtime work, just as the monetary rate for overtime is calculated at the rate of not less than one and one-half times the regular rate of pay.
§ 553.21
Statutory provisions.
Section 7(o) provides as follows:
(o)(1) Employees of a public agency which is a State, a political subdivision of a State, or an interstate governmental agency may receive, in accordance with this subsection and in lieu of overtime compensation, compensatory time off at a rate not less than one and one-half hours for each hour of employment for which overtime compensation is required by this section.
(2) A public agency may provide compensatory time under paragraph (1) only—
(A) Pursuant to—
(i) Applicable provisions of a collective bargaining agreement, memorandum of understanding, or any other agreement between the public agency and representatives of such employees; or
(ii) In the case of employees not covered by subclause (i), an agreement or understanding
arrived at between the employer and employee before the performance of the work; and
(B) If the employee has not accrued compensatory time in excess of the limit applicable to the employee prescribed by paragraph (3).
In the case of employees described in clause (A)(ii) hired prior to April 15, 1986, the regular practice in effect on April 15, 1986, with respect to compensatory time off for such employees in lieu of the receipt of overtime compensation, shall constitute an agreement or understanding under such clause (A)(ii). Except as provided in the previous sentence, the provision of compensatory time off to such employees for hours worked after April 14, 1986, shall be in accordance with this subsection.
(3)(A) If the work of an employee for which compensatory time may be provided included work in a public safety activity, an emergency response activity, or a seasonal activity, the employee engaged in such work may accrue not more than 480 hours of compensatory time for hours worked after April 15, 1986. If such work was any other work, the employee engaged in such work may accrue not more than 240 hours of compensatory time for hours worked after April 15, 1986. Any such employee who, after April 15, 1986, has accrued 480 or 240 hours, as the case may be, of compensatory time off shall, for additional overtime hours of work, be paid overtime compensation.
(B) If compensation is paid to an employee for accrued compensatory time off, such compensation shall be paid at the regular rate earned by the employee at the time the employee receives such payment.
(4) An employee who has accrued compensatory time off authorized to be provided under paragraph (1) shall, upon termination of employment, be paid for the unused compensatory time at a rate of compensation not less than—
(A) The average regular rate received by such employee during the last 3 years of the employee's employment, or
(B) The final regular rate received by such employee, whichever is higher.
(5) An employee of a public agency which is a State, political subdivision of a State, or an interstate governmental agency—
(A) Who has accrued compensatory time off authorized to be provided under paragraph (1), and
(B) Who has requested the use of such compensatory time, shall be permitted by the employee's employer to use such time within a reasonable period after making the request if the use of the compensatory time does not unduly disrupt the operations of the public agency.
(6) For purposes of this subsection—
(A) The term
overtime compensation
means the compensation required by subsection (a), and
(B) The terms
compensatory time
and
compensatory time off
means hours during which an employee is not working, which are not counted as hours worked during the applicable workweek or other work period for purposes of overtime compensation, and for which the employee is compensated at the employee's regular rate.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987]
§ 553.22
“FLSA compensatory time” and “FLSA compensatory time off”.
(a) Compensatory time and compensatory time off are interchangeable terms under the FLSA. Compensatory time off is paid time off the job which is earned and accrued by an employee in lieu of immediate cash payment for employment in excess of the statutory hours for which overtime compensation is required by section 7 of the FLSA.
(b) The Act requires that compensatory time under section 7(o) be earned at a rate not less than one and one-half hours for each hour of employment for which overtime compensation is required by section 7 of the FLSA. Thus, the 480-hour limit on accrued compensatory time represents not more than 320 hours of actual overtime worked, and the 240-hour limit represents not more than 160 hours of actual overtime worked.
(c) The 480- and 240-hour limits on accrued compensatory time only apply to overtime hours worked after April 15, 1986. Compensatory time which an employee has accrued prior to April 15, 1986, is not subject to the overtime requirements of the FLSA and need not be aggregated with compensatory time accrued after that date.
§ 553.23
Agreement or understanding prior to performance of work.
(a)
General.
(1) As a condition for use of compensatory time in lieu of overtime payment in cash, section 7(o)(2)(A) of the Act requires an agreement or understanding reached prior to the performance of work. This can be accomplished pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement, a memorandum of understanding or any other agreement between the public agency and representatives of the employees. If the
employees do not have a representative, compensatory time may be used in lieu of cash overtime compensation only if such an agreement or understanding has been arrived at between the public agency and the individual employee before the performance of work. No agreement or understanding is required with respect to employees hired prior to April 15, 1986, who do not have a representative, if the employer had a regular practice in effect on April 15, 1986, of granting compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay.
(2) Agreements or understandings may provide that compensatory time off in lieu of overtime payment in cash may be restricted to certain hours of work only. In addition, agreements or understandings may provide for any combination of compensatory time off and overtime payment in cash (e.g., one hour compensatory time credit plus one-half the employee's regular hourly rate of pay in cash for each hour of overtime worked) so long as the premium pay principle of at least “time and one-half” is maintained. The agreement or understanding may include other provisions governing the preservation, use, or cashing out of compensatory time so long as these provisions are consistent with section 7(o) of the Act. To the extent that any provision of an agreement or understanding is in violation of section 7(o) of the Act, the provision is superseded by the requirements of section 7(o).
(b)
Agreement or understanding between the public agency and a representative of the employees.
(1) Where employees have a representative, the agreement or understanding concerning the use of compensatory time must be between the representative and the public agency either through a collective bargaining agreement or through a memorandum of understanding or other type of oral or written agreement. In the absence of a collective bargaining agreement applicable to the employees, the representative need not be a formal or recognized bargaining agent as long as the representative is designated by the employees. Any agreement must be consistent with the provisions of section 7(o) of the Act.
(2) Section 2(b) of the 1985 Amendments provides that a collective bargaining agreement in effect on April 15, 1986, which permits compensatory time off in lieu of overtime compensation, will remain in effect until the expiration date of the collective bargaining agreement unless otherwise modified. However, the terms and conditions of such agreement under which compensatory time off is provided after April 14, 1986, must not violate the requirements of section 7(o) of the Act and these regulations.
(c)
Agreement or understanding between the public agency and individual employees.
(1) Where employees of a public agency do not have a recognized or otherwise designated representative, the agreement or understanding concerning compensatory time off must be between the public agency and the individual employee and must be reached prior to the performance of work. This agreement or understanding with individual employees need not be in writing, but a record of its existence must be kept. (See § 553.50.) An employer need not adopt the same agreement or understanding with different employees and need not provide compensatory time to all employees. The agreement or understanding to provide compensatory time off in lieu of cash overtime compensation may take the form of an express condition of employment, provided (i) the employee knowingly and voluntarily agrees to it as a condition of employment and (ii) the employee is informed that the compensatory time received may be preserved, used or cashed out consistent with the provisions of section 7(o) of the Act. An agreement or understanding may be evidenced by a notice to the employee that compensatory time off will be given in lieu of overtime pay. In such a case, an agreement or understanding would be presumed to exist for purposes of section 7(o) with respect to any employee who fails to express to the employer an unwillingness to accept compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay. However, the employee's decision to accept compensatory time off in lieu of cash overtime payments must be made freely and without coercion or pressure.
(2) Section 2(a) of the 1985 Amendments provides that in the case of employees who have no representative and
were employed prior to April 15, 1986, a public agency that has had a regular practice of awarding compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay is deemed to have reached an agreement or understanding with these employees as of April 15, 1986. A public agency need not secure an agreement or understanding with each employee employed prior to that date. If, however, such a regular practice does not conform to the provisions of section 7(o) of the Act, it must be modified to do so with regard to practices after April 14, 1986. With respect to employees hired after April 14, 1986, the public employer who elects to use compensatory time must follow the guidelines on agreements discussed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987]
§ 553.24
“Public safety”, “emergency response”, and “seasonal” activities.
(a) Section 7(o)(3)(A) of the FLSA provides that an employee of a public agency which is a State, a political subdivision of a State, or an interstate governmental agency, may accumulate not more than 480 hours of compensatory time for FLSA overtime hours which are worked after April 15, 1986, if the employee is engaged in “public safety”, “emergency response”, or “seasonal” activity. Employees whose work includes “seasonal”, “emergency response”, or “public safety” activities, as well as other work, will not be subject to both limits of accrual for compensatory time. If the employee's work regularly involves the activities included in the 480-hour limit, the employee will be covered by that limit. A public agency cannot utilize the higher cap by simple classification or designation of an employee. The work performed is controlling. Assignment of occasional duties within the scope of the higher cap will not entitle the employer to use the higher cap. Employees whose work does not regularly involve “seasonal”, “emergency response”, or “public safety” activities are subject to a 240-hour compensatory time accrual limit for FLSA overtime hours which are worked after April 15, 1986.
(b) Employees engaged in “public safety”, “emergency response”, or “seasonal” activities, who transfer to positions subject to the 240-hour limit, may carry over to the new position any accrued compensatory time. The employer will not be required to cash out the accrued compensatory time which is in excess of the lower limit. However, the employee must be compensated in cash wages for any subsequent overtime hours worked until the number of accrued hours of compensatory time falls below the 240-hour limit.
(c) “Public safety activities”: The term “public safety activities” as used in section 7(o)(3)(A) of the Act includes law enforcement, fire fighting or related activities as described in §§ 553.210 (a) and (b) and 553.211 (a)-(c), and (f). An employee whose work regularly involves such activities will qualify for the 480-hour accrual limit. However, the 480-hour accrual limit will not apply to office personnel or other civilian employees who may perform public safety activities only in emergency situations, even if they spend substantially all of their time in a particular week in such activities. For example, a maintenance worker employed by a public agency who is called upon to perform fire fighting activities during an emergency would remain subject to the 240-hour limit, even if such employee spent an entire week or several weeks in a year performing public safety activities. Certain employees who work in “public safety” activities for purposes of section 7(o)(3)(A) may qualify for the partial overtime exemption in section 7(k) of the Act. (See § 553.201)
(d) “Emergency response activity”: The term “emergency response activity” as used in section 7(o)(3)(A) of the Act includes dispatching of emergency vehicles and personnel, rescue work and ambulance services. As is the case with “public safety” and “seasonal” activities, an employee must regularly engage in “emergency response” activities to be covered under the 480-hour limit. A city office worker who may be called upon to perform rescue work in the event of a flood or snowstorm would not be covered under the higher limit, since such emergency response activities are not a regular part
of the employee's job. Certain employees who work in “emergency response” activities for purposes of section 7(o)(3)(A) may qualify for the partial overtime exemption in section 7(k) of the Act. (See § 553.215.)
(e)(1) “Seasonal activity”: The term “seasonal activity” includes work during periods of significantly increased demand, which are of a regular and recurring nature. In determining whether employees are considered engaged in a seasonal activity, the first consideration is whether the activity in which they are engaged is a regular and recurring aspect of the employee's work. The second consideration is whether the projected overtime hours during the period of significantly increased demand are likely to result in the accumulation during such period of more than 240 compensatory time hours (the number available under the lower cap). Such projections will normally be based on the employer's past experience with similar employment situations.
(2) Seasonal activity is not limited strictly to those operations that are very susceptible to changes in the weather. As an example, employees processing tax returns over an extended period of significantly increased demand whose overtime hours could be expected to result in the accumulation during such period of more than 240 compensatory time hours will typically qualify as engaged in a seasonal activity.
(3) While parks and recreation activity is primarily seasonal because peak demand is generally experienced in fair weather, mere periods of short but intense activity do not make an employee's job seasonal. For example, clerical employees working increased hours for several weeks on a special project or assigned to an afternoon of shoveling snow off the courthouse steps would not be considered engaged in seasonal activities, since the increased activity would not result in the accumulation during such period of more than 240 compensatory time hours. Further, persons employed in municipal auditoriums, theaters, and sports facilities that are open for specific, limited seasons would be considered engaged in seasonal activities, while those employed in facilities that operate year round generally would not.
(4) Road crews, while not necessarily seasonal workers, may have significant periods of peak demand, for instance during the snow plowing season or road construction season. The snow plow operator/road crew employee may be able to accrue compensatory time to the higher cap, while other employees of the same department who do not have lengthy periods of peak seasonal demand would remain under the lower cap.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987]
§ 553.25
Conditions for use of compensatory time (“reasonable period”, “unduly disrupt”).
(a) Section 7(o)(5) of the FLSA provides that any employee of a public agency who has accrued compensatory time and requested use of this compensatory time, shall be permitted to use such time off within a “reasonable period” after making the request, if such use does not “unduly disrupt” the operations of the agency. This provision, however, does not apply to “other compensatory time” (as defined below in § 553.28), including compensatory time accrued for overtime worked prior to April 15, 1986.
(b) Compensatory time cannot be used as a means to avoid statutory overtime compensation. An employee has the right to use compensatory time earned and must not be coerced to accept more compensatory time than an employer can realistically and in good faith expect to be able to grant within a reasonable period of his or her making a request for use of such time.
(c)
Reasonable period.
(1) Whether a request to use compensatory time has been granted within a “reasonable period” will be determined by considering the customary work practices within the agency based on the facts and circumstances in each case. Such practices include, but are not limited to (a) the normal schedule of work, (b) anticipated peak workloads based on past experience, (c) emergency requirements for staff and services, and (d) the availability of qualified substitute staff.
(2) The use of compensatory time in lieu of cash payment for overtime must be pursuant to some form of agreement or understanding between the employer and the employee (or the representative of the employee) reached prior to the performance of the work. (See § 553.23.) To the extent that the (conditions under which an employee can take compensatory time off are contained in an agreement or understanding as defined in § 553.23, the terms of such agreement or understanding will govern the meaning of “reasonable period”.
(d)
Unduly disrupt.
When an employer receives a request for compensatory time off, it shall be honored unless to do so would be “unduly disruptive” to the agency's operations. Mere inconvenience to the employer is an insufficient basis for denial of a request for compensatory time off. (See H. Rep. 99-331, p. 23.) For an agency to turn down a request from an employee for compensatory time off requires that it should reasonably and in good faith anticipate that it would impose an unreasonable burden on the agency's ability to provide services of acceptable quality and quantity for the public during the time requested without the use of the employee's services.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987]
§ 553.26
Cash overtime payments.
(a) Overtime compensation due under section 7 may be paid in cash at the employer's option, in lieu of providing compensatory time off under section 7(o) of the Act in any workweek or work period. The FLSA does not prohibit an employer from freely substituting cash, in whole or part, for compensatory time off; and overtime payment in cash would not affect subsequent granting of compensatory time off in future workweeks or work periods. (See § 553.23(a)(2).)
(b) The principles for computing cash overtime pay are contained in 29 CFR part 778. Cash overtime compensation must be paid at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate at which the employee is actually paid. (See 29 CFR 778.107.)
(c) In a workweek or work period during which an employee works hours which are overtime hours under FLSA and for which cash overtime payment will be made, and the employee also takes compensatory time off, the payment for such time off may be excluded from the regular rate of pay under section 7(e)(2) of the Act. Section 7(e)(2) provides that the regular rate shall not be deemed to include
. . . payments made for occasional periods when no work is performed due to vacation, holiday, . . . or other similar cause.
As explained in 29 CFR 778.218(d), the term “other similar cause” refers to payments made for periods of absence due to factors like holidays, vacations, illness, and so forth. Payments made to an employee for periods of absence due to the use of accrued compensatory time are considered to be the type of payments in this “other similar cause” category.
§ 553.27
Payments for unused compensatory time.
(a) Payments for accrued compensatory time earned after April 14, 1986, may be made at any time and shall be paid at the regular rate earned by the employee at the time the employee receives such payment.
(b) Upon termination of employment, an employee shall be paid for unused compensatory time earned after April 14, 1986, at a rate of compensation not less than—
(1) The average regular rate received by such employee during the last 3 years of the employee's employment, or
(2) The final regular rate received by such employee, whichever is higher.
(c) The phrase
last 3 years of employment
means the 3-year period immediately prior to termination. Where an employee's last 3 years of employment are not continuous because of a break in service, the period of employment after the break in service will be treated as new employment. However, such a break in service must have been intended to be permanent and any accrued compensatory time earned after April 14, 1986, must have been cashed out at the time of initial separation. Where the final period of employment is less than 3 years, the average rate
still must be calculated based on the rate(s) in effect during such period.
(d) The term “regular rate” is defined in 29 CFR 778.108. As indicated in § 778.109, the regular rate is an hourly rate, although the FLSA does not require employers to compensate employees on an hourly basis.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987]
§ 553.28
Other compensatory time.
(a) Compensatory time which is earned and accrued by an employee for employment in excess of a nonstatutory (that is, non-FLSA) requirement is considered “other” compensatory time. The term “other” compensatory time off means hours during which an employee is not working and which are not counted as hours worked during the period when used. For example, a collective bargaining agreement may provide that compensatory time be granted to employees for hours worked in excess of 8 in a day, or for working on a scheduled day off in a nonovertime workweek. The FLSA does not require compensatory time to be granted in such situations.
(b) Compensatory time which is earned and accrued by an employee working hours which are “overtime” hours under State or local law, ordinance, or other provisions, but which are not overtime hours under section 7 of the FLSA is also considered “other” compensatory time. For example, a local law or ordinance may provide that compensatory time be granted to employees for hours worked in excess of 35 in a workweek. Under section 7(a) of the FLSA, only hours worked in excess of 40 in a workweek are overtime hours which must be compensated at one and one-half times the regular rate of pay.
(c) Similarly, compensatory time earned or accrued by an employee for employment in excess of a standard established by the personnel policy or practice of an employer, or by custom, which does not result from the FLSA provision, is another example of “other” compensatory time.
(d) The FLSA does not require that the rate at which “other” compensatory time is earned has to be at a rate of one and one-half hours for each hour of employment. The rate at which “other” compensatory time is earned may be some lesser or greater multiple of the rate or the straight-time rate itself.
(e) The requirements of section 7(o) of the FLSA, including the limitations on accrued compensatory time, do not apply to “other” compensatory time as described above.

# Other Exemptions
§ 553.30
Occasional or sporadic employment-section 7(p)(2).
(a) Section 7(p)(2) of the FLSA provides that where State or local government employees, solely at their option, work occasionally or sporadically on a part-time basis for the same public agency in a different capacity from their regular employment, the hours worked in the different jobs shall not be combined for the purpose of determining overtime liability under the Act.
(b)
Occasional or sporadic.
(1) The term
occasional or sporadic
means infrequent, irregular, or occurring in scattered instances. There may be an occasional need for additional resources in the delivery of certain types of public services which is at times best met by the part-time employment of an individual who is already a public employee. Where employees freely and solely at their own option enter into such activity, the total hours worked will not be combined for purposes of determining any overtime compensation due on the regular, primary job. However, in order to prevent overtime abuse, such hours worked are to be excluded from computing overtime compensation due only where the occasional or sporadic assignments are not within the same general occupational category as the employee's regular work.
(2) In order for an employee's occasional or sporadic work on a part-time basis to qualify for exemption under section 7(p)(2), the employee's decision to work in a different capacity must be made freely and without coercion, implicit or explicit, by the employer. An employer may suggest that an employee undertake another kind of work for the same unit of government when
the need for assistance arises, but the employee must be free to refuse to perform such work without sanction and without being required to explain or justify the decision.
(3) Typically, public recreation and park facilities, and stadiums or auditoriums utilize employees in occasional or sporadic work. Some of these employment activities are the taking of tickets, providing security for special events (e.g., concerts, sports events, and lectures), officiating at youth or other recreation and sports events, or engaging in food or beverage sales at special events, such as a county fair. Employment in such activity may be considered occasional or sporadic for regular employees of State or local government agencies even where the need can be anticipated because it recurs seasonally (e.g., a holiday concert at a city college, a program of scheduled sports events, or assistance by a city payroll clerk in processing returns at tax filing time). An activity does not fail to be occasional merely because it is recurring. In contrast, for example, if a parks department clerk, in addition to his or her regular job, also regularly works additional hours on a part-time basis (e.g., every week or every other week) at a public park food and beverage sales center operated by that agency, the additional work does not constitute intermittent and irregular employment and, therefore, the hours worked would be combined in computing any overtime compensation due.
(c)
Different capacity.
(1) In order for employment in these occasional or sporadic activities not to be considered subject to the overtime requirements of section 7 of the FLSA, the regular government employment of the individual performing them must also be in a different capacity,
i.e.,
it must not fall within the same general occupational category.
(2) In general, the Administrator will consider the duties and other factors contained in the definitions of the 3-digit categories of occupations in the
Dictionary of Occupational Titles
(except in the case of public safety employees as discussed below in section (3)), as well as all the facts and circumstances in a particular case, in determining whether employment in a second capacity is substantially different from the regular employment.
(3) For example, if a public park employee primarily engaged in playground maintenance also from time to time cleans an evening recreation center operated by the same agency, the additional work would be considered hours worked for the same employer and subject to the Act's overtime requirements because it is not in a
different capacity.
This would be the case even though the work was
occasional or sporadic,
and, was not regularly scheduled. Public safety employees taking on any kind of security or safety function within the same local government are never considered to be employed in a
different capacity.
(4) However, if a bookkeeper for a municipal park agency or a city mail clerk occasionally referees for an adult evening basketball league sponsored by the city, the hours worked as a referee would be considered to be in a different general occupational category than the primary employment and would not be counted as hours worked for overtime purposes on the regular job. A person regularly employed as a bus driver may assist in crowd control, for example, at an event such as a winter festival, and in doing so, would be deemed to be serving in a different capacity.
(5) In addition, any activity traditionally associated with teaching (e.g., coaching, career counseling, etc.) will not be considered as employment in a
different capacity.
However, where personnel other than teachers engage in such teaching-related activities, the work will be viewed as employment in a
different capacity,
provided that these activities are performed on an occasional or sporadic basis and all other requirements for this provision are met. For example, a school secretary could substitute as a coach for a basketball team or a maintenance engineer could provide instruction on auto repair on an occasional or sporadic basis.
§ 553.31
Substitution—section 7(p)(3).
(a) Section 7(p)(3) of the FLSA provides that two individuals employed in any occupation by the same public
agency may agree, solely at their option and with the approval of the public agency, to substitute for one another during scheduled work hours in performance of work in the same capacity. The hours worked shall be excluded by the employer in the calculation of the hours for which the substituting employee would otherwise be entitled to overtime compensation under the Act. Where one employee substitutes for another, each employee will be credited as if he or she had worked his or her normal work schedule for that shift.
(b) The provisions of section 7(p)(3) apply only if employees' decisions to substitute for one another are made freely and without coercion, direct or implied. An employer may suggest that an employee substitute or “trade time” with another employee working in the same capacity during regularly scheduled hours, but each employee must be free to refuse to perform such work without sanction and without being required to explain or justify the decision. An employee's decision to substitute will be considered to have been made at his/her sole option when it has been made (i) without fear of reprisal or promise of reward by the employer, and (ii) exclusively for the employee's own convenience.
(c) A public agency which employs individuals who substitute or “trade time” under this subsection is not required to keep a record of the hours of the substitute work.
(d) In order to qualify under section 7(p)(3), an agreement between individuals employed by a public agency to substitute for one another at their own option must be approved by the agency. This requires that the agency be aware of the arrangement prior to the work being done, i.e., the employer must know what work is being done, by whom it is being done, and where and when it is being done. Approval is manifest when the employer is aware of the substitution and indicates approval in whatever manner is customary.
§ 553.32
Other FLSA exemptions.
(a) There are other exemptions from the minimum wage and/or overtime requirements of the FLSA which may apply to certain employees of public agencies. The following sections provide a discussion of some of the major exemptions which may be applicable. This list is not comprehensive.
(b) Section 7(k) of the Act provides a partial overtime pay exemption for public agency employees employed in fire protection or law enforcement activities (including security personnel in correctional institutions). In addition, section 13(b)(20) provides a complete overtime pay exemption for any employee of a public agency engaged in fire protection or law enforcement activities, if the public agency employs less than five employees in such activities. (See subpart C of this part.)
(c) Section 13(a)(1) of the Act provides an exemption from both the minimum wage and overtime pay requirements for any employee employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, professional, or outside sales capacity, as these terms are defined and delimited in part 541 of this title. An employee will qualify for exemption if he or she meets all of the pertinent tests relating to duties, responsibilities, and salary.
(d) Section 7(j) of the Act provides that a hospital or residential care establishment may, pursuant to a prior agreement or understanding with an employee or employees, adopt a fixed work period of 14 consecutive days for the purpose of computing overtime pay in lieu of the regular 7-day workweek. Workers employed under section 7(j) must receive not less than one and one-half times their regular rates of pay for all hours worked over 8 in any workday, and over 80 in the 14-day work period. (See § 778.601 of this title.)
(e) Section 13(a)(3) of the Act provides a minimum wage and overtime pay exemption for any employee employed by an amusement or recreational establishment if (1) it does not operate for more than 7 months in any calendar year or (2) during the preceding calendar year, its average receipts for any 6 months of such year were not more than 33
1/3
percent of its average receipts for the other 6 months of such year. In order to meet the requirements of section 13(a)(3)(B), the establishment in the previous year must have received at least 75 percent
of its income within 6 months. The 6 months, however, need not be 6 consecutive months. State and local governments operate parks and recreational areas to which this exemption may apply.
(f) Section 13(b)(1) of the Act provides an exemption from the overtime pay requirements for “Any employee with respect to whom the Secretary of Transportation has power to establish qualifications and maximum hours of service pursuant to the provisions of section 204 of the Motor Carrier Act, 1935.” (recodified at section 3102, 49 U.S.C.). With regard to State or local governments, this overtime pay exemption may affect mass transit systems engaged in interstate commerce. This exemption is applicable to drivers, driver's helpers, loaders, and mechanics employed by a common carrier whose activities directly affect the safety of operation of motor vehicles in the transportation on the public highways of passengers or property. (See part 782 of this title.)
(g) Section 7(n) of the Act provides that, for the purpose of computing overtime pay, the hours of employment of a mass transit employee do not include the time spent in charter activities if (1) pursuant to a prior agreement the time is not to be so counted, and (2) such charter activities are not a part of the employee's regular employment.
(h) Additional overtime pay exemptions which may apply to emloyees of public agencies are contained in sections 13(b)(2) (employees of certain common carriers by rail), 13(b)(9) (certain employees of small market radio and television stations), and section 13(b)(12) (employees in agriculture) of the Act. Further, section 13(a)(6) of the Act provides a minimum wage and overtime pay exemption for agricultural employees who work on small farms. (See part 780 of this title.)

# Recordkeeping
§ 553.50
Records to be kept of compensatory time.
For each employee subject to the compensatory time and compensatory time off provisions of section 7(o) of the Act, a public agency which is a State, a political subdivision of a State or an interstate governmental agency shall maintain and preserve records containing the basic information and data required by § 516.2 of this title and, in addition:
(a) The number of hours of compensatory time earned pursuant to section 7(o) each workweek, or other applicable work period, by each employee at the rate of one and one-half hour for each overtime hour worked;
(b) The number of hours of such compensatory time used each workweek, or other applicable work period, by each employee;
(c) The number of hours of compensatory time compensated in cash, the total amount paid and the date of such payment; and
(d) Any collective bargaining agreement or written understanding or agreement with respect to earning and using compensatory time off. If such agreement or understanding is not in writing, a record of its existence must be kept.
§ 553.51
Records to be kept for employees paid pursuant to section 7(k).
For each employee subject to the partial overtime exemption in section 7(k) of the Act, a public agency which is a State, a political subdivision of a State, or an interstate governmental agency shall maintain and preserve records containing the information and data required by § 553.50 and, in addition, make some notation on the payroll records which shows the work period for each employee and which indicates the length of that period and its starting time. If all the workers (or groups of workers) have a work period of the same length beginning at the same time on the same day, a single notation of the time of day and beginning day of the work period will suffice for these workers.

# Subpart B—Volunteers
§ 553.100
General.
Section 3(e) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended in 1985, provides that individuals performing volunteer services for units of State and local governments will not be regarded as “employees” under the statute. The
purpose of this subpart is to define the circumstances under which individuals may perform hours of volunteer service for units of State and local governments without being considered to be their employees during such hours for purposes of the FLSA.
§ 553.101
“Volunteer” defined.
(a) An individual who performs hours of service for a public agency for civic, charitable, or humanitarian reasons, without promise, expectation or receipt of compensation for services rendered, is considered to be a volunteer during such hours. Individuals performing hours of service for such a public agency will be considered volunteers for the time so spent and not subject to sections 6, 7, and 11 of the FLSA when such hours of service are performed in accord with sections 3(e)(4) (A) and (B) of the FLSA and the guidelines in this subpart.
(b) Congress did not intend to discourage or impede volunteer activities undertaken for civic, charitable, or humanitarian purposes, but expressed its wish to prevent any manipulation or abuse of minimum wage or overtime requirements through coercion or undue pressure upon individuals to “volunteer” their services.
(c) Individuals shall be considered volunteers only where their services are offered freely and without pressure or coercion, direct or implied, from an employer.
(d) An individual shall not be considered a volunteer if the individual is otherwise employed by the same public agency to perform the same type of services as those for which the individual proposes to volunteer.
§ 553.102
Employment by the same public agency.
(a) Section 3(e)(4)(A)(ii) of the FLSA does not permit an individual to perform hours of volunteer service for a public agency when such hours involve the same type of services which the individual is employed to perform for the same public agency.
(b) Whether two agencies of the same State or local government constitute the same public agency can only be determined on a case-by-case basis. One factor that would support a conclusion that two agencies are separate is whether they are treated separately for statistical purposes in the Census of Governments issued by the Bureau of the Census, U.S. Department of Commerce.
§ 553.103
“Same type of services” defined.
(a) The 1985 Amendments provide that employees may volunteer hours of service to their public employer or agency provided “such services are not the same type of services which the individual is employed to perform for such public agency.” Employees may volunteer their services in one capacity or another without contemplation of pay for services rendered. The phrase “same type of services” means similar or identical services. In general, the Administrator will consider, but not as the only criteria, the duties and other factors contained in the definitions of the 3-digit categories of occupations in the
Dictionary of Occupational Titles
in determining whether the volunteer activities constitute the “same type of services” as the employment activities. Equally important in such a determination will be the consideration of all the facts and circumstances in a particular case, including whether the volunteer service is closely related to the actual duties performed by or responsibilities assigned to the employee.
(b) An example of an individual performing services which constitute the “same type of services” is a nurse employed by a State hospital who proposes to volunteer to perform nursing services at a State-operated health clinic which does not qualify as a separate public agency as discussed in § 553.102. Similarly, a firefighter cannot volunteer as a firefighter for the same public agency.
(c) Examples of volunteer services which do not constitute the “same type of services” include: A city police officer who volunteers as a part-time referee in a basketball league sponsored by the city; an employee of the city parks department who serves as a volunteer city firefighter; and an office employee of a city hospital or other health care institution who volunteers to spend time with a disabled or elderly
person in the same institution during off duty hours as an act of charity.
§ 553.104
Private individuals who volunteer services to public agencies.
(a) Individuals who are not employed in any capacity by State or local government agencies often donate hours of service to a public agency for civic or humanitarian reasons. Such individuals are considered volunteers and not employees of such public agencies if their hours of service are provided with no promise expectation, or receipt of compensation for the services rendered, except for reimbursement for expenses, reasonable benefits, and nominal fees, or a combination thereof, as discussed in § 553.106. There are no limitations or restrictions imposed by the FLSA on the types of services which private individuals may volunteer to perform for public agencies.
(b) Examples of services which might be performed on a volunteer basis when so motivated include helping out in a sheltered workshop or providing personal services to the sick or the elderly in hospitals or nursing homes; assisting in a school library or cafeteria; or driving a school bus to carry a football team or band on a trip. Similarly, individuals may volunteer as firefighters or auxiliary police, or volunteer to perform such tasks as working with retarded or handicapped children or disadvantaged youth, helping in youth programs as camp counselors, soliciting contributions or participating in civic or charitable benefit programs and volunteering other services needed to carry out charitable or educational programs.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987]
§ 553.105
Mutual aid agreements.
An agreement between two or more States, political subdivisions, or interstate governmental agencies for mutual aid does not change the otherwise volunteer character of services performed by employees of such agencies pursuant to said agreement. For example, where Town A and Town B have entered into a mutual aid agreement related to fire protection, a firefighter employed by Town A who also is a volunteer firefighter for Town B will not have his or her hours of volunteer service for Town B counted as part of his or her hours of employment with Town A. The mere fact that services volunteered to Town B may in some instances involve performance in Town A's geographic jurisdiction does not require that the volunteer's hours are to be counted as hours of employment with Town A.
§ 553.106
Payment of expenses, benefits, or fees.
(a) Volunteers may be paid expenses, reasonable benefits, a nominal fee, or any combination thereof, for their service without losing their status as volunteers.
(b) An individual who performs hours of service as a volunteer for a public agency may receive payment for expenses without being deemed an employee for purposes of the FLSA. A school guard does not become an employee because he or she receives a uniform allowance, or reimbursement for reasonable cleaning expenses or for wear and tear on personal clothing worn while performing hours of volunteer service. (A uniform allowance must be reasonably limited to relieving the volunteer of the cost of providing or maintaining a required uniform from personal resources.) Such individuals would not lose their volunteer status because they are reimbursed for the approximate out-of-pocket expenses incurred incidental to providing volunteer services, for example, payment for the cost of meals and transportation expenses.
(c) Individuals do not lose their status as volunteers because they are reimbursed for tuition, transportation and meal costs involved in their attending classes intended to teach them to perform efficiently the services they provide or will provide as volunteers. Likewise, the volunteer status of such individuals is not lost if they are provided books, supplies, or other materials essential to their volunteer training or reimbursement for the cost thereof.
(d) Individuals do not lose their volunteer status if they are provided reasonable benefits by a public agency for whom they perform volunteer services.
Benefits would be considered reasonable, for example, when they involve inclusion of individual volunteers in group insurance plans (such as liability, health, life, disability, workers' compensation) or pension plans or “length of service” awards, commonly or traditionally provided to volunteers of State and local government agencies, which meet the additional test in paragraph (f) of this section.
(e) Individuals do not lose their volunteer status if they receive a nominal fee from a public agency. A nominal fee is not a substitute for compensation and must not be tied to productivity. However, this does not preclude the payment of a nominal amount on a “per call” or similar basis to volunteer firefighters. The following factors will be among those examined in determining whether a given amount is nominal: The distance traveled and the time and effort expended by the volunteer; whether the volunteer has agreed to be available around-the-clock or only during certain specified time periods; and whether the volunteer provides services as needed or throughout the year. An individual who volunteers to provide periodic services on a year-round basis may receive a nominal monthly or annual stipend or fee without losing volunteer status.
(f) Whether the furnishing of expenses, benefits, or fees would result in individuals' losing their status as volunteers under the FLSA can only be determined by examining the total amount of payments made (expenses, benefits, fees) in the context of the economic realities of the particular situation.

# Subpart C—Fire Protection and Law Enforcement Employees of Public Agencies

# General Principles
§ 553.200
Statutory provisions: section 13(b)(20).
(a) Section 13(b)(20) of the FLSA provides a complete overtime pay exemption for “any employee of a public agency who in any workweek is employed in fire protection activities or any employee of a public agency who in any workweek is employed in law enforcement activities (including security personnel in correctional institutions), if the public agency employs during the workweek less than 5 employees in fire protection or law enforcement activities, as the case may be.”
(b) In determining whether a public agency qualifies for the section 13(b)(20) exemption, the fire protection and law enforcement activities are considered separately. Thus, if a public agency employs less than five employees in fire protection activities, but five or more employees in law enforcement activities (including security personnel in a correctional institution), it may claim the exemption for the fire protection employees but not for the law enforcement employees. No distinction is made between full-time and part-time employees, or between employees on duty and employees on leave status, and all such categories must be counted in determining whether the exemption applies. Individuals who are not considered “employees” for purposes of the FLSA by virtue of section 3(e) of the Act (including persons who are “volunteers” within the meaning of § 553.101, and “elected officials and their appointees” within the meaning of § 553.11) are not counted in determining whether the section 13(b)(20) exemption applies.
(c) The section 13(b)(20) exemption applies on a workweek basis. It is therefore possible that employees may be subject to maximum hours standard in certain workweeks, but not in others. In those workweeks in which the section 13(b)(20) exemption does not apply, the public agency is entitled to utilize the section 7(k) exemption which is explained below in § 553.201.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987]
§ 553.201
Statutory provisions: section 7(k).
(a) Section 7(k) of the Act provides a partial overtime pay exemption for fire protection and law enforcement personnel (including security personnel in correctional institutions) who are employed by public agencies on a work period basis. This section of the Act formerly permitted public agencies to pay
overtime compensation to such employees in work periods of 28 consecutive days only after 216 hours of work. As further set forth in § 553.230 of this part, the 216-hour standard has been replaced, pursuant to the study mandated by the statute, by 212 hours for fire protection employees and 171 hours for law enforcement employees. In the case of such employees who have a work period of at least 7 but less than 28 consecutive days, overtime compensation is required when the ratio of the number of hours worked to the number of days in the work period exceeds the ratio of 212 (or 171) hours to 28 days.
(b) As specified in §§ 553.20 through 553.28 of subpart A, workers employed under section 7(k) may, under certain conditions, be compensated for overtime hours worked with compensatory time off rather than immediate overtime premium pay.
§ 553.202
Limitations.
The application of sections 13(b)(20) and 7(k), by their terms, is limited to public agencies, and does not apply to any private organization engaged in furnishing fire protection or law enforcement services. This is so even if the services are provided under contract with a public agency.

# Exemption Requirements
§ 553.210
Fire protection activities.
(a) As used in sections 7(k) and 13(b)(20) of the Act, the term “any employee * * * in fire protection activities” refers to “an employee, including a firefighter, paramedic, emergency medical technician, rescue worker, ambulance personnel, or hazardous materials worker, who—(1) is trained in fire suppression, has the legal authority and responsibility to engage in fire suppression, and is employed by a fire department of a municipality, county, fire district, or State; and (2) is engaged in the prevention, control, and extinguishment of fires or response to emergency situations where life, property, or the environment is at risk.”
(b) Not included in the term “employee in fire protection activities” are the so-called “civilian” employees of a fire department, fire district, or forestry service who engage in such support activities as those performed by dispatchers, alarm operators, apparatus and equipment repair and maintenance workers, camp cooks, clerks, stenographers, etc.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 18856, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 553.211
Law enforcement activities.
(a) As used in sections 7(k) and 13(b)(20) of the Act, the term “any employee . . . in law enforcement activities” refers to any employee (1) who is a uniformed or plainclothed member of a body of officers and subordinates who are empowered by State statute or local ordinance to enforce laws designed to maintain public peace and order and to protect both life and property from accidental or willful injury, and to prevent and detect crimes, (2) who has the power to arrest, and (3) who is presently undergoing or has undergone or will undergo on-the-job training and/or a course of instruction and study which typically includes physical training, self-defense, firearm proficiency, criminal and civil law principles, investigative and law enforcement techniques, community relations, medical aid and ethics.
(b) Employees who meet these tests are considered to be engaged in law enforcement activities regardless of their rank, or of their status as “trainee,” “probationary,” or “permanent,” and regardless of their assignment to duties incidental to the performance of their law enforcement activities such as equipment maintenance, and lecturing, or to support activities of the type described in paragraph (g) of this section, whether or not such assignment is for training or familiarization purposes, or for reasons of illness, injury or infirmity. The term would also include rescue and ambulance service personnel if such personnel form an integral part of the public agency's law enforcement activities. See § 553.215.
(c) Typically, employees engaged in law enforcement activities include city police; district or local police, sheriffs, under sheriffs or deputy sheriffs who are regularly employed and paid as such; court marshals or deputy marshals; constables and deputy constables who are regularly employed and paid as
such; border control agents; state troopers and highway patrol officers. Other agency employees not specifically mentioned may, depending upon the particular facts and pertinent statutory provisions in that jurisdiction, meet the three tests described above. If so, they will also qualify as law enforcement officers. Such employees might include, for example, fish and game wardens or criminal investigative agents assigned to the office of a district attorney, an attorney general, a solicitor general or any other law enforcement agency concerned with keeping public peace and order and protecting life and property.
(d) Some of the law enforcement officers listed above, including but not limited to certain sheriffs, will not be covered by the Act if they are elected officials and if they are not subject to the civil service laws of their particular State or local jurisdiction. Section 3(e)(2)(C) of the Act excludes from its definition of “employee” elected officials and their personal staff under the conditions therein prescribed. 29 U.S.C. 203(e)(2)(C), and see § 553.11. Such individuals, therefore, need not be counted in determining whether the public agency in question has less than five employees engaged in law enforcement activities for purposes of claiming the section 13(b)(20) exemption.
(e) Employees who do not meet each of the three tests described above are not engaged in “law enforcement activities” as that term is used in sections 7(k) and 13(b)(20). Employees who normally would not meet each of these tests include
(1) Building inspectors (other than those defined in § 553.213(a)),
(2) Health inspectors,
(3) Animal control personnel,
(4) Sanitarians,
(5) civilian traffic employees who direct vehicular and pedestrian traffic at specified intersections or other control points,
(6) Civilian parking checkers who patrol assigned areas for the purpose of discovering parking violations and issuing appropriate warnings or appearance notices,
(7) Wage and hour compliance officers,
(8) Equal employment opportunity compliance officers,
(9) Tax compliance officers,
(10) Coal mining inspectors, and
(11) Building guards whose primary duty is to protect the lives and property of persons within the limited area of the building.
(f) The term “any employee in law enforcement activities” also includes, by express reference, “security personnel in correctional instititions.” A correctional institution is any government facility maintained as part of a penal system for the incarceration or detention of persons suspected or convicted of having breached the peace or committed some other crime. Typically, such facilities include penitentiaries, prisons, prison farms, county, city and village jails, precinct house lockups and reformatories. Employees of correctional institutions who qualify as security personnel for purposes of the section 7(k) exemption are those who have responsibility for controlling and maintaining custody of inmates and of safeguarding them from other inmates or for supervising such functions, regardless of whether their duties are performed inside the correctional institution or outside the institution (as in the case of road gangs). These employees are considered to be engaged in law enforcement activities regardless of their rank (e.g., warden, assistant warden or guard) or of their status as “trainee,” “probationary,” or “permanent,” and regardless of their assignment to duties incidental to the performance of their law enforcement activities, or to support activities of the type described in paragraph (g) of this section, whether or not such assignment is for training or familiarization purposes or for reasons of illness, injury or infirmity.
(g) Not included in the term “employee in law enforcement activities” are the so-called “civilian” employees of law enforcement agencies or correctional institutions who engage in such support activities as those performed by dispatcher, radio operators, apparatus and equipment maintenance and repair workers, janitors, clerks and stenographers. Nor does the term include employees in correctional institutions who engage in building repair
and maintenance, culinary services, teaching, or in psychological, medical and paramedical services. This is so even though such employees may, when assigned to correctional institutions, come into regular contact with the inmates in the performance of their duties.
§ 553.212
Twenty percent limitation on nonexempt work.
(a) Employees engaged in law enforcement activities as described in § 553.211 may also engage in some nonexempt work which is not performed as an incident to or in conjunction with their law enforcement activities. The performance of such nonexempt work will not defeat either the section 13(b)(20) or 7(k) exemptions unless it exceeds 20 percent of the total hours worked by that employee during the workweek or applicable work period. A person who spends more than 20 percent of his/her working time in nonexempt activities is not considered to be an employee engaged in law enforcement activities for purposes of this part.
(b) Public agency fire protection and law enforcement personnel may, at their own option, undertake employment for the same employer on an occasional or sporadic and part-time basis in a different capacity from their regular employment. (See § 553.30.) The performance of such work does not affect the application of the section 13(b)(20) or 7(k) exemptions with respect to the regular employment. In addition, the hours of work in the different capacity need not be counted as hours worked for overtime purposes on the regular job, nor are such hours counted in determining the 20 percent tolerance for nonexempt work for law enforcement personnel discussed in paragraph (a) of this section.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 18856, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 553.213
Public agency employees engaged in both fire protection and law enforcement activities.
(a) Some public agencies have employees (often called “public safety officers”) who engage in both fire protection and law enforcement activities, depending on the agency needs at the time. This dual assignment would not defeat either the section 13(b)(20) or 7(k) exemption, provided that each of the activities performed meets the appropriate tests set forth in §§ 553.210 and 553.211. This is so regardless of how the employee's time is divided between the two activities. However, all time spent in nonexempt activities by public safety officers within the work period, whether performed in connection with fire protection or law enforcement functions, or with neither, must be combined for purposes of the 20 percent limitation on nonexempt work discussed in § 553.212.
(b) As specified in § 553.230, the maximum hours standards under section 7(k) are different for employees engaged in fire protection and for employees engaged in law enforcement. For those employees who perform both fire protection and law enforcement activities, the applicable standard is the one which applies to the activity in which the employee spends the majority of work time during the work period.
§ 553.214
Trainees.
The attendance at a bona fide fire or police academy or other training facility, when required by the employing agency, constitutes engagement in activities under section 7(k) only when the employee meets all the applicable tests described in § 553.210 or § 553.211 (except for the power of arrest for law enforcement personnel), as the case may be. If the applicable tests are met, then basic training or advanced training is considered incidental to, and part of, the employee's fire protection or law enforcement activities.
§ 553.215
[Reserved]
§ 553.216
Other exemptions.
Although the 1974 Amendments to the FLSA provided special exemptions for employees of public agencies engaged in fire protection and law enforcement activities, such workers may also be subject to other exemptions in the Act, and public agencies may claim such other applicable exemptions in lieu of sections 13(b)(20) and 7(k). For example, section 13(a)(1) provides a complete minimum wage and overtime
pay exemption for any employee employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity, as those terms are defined and delimited in 29 CFR part 541. The section 13(a)(1) exemption can be claimed for any fire protection or law enforcement employee who meets all of the tests specified in part 541 relating to duties, responsibilities, and salary. Thus, high ranking police officials who are engaged in law enforcement activities, may also, depending on the facts, qualify for the section 13(a)(1) exemption as “executive” employees. Similarly, certain criminal investigative agents may qualify as “administrative” employees under section 13(a)(1). However, the election to take the section 13(a)(1) exemption for an employee who qualifies for it will not result in excluding that employee from the count that must be made to determine the application of the section 13(b)(20) exemption to the agency's other employees.

# Tour of Duty and Compensable Hours of Work Rules
§ 553.220
“Tour of duty” defined.
(a) The term “tour of duty” is a unique concept applicable only to employees for whom the section 7(k) exemption is claimed. This term, as used in section 7(k), means the period of time during which an employee is considered to be on duty for purposes of determining compensable hours. It may be a scheduled or unscheduled period. Such periods include “shifts” assigned to employees often days in advance of the performance of the work. Scheduled periods also include time spent in work outside the “shift” which the public agency employer assigns. For example, a police officer may be assigned to crowd control during a parade or other special event outside of his or her shift.
(b) Unscheduled periods include time spent in court by police officers, time spent handling emergency situations, and time spent working after a shift to complete an assignment. Such time must be included in the compensable tour of duty even though the specific work performed may not have been assigned in advance.
(c) The tour of duty does not include time spent working for a separate and independent employer in certain types of special details as provided in § 553.227. The tour of duty does not include time spent working on an occasional or sporadic and part-time basis in a different capacity from the regular work as provided in § 553.30. The tour of duty does not include time spent substituting for other employees by mutual agreement as specified in § 553.31.
(d) The tour of duty does not include time spent in volunteer firefighting or law enforcement activities performed for a different jurisdiction, even where such activities take place under the terms of a mutual aid agreement in the jurisdiction in which the employee is employed. (See § 553.105.)
§ 553.221
Compensable hours of work.
(a) The general rules on compensable hours of work are set forth in 29 CFR part 785 which is applicable to employees for whom the section 7(k) exemption is claimed. Special rules for sleep time (§ 553.222) apply to both law enforcement and employees in fire protection activities for whom the section 7(k) exemption is claimed. Also, special rules for meal time apply in the case of employees in fire protection activities (§ 553.223). Part 785 does not discuss the special provisions that apply to State and local government workers with respect to the treatment of substitution, special details for a separate and independent employer, early relief, and work performed on an occasional or sporadic and part-time basis, all of which are covered in this subpart.
(b) Compensable hours of work generally include all of the time during which an employee is on duty on the employer's premises or at a prescribed workplace, as well as all other time during which the employee is suffered or permitted to work for the employer. Such time includes all pre-shift and post-shift activities which are an integral part of the employee's principal activity or which are closely related to the performance of the principal activity, such as attending roll call, writing up and completing tickets or reports, and washing and re-racking fire hoses.
(c) Time spent away from the employer's premises under conditions that
are so circumscribed that they restrict the employee from effectively using the time for personal pursuits also constitutes compensable hours of work. For example, where a police station must be evacuated because of an electrical failure and the employees are expected to remain in the vicinity and return to work after the emergency has passed, the entire time spent away from the premises is compensable. The employees in this example cannot use the time for their personal pursuits.
(d) An employee who is not required to remain on the employer's premises but is merely required to leave word at home or with company officials where he or she may be reached is not working while on call. Time spent at home on call may or may not be compensable depending on whether the restrictions placed on the employee preclude using the time for personal pursuits. Where, for example, an employee in fire protection activities has returned home after the shift, with the understanding that he or she is expected to return to work in the event of an emergency in the night, such time spent at home is normally not compensable. On the other hand, where the conditions placed on the employee's activities are so restrictive that the employee cannot use the time effectively for personal pursuits, such time spent on call is compensable.
(e) Normal home to work travel is not compensable, even where the employee is expected to report to work at a location away from the location of the employer's premises.
(f) A police officer, who has completed his or her tour of duty and who is given a patrol car to drive home and use on personal business, is not working during the travel time even where the radio must be left on so that the officer can respond to emergency calls. Of course, the time spent in responding to such calls is compensable.
(g) The fact that employees cannot return home after work does not necessarily mean that they continue on duty after their shift. For example, employees in fire protection activities working on a forest fire may be transported to a camp after their shift in order to rest and eat a meal. As a practical matter, the employee in fire protection activities may be precluded from going to their homes because of the distance of the fire from their residences.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987; 52 FR 2648, Jan. 23, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 18857, Apr. 5, 2011; 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 553.222
Sleep time.
(a) Where a public employer elects to pay overtime compensation to employees in fire protection activities and/or law enforcement personnel in accordance with section 7(a)(1) of the Act, the public agency may exclude sleep time from hours worked if all the conditions in § 785.22 of this title are met.
(b) Where the employer has elected to use the section 7(k) exemption, sleep time cannot be excluded from the compensable hours of work where
(1) The employee is on a tour of duty of less than 24 hours, which is the general rule applicable to all employees under § 785.21, and
(2) Where the employee is on a tour of duty of exactly 24 hours, which is a departure from the general rules in part 785.
(c) Sleep time can be excluded from compensable hours of work, however, in the case of police officers or employees in fire protection activities who are on a tour of duty of more than 24 hours, but only if there is an expressed or implied agreement between the employer and the employees to exclude such time. In the absence of such an agreement, the sleep time is compensable. In no event shall the time excluded as sleep time exceed 8 hours in a 24-hour period. If the sleep time is interrupted by a call to duty, the interruption must be counted as hours worked. If the sleep period is interrupted to such an extent that the employee cannot get a reasonable night's sleep (which, for enforcement purposes means at least 5 hours), the entire time must be counted as hours of work.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 18857, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 553.223
Meal time.
(a) If a public agency elects to pay overtime compensation to employees in fire protection activities and law enforcement personnel in accordance
with section 7(a)(1) of the Act, the public agency may exclude meal time from hours worked if all the tests in § 785.19 of this title are met.
(b) If a public agency elects to use the section 7(k) exemption, the public agency may, in the case of law enforcement personnel, exclude meal time from hours worked on tours of duty of 24 hours or less, provided that the employee is completely relieved from duty during the meal period, and all the other tests in § 785.19 of this title are met. On the other hand, where law enforcement personnel are required to remain on call in barracks or similar quarters, or are engaged in extended surveillance activities (e.g., “stakeouts”), they are not considered to be completely relieved from duty, and any such meal periods would be compensable.
(c) With respect to employees in fire protection activities employed under section 7(k), who are confined to a duty station, the legislative history of the Act indicates Congressional intent to mandate a departure from the usual FLSA “hours of work” rules and adoption of an overtime standard keyed to the unique concept of “tour of duty” under which employees in fire protection activities are employed. Where the public agency elects to use the section 7(k) exemption for employees in fire protection activities, meal time cannot be excluded from the compensable hours of work where (1) the employee in fire protection activities is on a tour of duty of less than 24 hours, and (2) where the employee in fire protection activities is on a tour of duty of exactly 24 hours, which is a departure from the general rules in § 785.22 of this title.
(d) In the case of police officers or employees in fire protection activities who are on a tour of duty of more than 24 hours, meal time may be excluded from compensable hours of work provided that the tests in §§ 785.19 and 785.22 of this title are met.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 18857, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 553.224
“Work period” defined.
(a) As used in section 7(k), the term “work period” refers to any established and regularly recurring period of work which, under the terms of the Act and legislative history, cannot be less than 7 consecutive days nor more than 28 consecutive days. Except for this limitation, the work period can be of any length, and it need not coincide with the duty cycle or pay period or with a particular day of the week or hour of the day. Once the beginning and ending time of an employee's work period is established, however, it remains fixed regardless of how many hours are worked within the period. The beginning and ending of the work period may be changed, provided that the change is intended to be permanent and is not designed to evade the overtime compensation requirements of the Act.
(b) An employer may have one work period applicable to all employees, or different work periods for different employees or groups of employees.
§ 553.225
Early relief.
It is a common practice among employees engaged in fire protection activities to relieve employees on the previous shift prior to the scheduled starting time. Such early relief time may occur pursuant to employee agreement, either expressed or implied. This practice will not have the effect of increasing the number of compensable hours of work for employees employed under section 7(k) where it is voluntary on the part of the employees and does not result, over a period of time, in their failure to receive proper compensation for all hours actually worked. On the other hand, if the practice is required by the employer, the time involved must be added to the employee's tour of duty and treated as compensable hours of work.
§ 553.226
Training time.
(a) The general rules for determining the compensability of training time under the FLSA are set forth in §§ 785.27 through 785.32 of this title.
(b) While time spent in attending training required by an employer is normally considered compensable hours of work, following are situations where time spent by employees of State and local governments in required training is considered to be noncompensable:
(1) Attendance outside of regular working hours at specialized or follow-up training, which is required by law for certification of public and private sector employees within a particular governmental jurisdiction (e.g., certification of public and private emergency rescue workers), does not constitute compensable hours of work for public employees within that jurisdiction and subordinate jurisdictions.
(2) Attendance outside of regular working hours at specialized or follow-up training, which is required for certification of employees of a governmental jurisdiction by law of a higher level of government (e.g., where a State or county law imposes a training obligation on city employees), does not constitute compensable hours of work.
(3) Time spent in the training described in paragraphs (b) (1) or (2) of this section is not compensable, even if all or part of the costs of the training is borne by the employer.
(c) Police officers or employees in fire protection activities, who are in attendance at a police or fire academy or other training facility, are not considered to be on duty during those times when they are not in class or at a training session, if they are free to use such time for personal pursuits. Such free time is not compensable.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 18857, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 553.227
Outside employment.
(a) Section 7(p)(1) makes special provision for fire protection and law enforcement employees of public agencies who, at their own option, perform special duty work in fire protection, law enforcement or related activities for a separate and independent employer (public or private) during their off-duty hours. The hours of work for the separate and independent employer are not combined with the hours worked for the primary public agency employer for purposes of overtime compensation.
(b) Section 7(p)(1) applies to such outside employment provided (1) The special detail work is performed solely at the employee's option, and (2) the two employers are in fact separate and independent.
(c) Whether two employers are, in fact, separate and independent can only be determined on a case-by-case basis.
(d) The primary employer may facilitate the employment or affect the conditions of employment of such employees. For example, a police department may maintain a roster of officers who wish to perform such work. The department may also select the officers for special details from a list of those wishing to participate, negotiate their pay, and retain a fee for administrative expenses. The department may require that the separate and independent employer pay the fee for such services directly to the department, and establish procedures for the officers to receive their pay for the special details through the agency's payroll system. Finally, the department may require that the officers observe their normal standards of conduct during such details and take disciplinary action against those who fail to do so.
(e) Section 7(p)(1) applies to special details even where a State law or local ordinance requires that such work be performed and that only law enforcement or fire protection employees of a public agency in the same jurisdiction perform the work. For example, a city ordinance may require the presence of city police officers at a convention center during concerts or sports events. If the officers perform such work at their own option, the hours of work need not be combined with the hours of work for their primary employer in computing overtime compensation.
(f) The principles in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section with respect to special details of public agency fire protection and law enforcement employees under section 7(p)(1) are exceptions to the usual rules on joint employment set forth in part 791 of this title.
(g) Where an employee is directed by the public agency to perform work for a second employer, section 7(p)(1) does not apply. Thus, assignments of police officers outside of their normal work hours to perform crowd control at a parade, where the assignments are not solely at the option of the officers, would not qualify as special details subject to this exception. This would be true even if the parade organizers
reimburse the public agency for providing such services.
(h) Section 7(p)(1) does not prevent a public agency from prohibiting or restricting outside employment by its employees.

# Overtime Compensation Rules
§ 553.230
Maximum hours standards for work periods of 7 to 28 days—section 7(k).
(a) For those employees engaged in fire protection activities who have a work period of at least 7 but less than 28 consecutive days, no overtime compensation is required under section 7(k) until the number of hours worked exceeds the number of hours which bears the same relationship to 212 as the number of days in the work period bears to 28.
(b) For those employees engaged in law enforcement activities (including security personnel in correctional institutions) who have a work period of at least 7 but less than 28 consecutive days, no overtime compensation is required under section 7(k) until the number of hours worked exceeds the number of hours which bears the same relationship to 171 as the number of days in the work period bears to 28.
(c) The ratio of 212 hours to 28 days for employees engaged in fire protection activities is 7.57 hours per day (rounded) and the ratio of 171 hours to 28 days for employees engaged in law enforcement activities is 6.11 hours per day (rounded). Accordingly, overtime compensation (in premium pay or compensatory time) is required for all hours worked in excess of the following maximum hours standards (rounded to the nearest whole hour):
Work period (days)
Maximum hours standards
Fire protection
Law enforcement
28
212
171
27
204
165
26
197
159
25
189
153
24
182
147
23
174
141
22
167
134
21
159
128
20
151
122
19
144
116
18
136
110
17
129
104
16
121
98
15
114
92
14
106
86
13
98
79
12
91
73
11
83
67
10
76
61
9
68
55
8
61
49
7
53
43
§ 553.231
Compensatory time off.
(a) Law enforcement and fire protection employees who are subject to the section 7(k) exemption may receive compensatory time off in lieu of overtime pay for hours worked in excess of the maximum for their work period as set forth in § 553.230. The rules for compensatory time off are set forth in §§ 553.20 through 553.28 of this part.
(b) Section 7(k) permits public agencies to balance the hours of work over an entire work period for law enforcement and fire protection employees. For example, if an employee engaged in fire protection activities' work period is 28 consecutive days, and he or she works 80 hours in each of the first two weeks, but only 52 hours in the third week, and does not work in the fourth week, no overtime compensation (in cash wages or compensatory time) would be required since the total hours worked do not exceed 212 for the work period. If the same employee in fire protection activities had a work period of only 14 days, overtime compensation or compensatory time off would be due for 54 hours (160 minus 106 hours) in the first 14 day work period.
[52 FR 2032, Jan. 16, 1987, as amended at 76 FR 18857, Apr. 5, 2011; 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 553.232
Overtime pay requirements.
If a public agency pays employees subject to section 7(k) for overtime hours worked in cash wages rather than compensatory time off, such wages must be paid at one and one-half times the employees' regular rates of pay. In addition, employees who have accrued the maximum 480 hours of compensatory time must be paid cash wages of time and one-half their regular rates of pay for overtime hours in
excess of the maximum for the work period set forth in § 553.230.
§ 553.233
“Regular rate” defined.
The rules for computing an employee's “regular rate”, for purposes of the Act's overtime pay requirements, are set forth in part 778 of this title. These rules are applicable to employees for whom the section 7(k) exemption is claimed when overtime compensation is provided in cash wages. However, wherever the word “workweek” is used in part 778, the words “work period” should be substituted.
Pt. 570

# PART 570—CHILD LABOR REGULATIONS, ORDERS AND STATEMENTS OF INTERPRETATION

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
570.1
Definitions.
570.2
Minimum age standards.

# Subpart B—Certificates of Age
570.5
Certificates of age and their effect.
570.6
Contents and disposition of certificates of age.
570.7
Documentary evidence required for issuance of a certificate of age.
570.8
Issuance of a Federal certificate of age.
570.9
States in which State certificates of age are accepted.
570.10
Rules for certificates of age in the State of Alaska and the Territory of Guam.
570.11
Continued acceptability of certificates of age.
570.12
Revoked certificates of age.

# Provisions of Other Laws
570.25
Effect on laws other than the Federal child labor standards.

# Subpart C—Employment of Minors Between 14 and 16 Years of Age (Child Labor Reg. 3)
570.31
Secretary's determinations concerning the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age.
570.32
Effect of this subpart.
570.33
Occupations that are prohibited to minors 14 and 15 years of age.
570.34
Occupations that may be performed by minors 14 and 15 years of age.
570.35
Hours of work and conditions of employment permitted for minors 14 and 15 years of age.
570.36
Work experience and career exploration program.
570.37
Work-study program.
570.38
Effect of a certificate of age under this subpart.
570.39
Effect of this subpart on other laws.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Occupations Particularly Hazardous for the Employment of Minors Between 16 and 18 Years of Age or Detrimental to Their Health or Well-Being
570.50
General.
570.51
Occupations in or about plants or establishments manufacturing or storing explosives or articles containing explosive components (Order 1).
570.52
Occupations of motor-vehicle driver and outside helper (Order 2).
570.53
Coal-mine occupations (Order 3).
570.54
Forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention occupations, timber tract occupations, forestry service occupations, logging occupations, and occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill (Order 4).
570.55
Occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines (Order 5).
570.57
Exposure to radioactive substances and to ionizing radiations (Order 6).
570.58
Occupations involved in the operation of power-driven hoisting apparatus (Order 7).
570.59
Occupations involved in the operation of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines (Order 8).
570.60
Occupations in connection with mining, other than coal (Order 9).
570.61
Occupations in the operation of power-driven meat-processing machines and occupations involving slaughtering, meat and poultry packing, processing, or rendering (Order 10).
570.62
Occupations involved in the operation of bakery machines (Order 11).
570.63
Occupations involved in the operation of balers, compactors, and paper-products machine (Order 12).
570.64
Occupations involved in the manufacture of brick, tile, and kindred products (Order 13).
570.65
Occupations involving the operation of circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating saws, wood chippers, and abrasive cutting discs (Order 14).
570.66
Occupations involved in wrecking, demolition, and shipbreaking operations (Order 15).
570.67
Occupations in roofing operations and on or about a roof (Order 16).
570.68
Occupations in excavation operations (Order 17).

# Subpart E-1—Occupations in Agriculture Particularly Hazardous for the Employment of Children Below the Age of 16
570.70
Purpose and scope.
570.71
Occupations involved in agriculture.
570.72
Exemptions.
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—General Statements of Interpretation of the Child Labor Provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as Amended

# General
570.101
Introductory statement.
570.102
General scope of statutory provisions.
570.103
Comparison with wage and hour provisions.

# Coverage of Section 12(
a

# )
570.104
General.
570.105
“Producer, manufacturer, or dealer”.
570.106
“Ship or deliver for shipment in commerce”.
570.107
“Goods”.
570.108
“Produced”.
570.109
“Establishment situated in the United States”.
570.110
“In or about”.
570.111
Removal “within 30 days”.

# Coverage of Section 12(
c

# )
570.112
General.
570.113
Employment “in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce”.

# Joint and Separate Applicability of Sections 12(
a

# ) and 12(
c

# )
570.114
General.
570.115
Joint applicability.
570.116
Separate applicability.

# Oppressive Child Labor
570.117
General.
570.118
Sixteen-year minimum.
570.119
Fourteen-year minimum.
570.120
Eighteen-year minimum.
570.121
Age certificates.

# Exemptions
570.122
General.
570.123
Agriculture.
570.124
Delivery of newspapers.
570.125
Actors and performers.
570.126
Parental exemption.
570.127
Homeworkers engaged in the making of evergreen wreaths.
570.128
Loading of certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors.
570.129
Limited driving of automobiles and trucks by 17-year-olds.
570.130
Employment of certain youth inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products.

# Enforcement
570.140
General.
570.141
Good faith defense.
570.142
Relation to other laws.

# Source:
16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and further redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971.

# Subpart A—General

# Authority:
Secs. 3, 11, 12, 52 Stat. 1060, as amended, 1066, as amended, 1067, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 203, 211, 212.

# Source:
41 FR 26834, June 29, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 570.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
Act
means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201-219).
(b)
Oppressive child labor
means employment of a minor in an occupation for which he does not meet the minimum age standards of the Act, as set forth in § 570.2 of this subpart.
(c)
Oppressive child labor age
means an age below the minimum age established under the Act for the occupation in which a minor is employed or in which his employment is contemplated.
(d) A
certificate of age
means a certificate as provided in § 570.5(b) (1) or (2) of this part.
(e) [Reserved]
(f)
Secretary” or Secretary of Labor
means the Secretary of Labor, United States Department of Labor, or his authorized representative.
(g)
Wage and Hour Division
means the Wage and Hour Division, United States Department of Labor.
(h)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division or his authorized representative.
(i)
State agency
means any officer, executive department, board, bureau or commission of a State or any division
or unit thereof authorized to take action with respect to the application of laws relating to minors.
[41 FR 26834, June 29, 1976, as amended at 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 570.2
Minimum age standards.
(a)
All occupations except in agriculture.
(1) The Act, in section 3(1), sets a general 16-year minimum age which applies to all employment subject to its child labor provisions in any occupation other than in agriculture, with the following exceptions:
(i) The Act authorizes the Secretary of Labor to provide by regulation or by order that the employment of employees between the ages of 14 and 16 years in occupations other than manufacturing and mining shall not be deemed to constitute oppressive child labor, if and to the extent that the Secretary of Labor determines that such employment is confined to periods which will not interfere with their schooling and to conditions which will not interfere with their health and well-being (see subpart C of this part); and
(ii) The Act sets an 18-year minimum age with respect to employment in any occupation found and declared by the Secretary of Labor to be particularly hazardous for the employment of minors of such age or detrimental to their health or well-being (see subpart E of this part).
(2) The Act exempts from its minimum age requirements the employment by a parent of his own child, or by a person standing in place of a parent of a child in his custody, except in occupations to which the 18-year age minimum applies and in manufacturing and mining occupations.
(b)
Occupations in agriculture.
The Act sets a 16-year age minimum for employment in agriculture during school hours for the school district in which the employed minor is living at the time, and also for employment in any occupation in agriculture that the Secretary of Labor finds and declares to be particularly hazardous except where such employee is employed by his parent or by a person standing in the place of his parent on a farm owned or operated by such parent or person (see Subpart E-1 of this part). There is a minimum age requirement of 14 years generally for employment in agriculture outside school hours for the school district where such employee is living while so employed. However, (1) a minor 12 or 13 years of age may be so employed with written consent of his parent or person standing in place of his parent, or may work on a farm where such parent or person is also employed, and (2) a minor under 12 years of age may be employed by his parent or by a person standing in place of his parent on a farm owned or operated by such parent or person, or may be employed with consent of such parent or person on a farm where all employees are exempt from the minimum wage provisions by virtue of section 13(a) (6) (A) of the Act.

# Subpart B—Certificates of Age

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 203(l), 211, 212.

# Source:
41 FR 26835, June 29, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 570.5
Certificates of age and their effect.
(a) To protect an employer from unwitting violation of the minimum age standards under the Act, section 3(1) of the Act provides that “oppressive child labor shall not be deemed to exist by virtue of the employment in any occupation of any person with respect to whom the employer shall have on file an unexpired certificate issued and held pursuant to regulations of the Secretary of Labor certifying that such person is above the oppressive child-labor age.” The provisions of this subpart provide for age certificates based on the best available documentary evidence of age. Certificates issued and effective pursuant to this subpart furnish an employer with proof of the age of a minor employee upon which he may rely in determining whether the minor is at least the minimum age for the occupation in which he is to be employed.
(b) The employment of any minor shall not be deemed to constitute oppressive child labor under the Act if his employer shall have on file an unexpired certificate, issued and held in accordance with this subpart, which shall be either:
(1) A Federal certificate of age, issued by a person authorized by the
Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, showing that such minor is above the oppressive child-labor age applicable to the occupation in which he is employed, or
(2) A State certificate, which may be in the form of and known as an age, employment, or working certificate or permit, issued by or under the supervision of a State agency in a State which has been designated for this purpose by the Administrator showing that such minor is above the oppressive child-labor age applicable to the occupation in which the minor is employed. States so designated are listed in § 570.9(a). Any such certificate shall have the force and effect specified in § 570.9.
(c) The prospective employer of a minor, in order to protect himself from unwitting violation of the Act, should obtain a certificate (as specified in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section) for the minor if there is any reason to believe that the minor's age may be below the applicable minimum for the occupation in which he is to be employed. Such certificate should always be obtained where the minor claims to be only 1 or 2 years above the applicable minimum age for the occupation in which he is to be employed. It should also be obtained for every minor claiming to be older than 2 years above the applicable minimum age if his physical appearance indicates that this may not be true.
§ 570.6
Contents and disposition of certificates of age.
(a) Except as provided in §§ 570.9 and 570.10, a certificate of age which shall have the effect specified in § 570.5 shall contain the following information:
(1) Name and address of minor.
(2) Place and date of birth of minor, together with a statement indicating the evidence on which this is based. The place of birth need not appear on the certificate if it is obtained and kept on file by the person issuing the certificate.
(3) Sex of minor.
(4) Signature of minor.
(5) Name and address of minor's parent or person standing in place of parent. This information need not appear on the certificate if it is obtained and kept on file by the person issuing the certificate.
(6) Name and address of employer, if minor is under 18.
(7) Industry of employer, if minor is under 18.
(8) Occupation of minor, if minor is under 18.
(9) Signature of issuing officer.
(10) Date and place of issuance.
(b)(1) We will send a certificate of age for a minor under 18 years of age to the prospective employer of the minor. That employer must keep the certificate on file at the minor's workplace. When the minor terminates employment, the employer must give the certificate to the minor. The minor may then present the previously issued certificate to future employers as proof of age as described in § 570.5.
(2) Whenever a certificate of age is issued for a minor 18 or 19 years of age it may be given to the minor by the person issuing the certificate. Every minor 18 or 19 years of age shall, upon entering employment, deliver his certificate of age to his employer for filing and upon the termination of the employment, the employer shall return the certificate to the minor.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (a) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1235-0018)
[41 FR 26835, June 29, 1976, as amended at 49 FR 18294, Apr. 30, 1984; 69 FR 75402, Dec. 16, 2004; 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 570.7
Documentary evidence required for issuance of a certificate of age.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in §§ 570.9 and 570.10, a certificate of age which shall have the effect specified in § 570.5 shall be issued only upon application of the minor desiring employment or of the prospective employer to the person authorized to issue such certificate and only after acceptable documentary evidence of age has been received, examined, and approved. Such evidence shall consist of one of the following to be required in the order of preference herein designated:
(1) A birth certificate or attested transcript thereof or a signed statement of the recorded date and place of
birth, issued by a registrar of vital statistics or other officer charged with the duty of recording births.
(2) A record of baptism or attested transcript thereof showing the date and place of birth and date and place of baptism of the minor, or a bona fide contemporary record of the date and place of the minor's birth kept in the Bible in which the records of the births in the family of the minor are preserved, or other documentary evidence satisfactory to the Administrator, such as a passport showing the age of the minor, or a certificate of arrival in the United States issued by the United States immigration office and showing the age of the minor, or a life-insurance policy:
Provided,
That such other documentary evidence has been in existence at least 1 year prior to the time it is offered as evidence: And
provided further,
That a school record of age or an affidavit of a parent or a person standing in place of a parent, or other written statement of age shall not be accepted except as specified in paragraph (a) (3) of this section;
(3) The school record or the school-census record of the age of the minor, together with the sworn statement of a parent or person standing in place of a parent as to the age of the minor and also a certificate signed by a physician specifying what in his opinion is the physical age of the minor. Such certificate shall show the height and weight of the minor and other facts concerning his physical development which were revealed by such examination and upon which the opinion of the physician as to the physical age of the minor is based. If the school or school-census record of age is not obtainable, the sworn statement of the parent or person standing in place of a parent as to the date of birth of the minor, together with a physician's certificate of age as hereinbefore specified, may be accepted as evidence of age.
(b) The officer issuing a certificate of age for a minor shall require the evidence of age specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in preference to that specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, and shall not accept the evidence of age permitted by either subsequent paragraph unless he shall receive and file evidence that reasonable efforts have been made to obtain the preferred evidence required by the preceding paragraph or paragraphs before accepting any subsequently named evidence:
Provided,
That to avoid undue delay in the issuance of certificates, evidence specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be accepted, or if such evidence is not available, evidence specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section may be accepted if a verification of birth has been requested but has not been received from the appropriate bureau of vital statistics.
§ 570.8
Issuance of a Federal certificate of age.
A Federal certificate of age which shall have the effect specified in § 570.5 shall be issued by a person authorized by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division and shall be issued in accordance with the provisions of §§ 570.6 and 570.7.
§ 570.9
States in which State certificates of age are accepted.
(a) The States in which age, employment, or working certificates or permits have been found by the Administrator to be issued by or under the supervision of a State agency substantially in accordance with the provisions of §§ 570.6 and 570.7 and which are designated as States in which certificates so issued shall have the force and effect specified in § 570.5, except as individual certificates may be revoked in accordance with § 570.11 of this subpart, are:
Alabama, Arkansas, California, Colorado, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
(b) State certificates requiring conditions or restrictions additional to those required by this subpart shall not be deemed to be inconsistent herewith.
(c) The designation of a State under this section shall have force and effect indefinitely unless withdrawal of such designation is deemed desirable for the
effective administration of the Act. No withdrawal of the designation of a State under this section shall make any certificate invalid if it was issued by or under the supervision of a State agency as herein provided prior to such withdrawal.
§ 570.10
Rules for certificates of age in the State of Alaska and the Territory of Guam.
The State of Alaska and the Territory of Guam are designated as States in which any of the following documents shall have the same effect as Federal certificates of age as specified in § 570.5:
(a) A birth certificate or attested transcript thereof, or a signed statement of the recorded date and place of birth issued by a registrar of vital statistics or other officer charged with the duty of recording births, or
(b) A record of baptism or attested transcript thereof showing the date of birth of the minor, or
(c) With respect to the State of Alaska, a statement on the census records of the Bureau of Indian Affairs and signed by an administrative representative thereof showing the name, date of birth, and place of birth of the minor.
§ 570.11
Continued acceptability of certificates of age.
(a) Whenever a person duly authorized to make investigations under this Act shall obtain substantial evidence that the age of the minor as given on a certificate held by an employer subject to this Act is incorrect, he shall inform the employer and the minor of such evidence and of his intention to request through the appropriate channels that action be taken to establish the correct age of the minor and to determine the continued acceptability of the certificate as proof of age under the Act. The said authorized person shall request in writing through the appropriate channels that action be taken on the acceptability of the certificate as proof of age under the Fair Labor Standards Act and shall state the evidence of age of the minor which he has obtained and the reasons for such request. A copy of this request shall be sent to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division for further handling through the State agency responsible for the issuance of certificates, except that in those States where Federal certificates of age are issued, action necessary to establish the correct age of the minor and to revoke the certificate if it is found that the minor is under age shall be taken by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division or his designated representative.
(b) The Administrator shall have final authority in those States in which State certificates are accepted as proof of age under the Act for determining the continued acceptability of the certificate, and shall have final authority for such determination in those States in which Federal certificates of age are issued. When such determination has been made in any case, notice thereof shall be given to the employer and the minor. In those cases involving the continued acceptability of State certificates, the appropriate State agency and the official who issued the certificate shall also be notified.
§ 570.12
Revoked certificates of age.
A certificate which has been revoked as proof of age under the Act shall be of no force and effect under the Act after notice of such revocation.

# Provisions of Other Laws
§ 570.25
Effect on laws other than the Federal child labor standards.
No provision of this subpart shall under any circumstances justify or be construed to permit noncompliance with the provisions of any other Federal law or of any State law or municipal ordinance establishing higher standards than those established under this subpart.

# Subpart C—Employment of Minors Between 14 and 16 Years of Age (Child Labor Reg. 3)

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 203(l), 212, 213(c).
§ 570.31
Secretary's determinations concerning the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age.
The employment of minors between 14 and 16 years of age in the occupations, for the periods, and under the conditions specified in § 570.34 and
§ 570.35, does not interfere with their schooling or with their health and well-being and shall not be deemed to be oppressive child labor.
[75 FR 28448, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.32
Effect of this subpart.
This subpart concerns the employment of youth between 14 and 16 years of age in nonagricultural occupations; standards for the employment of minors in agricultural occupations are detailed in subpart E-1. The employment (including suffering or permitting to work) by an employer of minors 14 and 15 years of age in occupations detailed in § 570.34, for the periods and under the conditions specified in § 570.35, shall not be deemed to be oppressive child labor within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended. Employment that is not specifically permitted is prohibited.
[75 FR 28448, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.33
Occupations that are prohibited to minors 14 and 15 years of age.
The following occupations, which is not an exhaustive list, constitute oppressive child labor within the meaning of the Fair Labor Standards Act when performed by minors who are 14 and 15 years of age:
(a) Manufacturing, mining, or processing occupations, including occupations requiring the performance of any duties in work rooms or work places where goods are manufactured, mined or otherwise processed, except as permitted in § 570.34 of this subpart.
(b) Occupations that the Secretary of Labor may, pursuant to section 3(l) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, find and declare to be hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being.
(c) Occupations that involve operating, tending, setting up, adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing hoisting apparatus.
(d) Work performed in or about boiler or engine rooms or in connection with the maintenance or repair of the establishment, machines, or equipment.
(e) Occupations that involve operating, tending, setting up, adjusting, cleaning, oiling, or repairing any power-driven machinery, including but not limited to lawn mowers, golf carts, all-terrain vehicles, trimmers, cutters, weed-eaters, edgers, food slicers, food grinders, food choppers, food processors, food cutters, and food mixers. Youth 14 and 15 years of age may, however, operate office equipment pursuant to § 570.34(a) and vacuum cleaners and floor waxers pursuant to § 570.34(h).
(f) The operation of motor vehicles; the service as helpers on such vehicles except those tasks permitted by § 570.34(k); and the riding on a motor vehicle, inside or outside of an enclosed passenger compartment, except as permitted by § 570.34(o).
(g) Outside window washing that involves working from window sills, and all work requiring the use of ladders, scaffolds, or their substitutes.
(h) All baking and cooking activities except that cooking which is permitted by § 570.34(c).
(i) Work in freezers and meat coolers and all work in the preparation of meats for sale except as permitted by § 570.34(j). This section, however, does not prohibit the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds whose duties require them to occasionally enter freezers only momentarily to retrieve items as permitted by § 570.34(i).
(j) Youth peddling, which entails the selling of goods or services to customers at locations other than the youth-employer's establishment, such as the customers' residences or places of business, or public places such as street corners and public transportation stations. Prohibited activities associated with youth peddling not only include the attempt to make a sale or the actual consummation of a sale, but also the preparatory and concluding tasks normally performed by a youth peddler in conjunction with his or her sales such as the loading and unloading of vans or other motor vehicles, the stocking and restocking of sales kits and trays, the exchanging of cash and checks with the employer, and the transportation of minors to and from the various sales areas by the employer. Prohibited youth peddling also includes such promotion activities as the holding, wearing, or waving of
signs, merchandise, costumes, sandwich boards, or placards in order to attract potential customers, except when performed inside of, or directly in front of, the employer's establishment providing the product, service, or event being advertised. This provision does not prohibit a young salesperson from conducting sales for his or her employer on property controlled by the employer that is out of doors but may properly be considered part of the employer's establishment. Youth may conduct sales in such employer exterior facilities, whether temporary or permanent, as garden centers, sidewalk sales, and parking lot sales, when employed by that establishment. Youth peddling does not include the activities of persons who, as volunteers and without compensation, sell goods or services on behalf of eleemosynary organizations or public agencies.
(k) Loading and unloading of goods or property onto or from motor vehicles, railroad cars, or conveyors, except the loading and unloading of personal non-power-driven hand tools, personal protective equipment, and personal items to and from motor vehicles as permitted by § 570.34(k).
(l) Catching and cooping of poultry in preparation for transport or for market.
(m) Public messenger service.
(n) Occupations in connection with:
(1) Transportation of persons or property by rail, highway, air, water, pipeline, or other means;
(2) Warehousing and storage;
(3) Communications and public utilities;
(4) Construction (including demolition and repair); except such office work (including ticket office) or sales work in connection with paragraphs (n)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section, as does not involve the performance of any duties on trains, motor vehicles, aircraft, vessels, or other media of transportation or at the actual site of construction operations.
[75 FR 28448, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.34
Occupations that may be performed by minors 14 and 15 years of age.
This subpart authorizes only the following occupations in which the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age is permitted when performed for periods and under conditions authorized by § 570.35 and not involving occupations prohibited by § 570.33 or performed in areas or industries prohibited by § 570.33.
(a) Office and clerical work, including the operation of office machines.
(b) Work of an intellectual or artistically creative nature such as, but not limited to, computer programming, the writing of software, teaching or performing as a tutor, serving as a peer counselor or teacher's assistant, singing, the playing of a musical instrument, and drawing, as long as such employment complies with all the other provisions contained in §§ 570.33, 570.34, and 570.35. Artistically creative work is limited to work in a recognized field of artistic or creative endeavor.
(c) Cooking with electric or gas grills which does not involve cooking over an open flame (Note: This provision does not authorize cooking with equipment such as rotisseries, broilers, pressurized equipment including fryolators, and cooking devices that operate at extremely high temperatures such as “Neico broilers”). Cooking is also permitted with deep fryers that are equipped with and utilize a device which automatically lowers the baskets into the hot oil or grease and automatically raises the baskets from the hot oil or grease.
(d) Cashiering, selling, modeling, art work, work in advertising departments, window trimming, and comparative shopping.
(e) Price marking and tagging by hand or machine, assembling orders, packing, and shelving.
(f) Bagging and carrying out customers' orders.
(g) Errand and delivery work by foot, bicycle, and public transportation.
(h) Clean up work, including the use of vacuum cleaners and floor waxers, and the maintenance of grounds, but not including the use of power-driven mowers, cutters, trimmers, edgers, or similar equipment.
(i) Kitchen work and other work involved in preparing and serving food and beverages, including operating machines and devices used in performing
such work. Examples of permitted machines and devices include, but are not limited to, dishwashers, toasters, dumbwaiters, popcorn poppers, milk shake blenders, coffee grinders, automatic coffee machines, devices used to maintain the temperature of prepared foods (such as warmers, steam tables, and heat lamps), and microwave ovens that are used only to warm prepared food and do not have the capacity to warm above 140 °F. Minors are permitted to clean kitchen equipment (not otherwise prohibited), remove oil or grease filters, pour oil or grease through filters, and move receptacles containing hot grease or hot oil, but only when the equipment, surfaces, containers and liquids do not exceed a temperature of 100 °F. Minors are also permitted to occasionally enter freezers momentarily to retrieve items in conjunction with restocking or food preparation.
(j) Cleaning vegetables and fruits, and the wrapping, sealing, labeling, weighing, pricing, and stocking of items, including vegetables, fruits, and meats, when performed in areas physically separate from a freezer or meat cooler.
(k) The loading onto motor vehicles and the unloading from motor vehicles of the light, non-power-driven, hand tools and personal protective equipment that the minor will use as part of his or her employment at the work site; and the loading onto motor vehicles and the unloading from motor vehicles of personal items such as a back pack, a lunch box, or a coat that the minor is permitted to take to the work site. Such light tools would include, but are not limited to, rakes, hand-held clippers, shovels, and brooms. Such light tools would not include items like trash, sales kits, promotion items or items for sale, lawn mowers, or other power-driven lawn maintenance equipment. Such minors would not be permitted to load or unload safety equipment such as barriers, cones, or signage.
(l)(1)
Lifeguard.
The employment of 15-year-olds (but not 14-year-olds) to perform permitted lifeguard duties at traditional swimming pools and water amusement parks (including such water park facilities as wave pools, lazy rivers, specialized activity areas that may include water falls and sprinkler areas, and baby pools; but not including the elevated areas of power-driven water slides) when such youth have been trained and certified by the American Red Cross, or a similar certifying organization, in aquatics and water safety.
(2)
Definitions.
As used in this paragraph (l):
Permitted lifeguard duties
include the rescuing of swimmers in danger of drowning, the monitoring of activities at poolside to prevent accidents, the teaching of water safety, and providing assistance to patrons. Lifeguards may also help to maintain order and cleanliness in the pool and pool areas, give swimming instructions (if, in addition to being certified as a lifeguard, the 15-year-old is also properly certified as a swimming instructor by the American Red Cross or some other recognized certifying organization), conduct or officiate at swimming meets, and administer first aid. Additional lifeguard duties may include checking in and out items such as towels and personal items such as rings, watches and apparel. Permitted duties for 15-year-olds include the use of a ladder to access and descend from the lifeguard chair; the use of hand tools to clean the pool and pool area; and the testing and recording of water quality for temperature and/or pH levels, using all of the tools of the testing process including adding chemicals to the test water sample. Fifteen-year-olds employed as lifeguards are, however, prohibited from entering or working in any mechanical room or chemical storage areas, including any areas where the filtration and chlorinating systems are housed. The term permitted lifeguard duties does not include the operation or tending of power-driven equipment including power-driven elevated water slides often found at water amusement parks and some swimming pools. Minors under 16 years of age may not be employed as dispatchers or attendants at the top of elevated water slides performing such tasks as maintaining order, directing patrons as to when to depart the top of the slide, and ensuring that patrons have begun their “ride” safely. Properly certified 15-
year-old lifeguards may, however, be stationed at the “splashdown pools” located at the bottom of the elevated water slides to perform those permitted duties listed in this subsection.
Traditional swimming pool
means a water tight structure of concrete, masonry, or other approved materials located either indoors or outdoors, used for bathing or swimming and filled with a filtered and disinfected water supply, together with buildings, appurtenances and equipment used in connection therewith, excluding elevated “water slides.” Not included in the definition of a traditional swimming pool would be such natural environment swimming facilities as rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, quarries, reservoirs, wharfs, piers, canals, or oceanside beaches.
Water amusement park
means an establishment that not only encompasses the features of a traditional swimming pool, but may also include such additional attractions as wave pools; lazy rivers; specialized activities areas such as baby pools, water falls, and sprinklers; and elevated water slides. Not included in the definition of a water amusement park would be such natural environment swimming facilities as rivers, streams, lakes, reservoirs, wharfs, piers, canals, or oceanside beaches.
(m)(1)
Employment inside and outside of places of business where machinery is used to process wood products.
The employment of a 14- or 15-year-old who by statute or judicial order is exempt from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade inside or outside places of business where machinery is used to process wood products if:
(i) The youth is supervised by an adult relative of the youth or is supervised by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth;
(ii) The youth does not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines;
(iii) The youth is protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the workplace by a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such wood particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from machinery in operation; and
(iv) The youth is required to use, and uses, personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and saw dust.
(2)
Compliance.
Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (m)(1)(iii) and (m)(1)(iv) of this section will be accomplished when the employer is in compliance with the requirements of the applicable governing standards issued by the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or, in those areas where OSHA has authorized the state to operate its own Occupational Safety and Health Plan, the applicable standards issued by the Office charged with administering the State Occupational Safety and Health Plan. The employment of youth under this section must comply with the other sections of this subpart, including the hours and time of day standards established by § 570.35.
(3)
Definitions.
As used in this paragraph (m):
Inside or outside places of business
shall mean the actual physical location of the establishment employing the youth, including the buildings and surrounding land necessary to the business operations of that establishment.
Operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines
shall mean the operating of such machines, including supervising or controlling the operation of such machines, feeding material into such machines, helping the operator feed material into such machines, unloading materials from such machines, and helping the operator unload materials from such machines. The term also includes the occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning such machines.
Places of business where machinery is used to process wood products
shall mean such permanent workplaces as sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, cooperage stock mills, furniture and cabinet making shops, gazebo and shed making shops, toy manufacturing shops, and pallet shops. The term shall not include construction sites, portable sawmills, areas where logging is being performed, or mining operations.
Power-driven woodworking machines
shall mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven by power and
used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening or otherwise assembling, pressing, or printing wood, veneer, trees, logs, or lumber.
Supervised by an adult relative or is supervised by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth
has several components.
Supervised
means that the youth's on-the-job activities must be directed, monitored, overseen, and controlled by certain named adults. Such supervision must be close, direct, constant, and uninterrupted. An
adult
shall mean an individual who is at least eighteen years of age. A
relative
shall mean the parent (or someone standing in the place of a parent), grandparent, sibling, uncle, or aunt of the young worker.
A member of the same religious sect or division as the youth
refers to an individual who professes membership in the same religious sect or division to which the youth professes membership.
(n) Work in connection with cars and trucks if confined to the following: dispensing gasoline and oil; courtesy service; car cleaning, washing and polishing by hand; and other occupations permitted by this section, but not including work involving the use of pits, racks, or lifting apparatus, or involving the inflation of any tire mounted on a rim equipped with a removable retaining ring.
(o) Work in connection with riding inside passenger compartments of motor vehicles except as prohibited by § 570.33(f) or § 570.33(j), or when a significant reason for the minor being a passenger in the vehicle is for the purpose of performing work in connection with the transporting—or assisting in the transporting of—other persons or property. The transportation of the persons or property does not have to be the primary reason for the trip for this exception to apply. Each minor riding as a passenger in a motor vehicle must have his or her own seat in the passenger compartment; each seat must be equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device; and the employer must instruct the minors that such belts or other devices must be used. In addition, each driver transporting the young workers must hold a State driver's license valid for the type of driving involved and, if the driver is under the age of 18, his or her employment must comply with the provisions of § 570.52.
[75 FR 28448, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.35
Hours of work and conditions of employment permitted for minors 14 and 15 years of age.
(a)
Hours standards.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, employment in any of the permissible occupations to which this subpart is applicable shall be confined to the following periods:
(1) Outside of school hours;
(2) Not more than 40 hours in any 1 week when school is not in session;
(3) Not more than 18 hours in any 1 week when school is in session;
(4) Not more than 8 hours in any 1 day when school is not in session;
(5) Not more than 3 hours in any 1 day when school is in session, including Fridays;
(6) Between 7 a.m. and 7 p.m. in any 1 day, except during the summer (June 1 through Labor Day) when the evening hour will be 9 p.m.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Outside school hours
means such periods as before and after school hours, holidays, summer vacations, weekends, and any other day or part of a day when school is not in session as determined by the local public school district in which the minor resides when employed. Summer school sessions, held in addition to the regularly scheduled school year, are considered to be
outside of school hours.
School hours
refers to the hours that the local public school district where the minor resides while employed is in session during the regularly scheduled school year.
Week
means a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours—seven consecutive 24-hour periods—that is identical to the workweek the employer establishes for the employee under § 778.105 of this title.
Week when school is in session
refers to any week the local public school district where the minor resides while employed is in session and students are required to attend for at least one day or partial day.
(c)
Exceptions.
(1) School is not considered to be in session, and exceptions from the hours limitations standards listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (3), and (5) of this section are provided, for any youth 14 or 15 years of age who:
(i) Has graduated from high school;
(ii) Has been excused from compulsory school attendance by the state or other jurisdiction once he or she has completed the eighth grade and his or her employment complies with all the requirements of the state school attendance law;
(iii) Has a child to support and appropriate state officers, pursuant to state law, have waived school attendance requirements for this minor;
(iv) Is subject to an order of a state or federal court prohibiting him or her from attending school; or
(v) Has been permanently expelled from the local public school he or she would normally attend, unless the youth is required, by state or local law or ordinance, or by court order, to attend another school.
(2) In the case of minors 14 and 15 years of age who are employed to perform sports-attending services at professional sporting events,
i.e.,
baseball, basketball, football, soccer, tennis, etc., the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(6) of this section shall not apply, provided that the duties of the sports-attendant occupation consist of pre- and post-game or practice setup of balls, items and equipment; supplying and retrieving balls, items and equipment during a sporting event; clearing the field or court of debris, moisture, etc., during play; providing ice, drinks, towels, etc., to players during play; running errands for trainers, managers, coaches, and players before, during, and after a sporting event; and returning and/or storing balls, items and equipment in club house or locker room after a sporting event. For purposes of this exception, impermissible duties include grounds or field maintenance such as grass mowing, spreading or rolling tarpaulins used to cover playing areas, etc.; cleaning and repairing equipment; cleaning locker rooms, showers, lavatories, rest rooms, team vehicles, club houses, dugouts or similar facilities; loading and unloading balls, items and equipment from team vehicles before and after a sporting event; doing laundry; and working in concession stands or other selling and promotional activities.
(3) Exceptions from certain of the hours standards contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(3) of this section are provided for the employment of minors who are enrolled in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised work-experience and career exploration program as detailed in § 570.36.
(4) Exceptions from certain of the hours standards contained in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(5) of this section are provided for the employment of minors who are participating in a work-study program designed as described in § 570.37.
[75 FR 28448, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.36
Work experience and career exploration program.
(a) This section varies some provisions of this subpart for the employment of minors between 14 and 16 years of age who are enrolled in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised and school-administered work-experience and career exploration program which meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, in the occupations permitted under paragraph (c) of this section, and for the periods and under the conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. With these safeguards, such employment is found not to interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their health and well-being and therefore is not deemed to be oppressive child labor.
(b)(1) A school-supervised and school-administered work-experience and career exploration program shall meet the educational standards established and approved by the State Educational Agency in the respective State.
(2) The State Educational Agency shall file with the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division a letter of application for approval of a State program as one not interfering with schooling or with the health and well-being of the minors involved and therefore not constituting oppressive child labor. The application must include information concerning the criteria listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division shall approve the application, or give prompt notice of any denial and the reasons therefor.
(3) The criteria to be used in consideration of applications are the following:
(i)
Eligibility.
Any student aged 14 or 15 years who authoritative local school personnel identify as being able to benefit from the program shall be eligible to participate.
(ii)
Credits.
Students shall receive school credits for both in-school related instruction and on-the-job experience.
(iii)
Size.
Each program unit shall be a reasonable size. A unit of 12 to 25 students to one teacher-coordinator would be generally considered reasonable. Whether other sizes are reasonable would depend upon the individual facts and circumstances involved.
(iv)
Instructional schedule.
There shall be (
a
) allotted time for the required classroom instruction in those subjects necessary for graduation under the State's standards and (
b
) regularly scheduled classroom periods of instruction devoted to job-related and to employability skill instruction.
(v)
Teacher-coordinator.
Each program unit shall be under the supervision of a school official to be designated for the purpose of the program as a teacher-coordinator, who shall generally supervise the program and coordinate the work and education aspects of the program and make regularly scheduled visits to the work stations.
(vi)
Written training agreement.
No student shall participate in the program until there has been made a written training agreement signed by the teacher-coordinator, the employer, and the student. The agreement shall also be signed or otherwise consented to by the student's parent or guardian.
(vii)
Other provisions.
Any other provisions of the program providing safeguards ensuring that the employment permitted under this section will not interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their health and well-being may also be submitted for use in consideration of the application.
(4) Every State Educational Agency having students in a program approved pursuant to the requirements of this section shall comply with the following:
(i)
Permissible occupations.
No student shall be assigned to work in any occupation other than one permitted under paragraph (c) of this section.
(ii)
Records and reports.
The names and addresses of each school enrolling work experience and career exploration program students and the number of enrollees in each unit shall be kept at the State Educational Agency office. A copy of the written training agreement for each student participating in the program shall be kept in the State Educational Agency office or in the local educational office. The records required for this paragraph shall be kept for a period of 3 years from the date of enrollment in the program and shall be made available for inspection or transcription to the representatives of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division.
(c) Employment of minors enrolled in a program approved pursuant to the requirements of this section shall be permitted in all occupations except the following:
(1) Manufacturing and mining.
(2) Occupations declared to be hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age in subpart E of this part, and occupations in agriculture declared to be hazardous for employment of minors below the age of 16 in subpart E-1 of this part.
(3) Occupations other than those permitted under § 570.34, except upon approval of a variation by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division in acting on the program application of the State Educational Agency. The Administrator shall have discretion to grant requests for special variations if the applicant demonstrates that the activity will be performed under adequate supervision and training (including safety precautions) and that the terms and conditions of the proposed employment will not interfere with the health or well-being or schooling of the minor enrolled in an approved program. The granting of a special variation is determined on a case-by-case basis.
(i) The Administrator's decision on whether to grant a special variation will be based on information provided
in the application filed by the State Educational Agency, and/or any supplemental information that may be requested by the Administrator.
(ii) The Administrator's decision shall be in writing, and may designate specific equipment safeguards or other terms and conditions governing the work-activity approved by variation. If the request is denied, in whole or part, the reason(s) for the decision will be provided to the applicant, who may request reconsideration.
(iii) A special variation will be valid only during the period covered by an approved program, and must be renewed with the filing of a new program application.
(iv) The Administrator shall revoke or deny a special variation, in whole or in part, where there is reason to believe that program participants have been or will be employed contrary to terms and conditions specified for the variation, or these regulations, other provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, or otherwise in conditions detrimental to their health or well-being or schooling.
(v) Requests for special variations and related documentation will be available for examination in the Branch of Child Labor and Polygraph Standards, Wage and Hour Division, Room S3510, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. Any interested person may oppose the granting of a special variation or may request reconsideration or revocation of a special variation. Such requests shall set forth reasons why the special variation should be denied or revoked.
(d) Employment of minors enrolled in a program approved pursuant to the requirements of this section shall be confined to not more than 23 hours in any 1 week when school is in session and not more than 3 hours in any day when school is in session, any portion of which may be during school hours. Insofar as these provisions are inconsistent with the provisions of § 570.35, this section shall be controlling.
(e) The employment of a minor enrolled in a program pursuant to the requirements of this section must not have the effect of displacing a worker employed in the establishment of the employer.
(f) Programs shall be in force and effect for a period of two (2) school years from the date of their approval by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division. A new application for approval must be filed at the end of that period. Failure to meet the requirements of this section may result in withdrawal of approval.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraphs (b)(3)(vi) and (4) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1235-0018)
[40 FR 40801, Sept. 4, 1975; 40 FR 44130, Sept. 25, 1975; 47 FR 145, Jan. 5, 1982; 47 FR 28095, June 29, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 18294, Apr. 30, 1984; 60 FR 19339, Apr. 17, 1995. Redesignated and amended at 75 FR 28452, May 20, 2010; 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 570.37
Work-study program.
(a) This section varies the provisions contained in § 570.35(a)(1) and (a)(5) for the employment of minors 14 and 15 years of age who are enrolled in and employed pursuant to a school-supervised and school-administered work-study program that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, in the occupations permitted by § 570.34, and for the periods and under the conditions specified in paragraph (c) of this section. With these safeguards, such employment is found not to interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their health and well-being and therefore is not deemed to be oppressive child labor.
(b)(1) A school-supervised and school-administered work-study program shall meet the educational standards established and approved by the State Educational Agency in the respective state.
(2) The superintendent of the public or private school system supervising and administering the work-study program shall file with the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division a letter of application for approval of the work-study program as one not interfering with schooling or with the health and well-being of the minors involved and therefore not constituting oppressive child labor. The application shall be filed at least sixty days before the start of the school year and must include information concerning the criteria listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this
section. The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division shall approve the application, or give prompt notice of any denial and the reasons therefor.
(3) The criteria to be used in consideration of applications under this section are the following:
(i)
Eligibility.
Any student 14 or 15 years of age, enrolled in a college preparatory curriculum, whom authoritative personnel from the school attended by the youth identify as being able to benefit from the program shall be able to participate.
(ii)
Instructional schedule.
Every youth shall receive, every school year he or she participates in the work-study program, at least the minimum number of hours of classroom instruction, as required by the State Educational Agency responsible for establishing such standards, to complete a fully-accredited college preparatory curriculum. Such classroom instruction shall include, every year the youth participates in the work-study program, training in workplace safety and state and federal child labor provisions and rules.
(iii)
Teacher-coordinator.
Each school participating in a work-study program shall designate a teacher-coordinator under whose supervision the program will operate. The teacher-coordinator shall generally supervise and coordinate the work and educational aspects of the program and make regularly scheduled visits to the workplaces of the participating students to confirm that minors participating in the work-study program are employed in compliance with all applicable provisions of this part and section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Such confirmation shall be noted in any letters of application filed by the superintendent of the public or private school system in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section when seeking continuance of its work-study program.
(iv)
Written participation agreement.
No student shall participate in the work-study program until there has been made a written agreement signed by the teacher-coordinator, the employer, and the student. The agreement shall also be signed or otherwise consented to by the student's parent or guardian. The agreement shall detail the objectives of the work-study program; describe the specific job duties to be performed by the participating minor as well as the number of hours and times of day that the minor will be employed each week; affirm that the participant will receive the minimum number of hours of class-room instruction as required by the State Educational Agency for the completion of a fully-accredited college preparatory curriculum; and affirm that the employment of the minor will be in compliance with the child labor provisions of both this part and the laws of the state where the work will be performed, and the applicable minimum wage provisions contained in section 6 of the FLSA.
(v)
Other provisions.
Any other provisions of the program providing safeguards ensuring that the employment permitted under this section will not interfere with the schooling of the minors or with their health and well-being may also be submitted for use in considering the application.
(4) Every public or private school district having students in a work-study program approved pursuant to these requirements, and every employer employing students in a work-study program approved pursuant to these requirements, shall comply with the following:
(i)
Permissible occupations.
No student shall be assigned to work in any occupation other than one permitted under § 570.34.
(ii)
Records and reports.
A copy of the written agreement for each student participating in the work-study program shall be kept by both the employer and the school supervising and administering the program for a period of three years from the date of the student's enrollment in the program. Such agreements shall be made available upon request to the representatives of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division for inspection, transcription, and/or photocopying.
(c) Employment of minors enrolled in a program approved pursuant to the requirements of this section shall be confined to not more than 18 hours in any one week when school is in session, a portion of which may be during school hours, in accordance with the following
formula that is based upon a continuous four-week cycle. In three of the four weeks, the participant is permitted to work during school hours on only one day per week, and for no more than for eight hours on that day. During the remaining week of the four-week cycle, such minor is permitted to work during school hours on no more than two days, and for no more than for eight hours on each of those two days. The employment of such minors would still be subject to the time of day and number of hours standards contained in §§ 570.35(a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(4), and (a)(6). To the extent that these provisions are inconsistent with the provisions of § 570.35, this section shall be controlling.
(d) Programs shall be in force and effect for a period to be determined by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, but in no case shall be in effect for longer than two school years from the date of their approval by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division. A new application for approval must be filed at the end of that period. Failure to meet the requirements of this section may result in withdrawal of the approval.
(The information collection requirements contained in § 570.37 were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1235-0018)
[75 FR 28452, May 20, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 570.38
Effect of a certificate of age under this subpart.
The employment of any minor in any of the occupations to which this subpart is applicable, if confined to the periods specified in § 570.35, shall not be deemed to constitute oppressive child labor within the meaning of the act if the employer shall have on file an unexpired certificate, issued in substantially the same manner as that provided for the issuance of certificates in subpart A of this part relating to certificates of age, certifying that such minor is of an age between 14 and 16 years.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 27 FR 4165, May 2, 1962, and 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971. Redesignated at 75 FR 28452, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.39
Effect of this subpart on other laws.
No provision of this subpart shall under any circumstances justify or be construed to permit noncompliance with the wage and hour provisions of the act or with the provisions of any other Federal law or of any State law or municipal ordinance establishing higher standards than those established under this subpart.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 27 FR 4165, May 2, 1962, and 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971. Redesignated at 75 FR 28452, May 20, 2010]
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Occupations Particularly Hazardous for the Employment of Minors Between 16 and 18 Years of Age or Detrimental to Their Health or Well-Being

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 203(l), 212, 213(c).

# Note:
The provisions of this subpart declaring certain occupations to be particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being do not apply to employment in agriculture.
§ 570.50
General.
(a)
Higher standards.
Nothing in this subpart shall authorize non-compliance with any Federal or State law, regulation, or municipal ordinance establishing a higher standard. If more than one standard within this subpart applies to a single activity the higher standard shall be applicable.
(b)
Apprentices.
Some sections in this subpart contain an exemption for the employment of apprentices. Such an exemption shall apply only when: (1) The apprentice is employed in a craft recognized as an apprenticeable trade; (2) the work of the apprentice in the occupations declared particularly hazardous is incidental to his training; (3) such work is intermittent and for short periods of time and is under the direct and close supervision of a journeyman as a necessary part of such apprentice
training; and (4) the apprentice is registered by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training of the United States Department of Labor as employed in accordance with the standards established by that Bureau, or is registered by a State agency as employed in accordance with the standards of the State apprenticeship agency recognized by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, or is employed under a written apprenticeship agreement and conditions which are found by the Secretary of labor to conform substantially with such Federal or State standards.
(c)
Student-learners.
Some sections in this subpart contain an exemption for the employment of student-learners. Such an exemption shall apply when:
(1) The student-learner is enrolled in a course of study and training in a cooperative vocational training program under a recognized State or local educational authority or in a course of study in a substantially similar program conducted by a private school and;
(2) Such student-learner is employed under a written agreement which provides:
(i) That the work of the student-learner in the occupations declared particularly hazardous shall be incidental to his training;
(ii) That such work shall be intermittent and for short periods of time, and under the direct and close supervision of a qualified and experienced person;
(iii) That safety instructions shall be given by the school and correlated by the employer with on-the-job training; and
(iv) That a schedule of organized and progressive work processes to be performed on the job shall have been prepared.
Each such written agreement shall contain the name of student-learner, and shall be signed by the employer and the school coordinator or principal. Copies of each agreement shall be kept on file by both the school and the employer. This exemption for the employment of student-learners may be revoked in any individual situation where it is found that reasonable precautions have not been observed for the safety of minors employed thereunder. A high school graduate may be employed in an occupation in which he has completed training as provided in this paragraph as a student-learner, even though he is not yet 18 years of age.
[28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963, as amended at 33 FR 12777, Sept. 10, 1968. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.51
Occupations in or about plants or establishments manufacturing or storing explosives or articles containing explosive components (Order 1).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
The following occupations in or about plants or establishments manufacturing or storing explosives or articles containing explosive components are particularly hazardous for minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being:
(1) All occupations in or about any plant or establishment (other than retail establishments or plants or establishments of the type described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section) manufacturing or storing explosives or articles containing explosive components except where the occupation is performed in a “nonexplosives area” as defined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) The following occupations in or about any plant or establishment manufacturing or storing small-arms ammunition not exceeding .60 caliber in size, shotgun shells, or blasting caps when manufactured or stored in conjunction with the manufacture of small-arms ammunition:
(i) All occupations involved in the manufacturing, mixing, transporting, or handling of explosive compounds in the manufacture of small-arms ammunition and all other occupations requiring the performance of any duties in the explosives area in which explosive compounds are manufactured or mixed.
(ii) All occupations involved in the manufacturing, transporting, or handling of primers and all other occupations requiring the performance of any duties in the same building in which primers are manufactured.
(iii) All occupations involved in the priming of cartridges and all other occupations requiring the performance of
any duties in the same workroom in which rim-fire cartridges are primed.
(iv) All occupations involved in the plate loading of cartridges and in the operation of automatic loading machines.
(v) All occupations involved in the loading, inspecting, packing, shipping and storage of blasting caps.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1) The term
plant or establishment manufacturing or storing explosives or articles containing explosive component
means the land with all the buildings and other structures thereon used in connection with the manufacturing or processing or storing of explosives or articles containing explosive components.
(2) The terms
explosives
and
articles containing explosive components
mean and include ammunition, black powder, blasting caps, fireworks, high explosives, primers, smokeless powder, and explosives and explosive materials as defined in 18 U.S.C. 841(c)-(f) and the implementing regulations at 27 CFR part 555. The terms include any chemical compound, mixture, or device, the primary or common purpose of which is to function by explosion, as well as all goods identified in the most recent list of explosive materials published by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice. This list is not intended to be all-inclusive and is updated and published annually in the
Federal Register
pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 841(d). A copy of the most recent version of the list may be found through the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives' Web site at
http://www.atf.gov.
(3) An area meeting all of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(3) (i) through (iv) of this section shall be deemed a “nonexplosives area”:
(i) None of the work performed in the area involves the handling or use of explosives;
(ii) The area is separated from the explosives area by a distance not less than that prescribed in the American Table of Distances for the protection of inhabited buildings;
(iii) The area is separated from the explosives area by a fence or is otherwise located so that it constitutes a definite designated area; and
(iv) Satisfactory controls have been established to prevent employees under 18 years of age within the area from entering any area in or about the plant which does not meet criteria of paragraphs (b)(3) (i) through (iii) of this section.
[17 FR 4324, May 13, 1952. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 69 FR 75403, Dec. 16, 2004]
§ 570.52
Occupations of motor-vehicle driver and outside helper (Order 2).
(a)
Findings and declaration of fact.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the occupations of motor-vehicle driver and outside helper on any public road, highway, in or about any mine (including open pit mine or quarry), place where logging or sawmill operations are in progress, or in any excavation of the type identified in § 570.68(a) are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age.
(b)
Exemption—Incidental and occasional driving by 17-year-olds.
Minors who are at least 17 years of age may drive automobiles and trucks on public roadways when all the following criteria are met:
(1) The automobile or truck does not exceed 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, and the vehicle is equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device for the driver and for any passengers and the employer has instructed the employee that such belts or other devices must be used;
(2) The driving is restricted to daylight hours;
(3) The minor holds a State license valid for the type of driving involved in the job performed and has no records of any moving violations at the time of hire;
(4) The minor has successfully completed a State-approved driver education course;
(5) The driving does not involve: the towing of vehicles; route deliveries or route sales; the transportation for hire of property, goods, or passengers; urgent, time-sensitive deliveries; or the transporting at any one time of more
than three passengers, including the employees of the employer;
(6) The driving performed by the minor does not involve more than two trips away from the primary place of employment in any single day for the purpose of delivering goods of the minor's employer to a customer (except urgent, time-sensitive deliveries which are completely banned in paragraph (b)(5) of this section;
(7) The driving performed by the minor does not involve more than two trips away from the primary place of employment in any single day for the purpose of transporting passengers (other than the employees of the employer);
(8) The driving takes place within a thirty (30) mile radius of the minor's place of employment; and,
(9) The driving is only occasional and incidental to the employee's employment.
(c)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1) The term
motor vehicle
shall mean any automobile, truck, truck-tractor, trailer, semitrailer, motorcycle, or similar vehicle propelled or drawn by mechanical power and designed for use as a means of transportation but shall not include any vehicle operated exclusively on rails.
(2) The term
driver
shall mean any individual who, in the course of employment, drives a motor vehicle at any time.
(3) The term
outside helper
shall mean any individual, other than a driver, whose work includes riding on a motor vehicle outside the cab for the purpose of assisting in transporting or delivering goods.
(4) The term
gross vehicle weight
includes the truck chassis with lubricants, water and a full tank or tanks of fuel, plus the weight of the cab or driver's compartment, body and special chassis and body equipment, and payload.
(5) The term
occasional and incidental
means no more than one-third of an employee's worktime in any workday and no more than 20 percent of an employee's worktime in any workweek.
(6) The term
urgent, time-sensitive deliveries
means trips which, because of such factors as customer satisfaction, the rapid deterioration of the quality or change in temperature of the product, and/or economic incentives, are subject to time-lines, schedules, and/or turn-around times which might impel the driver to hurry in the completion of the delivery. Prohibited trips would include, but are not limited to, the delivery of pizzas and prepared foods to the customer; the delivery of materials under a deadline (such as deposits to a bank at closing); and the shuttling of passengers to and from transportation depots to meet transport schedules.
Urgent, time-sensitive deliveries
would not depend on the delivery's points of origin and termination, and would include the delivery of people and things to the employer's place of business as well as from that business to some other location.
[56 FR 58630, Nov. 20, 1991, as amended at 69 FR 75403, Dec. 16, 2004]
§ 570.53
Coal-mine occupations (Order 3).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
All occupations in or about any coal mine, except the occupation of slate or other refuse picking at a picking table or picking chute in a tipple or breaker and occupations requiring the performance of duties solely in offices or in repair or maintenance shops located in the surface part of any coal-mining plant, are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purpose of this section:
(1) The term
coal
shall mean any rank of coal including lignite, bituminous, and the anthracite coals.
(2) The term
all occupations in or about any coal mine
shall mean all types of work performed in any underground working, open-pit, or surface part of any coal-mining plant, that contribute to the extraction, grading, cleaning, or other handling of coal.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.54
Forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention occupations, timber tract occupations, forestry service occupations, logging occupations, and occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill (Order 4).
(a)
Finding and declarations of fact.
All occupations in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention, in timber tracts, in forestry services, logging, and the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age, except the following when not prohibited by any other section of this subpart:
(1) Work in offices or in repair or maintenance shops.
(2) Work in the construction, operation, repair, or maintenance of living and administrative quarters, including logging camps and fire fighting base camps.
(3) Work in the repair or maintenance of roads, railroads or flumes and work in construction and maintenance of telephone lines, but only if the minors are not engaged in the operation of power-driven machinery, the handling or use of explosives, the felling or bucking of timber, the collecting or transporting of logs, or work on trestles.
(4) The following tasks in forest fire prevention
provided
none of these tasks may be performed in conjunction with or in support of efforts to extinguish a forest fire: the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; the piling and burning of slash; the maintaining of fire fighting equipment; and acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman.
(5) Work related to forest marketing and forest economics when performed away from the forest.
(6) Work in the feeding or care of animals.
(7) Peeling of fence posts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood, cordwood, or similar products, when not done in conjunction with and at the same time and place as other logging occupations declared hazardous by this section.
(8) The following additional exceptions apply to the operation of a permanent sawmill or the operation of any lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage stock mill, but not to a portable sawmill. In addition, the following exceptions do not apply to work which entails entering the sawmill building, except for those minors whose employment meets the requirements of the limited exemptions discussed in §§ 570.34(m) and 570.54(c):
(i) Straightening, marking, or tallying lumber on the dry chain or the dry drop sorter.
(ii) Pulling lumber from the dry chain,
except
minors under 16 years of age may not pull lumber from the dry chain as such youth are prohibited from operating or tending power-driven machinery by § 570.33(e) of this part.
(iii) Clean-up in the lumberyard.
(iv) Piling, handling, or shipping of cooperage stock in yards or storage sheds other than operating or assisting in the operation of power-driven equipment;
except
minors under 16 years of age may not perform shipping duties as they are prohibited from employment in occupations in connection with the transportation of property by rail, highway, air, water, pipeline, or other means by § 570.33(n)(1) of this part.
(v) Clerical work in yards or shipping sheds, such as done by ordermen, tally-men, and shipping clerks.
(vi) Clean-up work outside shake and shingle mills, except when the mill is in operation.
(vii) Splitting shakes manually from precut and split blocks with a froe and mallet, except inside the mill building or cover.
(viii) Packing shakes into bundles when done in conjunction with splitting shakes manually with a froe and mallet, except inside the mill building or cover.
(ix) Manual loading of bundles of shingles or shakes into trucks or railroad cars, provided that the employer has on file a statement from a licensed doctor of medicine or osteopathy certifying the minor capable of performing this work without injury to himself,
except
minors under 16 years of age may not load bundles of shingles or shakes into trucks or railroad cars as they are prohibited from loading and unloading goods or property onto or
from motor vehicles, railroad cars, or conveyors by § 570.33(k) of this part.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
All occupations in forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention
shall include the controlling and extinguishing of fires, the wetting down of areas or extinguishing of spot fires, and the patrolling of burned areas to assure the fire has been extinguished. The term shall also include the following tasks when performed in conjunction with, or in support of, efforts to extinguish a forest fire: the piling and burning of slash; the clearing of fire trails or roads; the construction, maintenance, and patrolling of fire lines; acting as a fire lookout or fire patrolman; and the maintaining of fire fighting equipment. The prohibition concerning the employment of youth in forest fire fighting and fire prevention applies to all forest and timber tract locations, logging operations, and sawmill operations, including all buildings located within such areas.
All occupations in forestry services
shall mean all work involved in the support of timber production, wood technology, forestry economics and marketing, and forest protection. The term includes such services as timber cruising, surveying, or logging-engineering parties; estimating timber; timber valuation; forest pest control; forest fire fighting and forest fire prevention as defined in this section; and reforestation. The term shall not include work in forest nurseries, establishments primarily engaged in growing trees for purposes of reforestation. The term shall not include the gathering of forest products such as balsam needles, ginseng, huckleberry greens, maple sap, moss, Spanish moss, sphagnum moss, teaberries, and tree seeds; the distillation of gum, turpentine, and rosin if carried on at the gum farm; and the extraction of pine gum.
All occupations in logging
shall mean all work performed in connection with the felling of timber; the bucking or converting of timber into logs, poles, piles, ties, bolts, pulpwood, chemical wood, excelsior wood, cordwood, fence posts, or similar products; the collecting, skidding, yarding, loading, transporting and unloading of such products in connection with logging; the constructing, repairing and maintaining of roads, railroads, flumes, or camps used in connection with logging; the moving, installing, rigging, and maintenance of machinery or equipment used in logging; and other work performed in connection with logging.
All occupations in the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage-stock mill
shall mean all work performed in or about any such mill in connection with storing of logs and bolts; converting logs or bolts into sawn lumber, lathers, shingles, or cooperage stock; storing drying, and shipping lumber, laths, shingles, cooperage stock, or other products of such mills; and other work performed in connection with the operation of any sawmill, lath mill, shingle mill, or cooperage-stock mill. The term shall not include work performed in the planing-mill department or other remanufacturing departments of any sawmill or remanufacturing plant not a part of a sawmill.
All occupations in timber tracts
means all work performed in or about establishments that cultivate, manage or sell standing timber. The term includes work performed in timber culture, timber tracts, timber-stand improvement, and forest fire fighting and fire prevention. It includes work on tree farms, except those tree farm establishments that meet the definition of agriculture contained in 29 U.S.C. 203(f).
Inside or outside places of business
shall mean the actual physical location of the establishment employing the youth, including the buildings and surrounding land necessary to the business operations of that establishment.
Operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines
includes operating such machines, including supervising or controlling the operation of such machines, feeding material into such machines, helping the operator feed material into such machines, unloading materials from such machines, and helping the operator unload materials from such machines. The term also includes the occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning such machines.
Places of business where machinery is used to process wood products
shall mean
such permanent workplaces as sawmills, lath mills, shingle mills, cooperage stock mills, furniture and cabinet making shops, gazebo and shed making shops, toy manufacturing shops, and pallet shops. The term shall not include construction sites, portable sawmills, areas where logging is being performed, or mining operations.
Portable sawmill
shall mean a sawmilling operation where no office or repair or maintenance shop is ordinarily maintained, and any lumberyard operated in conjunction with the sawmill is used only for the temporary storage of green lumber.
Power-driven woodworking machines
shall mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening or otherwise assembling, pressing or printing wood, veneer, trees, logs, or lumber.
Remanufacturing department
shall mean those departments of a sawmill where lumber products such as boxes, lawn furniture, and the like are remanufactured from previously cut lumber. The kind of work performed in such departments is similar to that done in planing mill departments in that rough lumber is surfaced or made into other finished products. The term is not intended to denote those operations in sawmills where rough lumber is cut to dimensions.
Supervised by an adult relative or is supervised by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth,
as a term, has several components.
Supervised
refers to the requirement that the youth's on-the-job activities be directed, monitored, and controlled by certain named adults. Such supervision must be close, direct, constant and uninterrupted. An
adult
shall mean an individual who is at least eighteen years of age. A
relative
shall mean the parent (or someone standing in place of a parent), grandparent, sibling, uncle, or aunt of the young worker. A
member of the same religious sect or division as the youth
refers to an individual who professes membership in the same religious sect or division to which the youth professes membership.
(c)
Exemptions.
(1) The provisions contained in paragraph (a)(8) of this section that prohibit youth between 16 and 18 years of age from performing any work that entails entering the sawmill building do not apply to the employment of a youth who is at least 14 years of age and less than 18 years of age and who by statute or judicial order is exempt from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade, if:
(i) The youth is supervised by an adult relative or by an adult member of the same religious sect or division as the youth;
(ii) The youth does not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines;
(iii) The youth is protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the workplace by a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such wood particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from machinery in operation; and
(iv) The youth is required to use, and uses, personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and saw dust.
(2) Compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section will be accomplished when the employer is in compliance with the requirements of the applicable governing standards issued by the U.S. Department of Labor's Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) or, in those areas where OSHA has authorized the state to operate its own Occupational Safety and Health Plan, the applicable standards issued by the Office charged with administering the State Occupational Safety and Health Plan.
[75 FR 28453, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.55
Occupations involved in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines (Order 5).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
The following occupations involved in the operation of power-driven wood-working machines are particularly hazardous for minors between 16 and 18 years of age:
(1) The occupation of operating power-driven woodworking machines, including supervising or controlling the operation of such machines, feeding
material into such machines, and helping the operator to feed material into such machines but not including the placing of material on a moving chain or in a hopper or slide for automatic feeding.
(2) The occupations of setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning power-driven woodworking machines.
(3) The occupations of off-bearing from circular saws and from guillotine-action veneer clippers.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Off-bearing
shall mean the removal of material or refuse directly from a saw table or from the point of operation. Operations not considered as off-bearing within the intent of this section include:
(i) The removal of material or refuse from a circular saw or guillotine-action veneer clipper where the material or refuse has been conveyed away from the saw table or point of operation by a gravity chute or by some mechanical means such as a moving belt or expulsion roller; and
(ii) The following operations when they do not involve the removal of materials or refuse directly from a saw table or point of operation: The carrying, moving, or transporting of materials from one machine to another or from one part of a plant to another; the piling, stacking, or arranging of materials for feeding into a machine by another person; and the sorting, tying, bundling, or loading of materials.
Power-driven woodworking machines
shall mean all fixed or portable machines or tools driven by power and used or designed for cutting, shaping, forming, surfacing, nailing, stapling, wire stitching, fastening or otherwise assembling, pressing or printing wood, veneer, trees, logs, or lumber.
(c)
Exemptions.
This section shall not apply to the employment of apprentices or student-learners under the conditions prescribed in § 570.50 (b) and (c).
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 75 FR 28455, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.57
Exposure to radioactive substances and to ionizing radiations (Order 6).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
The following occupations involving exposure to radioactive substances and to ionizing radiations are particularly hazardous and detrimental to health for minors between 16 and 18 years of age:
(1) Any work in any workroom in which (i) radium is stored or used in the manufacture of self-luminous compound, (ii) self-luminous compound is made, processed, or packaged, (iii) self-luminous compound is stored, used, or worked upon, (iv) incandescent mantles are made from fabric and solutions containing thorium salts, or are processed or packaged, (v) other radioactive substances are present in the air in average concentrations exceeding 10 percent of the maximum permissible concentrations in the air recommended for occupational exposure by the National Committee on Radiation Protection, as set forth in the 40-hour week column of table one of the National Bureau of Standards Handbook No. 69 entitled “Maximum Permissible Body Burdens and Maximum Permissible Concentrations of Radionuclides in Air and in Water for Occupational Exposure,” issued June 5, 1959.
(2) Any other work which involves exposure to ionizing radiations in excess of 0.5 rem per year.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
(1) The term
self-luminous compound
shall mean any mixture of phosphorescent material and radium, mesothorium, or other radioactive element;
(2) The term
workroom
shall include the entire area bounded by walls of solid material and extending from floor to ceiling;
(3) The term
ionizing radiations
shall mean alpha and beta particles, electrons, protons, neutrons, gamma and X-ray and all other radiations which
produce ionizations directly or indirectly, but does not include electromagnetic radiations other than gamma and X-ray.
[22 FR 3657, May 24, 1957, as amended at 26 FR 8885, Sept. 21, 1961. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.58
Occupations involved in the operation of power-driven hoisting apparatus (Order 7).
(a)
Findings and declaration of fact.
The following occupations involved in the operation of power-driven hoisting apparatus are particularly hazardous for minors between 16 and 18 years of age:
(1) Work of operating, tending, riding upon, working from, repairing, servicing, or disassembling an elevator, crane, derrick, hoist, or high-lift truck, except operating or riding inside an unattended automatic operation passenger elevator. Tending such equipment includes assisting in the hoisting tasks being performed by the equipment.
(2) Work of operating, tending, riding upon, working from, repairing, servicing, or disassembling a manlift or freight elevator, except 16- and 17-year-olds may ride upon a freight elevator operated by an assigned operator. Tending such equipment includes assisting in the hoisting tasks being performed by the equipment.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Crane
shall mean a power-driven machine for lifting and lowering a load and moving it horizontally, in which the hoisting mechanism is an integral part of the machine. The term shall include all types of cranes, such as cantilever gantry, crawler, gantry, hammerhead, ingot pouring, jib, locomotive, motor-truck, overhead traveling, pillar jib, pintle, portal, semi-gantry, semi-portal, storage bridge, tower, walking jib, and wall cranes.
Derrick
shall mean a power-driven apparatus consisting of a mast or equivalent members held at the top by guys or braces, with or without a boom, for use with a hoisting mechanism or operating ropes. The term shall include all types of derricks, such as A-frame, breast, Chicago boom, gin-pole, guy, and stiff-leg derrick.
Elevator
shall mean any power-driven hoisting or lowering mechanism equipped with a car or platform which moves in guides in a substantially vertical direction. The term shall include both passenger and freight elevators (including portable elevators or tiering machines), but shall not include dumbwaiters.
High-lift truck
shall mean a power-driven industrial type of truck used for lateral transportation that is equipped with a power-operated lifting device usually in the form of a fork or platform capable of tiering loaded pallets or skids one above the other. Instead of a fork or a platform, the lifting device may consist of a ram, scoop, shovel, crane, revolving fork, or other attachments for handling specific loads. The term shall mean and include highlift trucks known under such names as fork lifts, fork trucks, fork lift trucks, tiering trucks, backhoes, front-end loaders, skid loaders, skid-steer loaders, Bobcat loaders, or stacking trucks, but shall not mean low-lift trucks or low-lift platform trucks that are designed for the transportation of but not the tiering of materials.
Hoist
shall mean a power-driven apparatus for raising or lowering a load by the application of a pulling force that does not include a car or platform running in guides. The term shall include all types of hoists, such as base mounted electric, clevis suspension, hook suspension, monorail, overhead electric, simple drum, and trolley suspension hoists.
Manlift
shall mean a device intended for the conveyance of persons that consists of platforms or brackets mounted on, or attached to, an endless belt, cable, chain or similar method of suspension; with such belt, cable or chain operating in a substantially vertical direction and being supported by and driven through pulleys, sheaves or sprockets at the top and bottom. The term shall also include truck- or equipment-mounted aerial platforms commonly referred to as scissor lifts, boom-type mobile elevating work platforms, work assist vehicles, cherry pickers, basket hoists, and bucket trucks.
(c)
Exception.
(1) This section shall not prohibit the operation of an automatic elevator and an automatic signal operation elevator provided that the exposed portion of the car interior (exclusive of vents and other necessary small openings), the car door, and the hoistway doors are constructed of solid surfaces without any opening through which a part of the body may extend; all hoistway openings at floor level have doors which are interlocked with the car door so as to prevent the car from starting until all such doors are closed and locked; the elevator (other than hydraulic elevators) is equipped with a device which will stop and hold the car in case of overspeed or if the cable slackens or breaks; and the elevator is equipped with upper and lower travel limit devices which will normally bring the car to rest at either terminal and a final limit switch which will prevent the movement in either direction and will open in case of excessive over travel by the car.
(2) For the purpose of this exception the term
automatic elevator
shall mean a passenger elevator, a freight elevator, or a combination passenger-freight elevator, the operation of which is controlled by pushbuttons in such a manner that the starting, going to the landing selected, leveling and holding, and the opening and closing of the car and hoistway doors are entirely automatic.
(3) For the purpose of this exception, the term
automatic signal operation elevator
shall mean an elevator which is started in response to the operation of a switch (such as a lever or pushbutton) in the car which when operated by the operator actuates a starting device that automatically closes the car and hoistway doors—from this point on, the movement of the car to the landing selected, leveling and holding when it gets there, and the opening of the car and hoistway doors are entirely automatic.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951, as amended at 20 FR 6386, Aug. 31, 1955. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963; 32 FR 15479, Nov. 7, 1967. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 75 FR 28455, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.59
Occupations involved in the operation of power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines (Order 8).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
The following occupations are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age:
(1) The occupations of operator of or helper on the following power-driven metal forming, punching, and shearing machines:
(i) All rolling machines, such as beading, straightening, corrugating, flanging, or bending rolls; and hot or cold rolling mills.
(ii) All pressing or punching machines, such as punch presses except those provided with full automatic feed and ejection and with a fixed barrier guard to prevent the hands or fingers of the operator from entering the area between the dies; power presses; and plate punches.
(iii) All bending machines, such as apron brakes and press brakes.
(iv) All hammering machines, such as drop hammers and power hammers.
(v) All shearing machines, such as guillotine or squaring shears; alligator shears; and rotary shears.
(2) The occupations of setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning these machines including those with automatic feed and ejection.
(b)
Definitions.
(1) The term
operator
shall mean a person who operates a machine covered by this section by performing such functions as starting or stopping the machine, placing materials into or removing them from the machine, or any other functions directly involved in operation of the machine.
(2) The term
helper
shall mean a person who assists in the operation of a machine covered by this section by helping place materials into or remove them from the machine.
(3) The term
forming, punching, and shearing machines
shall mean power-driven metal-working machines, other than machine tools, which change the shape of or cut metal by means of tools, such as dies, rolls, or knives which are mounted on rams, plungers, or other moving parts. Types of forming, punching, and shearing machines
enumerated in this section are the machines to which the designation is by custom applied.
(c)
Exemptions.
This section shall not apply to the employment of apprentices or student-learners under the conditions prescribed in § 570.50 (b) and (c).
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951, as amended at 25 FR 9848, Oct. 14, 1960. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.60
Occupations in connection with mining, other than coal (Order 9).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
All occupations in connection with mining, other than coal, are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being and employment in such occupations is therefore prohibited under section 12 of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, except the following:
(1) Work in offices, in the warehouse or supply house, in the change house, in the laboratory, and in repair or maintenance shops not located underground.
(2) Work in the operation and maintenance of living quarters.
(3) Work outside the mine in surveying, in the repair and maintenance of roads, and in general clean-up about the mine property such as clearing brush and digging drainage ditches.
(4) Work of track crews in the building and maintaining of sections of railroad track located in those areas of open-cut metal mines where mining and haulage activities are not being conducted at the time and place that such building and maintenance work is being done.
(5) Work in or about surface placer mining operations other than placer dredging operations and hydraulic placer mining operations.
(6) The following work in metal mills other than in mercury-recovery mills or mills using the cyanide process:
(i) Work involving the operation of jigs, sludge tables, flotation cells, or drier-filters;
(ii) Work of hand-sorting at picking table or picking belt;
(iii) General clean-up work:
Provided, however,
That nothing in this section shall be construed as permitting employment of minors in any occupation prohibited by any other hazardous occupations order issued by the Secretary of Labor.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section: The term
all occupations in connection with mining, other than coal
shall mean all work performed underground in mines and quarries; on the surface at underground mines and underground quarries; in or about open-cut mines, open quarries, clay pits, and sand and gravel operations; at or about placer mining operations; at or about dredging operations for clay, sand or gravel; at or about bore-hole mining operations; in or about all metal mills, washer plants, or grinding mills reducing the bulk of the extracted minerals; and at or about any other crushing, grinding, screening, sizing, washing or cleaning operations performed upon the extracted minerals except where such operations are performed as a part of a manufacturing process. The term shall not include work performed in subsequent manufacturing or processing operations, such as work performed in smelters, electro-metallurgical plants, refineries reduction plants, cement mills, plants where quarried stone is cut, sanded and further processed, or plants manufacturing clay glass or ceramic products. Neither shall the term include work performed in connection with coal mining, in petroleum production, in natural-gas production, nor in dredging operations which are not a part of mining operations, such as dredging for construction or navigation purposes.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.61
Occupations in the operation of power-driven meat-processing machines and occupations involving slaughtering, meat and poultry packing, processing, or rendering (Order 10).
(a)
Findings and declaration of fact.
The following occupations in or about slaughtering and meat packing establishments, rendering plants, or wholesale, retail or service establishments
are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being:
(1) All occupations on the killing floor, in curing cellars, and in hide cellars, except the work of messengers, runners, handtruckers, and similar occupations which require entering such workrooms or workplaces infrequently and for short periods of time.
(2) All occupations involved in the recovery of lard and oils, except packaging and shipping of such products and the operation of lard-roll machines.
(3) All occupations involved in tankage or rendering of dead animals, animal offal, animal fats, scrap meats, blood, and bones into stock feeds, tallow, inedible greases, fertilizer ingredients, and similar products.
(4) All occupations involved in the operation or feeding of the following power-driven machines, including setting-up, adjusting, repairing, or oiling such machines or the cleaning of such machines or the individual parts or attachments of such machines, regardless of the product being processed by these machines (including, for example, the slicing in a retail delicatessen of meat, poultry, seafood, bread, vegetables, or cheese, etc.): meat patty forming machines, meat and bone cutting saws, poultry scissors or shears; meat slicers, knives (except bacon-slicing machines), headsplitters, and guillotine cutters; snoutpullers and jawpullers; skinning machines; horizontal rotary washing machines; casing-cleaning machines such as crushing, stripping, and finishing machines; grinding, mixing, chopping, and hashing machines; and presses (except belly-rolling machines).
Except,
the provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the operation of those lightweight, small capacity, portable, countertop mixers discussed in § 570.62(b)(1) of this chapter when used as a mixer to process materials other than meat or poultry.
(5) All boning occupations.
(6) All occupations that involve the pushing or dropping of any suspended carcass, half carcass, or quarter carcass.
(7) All occupations involving the handlifting or handcarrying any carcass or half carcass of beef, pork, horse, deer, or buffalo, or any quarter carcass of beef, horse, or buffalo.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Boning occupations
means the removal of bones from meat cuts. It does not include work that involves cutting, scraping, or trimming meat from cuts containing bones.
Curing cellar
includes a workroom or workplace which is primarily devoted to the preservation and flavoring of meat, including poultry, by curing materials. It does not include a workroom or workplace solely where meats are smoked.
Hide cellar
includes a workroom or workplace where hides are graded, trimmed, salted, and otherwise cured.
Killing floor
includes a workroom, workplace where such animals as cattle, calves, hogs, poultry, sheep, lambs, goats, buffalo, deer, or horses are immobilized, shackled, or killed, and the carcasses are dressed prior to chilling.
Retail/wholesale or service establishments
include establishments where meat or meat products, including poultry, are processed or handled, such as butcher shops, grocery stores, restaurants and quick service food establishments, hotels, delicatessens, and meat locker (freezer-locker) companies, and establishments where any food product is prepared or processed for serving to customers using machines prohibited by paragraph (a) of this section.
Rendering plants
means establishments engaged in the conversion of dead animals, animal offal, animal fats, scrap meats, blood, and bones into stock feeds, tallow, inedible greases, fertilizer ingredients, and similar products.
Slaughtering and meat packing establishments
means places in or about which such animals as cattle, calves, hogs, poultry, sheep, lambs, goats, buffalo, deer, or horses are killed, butchered, or processed. The term also includes establishments which manufacture or process meat or poultry products, including sausage or sausage casings from such animals.
(c)
Exemptions.
This section shall not apply to:
(1) The killing and processing of rabbits or small game in areas physically separated from the killing floor.
(2) The employment of apprentices or student-learners under the conditions prescribed in § 570.50(b) and (c).
[56 FR 58631, Nov. 20, 1991, as amended at 75 FR 28455, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.62
Occupations involved in the operation of bakery machines (Order 11).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
The following occupations involved in the operation of power-driven bakery machines are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age:
(1) The occupations of operating, assisting to operate, or setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning any horizontal or vertical dough mixer; batter mixer; bread dividing, rounding, or molding machine; dough brake; dough sheeter; combination bread slicing and wrapping machine; or cake cutting band saw.
(2) The occupation of setting up or adjusting a cookie or cracker machine.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) This section shall not apply to the operation, including the setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling and cleaning, of lightweight, small capacity, portable counter-top power-driven food mixers that are, or are comparable to, models intended for household use. For purposes of this exemption, a lightweight, small capacity mixer is one that is not hardwired into the establishment's power source, is equipped with a motor that operates at no more than
1/2
horsepower, and is equipped with a bowl with a capacity of no more than five quarts.
Except,
this exception shall not apply when the mixer is used, with or without attachments, to process meat or poultry products as prohibited by § 570.61(a)(4).
(2) This section shall not apply to the operation of pizza-dough rollers, a type of dough sheeter, that: have been constructed with safeguards contained in the basic design so as to prevent fingers, hands, or clothing from being caught in the in-running point of the rollers; have gears that are completely enclosed; and have microswitches that disengage the machinery if the backs or sides of the rollers are removed. This exception applies only when all the safeguards detailed in this paragraph are present on the machine, are operational, and have not been overridden. This exception does not apply to the setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling or cleaning of such pizza-dough rollers.
[17 FR 5610, June 21, 1952, as amended at 25 FR 9849, Oct. 14, 1960. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 75 FR 28456, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.63
Occupations involved in the operation of balers, compactors, and paper-products machines (Order 12).
(a)
Findings and declaration of fact.
The following occupations are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age:
(1) The occupations of operation or assisting to operate any of the following power-driven paper products machines:
(i) Arm-type wire stitcher or stapler, circular or band saw, corner cutter or mitering machine, corrugating and single-or-double facing machine, envelope die-cutting press, guillotine paper cutter or shear, horizontal bar scorer, laminating or combining machine, sheeting machine, scrap paper baler, paper box compactor, or vertical slotter.
(ii) Platen die-cutting press, platen printing press, or punch press which involves hand feeding of the machine.
(2) The occupations of operation or assisting to operate any baler that is designed or used to process materials other than paper.
(3) The occupations of operation or assisting to operate any compactor that is designed or used to process materials other than paper.
(4) The occupations of setting up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning any of the machines listed in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Applicable ANSI Standard
means the American National Standard Institute's Standard ANSI Z245.5-1990
American National Standard for Refuse Collection, Processing, and Disposal—Baling Equipment—Safety Requirements
(ANSI
S245.5-1990) for scrap paper balers or the American National Standard Institute's Standard ANSI Z245.2-1992
American National Standard for Refuse Collection, Processing, and Disposal Equipment—Stationary Compactors—Safety Requirements
(ANSI Z245.2-1992) for paper box compactors. Additional applicable standards are the American National Standard Institute's Standard ANSI Z245.5-1997
American National Standard for Equipment Technology and Operations for Wastes and Recyclable Materials—Baling Equipment—Safety Requirements
(ANSI Z245.5-1997), the American National Standard Institute's Standard ANSI Z245.5-2004
American National Standard for Equipment Technology and Operations for Wastes and Recyclable Materials—Baling Equipment—Safety Requirements for Installation, Maintenance and Operation
(ANSI Z245.5-2004), and the American National Standard Institute's Standard ANSI Z245.5-2008
American National Standard for Equipment Technology and Operations for Wastes and Recyclable Materials—Baling Equipment—Safety Requirements
(ANSI Z245.5-2008) for scrap paper balers or the American National Standard Institute's Standard ANSI Z245.2-1997
American National Standard for Equipment Technology and Operations for Wastes and Recyclable Materials—Stationary Compactors—Safety Requirements
(ANSI Z245.2-1997), the American National Standard Institute's Standard ANSI Z245.2-2004
American National Standard for Equipment Technology and Operations for Wastes and Recyclable Materials—Stationary Compactors—Safety Requirements for Installation, Maintenance and Operation
(ANSI Z245.2-2004), and the American National Standard Institute's Standard ANSI Z245.2-2008
American National Standard for Equipment Technology and Operations for Wastes and Recyclable Materials—Stationary Compactors—Safety Requirements for Installation, Maintenance and Operation
(ANSI Z245.2-2008) for paper box compactors, which the Secretary has certified to be at least as protective of the safety of minors as Standard ANSI Z245.5-1990 for scrap paper balers or Standard ANSI Z245.2-1992 for paper box compactors. The ANSI standards for scrap paper balers and paper box compactors govern the manufacture and modification of the equipment, the operation and maintenance of the equipment, and employee training. These ANSI standards are incorporated by reference in this paragraph and have the same force and effect as other standards in this part. Only the mandatory provisions (
i.e.,
provisions containing the word “shall” or other mandatory language) of these standards are adopted as standards under this part. These standards are incorporated by reference as they exist on the date of the approval; if any changes are made in these standards which the Secretary finds to be as protective of the safety of minors as the current standards, the Secretary will publish a Notice of the change of standards in the
Federal Register.
These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these standards are available for purchase from the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), 25 West 43rd St., Fourth Floor, New York, NY 10036. The telephone number for ANSI is (212) 642-4900 and its Web site is located at
http://www.ansi.org.
In addition, these standards are available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
These standards are also available for inspection at the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's Docket Office, Room N-2625, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210, or any of its regional offices. The telephone number for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's Docket Office is (202) 693-2350 and its Web site is located at
http://dockets.osha.gov.
Baler that is designed or used to process materials other than paper
means a powered machine designed or used to compress materials other than paper and cardboard boxes, with or without binding, to a density or form that will support handling and transportation as a material unit without requiring a disposable or reusable container.
Compactor that is designed or used to process materials other than paper
means a powered machine that remains stationary during operation, designed or used to compact refuse other than paper or cardboard boxes into a detachable or integral container or into a transfer vehicle.
Operating or assisting to operate
means all work that involves starting or stopping a machine covered by this section, placing materials into or removing materials from a machine, including clearing a machine of jammed materials, paper, or cardboard, or any other work directly involved in operating the machine. The term does not include the stacking of materials by an employee in an area nearby or adjacent to the machine where such employee does not place the materials into the machine.
Paper box compactor
means a powered machine that remains stationary during operation, used to compact refuse, including paper boxes, into a detachable or integral container or into a transfer vehicle.
Paper products machine
means all power-driven machines used in remanufacturing or converting paper or pulp into a finished product, including preparing such materials for recycling; or preparing such materials for disposal. The term applies to such machines whether they are used in establishments that manufacture converted paper or pulp products, or in any other type of manufacturing or nonmanufacturing establishment. The term also applies to those machines which, in addition to paper products, process other material for disposal.
Scrap paper baler
means a powered machine used to compress paper and possibly other solid waste, with or without binding, to a density or form that will support handling and transportation as a material unit without requiring a disposable or reusable container.
(c)
Exemptions.
(1) Sixteen- and 17-year-olds minors may load materials into, but not operate or unload, those scrap paper balers and paper box compactors that are safe for 16- and 17-year-old employees to load and cannot be operated while being loaded. For the purpose of this exemption, a scrap paper baler or a paper box compactor is considered to be safe for 16- and 17-year-old to load only if all of the following conditions are met:
(i) The scrap paper baler or paper box compactor meets the applicable ANSI standard (the employer must initially determine if the equipment meets the applicable ANSI standard, and the Administrator or his/her designee may make a determination when conducting an investigation of the employer);
(ii) The scrap paper baler or paper box compactor includes an on-off switch incorporating a key-lock or other system and the control of the system is maintained in the custody of employees who are 18 years of age or older;
(iii) The on-off switch of the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor is maintained in an off position when the machine is not in operation; and
(iv) The employer posts a notice on the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor (in a prominent position and easily visible to any person loading, operating, or unloading the machine) that includes and conveys all of the following information:
(A)(
1
) That the scrap paper baler or compactor meets the industry safety standard applicable to the machine, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section and displayed in the following table.
In order for employers to take advantage of the limited exception discussed in this section, the
scrap paper baler
must meet one of the following ANSI Standards:
In order for employers to take advantage of the limited exception discussed in this section, the
paper box compactor
must meet one of the following ANSI Standards:
ANSI Standard Z245.5-1990
ANSI Standard Z245.2-1992.
ANSI Standard Z245.5-1997
ANSI Standard Z245.2-1997.
ANSI Standard Z245.5-2004
ANSI Standard Z245.2-2004.
ANSI Standard Z245.5-2008
ANSI Standard Z245.2-2008.
(
2
) The notice shall completely identify the appropriate ANSI standard.
(B) That sixteen- and 17-year-old employees may only load the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor.
(C) That no employee under the age of 18 may operate or unload the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor.
(2) This section shall not apply to the employment of apprentices or student-learners under the conditions prescribed in § 570.50 (b) and (c).
[56 FR 58632, Nov. 20, 1991, as amended at 69 FR 75403, Dec. 16, 2004; 75 FR 28456, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.64
Occupations involved in the manufacture of brick, tile, and kindred products (Order 13).
(a)
Findings and declaration of fact.
The following occupations involved in the manufacture of clay construction products and of silica refractory products are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age, and detrimental to their health and well-being.
(1) All work in or about establishments in which clay construction products are manufactured, except (i) work in storage and shipping: (ii) work in offices, laboratories, and storerooms; and (iii) work in the drying departments of plants manufacturing sewer pipe.
(2) All work in or about establishments in which silica brick or other silica refractories are manufactured, except work in offices.
(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed as permitting employment of minors in any occupation prohibited by any other hazardous occupations order issued by the Secretary of Labor.
(b)
Definitions.
(1) The term
clay construction products
shall mean the following clay products: Brick, hollow structural tile, sewer pipe and kindred products, refractories, and other clay products such as architectural terra cotta, glazed structural tile, roofing tile, stove lining, chimney pipes and tops, wall coping, and drain tile. The term shall not include the following non-structural-bearing clay products: Ceramic floor and wall tile, mosaic tile, glazed and enameled tile, faience, and similar tile, nor shall the term include non-clay construction products such as sand-lime brick, glass brick, or non-clay refractories.
(2) The term
silica brick or other silica refractories
shall mean refractory products produced from raw materials containing free silica as their main constituent.
[21 FR 5773, Aug. 2, 1956, as amended at 23 FR 6240, Aug. 14, 1958. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3450, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.65
Occupations involving the operation of circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating saws, wood chippers, and abrasive cutting discs (Order 14).
(a)
Findings and declaration of fact.
The following occupations are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age:
(1) The occupations of operator of or helper on the following power-driven fixed or portable machines except machines equipped with full automatic feed and ejection:
(i) Circular saws.
(ii) Band saws.
(iii) Guillotine shears.
(2) The occupations of operator of or helper on the following power-driven fixed or portable machines:
(i) Chain saws.
(ii) Reciprocating saws.
(iii) Wood chippers.
(iv) Abrasive cutting discs.
(3) The occupations of setting-up, adjusting, repairing, oiling, or cleaning circular saws, band saws, guillotine shears, chain saws, reciprocating saws, wood chippers, and abrasive cutting discs.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this section:
Abrasive cutting disc
shall mean a machine equipped with a disc embedded with abrasive materials used for cutting materials.
Band saw
shall mean a machine equipped with an endless steel band having a continuous series of notches or teeth, running over wheels or pulleys, and used for sawing materials.
Chain saw
shall mean a machine that has teeth linked together to form an endless chain used for cutting materials.
Circular saw
shall mean a machine equipped with a thin steel disc having a continuous series of notches or teeth on the periphery, mounted on shafting, and used for sawing materials.
Guillotine shear
shall mean a machine equipped with a moveable blade operated vertically and used to shear materials. The term shall not include other types of shearing machines, using a different form of shearing action, such as alligator shears or circular shears.
Helper
shall mean a person who assists in the operation of a machine covered by this section by helping place materials into or remove them from the machine.
Operator
shall mean a person who operates a machine covered by this section by performing such functions as starting or stopping the machine, placing materials into or removing them from the machine, or any other functions directly involved in operation of the machine.
Reciprocating saw
shall mean a machine equipped with a moving blade that alternately changes direction on a linear cutting axis used for sawing materials.
Wood chipper
shall mean a machine equipped with a feed mechanism, knives mounted on a rotating chipper disc or drum, and a power plant used to reduce to chips or shred such materials as tree branches, trunk segments, landscape waste, and other materials.
(c)
Exemptions.
This section shall not apply to the employment of apprentices or student-learners under the conditions prescribed in § 570.50 (b) and (c).
[25 FR 9849, Oct. 14, 1960. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3450, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 75 FR 28457, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.66
Occupations involved in wrecking, demolition, and shipbreaking operations (Order 15).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
All occupations in wrecking, demolition, and shipbreaking operations are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age and detrimental to their health and well-being.
(b)
Definition.
The term
wrecking, demolition, and shipbreaking operations
shall mean all work, including clean-up and salvage work, performed at the site of the total or partial razing, demolishing, or dismantling of a building, bridge, steeple, tower, chimney, other structure, ship or other vessel.
[25 FR 9850, Oct. 14, 1960. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3450, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.67
Occupations in roofing operations and on or about a roof (Order 16).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
All occupations in roofing operations and all occupations on or about a roof are particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health.
(b)
Definitions. On or about a roof
includes all work performed upon or in close proximity to a roof, including carpentry and metal work, alterations, additions, maintenance and repair, including painting and coating of existing roofs; the construction of the sheathing or base of roofs (wood or metal), including roof trusses or joists; gutter and downspout work; the installation and servicing of television and communication equipment such as cable and satellite dishes; the installation and servicing of heating, ventilation and air conditioning equipment or similar appliances attached to roofs; and any similar work that is required to be performed on or about roofs.
Roofing operations
means all work performed in connection with the installation of roofs, including related metal work such as flashing, and applying weatherproofing materials and substances (such as waterproof membranes, tar, slag or pitch, asphalt prepared paper, tile, composite roofing materials, slate, metal, translucent materials, and shingles of asbestos, asphalt, wood or other materials) to roofs of buildings or other structures. The term also includes all jobs on the ground related to roofing operations such as roofing laborer, roofing helper, materials handler and tending a tar heater.
(c)
Exemptions.
This section shall not apply to the employment of apprentices or student-learners under the conditions prescribed in § 570.50 (b) and (c).
[27 FR 102, Jan. 5, 1962. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and amended at 28 FR 3450, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 69 FR 57404, Dec. 16, 2004]
§ 570.68
Occupations in excavation operations (Order 17).
(a)
Finding and declaration of fact.
The following occupations in excavation operations are particularly hazardous for the employment of persons between 16 and 18 years of age:
(1) Excavating, working in, or backfilling (refilling) trenches, except (i) manually excavating or manually backfilling trenches that do not exceed four feet in depth at any point, or (ii) working in trenches that do not exceed four feet in depth at any point.
(2) Excavating for buildings or other structures or working in such excavations, except: (i) Manually excavating to a depth not exceeding four feet below any ground surface adjoining the excavation, or (ii) working in an excavation not exceeding such depth, or (iii) working in an excavation where the side walls are shored or sloped to the angle of repose.
(3) Working within tunnels prior to the completion of all driving and shoring operations.
(4) Working within shafts prior to the completion of all sinking and shoring operations.
(b)
Exemptions.
This section shall not apply to the employment of apprentices or student-learners under the conditions prescribed in § 570.50 (b) and (c).
[28 FR 3449, Apr. 9, 1963. Redesignated at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]

# Subpart E-1—Occupations in Agriculture Particularly Hazardous for the Employment of Children Below the Age of 16

# Authority:
Secs. 12, 13, 18, 52 Stat. 1067, 1069, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 212, 213, 218.
§ 570.70
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
Section 13(c)(2) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 U.S.C. 213(c)(2)) states that the “provisions of section 12 [of the Act] relating to child labor shall apply to an employee below the age of 16 employed in agriculture in an occupation that the Secretary of Labor finds and declares to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children below the age of 16, except where such employee is employed by his parent or by a person standing in the place of his parent on a farm owned or operated by such parent or person.” The purpose of this subpart is to apply this statutory provision.
(b)
Exception.
This subpart shall not apply to the employment of a child below the age of 16 by his parent or by a person standing in the place of his parent on a farm owned or operated by such parent or person.
(c)
Statutory definitions.
As used in this subpart, the terms
agriculture, employer,
and
employ
have the same meanings as the identical terms contained in section 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (29 U.S.C. 203), which are as follows:
(1)
Agriculture
includes farming in all its branches and among other things includes the cultivation and tillage of soil, dairying, the production, cultivation, growing, and harvesting of any agricultural or horticultural commodities (including commodities defined as agricultural commodities in section 15(g) of the Agricultural Marketing Act, as amended), the raising of livestock, bees, fur-bearing animals, or poultry, and any practices (including any forestry or lumbering operations) performed by a farmer or on a farm as an incident to or in conjunction with such farming operations, including preparation for market, delivery to storage or to market or to carriers for transportation to market.
(2)
Employer
includes any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee but shall not include the United States or any State or political subdivision of a State (except with respect to employees of a State or a political subdivision thereof, employed:
(i) In a hospital, institution, or school referred to in the last sentence of section (r) of the Act, or
(ii) In the operation of a railway or carrier referred to in such sentence), or any labor organization (other than when acting as an employer), or anyone acting in the capacity of officer or agent of such labor organization.
(iii)
Employ
includes to suffer or permit to work.
[35 FR 221, Jan. 7, 1970, as amended at 35 FR 2822, Feb. 11, 1970. Redesignated at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.71
Occupations involved in agriculture.
(a)
Findings and declarations of fact as to specific occupations.
The following occupations in agriculture are particularly hazardous for the employment of children below the age of 16:
(1) Operating a tractor of over 20 PTO horsepower, or connecting or disconnecting an implement or any of its parts to or from such a tractor.
(2) Operating or assisting to operate (including starting, stopping, adjusting, feeding, or any other activity involving physical contact associated with the operation) any of the following machines:
(i) Corn picker, cotton picker, grain combine, hay mower, forage harvester, hay baler, potato digger, or mobile pea viner;
(ii) Feed grinder, crop dryer, forage blower, auger conveyor, or the unloading mechanism of a nongravity-type self-unloading wagon or trailer; or
(iii) Power post-hole digger, power post driver, or nonwalking type rotary tiller.
(3) Operating or assisting to operate (including starting, stopping, adjusting, feeding, or any other activity involving physical contact associated with the operation) any of the following machines:
(i) Trencher or earthmoving equipment;
(ii) Fork lift;
(iii) Potato combine; or
(iv) Power-driven circular, band, or chain saw.
(4) Working on a farm in a yard, pen, or stall occupied by a:
(i) Bull, boar, or stud horse maintained for breeding purposes; or
(ii) Sow with suckling pigs, or cow with newborn calf (with umbilical cord present)
(5) Felling, bucking, skidding, loading, or unloading timber with butt diameter of more than 6 inches.
(6) Working from a ladder or scaffold (painting, repairing, or building structures, pruning trees, picking fruit, etc.) at a height of over 20 feet.
(7) Driving a bus, truck, or automobile when transporting passengers, or riding on a tractor as a passenger or helper.
(8) Working inside:
(i) A fruit, forage, or grain storage designed to retain an oxygen deficient or toxic atmosphere;
(ii) An upright silo within 2 weeks after silage has been added or when a top unloading device is in operating position;
(iii) A manure pit; or
(iv) A horizontal silo while operating a tractor for packing purposes.
(9) Handling or applying (including cleaning or decontaminating equipment, disposal or return of empty containers, or serving as a flagman for aircraft applying) agricultural chemicals classified under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (7 U.S.C. 135
et seq.
) as Category I of toxicity, identified by the word “poison” and the “skull and crossbones” on the label; or Category II of toxicity, identified by the word “warning” on the label;
(10) Handling or using a blasting agent, including but not limited to, dynamite, black powder, sensitized ammonium nitrate, blasting caps, and primer cord; or
(11) Transporting, transferring, or applying anhydrous ammonia.
(b)
Occupational definitions.
In applying machinery, equipment, or facility terms used in paragraph (a) of this section, the Wage and Hour Division will be guided by the definitions contained in the current edition of
Agricultural Engineering,
a dictionary and handbook, Interstate Printers and Publishers, Danville, Ill. Copies of this dictionary and handbook are available for examination in Regional Offices of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor.
[35 FR 221, Jan. 7, 1970. Redesignated at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.72
Exemptions.
(a)
Student-learners.
The findings and declarations of fact in § 570.71(a) shall not apply to the employment of any child as vocational agriculture student-learner in any of the occupations described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), or (6) of § 570.71(a) when each of the following requirements are met:
(1) The student-learner is enrolled in a vocational education training program in agriculture under a recognized State or local educational authority, or in a substantially similar program conducted by a private school;
(2) Such student-learner is employed under a written agreement which provides; (i) that the work of the student-learner is incidental to his training; (ii) that such work shall be intermittent, for short periods of time, and under the direct and close supervision of a qualified and experienced person; (iii) that safety instruction shall be given by the school and correlated by the employer with on-the-job training; and (iv) that a schedule of organized and progressive work processes to be performed on the job have been prepared;
(3) Such written agreement contains the name of the student-learner, and is signed by the employer and by a person authorized to represent the educational authority or school; and
(4) Copies of each such agreement are kept on file by both the educational authority or school and by the employer.
(b)
Federal Extension Service.
The findings and declarations of fact in § 570.71(a) shall not apply to the employment of a child under 16 years of age in those occupations in which he has successfully completed one or more training programs described in paragraph (b) (1), (2), or (3) of this section provided he has been instructed by his employer on safe and proper operation of the specific equipment he is to use; is continuously and closely supervised by the employer where feasible; or, where not feasible, in work such as cultivating, his safety is checked by the employer at least at midmorning, noon, and midafternoon.
(1)
4-H tractor operation program.
The child is qualified to be employed in an occupation described in § 570.71(a)(1) provided:
(i) He is a 4-H member;
(ii) He is 14 years of age, or older;
(iii) He is familiar with the normal working hazards in agriculture;
(iv) He has completed a 10-hour training program which includes the following units from the manuals of the 4-H tractor program conducted by, or in accordance with the requirements of, the Cooperative Extension Service of a land grant university:
(
a
) First-year Manual:
Unit 1—Learning How to be Safe;
Unit 4—The Instrument Panel;
Unit 5—Controls for Your Tractor;
Unit 6—Daily Maintenance and Safety Check; and
Unit 7—Starting and Stopping Your Tractor;
(
b
) Second-year Manual:
Unit 1—Tractor Safety on the Farm;
(
c
) Third-year Manual:
Unit 1—Tractor Safety on the Highway;
Unit 3—Hitches, Power-take-off, and Hydraulic Controls;
(v) He has passed a written examination on tractor safety and has demonstrated his ability to operate a tractor safely with a two-wheeled trailed implement on a course similar to one of the 4-H Tractor Operator's Contest Courses; and
(vi) His employer has on file with the child's records kept pursuant to part 516 of this title (basically, name, address, and date of birth) a copy of a certificate acceptable by the Wage and Hour Division, signed by the leader who conducted the training program and by an Extension Agent of the Cooperative Extension Service of a land grant university to the effect that the child has completed all the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) through (v) of this section.
(2)
4-H machine operation program.
The child is qualified to be employed in an occupation described in § 570.71(a)(2) providing:
(i) He satisfies all the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section;
(ii) He has completed an additional 10-hour training program on farm machinery safety, including 4-H Fourth-
Year Manual, Unit 1, Safe Use of Farm Machinery;
(iii) He has passed a written and practical examination on safe machinery operation; and
(iv) His employer has on file with the child's records kept pursuant to part 516 of this title (basically, name, address, and date of birth) a copy of a certificate acceptable by the Wage and Hour Division, signed by the leader who conducted the training program and by an Extension Agent of the Cooperative Extension Service of a land grant university, to the effect that the child has completed all of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) through (iii) of this section.
(3)
Tractor and machine operation program.
The child is qualified to be employed in an occupation described in § 570.71(a) (1) and (2) providing:
(i) He is 14 years of age, or older;
(ii) He has completed a 4-hour orientation course familiarizing him with the normal working hazards in agriculture;
(iii) He has completed a 20-hour training program on safe operation of tractors and farm machinery, which covers all material specified in paragraphs (b) (1)(iv) and (2)(ii) of this section.
(iv) He has passed a written examination on tractor and farm machinery safety, and has demonstrated his ability to operate a tractor with a two-wheeled trailed implement on a course similar to a 4-H Tractor Operator's Contest Course, and to operate farm machinery safely.
(v) His employer has on file with the child's records kept pursuant to part 516 of this title (basically, name, address and date of birth) a copy of a certificate acceptable by the Wage and Hour Division, signed by the volunteer leader who conducted the training program and by an Extension Agent of the Cooperative Extension Service of a land grant university, to the effect that all of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2) (i) through (iv) of this section have been met.
(c)
Vocational agriculture training.
The findings and declarations of fact in § 570.71(a) shall not apply to the employment of a vocational agriculture student under 16 years of age in those occupations in which he has successfully completed one or more training programs described in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section and who has been instructed by his employer in the safe and proper operation of the specific equipment he is to use, who is continuously and closely supervised by his employer where feasible or, where not feasible, in work such as cultivating, whose safety is checked by the employer at least at midmorning, noon, and midafternoon, and who also satisfies whichever of the following program requirements are pertinent:
(1)
Tractor operation program.
The student is qualified to be employed in an occupation described in § 570.71(a)(1) provided:
(i) He is 14 years of age, or older;
(ii) He is familiar with the normal working hazards in agriculture;
(iii) He has completed a 15-hour training program which includes the required units specified in the Vocational Agriculture Training Program in Safe Tractor Operation, outlined by the Office of Education, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and acceptable by the U.S. Department of Labor. The training program is outlined in Special Paper No. 8, April 1969, prepared at Michigan State University, East Lansing, Mich., for the Office of Education. Copies of this training program outline are available for examination in the Regional Offices of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, and a copy may be obtained from the Office of Education, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Washington, DC 20202.
(iv) He has passed both a written test and a practical test on tractor safety including a demonstration of his ability to operate safely a tractor with a two-wheeled trailed implement on a test course similar to that described in the Vocational Agriculture Training Program in Safe Tractor Operation, outlined by the Office of Education, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare; and
(v) His employer has on file with the child's records kept pursuant to part 516 of this title (basically, name, address, and date of birth) a copy of a certificate acceptable by the Wage and
Hour Division, signed by the Vocational Agriculture teacher who conducted the program to the effect that the student has completed all the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(2)
Machinery operation program.
The student is qualified to be employed in an occupation described in paragraph (2) of § 570.71(a) provided he has completed the Tractor Operation Program described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and:
(i) He has completed an additional 10-hour training program which includes the required units specified in the Vocational Agriculture Training Program in Safe Farm Machinery Operation, outlined by the Office of Education, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare and approved by the U.S. Department of Labor;
(ii) He has passed both a written test and a practical test on safe machinery operation similar to that described in the Vocational Agriculture Training Program in Safe Farm Machinery Operation, outlined by the Office of Education, U.S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare; and
(iii) His employer has on file with the child's records kept pursuant to part 516 of this title (basically, name, address and date of birth) a copy of a certificate acceptable by the Wage and Hour Division, signed by the Vocational Agriculture teacher who conducted the program to the effect that student has completed all the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(d)
Agency review.
The provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section will be reviewed and reevaluated before January 1, 1972. In addition, determinations will be made as to whether the use of protective frames, crush resistant cabs, and other personal protective devices should be made a condition of these exemptions.
[35 FR 221, Jan. 7, 1970. Redesignated at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
Subpart F [Reserved]

# Subpart G—General Statements of Interpretation of the Child Labor Provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as Amended

# Authority:
52 Stat. 1060-1069, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201-219; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note (Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990); Pub. L. 114-74 at sec. 701.

# General
§ 570.101
Introductory statement.
(a) This subpart discusses the meaning and scope of the child labor provisions contained in the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended (hereinafter referred to as the Act). These provisions seek to protect the safety, health, well-being, and opportunities for schooling of youthful workers and authorize the Secretary of Labor to issue legally binding orders or regulations in certain instances and under certain conditions. The child labor provisions are found in sections 3(1), 11(b), 12, 13 (c) and (d), 15(a)(4), 16(a), and 18 of the Act. They are administered and enforced by the Secretary of Labor who has delegated to the Wage and Hour Division the duty of making investigations to obtain compliance, and of developing standards for the issuance of regulations and orders relating to: (1) Hazardous occupations, (2) employment of 14- and 15-year-old children, and (3) age certificates.
(b) The interpretations of the Secretary contained in this subpart indicate the construction of the law which will guide him in performing his duties until he is directed otherwise by authoritative rulings of the courts or until he shall subsequently decide that his prior interpretation is incorrect.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.102
General scope of statutory provisions.
The most important of the child labor provisions are contained in sections 12(a), 12(c), and 3(l) of the Act. Section 12(a) provides that no producer, manufacturer, or dealer shall ship or deliver for shipment in interstate or foreign commerce any goods
produced in an establishment in or about which oppressive child labor was employed within 30 days before removal of the goods. The full text of this subsection is set forth in § 570.104 and its terms are discussed in §§ 570.105 to 570.111, inclusive. Section 12(c) prohibits any employer from employing oppressive child labor in interstate or foreign commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce. The text and discussion of this provision appear in §§ 570.112 and 570.113. Section 3(l) of the Act, which defines the term “oppressive child labor,” is set forth in § 570.117 and its provisions are discussed in §§ 570.118 to 570.121, inclusive. It will further be noted that the Act provides various specific exemptions from the foregoing provisions which are set forth and discussed in §§ 570.122 to 570.130, inclusive.
[75 FR 28458, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.103
Comparison with wage and hour provisions.
A comparison of the child labor provisions with the so-called wage and hours provisions contained in the Act discloses some important distinctions which should be mentioned.
(a) The child labor provisions contain no requirements in regard to wages. The wage and hours provisions, on the other hand, provide for minimum rates of pay for straight time and overtime pay at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate of pay for overtime hours worked. Except as provided in certain exemptions contained in the Act, these rates are required to be paid all employees subject to the wage and hours provisions, regardless of their age or sex. The fact therefore, that the employment of a particular child is prohibited by the child labor provisions or that certain shipments or deliveries may be proscribed on account of such employment, does not relieve the employer of the duties imposed by the wage and hours provisions to compensate the child in accordance with those requirements.
(b) There are important differences between the child labor provisions and the wage and hours provisions with respect to their general coverage. As pointed out in § 570.114, two separate and basically different coverage provisions are contained in section 12 relating to child labor. One of these provisions (section 12(c)), which applies to the employment by an employer of oppressive child labor in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, is similar to the wage and hours coverage provisions, which include employees engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce or employed in enterprises having employees so engaged. The other provision (section 12(a)), however, differs fundamentally in its basic concepts of coverage from the wage and hours provisions, as will be explained in §§ 570.104 to 570.111.
(c) Another distinction is that the exemptions provided by the Act from the minimum wage and/or overtime provisions are more numerous and differ from the exemptions granted from the child labor provisions. There are only eight specific child labor exemptions of which only two apply to the minimum wage and overtime pay requirements as well. These are the exemptions for employees engaged in the delivery of newspapers to the consumer and homeworkers engaged in the making of wreaths composed principally of evergreens.
3
Apart from these two exceptions, none of the specific exemptions from the minimum wage and/or overtime pay requirements applies to the child labor provisions. However, it should be noted that the exclusion of certain employers by section 3(d)
4
of the Act applies to the child labor provisions as well as the wage and hours provisions.
3
Both of these exemptions are contained in section 13(d) of the FLSA.
4
Section 3(d) defines ‘employer‘ as including “any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee and includes a public agency, but does not include any labor organization (other than when acting as an employer) or anyone acting in the capacity of officer or agent of such labor organization.”
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 75 FR 28458, May 20, 2010]

# Coverage of Section 12(
a

# )
§ 570.104
General.
Section 12(a) of the Act provides as follows:
No producer, manufacturer, or dealer shall ship or deliver for shipment in commerce any goods produced in an establishment situated in the United States in or about which within 30 days prior to the removal of such goods therefrom any oppressive child labor has been employed:
Provided,
That any such shipment or delivery for shipment of such goods by a purchaser who acquired them in good faith in reliance on written assurance from the producer, manufacturer, or dealer that the goods were produced in compliance with the requirements of this section, and who acquired such goods for value without notice of any such violation, shall not be deemed prohibited by this subsection:
And provided further,
That a prosecution and conviction of a defendant for the shipment or delivery for shipment of any goods under the conditions herein prohibited shall be a bar to any further prosecution against the same defendant for shipments or deliveries for shipment of any such goods before the beginning of said prosecution.
In determining the applicability of this provision, consideration of the meaning of the terms used is necessary. These terms are discussed in §§ 570.105 to 570.111, inclusive.
§ 570.105
“Producer, manufacturer, or dealer”.
It will be observed that the prohibition of section 12(a) with respect to certain shipments or deliveries for shipment is confined to those made by producers, manufacturers, and dealers. The terms “producer, manufacturer, or dealer” used in this provision are not expressly defined by the statute. However, in view of the definition of “produced” in section 3(j), for purposes of this section a “producer” is considered to be one who engages in producing, manufacturing, handling or in any other manner working on goods in any State.
5
Since manufacturing is considered a specialized form of production, the word “manufacturer” does not have as broad an application as the word “producer.” Manufacturing generally involves the transformation of raw materials or semifinished goods into new or different articles. A person may be considered a “manufacturer” even though his goods are made by hand, as is often true of products made by homeworkers. Moreover, it is immaterial whether manufacturing is his sole or main business. Thus, the term includes retailers who, in addition to retail selling, engage in such manufacturing activities as the making of slip-covers or curtains, the baking of bread, the making of candy, or the making of window frames. The word “dealer” refers to anyone who deals in goods (as defined in section 3(i) of the Act),
6
including persons engaged in buying, selling, trading, distributing, delivering, etc. It includes middlemen, factors, brokers, commission merchants, wholesalers, retailers and the like.
5
For a discussion of the definition of “produced” as it relates to section 12(a), see § 570.108.
6
See § 570.107.
§ 570.106
“Ship or deliver for shipment in commerce”.
(a) Section 12(a) forbids producers, manufacturers, and dealers to “ship or deliver for shipment in commerce” the goods referred to therein. A producer, manufacturer, or dealer may “ship” goods in commerce either by moving them himself in interstate or foreign commerce or by causing them to so move, as by delivery to a carrier.
7
Thus, a baker “ships” his bread in commerce whether he carries it in his own truck across State lines or sends it by contract or common carrier to his customers in other States. The word “ship” must be applied in its ordinary meaning. For example, it does not apply to the transmission of telegraphic messages.
8
7
Section 3(b) of the Act defines “commerce” to mean “trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States or between any State and any place outside thereof.”
8
Western Union Telegraph Co.
v.
Lenroot,
323 U.S. 490.
(b) To “deliver for shipment in commerce” means to surrender the custody of goods to another under such circumstances that the person surrendering the goods knows or has reason to believe that the goods will later be
shipped in commerce.
9
Typical is the case of a Detroit manufacturer who delivers his goods in Detroit to a distributor who, as the manufacturer is well aware, will ship the goods into another State. A delivery for shipment in commerce may also be made where raw materials are delivered by their producer to a manufacturer in the same State who converts them into new products which are later shipped across State lines. If the producer in such case is aware or has reason to believe that the finished products will ultimately be sent into another State, his delivery of the raw materials to the manufacturer is a delivery for shipment in commerce. Another example is a paper box manufacturer who ships a carton of boxes to a fresh fruit or vegetable packing shed within the same State, with knowledge or reason to believe that the boxes will there be filled with fruits or vegetables and shipped outside the State. In such case the box manufacturer has delivered the boxes for shipment in commerce.
9
Tobin
v.
Grant,
N. D. Calif., 79 Sup. 975 which was a suit for injunction by the Secretary of Labor against a manufacturer of books and book covers employing oppressive child labor. The facts showed that the manufactured articles sold by defendant to purchasers in the same State had an ultimate out-of-State destination which was manifest to defendant. The court construed the words “deliver for shipment in commerce” as sufficiently broad to cover this situation even though the purchasers acquired title to the goods.
§ 570.107
“Goods”.
10
10
The term
goods
is discussed in more detail in part 776 of this title (Interpretative Bulletin on the coverage of the wage and hours provisions) issued by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division.
(a) Section 12(a) prohibits the shipment or delivery for shipment in commerce of “any goods” produced in an establishment which were removed within 30 days of the employment there of oppressive child labor. It should be noted that the statute does not base the prohibition of section 12(a) upon the percentage of an establishment's output which is shipped in commerce.
(b) The Act furnishes its own definition of “goods” in section 3(i), as follows:
Goods
means goods (including ships and marine equipment), wares, products, commodities, merchandise, or articles or subjects of commerce of any character, or any part or ingredient thereof, but does not include goods after their delivery into the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof.
The term includes such things as food-stuffs, clothing, machinery, printed materials, blueprints and also includes intangibles such as news, ideas, and intelligence. The statute expressly excludes goods after their delivery into the actual physical possession of an ultimate consumer other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof. Accordingly, such a consumer may lawfully ship articles in his possession although they were ineligible for shipments (commonly called “hot goods”) before he received them.
11
11
For a discussion of the exclusionary clause in section 3(i) of the Act, see
Powell et al.
v.
United States Cartridge Co.,
70 S. CT. 755.
§ 570.108
“Produced”.
The word “produced” as used in the Act is defined by section 3(j) to mean:
* * * produced, manufactured, mined, handled, or in any other manner worked on in any state; * * *
12
12
The remaining portion of section 3(j) provides: “ * * * and for the purposes of this Act an employee shall be deemed to have been engaged in the production of goods if such employee was employed in producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, transporting, or in any other manner working on such goods, or in any closely related process or occupation directly essential to the production thereof, in any State.”
(a) The prohibition of section 12(a) cannot apply to a shipment of goods unless those goods (including any part or ingredient thereof) were actually “produced” in and removed from an establishment where oppressive child labor was employed. This provision is applicable even though the under-age employee does not engage in the production of the goods themselves if somewhere in the establishment in or about which he is employed goods are “produced” which are subsequently shipped or delivered for shipment in commerce. In contrast to this restrictive requirement of section 12(a), it
will be noted that the employees covered under the wage and hours provisions as engaged in the production of goods for commerce are not limited to those in or about establishments where such goods are being produced. If the requisite relationship
13
to production of such goods is present, an employee is covered for wage and hours purposes regardless of whether his work brings him in or near any establishment where the goods are produced.
14
13
See footnote 12.
14
See part 776 of this title (interpretative Bulletin on the coverage of the wage and hours provisions) issued by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division. Also, see §§ 570.112 and 570.113.
(b) Since the first word in the definition of “produced” repeats the term being defined, it seems clear that the first word must carry the meaning that it has in everyday language. Goods are commonly spoken of as “produced” if they have been brought into being as a result of the application of work. The words “manufactured” and “mined” in the definition refer to special forms of production. The former term is generally applied to the products of industry where existing raw materials are transformed into new or different articles by the use of industrial methods, either by the aid of machinery or by manual operations. Mining is a type of productive activity involving the taking of materials from the ground, such as coal from a coal mine, oil from oil wells, or stone from quarries. The statute also defines the term “produced” to mean “handled” or “in any other manner work on.”
15
These words relate not only to operations carried on in the course of manufacturing, mining, or production as commonly described, but include as well all kinds of operations which prepare goods for their entry into the stream of commerce, without regard to whether the goods are to be further processed or are so-called “finished goods.”
16
Accordingly, warehouses, fruit and vegetable packing sheds, distribution yards, grain elevators, etc., where goods are sorted, graded, stored, packed, labeled or otherwise handled or worked on in preparation for their shipment out of the State are producing establishments for purposes of section 12(a).
17
However, the handling or working on goods, performed by employees of carriers which accomplishes the interstate transit or movement in commerce itself, does not constitute production under the Act.
18
15
For a more complete discussion of these words, see § 776.16 of part 776 (bulletin on coverage of the wage and hours provisions) of chapter V of this title.
16
In
Western Union Telegraph Co.
v.
Lenroot,
323 U.S. 490, the Supreme Court stated that these words bring within the statutory definition “every step in putting the subject of commerce in a state to enter commerce,” including “all steps, whether manufacture or not, which lead to readiness for putting goods into the stream of commerce” and “every kind of incidental operation preparatory to putting goods into the stream of commerce.”
17
Lenroot
v.
Kemp
and
Lenroot
v.
Hazlehurst Mercantile Co.,
153 F. 2d 153 (C.A. 5), where the court directed issuance of injunctions to restrain violations of the child labor provisions by operators of vegetable packing sheds at which they bought, then washed, sorted, crated, and packed cabbage and tomatoes for shipment in interstate commerce.
18
Western Union Telegraph Co.
v.
Lenroot,
323 U.S. 490.
§ 570.109
“Establishment situated in the United States”.
(a)(1) The statute does not expressly define “establishment.” Accordingly, the term should be given a meaning which is not only consistent with its ordinary usage, but also designed to accomplish the general purposes of the Act. As normally used in business and in Government, the word “establishment” refers to a distinct physical place of business. This is the meaning attributed to the term as it is used in section 13(a)(2) of the Act.
19
Since the establishments covered under section 12(a) of the Act are those in which goods are produced, the term “establishment” there refers to a physical place where goods are produced. Typical producing establishments are industrial plants, mines, quarries, and the like. The producing establishment, however, need not have a permanently fixed location as is the case with a factory or mine. A boat, for instance,
where productive activities such as catching or canning fish are carried on is considered a producing establishment for purposes of section 12(a).
19
A. H. Phillips, Inc.
v.
Walling,
324 U.S. 490. See part 779 (bulletin on the retail and service establishment exemption from the wage and hours provisions) of chapter V of this title.
(2) Frequently, questions arise as to what should be considered a single establishment. No hard and fast rule can be laid down which will fix the area of all establishments. Accordingly, a determination of the area contained in a single establishment must be based upon the facts of each individual situation. Facts which are particularly pertinent in this connection, however, are those which relate to the physical characteristics and the manner of operation and control of the business. Sometimes, an establishment may extend over an area of several square miles as is common with farms, logging enterprises, mines, and quarries. On the other hand, it may be confined to a few square feet. A typical illustration of this is a loft building that houses the workshops of hundreds of independent manufacturing firms. Each of the workshops is, for purposes of this section, a separate establishment.
(3) Similar principles are applicable in determining whether several buildings located on the same premises constitute one establishment or more than one. For example, where several factory buildings are located on the same premises and owned and operated by the same person, they are generally to be considered as a single establishment. On the other hand, factory buildings located on the same premises, but owned and operated by different persons, will not ordinarily be treated as a single establishment. Where the several factories, however, are engaged in a joint productive enterprise, they may constitute a single establishment. This is the case, for example, where a large shipyard contains the plants of a number of subcontractors who are engaged in making parts or equipment for the boats that are built in the yard.
(b) The phrase “situated in the United States” is construed to include any of the 50 States or the District of Columbia or any Territory or possession of the United States.
§ 570.110
“In or about”.
(a) Section 12(a) excludes from the channels of interstate commerce goods produced in an establishment “in or about” which oppressive child labor has been employed. In a great many situations it is obviously easy to determine whether a minor is employed “in” an establishment. Thus, he is so employed where he performs his occupational duties on the premises of the producing establishment. Furthermore, a minor is also considered as employed in an establishment where he performs most of his duties off the premises but is regularly required to perform certain occupational duties in the establishment, such as loading or unloading a truck, checking in or out, or washing windows. This is true in such cases even though the minor is employed by someone other than the owner or operator of the particular establishment. On the other hand, a minor is not considered to be employed in an establishment other than his employer's merely because such establishment is visited by him for brief periods of time and for the sole purpose of picking up or delivering a message or other small article.
(b) If, in the light of the statements in paragraph (a) of this section, the minor cannot be considered as employed in the establishment, he may, nevertherless, be employed “about” it if he performs his occupational duties sufficiently close in proximity to the actual place of production to fall within the commonly understood meaning of the term “about.” This would be true in a situation where the foregoing proximity test is met and the occupation of the minor is directly related to the activities carried on in the producing establishment, in this connection, occupations are considered sufficiently related to the activities carried on in the producing establishment to meet the second test above at least where the requisite relationship to production of goods exists within the meaning of section 3(j) of the Act.
20
By way of example, a driver's helper employed to assist in the distribution of the products of a bottling company who regularly boards the delivery truck immediately outside the premises of the bottling plant is considered
employed “in or about” such establishment, without regard to whether he ever enters the plant itself. On the other hand, employees working entirely within one establishment are not considered to be employed “in or about” a wholly different establishment occupying separate premises and operated by another employer. This would be true even though the two establishments are contiguous. But in other situations the distance between the producing establishment and the minor's place of employment may be a decisive factor. Thus, a minor employed in clearing rights-of-way for power lines many miles away from the power plant cannot well be said to be employed “in or about” such establishment. In view of the great variety of establishments and employments, however, no hard and fast rule can be laid down which will once and for all distinguish between employments that are “about” an establishment and those that are not. Therefore, each case must be determined on its own merits. In determining whether a particular employment is “about” an establishment, consideration of the following factors should prove helpful:
20
See part 776 (bulletin on coverage of the wage and hours provisions) of this title.
(1) Actual distance between the producing establishment and the minor's place of employment;
(2) Nature of the establishment;
(3) Ownership or control of the premises involved;
(4) Nature of the minor's activities in relation to the establishment's purpose;
(5) Identity of the minor's employer and the establishment's owner;
(6) Extent of control by the producing establishment's owner over the minor's employment.
§ 570.111
Removal “within 30 days”.
According to section 12(a) goods produced in an establishment in or about which oppressive child labor has been employed are barred as “hot goods” from being shipped or delivered for shipment in commerce in the following two situations: First, if they were removed from the establishment while any oppressive child labor was still being employed in or about it; second, if they were removed from an establishment in or about which oppressive child labor was no longer employed but less than 30 days had then elapsed since any such employment of oppressive child labor came to an end. Once any goods have been removed from a producing establishment within the above-mentioned thirty-day period, they are barred at any time theafter from being shipped or delivered for shipment in commerce so long as they remain “goods” for purposes of the Act.
21
Goods are considered removed from an establishment just as soon as they are taken away from the establishment as that term has been defined.
22
The statute does not require that this “removal” from the establishment be made for the purpose or in the course of a shipment or delivery for shipment in commerce. A “removal” within the meaning of the statute also takes place where the goods are removed from the establishment for some other purpose such as storage, the granting of a lien or other security interest, or further processing.
21
However, section 12(a) contains a provision relieving innocent purchasers from liability thereunder provided certain conditions are met. For a discussion of this provision,
see
§ 570.141.
22
For a discussion of the meaning of “establishment,” see § 570.109.
23
[Reserved]
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951, as amended at 23 FR 6240, Aug. 14, 1958. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971; 75 FR 28458, May 20, 2010]

# Coverage of Section 12(
c

# )
§ 570.112
General.
(a) Section 12(c) of the Act provides as follows:
No employer shall employ any oppressive child labor in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce or in an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.
(b) This provision, which was added by amendments of 1949 and 1961 to the Act, broadens child labor coverage to include employment in commerce. Moreover, it establishes a direct prohibition of the employment of oppressive child labor in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce. The legislative history pertaining to this
provision leads to the conclusion that Congress intend its application to be generally consistent with that of wage and hours coverage provisions. The application of the provision depends on the existence of two necessary elements: (1) The employment of “oppressive child labor”
24
by some employer and (2) the employment of such oppressive child labor in activities or enterprises which are in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce within the meaning of the Act.
24
“Oppressive child labor” is discussed in §§ 570.117 to 570.121, inclusive.
25
[Reserved]
[36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.113
Employment “in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce”.
(a) The term “employ” is broadly defined in section 3(g) of the Act to include “to suffer or permit to work.” The Act expressly provides that the term “employer” includes “any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee”. The nature of an employer-employee relationship is ordinarily to be determined not solely on the basis of the contractual relationship between the parties but also in the light of all the facts and circumstances. Moreover, the terms “employer” and “employ” as used in the Act are broader than the common-law concept of employment and must be interpreted broadly in the light of the mischief to be corrected. Thus, neither the technical relationship between the parties nor the fact that the minor is unsupervised or receives no compensation is controlling in determining whether an employer-employee relationship exists for purposes of section 12(c) of the Act. However, these are matters which should be considered along with all other facts and circumstances surrounding the relationship of the parties in arriving at such determination. The words “suffer or permit to work” include those who suffer by a failure to hinder and those who permit by acquiescence in addition to those who employ by oral or written contract. A typical illustration of employment of oppressive child labor by suffering or permitting an under-aged minor to work is that of an employer who knows that his employee is utilizing the services of such a minor as a helper or substitute in performing his employer's work. If the employer acquiesces in the practice or fails to exercise his power to hinder it, he is himself suffering or permitting the helper to work and is, therefore, employing him, within the meaning of the Act. Where employment does exist within the meaning of the Act, it must, of course, be in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce or in an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce in order for section 12(c) to be applicable.
(b) As previously indicated, the scope of coverage of section 12(c) of the Act is, in general, coextensive with that of the wage and hours provisions. The basis for this conclusion is provided by the similarity in the language used in the respective provisions and by statements appearing in the legislative history concerning the intended effect of the addition of section 12(c). Accordingly, it may be generally stated that employees considered to be within the scope of the phrases “in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” for purposes of the wage and hours provisions are also included within the identical phrases used in section 12(c). To avoid needless repetition, reference is herein made to the full discussion of principles relating to the general coverage of the wage and hours provisions contained in parts 776 and 779 of this chapter. In this connection, however, it should be borne in mind that lack of coverage under the wage and hours provisions or under section 12(c) does not necessarily preclude the applicability of section 12(a) of the Act.
26
26
See § 570.116
[36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]

# Joint and Separate Applicability of Sections 12(
a

# ) and 12(
c

# )
§ 570.114
General.
It should be noted that section 12(a) does not directly outlaw the employment of oppressive child labor. Instead, it prohibits the shipment or delivery
for shipment in interstate or foreign commerce of goods produced in an establishment where oppressive child labor has been employed within 30 days before removal of the goods. Section 12(c), on the other hand, is a direct prohibition against the employment of oppressive child labor in commerce, or in the production of goods for commerce. Moreover, the two subsections provide different methods for determining the employees who are covered thereby. Thus, subsection (a) may be said to apply to young workers on an “establishment” basis. If the standards for child labor are not observed in the employment of minors in or about an establishment where goods are produced and from which such goods are removed within the statutory 30-day period, it becomes unlawful for any producer, manufacturer, or dealer (other than an innocent purchaser who is in compliance with the requirements for a good faith defense as provided in the subsection) to ship or deliver those goods for shipment in commerce. It is not necessary for the minor himself to have been employed by the producer of such goods or in their production in order for the ban to apply. On the other hand, whether the employment of a particular minor below the applicable age standard will subject his employer to the prohibition of subsection (c) is dependent upon the minor himself being employed in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, or in an enterprise engaged in commerce or in production of goods for commerce within the meaning of the Act. If such a minor is so employed by his employer and is not specifically exempt from the child labor provisions then his employment under such circumstances constitutes a violation of section 12(c) regardless of where he may be employed or what his employer may do. Moreover, a violation of section 12(c) occurs under the foregoing circumstances without regard to whether there is a “removal” of goods or a shipment or delivery for shipment in commerce.
[36 FR 25157, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.115
Joint applicability.
The child labor coverage provisions contained in sections 12(a) and 12(c) of the Act may be jointly applicable in certain situations. For example, a manufacturer of women's dresses who ships them in interstate commerce, employs a minor under 16 years of age who gathers and bundles scraps of material in the cutting room of the plant. Since the employment of the minor under such circumstances constitutes oppressive child labor and involves the production of goods for commerce, the direct prohibition of section 12(c) is applicable to the case. In addition, section 12(a) also applies to the manufacturer if the dresses are removed from the establishment during the course of the minor's employment or within 30 days thereafter. To illustrate further, suppose that a transportation company employs a 17-year-old boy as helper on a truck used for hauling materials between railroads and the plants of its customers who are engaged in producing goods for shipment in commerce. The employment of the minor as helper on a truck is oppressive child labor because such occupation has been declared particularly hazardous by the Secretary for children between 16 and 18 years of age. Since his occupation involves the transportation of goods which are moving in interstate commerce, his employment in such occupation by the transportation company is, therefore, directly prohibited by the terms of section 12(c). If the minor's duties in this case should, for example, include loading and unloading the truck at the establishments of the customers of his employer, then the provisions of section 12(a) might be applicable with respect to such customers. This would be true where any goods which they produce and ship in commerce are removed from the producing establishment within 30 days after the minor's employment there.
§ 570.116
Separate applicability.
There are situations where section 12(c) does not apply because the minor himself is not considered employed in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce. This does not exclude the possibility of coverage under the provisions of section 12(a), however. In those cases where oppressive child labor is employed in commerce but not in or about a producing establishment, coverage exists under section 12(c) but
not under the provisions of section 12(a). The employment of telegraph messengers under 16 years of age would normally involve this type of situation.
27
There may also be cases where oppressive child labor is employed in occupations closely related and directly essential to the production of goods in a separate establishment and therefore covered by section 12(c) but due to the fact that none of the goods produced in the establishment where the minors work are ever shipped or delivered for shipment in commerce either in the same form or as a part or ingredient of other goods, coverage of section 12(a) is lacking. An illustration of this type of situation would be the employment of a minor under the applicable age minimum in a plant engaged in the production of electricity which is sold and consumed exclusively within the same State and some of which is used by establishments in the production of goods for commerce.
27
In “Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Lenroot,” 323 U.S. 490, the court held section 12(a) inapplicable to Western Union on the grounds that the company does not “produce” or “ship” goods within the meaning of that subsection.
[36 FR 25157, Dec. 29, 1971]

# Oppressive Child Labor
§ 570.117
General.
(a) Section 3(1) of the Act defines “oppressive child labor” as follows:
Oppressive child labor
means a condition of employment under which (1) any employee under the age of sixteen years is employed by an employer (other than a parent or a person standing in place of a parent employing his own child or a child in his custody under the age of sixteen years in an occupation other than manufacturing or mining or an occupation found by the Secretary of Labor to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children between the ages of sixteen and eighteen years or detrimental to their health or well-being) in any occupation, or (2) any employee between the ages of sixteen and eighteen years is employed by an employer in any occupation which the Secretary of Labor shall find and by order declare to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children between such ages or detrimental to their health or well-being, but oppressive child labor shall not be deemed to exist by virtue of the employment in any occupation of any person with respect to whom the employer shall have on file an unexpired certificate issued and held pursuant to regulations of the Secretary of Labor certifying that such person is above the oppressive child labor age. The Secretary of Labor shall provide by regulation or by order that the employment of employees between the ages of fourteen and sixteen years in occupations other than manufacturing and mining shall not be deemed to constitute oppressive child labor if and to the extent that the Secretary of Labor determines that such employment is confined to periods which will not interfere with their schooling and to conditions which will not interfere with their health and well-being.
(b) It will be noted that the term includes generally the employment of young workers under the age of 16 years in any occupation. In addition, the term includes employment of minors 16 and 17 years of age by an employer in any occupation which the Secretary finds and declares to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children of such ages or detrimental to their health or well-being. Authority is also given the Secretary to issue orders or regulations permitting the employment of children 14 and 15 years of age in nonmanufacturing and nonmining occupations where he determines that such employment is confined to periods which will not interfere with their schooling and to conditions which will not interfere with their health and well-being. The subsection further provides for the issuance of age certificates pursuant to regulations of the Secretary which will protect an employer from unwitting employment of oppressive child labor.
§ 570.118
Sixteen-year minimum.
The Act sets a 16-year-age minimum for employment in manufacturing or mining occupations, although under FLSA section 13(c)(7), certain youth between the ages of 14 and 18 may, under specific conditions, be employed inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products. Furthermore, the 16-year-age minimum for employment is applicable to employment in all other occupations unless otherwise provided by regulation or order issued by the Secretary.
[75 FR 28458, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.119
Fourteen-year minimum.
With respect to employment in occupations other than manufacturing and mining and in accordance with the provisions of FLSA section 13(c)(7), the Secretary is authorized to issue regulations or orders lowering the age minimum to 14 years where he or she finds that such employment is confined to periods that will not interfere with the minors' schooling and to conditions that will not interfere with their health and well-being. Pursuant to this authority, the Secretary has detailed in § 570.34 all those occupations in which 14- and 15-year-olds may be employed when the work is performed outside school hours and is confined to other specified limits. The Secretary, in order to provide clarity and assist employers in attaining compliance, has listed in § 570.33 certain prohibited occupations that, over the years, have been the frequent subject of questions or violations. The list of occupations in § 570.33 is not exhaustive. The Secretary has also set forth, in § 570.35, additional conditions that limit the periods during which 14- and 15-year-olds may be employed. The employment of minors under 14 years of age is not permissible under any circumstances if the employment is covered by the child labor provisions and not specifically exempt.
[75 FR 28458, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.120
Eighteen-year minimum.
To protect young workers from hazardous employment, the FLSA provides for a minimum age of 18 years in occupations found and declared by the Secretary to be particularly hazardous or detrimental to the health or well-being for minors 16 and 17 years of age. Hazardous occupations orders are the means through which occupations are declared to be particularly hazardous for minors. Since 1995, the promulgation and amendment of the hazardous occupations orders have been effectuated under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. 551
et seq.
The effect of these orders is to raise the minimum age for employment to 18 years in the occupations covered. Seventeen orders, published in subpart E of this part, have thus far been issued under the FLSA and are now in effect.
[75 FR 28458, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.121
Age certificates.
(a) To protect an employer from unwitting violation of the minimum age standards, it is provided in section 3(1)(2) of the Act that “oppressive child labor shall not be deemed to exist by virtue of the employment in any occupation of any person with respect to whom the employer shall have on file an unexpired certificate issued and held pursuant to regulations of the Secretary of Labor certifying that such person is above the oppressive child labor age.” An age certificate is a statement of a minor's age issued under regulations of the Secretary (Child Labor Regulation No. 1),
31
based on the best available documentary evidence of age, and carrying the signatures of the minor and the issuing officer. Its purpose is to furnish an employer with reliable proof of the age of a minor employee in order that he may, as specifically provided by the act, protect himself against unintentional violation of the child labor provisions. Pursuant to the regulations of the Secretary, State employment or age certificates are accepted as proof of age in 45 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, and Federal certificates of age in Idaho, Mississippi, South Carolina and Texas. If there is a possibility that the minor whom he intends to employ is below the applicable age minimum for the occupation in which he is to be employed, the employer should obtain an age certificate for him.
31
Subpart A of this part.
(b) It should be noted that the age certificate furnishes protection to the employer as provided by the act only if it shows the minor to be above the minimum age applicable thereunder to the occupation in which he is employed. Thus, a State certificate which shows a minor's age to be above the minimum required by State law for the occupation in which he is employed does not protect his employer for purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act
unless the age shown on such certificate is also above the minimum provided under that act for such occupation.

# Exemptions
§ 570.122
General.
(a) Specific exemptions from the child labor requirements of the Act are provided for:
(1) Employment of children in agriculture outside of school hours for the school district where they live while so employed;
(2) Employment of employees engaged in the delivery of newspapers to the consumer;
(3) Employment of children as actors or performers in motion pictures or in theatrical, radio, or television productions;
(4) Employment by a parent or a person standing in a parent's place of his own child or a child in his custody under the age of sixteen years in any occupation other than manufacturing, mining, or an occupation found by the Secretary to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children between the ages of sixteen and eighteen years or detrimental to their health or well-being.
(5) Employment of homeworkers engaged in the making of evergreen wreaths, including the harvesting of the evergreens or other forest products used in making such wreaths.
(6) Employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to load, but not operate or unload, certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors under specified conditions.
(7) Employment of 17-year-olds to perform limited driving of cars and trucks during daylight hours under specified conditions.
(8) Employment of youths between the ages of 14 and 18 years who, by statute or judicial order, are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade, under specified conditions, in places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products.
(b) When interpreting these provisions, the Secretary will be guided by the principle that such exemptions should be narrowly construed and their application limited to those employees who are plainly and unmistakably within their terms. Thus, the fact that a child's occupation involves the performance of work which is considered exempt from the child labor provisions will not relieve his employer from the requirements of section 12(c) or the producer, manufacturer, or dealer from the requirements of section 12(a) if, during the course of his employment, the child spends any part of his time doing work which is covered but not so exempt.
[75 FR 28459, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.123
Agriculture.
(a) Section 13(c) of the Act provides an exemption from the child labor provisions for “any employee employed in agriculture outside of school hours for the school district where such employee is living while he is so employed.” This is the only exemption from the child labor provisions relating to agriculture or the products of agriculture. The various agricultural exemptions provided by sections 7(b)(3), 7(c), 13(a)(6), 13(a)(10) and 13(b)(5) from all or part of the minimum wage and overtime pay requirements are not applicable to the child labor provisions. This exemption, it will be noted, is limited to periods outside of school hours in contrast to the complete exemption for employment in “agriculture” under the wage and hours provisions. Under the original act, the exemption became operative whenever the applicable State law did not require the minor to attend school. The legislative history clearly indicates that in amending this provision, Congress sought to establish a clearer and simpler test for permissive employment which could be applied without the necessity of exploring State legal requirements regarding school attendance in the particular State. It recognized that the original provision fell short of achieving the objective of permitting agricultural work only so long as it did not infringe upon the opportunity of children for education. By recasting the exemption on an “outside of school hours” basis, Congress intended to provide a test which could be more effectively applied toward carrying out this purpose.
(b) The applicability of the exemption to employment in agriculture as defined in section 3(f)
32
of the Act depends in general upon whether such employment conflict with school hours for the locality where the child lives. Since the phrase “school hours” is not defined in the Act, it must be given the meaning that it has in ordinary speech. Moreover, it will be noted that the statute speaks of school hours “for the school district” rather than for the individual child. Thus, the provision does not depend for its application upon the individual student's requirements for attendance at school. For example, if an individual student is excused from his studies for a day or a part of a day by the superintendent or the school board, the exemption would not apply if school was in session then. “Outside of school hours” generally may be said to refer to such periods as before or after school hours, holidays, summer vacation, Sundays, or any other days on which the school for the district in which the minor lives does not assemble. Since “school hours for the school district” do not apply to minors who have graduated from high school, the entire year would be considered “outside of school hours” and, therefore, their employment in agriculture would be permitted at any time. While it is the position of the Department that a minor who leaves one district where schools are closed and who moves into and lives in another district where schools are in session may not work during the hours that schools are in session in the new district, it will not be asserted that this position prevents the employment of a minor in a district where schools are in session, if the school last attended by the minor has closed for summer vacation. As a reasonable precaution, however, no employer should employ a child under such circumstances before May 15, and after that date he should do so only if he is shown by the minor satisfactory evidence in the form of a written statement signed by a school official stating that the school with which he is connected is the one last attended by the minor and that the school is closed for summer vacation. Such statement should contain the minor's name, the name and address of the school, the date the school closed for the current year, the date the statement was signed, and the title of the school official signing the statement.
32
Agriculture
as defined in section 3(f) includes “farming in all its branches and among other things includes the cultivation and tillage of the soil, dairying, the production, cultivation, growing, and harvesting of any agricultural or horticultural commodities (including commodities defined as agricultural commodities in section 15(g) of the Agricultural Marketing Act, as amended), the raising of livestock, bees, fur-bearing animals, or poultry, and any practices (including any forestry, or lumbering operations) performed by a farmer or on a farm as an incident to or in conjunction with such farming operations, including preparation for market, delivery to storage or to market or to carriers for transportation to market.”
(c) Attention is directed to the fact that by virtue of the parental exemption provided in section 3(1) of the Act, children under 16 years of age are permitted to work, for their parents on their parents' farms at any time provided they are not employed in a manufacturing or mining occupation.
(d) The orders (subpart E of this part) declaring certain occupations to be particularly hazardous for the employment of minors between 16 and 18 years of age or detrimental to their health or well-being do not apply to employment in agriculture, pending study as to the hazardous or detrimental nature of occupations in agriculture.
33
33
See note to subpart E of this part.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951, as amended at 23 FR 3062, May 8, 1958. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963. Redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971]
§ 570.124
Delivery of newspapers.
Section 13(d) of the Act provides an exemption from the child labor as well as the wage and hours provisions for employees engaged in the delivery of newspapers to the consumer. This provision applies to carriers engaged in making deliveries to the homes of subscribers or other consumers of newspapers (including shopping news). It also includes employees engaged in the street sale or delivery of newspapers to the consumer. However, employees engaged in hauling newspapers to drop
stations, distributing centers, newsstands, etc., do not come within the exemption because they do not deliver to the consumer.
§ 570.125
Actors and performers.
Section 13(c) of the Act provides an exemption from the child labor provisions for “any child employed as an actor or performer in motion pictures or theatrical productions, or in radio or television productions.” The term “performer” used in this provision is obviously more inclusive than the term “actor.” In regulations issued pursuant to section 7(d)(3) of the Act, the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division has defined a “performer” on radio and television programs for purposes of that section.
34
The Secretary will follow this definition in determining whether a child is employed as a “* * * performer * * * in radio or television productions” for purposes of this exemption. Moreover, in many situations the definition will be helpful in determining whether a child qualifies as a “* * * performer in motion pictures or theatrical productions * * *” within the meaning of the exemption.
34
Section 550.2(b) of this title provides:
(b) The term “performer” shall mean a person who performs a distinctive, personalized service as a part of an actual broadcast or telecast including an actor, singer, dancer, musician, comedian, or any person who entertains, affords amusement to, or occupies the interest of a radio or television audience by acting, singing, dancing, reading, narrating, performing feats of skill, or announcing, or describing or relating facts, events and other matters of interest, and who actively participates in such capacity in the actual presentation of a radio or television program. It shall not include such persons as script writers, stand-ins, or directors who are neither seen nor heard by the radio or television audience; nor shall it include persons who participate in the broadcast or telecast purely as technicians such as engineers, electricians and stage hands.
§ 570.126
Parental exemption.
By the parenthetical phrase included in section 3(l)(1) of the Act, a parent or a person standing in place of a parent may employ his own child or a child in his custody under the age of 16 years in any occupation other than the following: (a) Manufacturing; (b) mining; (c) an occupation found by the Secretary to be particularly hazardous or detrimental to health or well-being for children between the ages of 16 and 18 years. This exemption may apply only in those cases where the child is exclusively employed by his parent or a person standing in his parents' place. Thus, where a child assists his father in performing work for the latter's employer and the child is considered to be employed both by his father and his father's employer, the parental exemption would not be applicable. The words “parent” or a “person standing in place of a parent” include natural parents, or any other person, where the relationship between that person and a child is such that the person may be said to stand in place of a parent. For example, one who takes a child into his home and treats it as a member of his own family, educating and supporting the child as if it were his own, is generally said to stand to the child in place of a parent. It should further be noted that occupations found by the Secretary to be hazardous or detrimental to health or well-being for children between 16 and 18 years of age, as well as manufacturing and mining occupations, are specifically excluded from the scope of the exemption.
§ 570.127
Homeworkers engaged in the making of evergreen wreaths.
FLSA section 13(d) provides an exemption from the child labor provisions, as well as the minimum wage and overtime provisions, for homeworkers engaged in the making of wreaths composed principally of natural holly, pine, cedar, or other evergreens (including the harvesting of the evergreens or other forest products used in making such wreaths).
[75 FR 28459, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.128
Loading of certain scrap paper balers and paper box compactors.
(a) Section 13(c)(5) of the FLSA provides for an exemption from the child labor provisions for the employment of 16- and 17-year-olds to load, but not operate or unload, certain power-driven scrap paper balers and paper box compactors under certain conditions. The provisions of this exemption, which are
contained in HO 12 (§ 570.63) include that the scrap paper baler or compactor meet an applicable standard established by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) and identified in the statute, or a more recent ANSI standard that the Secretary of Labor has found, incorporated by reference (
see
§ 570.63), and declared to be as protective of the safety of young workers as the ANSI standard named in the statute.
(b) These standards have been incorporated into these regulations by reference by the
Federal Register
as discussed in § 570.63. In addition, the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor must include an on-off switch incorporating a key-lock or other system and the control of the system must be maintained in the custody of employees who are at least 18 years of age. The on-off switch of the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor must be maintained in an off position when the machine is not in operation. Furthermore, the employer must also post a notice on the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor that conveys certain information, including the identification of the applicable ANSI standard that the equipment meets, that 16- and 17-year-old employees may only load the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor, and that no employee under the age of 18 may operate or unload the scrap paper baler or paper box compactor.
[75 FR 28459, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.129
Limited driving of automobiles and trucks by 17-year-olds.
Section 13(c)(6) of the FLSA provides an exemption for 17-year-olds, but not 16-year-olds, who, as part of their employment, perform the occasional and incidental driving of automobiles and trucks on public highways under specified conditions. These specific conditions, which are contained in HO 2 (§ 570.52), include that the automobile or truck may not exceed 6,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, the driving must be restricted to daylight hours, the vehicle must be equipped with a seat belt or similar restraining device for the driver and for any passengers, and the employer must instruct the employee that such belts or other devices must be used. In addition, the 17-year-old must hold a State license valid for the type of driving involved in the job, have successfully completed a State-approved driver education course, and have no records of any moving violations at the time of his or her hire. The exemption also prohibits the minor from performing any driving involving the towing of vehicles; route deliveries or route sales; the transportation for hire of property, goods, or passengers; urgent, time-sensitive deliveries; or the transporting of more than three passengers at any one time. The exemption also places limitations on the number of trips the 17-year-old may make each day and restricts the driving to a 30-mile radius of the minor's place of employment.
[75 FR 28459, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.130
Employment of certain youth inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products.
Section 13(c)(7) of the FLSA provides a limited exemption from the child labor provisions for certain youths between the ages of 14 and 18 years who, by statute or judicial order, are excused from compulsory school attendance beyond the eighth grade, that permits their employment inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machinery to process wood products. The provisions of this exemption are contained in subpart C of this part (§ 570.34(m)) and HO 4 (§ 570.54). Although the exemption allows certain youths between the ages of 14 and 18 years to be employed inside and outside of places of business that use power-driven machines to process wood products, it does so only if such youths do not operate or assist in the operation of power-driven woodworking machines. The exemption also requires that the youth be supervised by an adult relative or by an adult member of the same religious sect as the youth. The youth must also be protected from wood particles or other flying debris within the workplace by a barrier appropriate to the potential hazard of such wood particles or flying debris or by maintaining a sufficient distance from machinery in operation. For the exemption to apply, the youth must
also be required to use personal protective equipment to prevent exposure to excessive levels of noise and sawdust.
[75 FR 28460, May 20, 2010]

# Enforcement
§ 570.140
General.
(a) Section 15(a)(4) of the Act makes any violation of the provisions of sections 12(a) or 12(c) unlawful. Any such unlawful act or practice may be enjoined by the United States District Courts under section 17 upon court action, filed by the Secretary pursuant to section 12(b) and, if willful will subject the offender to the criminal penalties provided in section 16(a) of the Act. Section 16(a) provides that any person who willfully violates any of the provisions of section 15 shall upon conviction thereof be subject to a fine of not more than $10,000, or to imprisonment for not more than six months, or both. No person shall be imprisoned under this subsection except for an offense committed after the conviction of such person for a prior offense under this subsection.
(b) In addition, FLSA section 16(e) states that any person who violates the provisions of FLSA sections 12 or 13(c), relating to child labor, or any regulations issued under those sections, shall be subject to a civil penalty, not to exceed:
(1) $16,035 for each employee who was the subject of such a violation; or
(2) $72,876 with regard to each such violation that causes the death or serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years, which penalty may be doubled where the violation is repeated or willful.
(c) Part 579 of this chapter,
Child Labor Violations—Civil Money Penalties,
provides for the issuance of the notice of civil money penalties for any violation of FLSA sections 12 or 13(c) relating to child labor. Part 580 of this chapter,
Civil Money Penalties—Procedures for Assessing and Contesting Penalties,
describes the administrative process for assessment and resolution of the civil money penalties. When a civil money penalty is assessed against an employer for a child labor violation, the employer has the right, within 15 days after receipt of the notice of such penalty, to file an exception to the determination that the violation or violations occurred. When such an exception is filed with the office making the assessment, the matter is referred to the Chief Administrative Law Judge, and a formal hearing is scheduled. At such a hearing, the employer or an attorney retained by the employer may present such witnesses, introduce such evidence and establish such facts as the employer believes will support the exception. The determination of the amount of any civil money penalty becomes final if no exception is taken to the administrative assessment thereof, or if no exception is filed to the decision and order of the administrative law judge.
[75 FR 28460, May 20, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 5382, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 13, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 218, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2298, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2969, Jan. 14, 2021; 87 FR 2335, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2217, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1816, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1861, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 570.141
Good faith defense.
A provision is contained in section 12(a) of the Act relieving any purchaser from liability thereunder who ships or delivers for shipment in commerce goods which he acquired in good faith in reliance on written assurance from the producer, manufacturer, or dealer that the goods were produced in compliance with section 12, and which he acquired for value without notice of any violation.
36
36
For a complete discussion of this subject see part 789 of this title, General Statement on the Provisions of section 12(a) and section 15(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, relating to Written Assurances.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and further redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971. Redesignated at 75 FR 28459, May 20, 2010]
§ 570.142
Relation to other laws.
Section 18 provides, in part, that “no provision of this act relating to the employment of child labor shall justify noncompliance with any Federal or State law or municipal ordinance establishing a higher standard than the standard established under this act.” The child labor requirements of the
Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, must be complied with as to the employment of minors within their general coverage and not excepted from their operation by special provision of the act itself regardless of any State, local, or other Federal law that may be applicable to the same employment. Furthermore, any administrative action pursuant to other laws, such as the issuance of a work permit to a minor or the referral by an employment agency of a minor to an employer does not necessarily relieve a person of liability under this act. Where such other legislation is applicable and does not contravene the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, however, nothing in the act, the regulations or the interpretations announced by the Secretary should be taken to override or nullify the provisions of these laws. Although compliance with other applicable legislation does not constitute compliance with the act unless the requirements of the act are thereby met, compliance with the act, on the other hand, does not relieve any person of liability under other laws that establish higher child labor standards than those prescribed by or pursuant to the act. Moreover, such laws, if at all applicable, continue to apply to the employment of all minors who either are not within the general coverage of the child labor provisions of the act or who are specifically excepted from their requirements.
[16 FR 7008, July 20, 1951. Redesignated at 28 FR 1634, Feb. 21, 1963, and further redesignated and amended at 36 FR 25156, Dec. 29, 1971. Redesignated at 75 FR 28459, May 20, 2010]
Pt. 575

# PART 575—WAIVER OF CHILD LABOR PROVISIONS FOR AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYMENT OF 10 AND 11 YEAR OLD MINORS IN HAND HARVESTING OF SHORT SEASON CROPS
Sec.
575.1
Purpose and scope.
575.2
Definitions.
575.3
Application for waiver.
575.4
Information to be included in application.
575.5
Supporting data to accompany application.
575.6
Procedure for action on an application.
575.7
Statutory conditions for employment under the waiver.
575.8
Secretary's conditions for employment under the waiver.
575.9
Failure to comply with terms and conditions of the waiver.

# Authority:
Secs. 11, 12, 13, 18, 52 Stat. 1067, 1069, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 211, 212, 213, 218; Secretary's Order 01-2014 (Dec. 19, 2014), 79 FR 77527 (Dec. 24, 2014).

# Source:
43 FR 26562, June 21, 1978, unless otherwise noted.
§ 575.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) Section 13(c)(4) was added to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1977. This section provides that:
(A) An employer or group of employers may apply to the Secretary for a waiver of the application of section 12 to the employment for not more than 8 weeks in any calendar year of individuals who are less than 12 years of age, but not less than 10 years of age, as hand harvest laborers in an agricultural operation which has been, and is customarily and generally recognized as being, paid on a piece rate basis in the region in which such individuals would be employed. The Secretary may not grant such a waiver unless he finds, based on objective data submitted by the applicant, that:
(i) The crop to be harvested is one with a particularly short harvesting season and the application of section 12 would cause severe economic disruption in the industry of the employer or group of employers applying for the waiver;
(ii) The employment of the individuals to whom the waiver would apply would not be deleterious to their health or well-being;
(iii) The level and type of pesticides and other chemicals used would not have an adverse effect on the health or well-being of the individuals to whom the waiver would apply;
(iv) Individuals age 12 and above are not available for such employment; and
(v) The industry of such employer or group of employers has traditionally and substantially employed individuals under 12 years of age without displacing substantial job opportunities for individuals over 16 years of age.
(B) Any waiver granted by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall require that:
(i) The individuals employed under such waiver be employed outside of school hours for the school district where they are living while so employed;
(ii) Such individuals while so employed commute daily from their permanent residence to the farm on which they are so employed; and
(iii) Such individuals be employed under such waiver (I) for not more than 8 weeks between June 1 and October 15 of any calendar year, and (II) in accordance with such other terms and conditions as the Secretary shall prescribe for such individuals' protection.
(b) The child labor provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, section 12, require the following age standards for employment in agriculture:
(1) 16 years of age in any occupation at any time;
(2) 14 and 15 years of age outside of school hours except in occupations found and declared by the Secretary to be particularly hazardous for the employment of minors under 16 years of age (subpart E-1, 29 CFR 570.70,
et seq.
);
(3) 12 and 13 years of age in nonhazardous occupations outside of school hours if:
(i) Such employment is with the written consent of a parent or person standing in the place of a parent of such minor, or
(ii) Such employment is on the same farm where such parent or person is also employed;
(4) Under 12 years of age in nonhazardous occupations outside of school hours if such employment is with the written consent of a parent or person standing in place of a parent of such minor, on a farm where, because of the provisions of section 13(a)(6)(A) of the Act, none of the employees are required to be paid at the wage rate prescribed by section 6(a)(5) of the Act;
(5) 10 and 11 years of age in nonhazardous occupations outside of school hours employed to hand-harvest short season crop or crops under a waiver issued pursuant to section 13(c)(4) of the Act and this part:
(6) Minors of any age may be employed by their parents or persons standing in place of their parents at any time in any occupation on a farm owned or operated by their parents or persons standing in place of their parents.
(c) This part provides the procedures to be used under section 13(c)(4) of the Act. This part describes the information and defines the supporting data that the employer or group of employers must submit when applying for a waiver of the child labor provisions for the employment of 10 and 11 year old minors as hand-harvest laborers in an agricultural operation. It further explains the specific requirements imposed by the statute for employment under a waiver and specifies the conditions prescribed by the Secretary for employment under a waiver.
§ 575.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201,
et seq.
).
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, and includes an authorized representative designated by the Administrator to perform any of the functions of the Administrator under this part.
Agriculture
means agriculture as defined in section 3(f) of the Act and as interpreted in part 780 of this chapter.
Commute daily
means the minors shall travel by foot, car, or other vehicle designed for transporting passengers from their permanent residences to the field or farm where they will work and return thereto at the end of each workday.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Labor.
Employer
means employer as defined in section 3(d) of the Act.
Group of employers
means a number of employers who seek to be considered together for the purpose of applying for a waiver under section 13(c)(4) of the Act.
Hand-harvest laborers
means agricultural workers engaged solely in harvesting by hand soil grown crops such as but not limited to berries, potatoes, and beans, and as interpreted in § 780.312 of this chapter.
Outside school hours
means such periods as determined by the school district of the minor's permanent residence. These periods include before or after school hours, holidays, summer vacation, Saturdays, Sundays, or any other days on which the school for the school district does not assemble.
Permanent residence
means the place where the minor and the minor's parent or person standing in place of a parent reside year-round.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor, United States Department of Labor, or an authorized representative of the Secretary.
Waiver
means a letter signed by the Administrator advising the named employer or group of employers that 10 and 11 year old minors may be employed in the hand-harvesting of the specified short season crop or crops for the period designated, in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in section 13(c)(4) of the Act and this part.
[43 FR 26562, June 21, 1978; 43 FR 28471, June 30, 1978, as amended at 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 575.3
Application for waiver.
(a) An application for a waiver shall be filed with the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, United States Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. To permit adequate time for processing, it is recommended that such applications be filed 6 weeks prior to the period the waiver is to be in effect.
(b) No particular form is prescribed. The application, which may be in letter form, shall be typewritten or clearly written and shall include the following information:
(1) The general information as described in § 575.4 of this part:
(i) Name and address of employer or group of employers;
(ii) Telephone number;
(iii) Location of farm(s);
(iv) Crop or crops to be hand harvested;
(v) Whether payment is customarily paid on a piece rate basis;
(vi) Requested period of waiver;
(vii) Statement that such employment shall be outside school hours;
(2) The objective data as required in § 575.5 of this part to show that:
(i) The crops have a short harvesting season;
(ii) Without 10 and 11 year olds the industry would suffer severe economic disruption;
(iii) Employment will not be deleterious to the health and well-being of 10 and 11 year olds;
(iv) The level of pesticides will not adversely affect 10 and 11 year olds;
(v) Individuals 12 years and over are not available for employment;
(vi) Employer or group of employers has traditionally used minors under 12 years and this will not displace employees 16 years or older.
(c) The application shall be signed and dated by the employer or group of employers requesting the waiver or by the authorized representative of such employer or group.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1215-0120)
[43 FR 26562, June 21, 1978, as amended at 47 FR 145, Jan. 5, 1982; 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 575.4
Information to be included in application.
An application for a waiver pursuant to section 13(c)(4) of the Act shall contain the following information:
(a) The name, address, and zip code of the employer, or each employer of a group of employers, and the authorized representative, if any, of an employer or group.
(b) The telephone number and area code for any employer or authorized representative from whom additional information concerning the application may be obtained.
(c) The address, location, and/or area (State, county, and/or other geographic designation), clearly identifying each employer's farm(s) or field(s) where 10 and 11 year old hand-harvest laborers are to be employed.
(d) The specific crop or crops to be hand-harvested at each designated farm or field.
(e) Substantiation of the claim that such agricultural operation “is customarily and generally recognized as being paid on a piece rate basis in the region in which such individuals would be employed.” The Administrator will accept signed statements to that effect from agricultural employers and employees and others, such as agricultural extension agents, in the region of employment who are familiar with farming operations and practices in the
region and with the method of compensation used in such operations and practices.
(f) Designated dates of not more than 8 weeks an any calendar year, between June 1 and October 15, during which it is anticipated that 10 and 11 year old minors will be employed in the hand-harvesting of the specified short season crop or crops.
(g) A statement that the 10- and 11-year old hand harvesters will be employed outside school hours.
§ 575.5
Supporting data to accompany application.
Objective data, as required by section 13(c)(4) of the Act, shall also be submitted by the employer or group of employers applying for a waiver, to show that:
(a) The crop to be harvested is one with a “particularly short harvesting season.” The variety of each crop to be harvested must ordinarily be harvested within 4 weeks in the region in which the waiver will be applicable. The Administrator will accept the written statement to that effect from the agricultural extension agent for the county.
(b) The 12-year minimum age prescribed by the Act for such employment would cause “severe economic disruption in the industry of the employer or group of employers applying for the waiver.” Severe economic disruption in the industry refers to the consequences of not meeting a compelling need for the employment of 10- and 11-year olds to avoid loss of a significant portion of the crop. Evidence of this need includes the projected number of laborers needed to harvest the acreage planted and evidence that recruitment requirements specified in paragraph (e) of this section have been complied with. Data concerning the number of hand harvest laborers used in previous years for given acreages will serve as a basis for evaluating needs for the current year. If the requisite number of workers cannot be recruited from the labor supply of 12 years and above, this would ordinarily demonstrate the compelling need for the employment of 10 and 11 year olds.
(c) The employment of minors under the waiver “would not be deleterious to their health or well-being.” This refers to the prospective effect on the health or well-being generally (
i.e.
, other than the tolerance level of pesticides or other chemicals) of 10 and 11 year-old hand harvesters. The Administrator will accept signed statements to that effect from doctors, or nurses or public health officials in the region.
(d) The “level and type of pesticides and other chemicals used would not have an adverse effect on the health or well-being of” minors employed under the waiver. The safe reentry standards established by the Environmental Protection Agency, and followed by other Federal and State agencies, were established for adult workers and have not been shown to be safe for 10 and 11 year olds. Therefore, the applicant, in order to satisfy this condition, will either have to submit a statement that no pesticides or other chemicals were used on the crop to be harvested or submit data which upon study by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee establishes a safe reentry times for 10 and 11 year olds. If such data, or additional studies conducted by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee, establish safe reentry standards for 10 and 11 year olds, this section will be amended to include such standards and the applicant will then need only identify the type and level of pesticides or chemicals used and the date of last application of same prior to harvest.
(e) Individuals age 12 and above are not available for such employment. Evidence of such unavailability must be documented by the applicant by:
(1) Placement of intrastate and interstate job orders, in which the piece rate is specified, with the state employment service sufficiently in advance of the harvest to allow reasonable time for the recruitment of local and migrant workers. An interstate order need not be placed if the applicant can demonstrate that suitable housing is not available.
(2) Placement of at least two advertisements in local papers of general circulation or advertisements over local radio stations.
(3) Contact with farm labor contractors, migrant workers, and other potential workers.
(4) Contact with schools, business and labor organizations, non-profit organizations and public agencies to enlist their help. Data showing the responses received to these solicitations must be categorized by age and submitted with the waiver application to verify that older workers are not available to perform the work.
(f) The “industry of such employer or groups of employers has traditionally and substantially employed individuals under twelve years of age without displacing substantial job opportunities for individuals over sixteen years of age.” Documentation that the industry has traditionally and substantially employed individuals under 12 years of age may include newspaper reports, magazine articles, research organization reports, or other appropriate sources. Data to indicate that such employment did not displace substantial job opportunities for individuals over 16 years of age may include the signed statement of an appropriate official of the employment service agency of the State (or States, if region designated crosses State lines) certifying to that fact. This certification must be based on statistical documentation for at least the previous year.
(g) When supporting data required by this section are submitted by an employer or group of employers, the objective data required by paragraph (d) of this section shall be submitted on the basis of each individual employer. However, objective data required by paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (e), and (f) of this section may be submitted for the specific geographic area, e.g., an entire county, of the employer or group of employers.
[43 FR 26562, June 21, 1978; 43 FR 28471, June 30, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 22061, Apr. 13, 1979; 44 FR 24059, Apr. 24, 1979; 44 FR 29049, May 18, 1979; 45 FR 55177, Aug. 19, 1980]
§ 575.6
Procedure for action on an application.
(a) Upon receipt of an application for a waiver, the Administrator shall review all of the information and supporting data. If sufficient, the Administrator shall grant a waiver; if insufficient, the Administrator may seek further information. If such information is not made available to the Administrator, the Administrator shall deny the waiver.
(b) The Administrator shall deny the application for a waiver from any employer against whom a final civil money penalty is outstanding under section 16(e) of the Act for violation of the child labor provisions of the Act.
(c) The waiver, in the form of a letter signed by the Administrator, shall set forth the terms and conditions for employment under the waiver as provided in §§ 575.7 and 575.8. The waiver shall be issued to the employer or group of employers applying for it.
(d) If a waiver is granted there will be published in the
Federal Register
a general notice to that effect setting forth for each waiver granted: the name of the employer or the name of each employer of a group of employers; the address of each such employer, including city, state, and zip code; and the dates of the period the waiver will be in effect.
(e) If a waiver is denied, the Administrator shall give written notice of such denial to the employer or group of employers applying for a waiver. Such denial will be without prejudice to the filing of any subsequent application.
§ 575.7
Statutory conditions for employment under the waiver.
Any waiver granted pursuant to section 13(c)(4) of the Act and this part shall require that:
(a) Employment of 10 and 11 year old minors pursuant to the waiver be outside school hours.
(b) Individuals employed commute daily from their permanent residence to the farms(s) or field(s) where employed.
(c) Such individuals be employed for not more than 8 weeks between June 1 and October 15 of any calendar year. When schools are in session, any employment under a waiver shall be confined to outside of school hours.
§ 575.8
Secretary's conditions for employment under the waiver.
The Secretary prescribes the following terms and conditions for the protection of minors employed pursuant to a waiver granted under section 13(c)(4) of the Act:
(a) An employer or group of employers granted such a waiver shall obtain and keep on file a signed statement of the parent or person standing in the place of the parent of each 10 and 11-year old minor employed consenting to the employment of such minor under the waiver.
(b) Any employment pursuant to a waiver shall be in compliance with applicable Federal and State laws, and any regulations issued under them.
(c) No employer or group of employers shall employ any 10 or 11 year old minor pursuant to a waiver for more than 5 hours in any one day or for more than 30 hours in any workweek with a meal break of at least 30 minutes and two rest breaks of at least 15 minutes each.
(d) An employer or group of employers granted such a waiver shall provide immediately adjacent to the field(s) to be hand harvested: (1) Adequate sanitary facilities, such as portable toilets; (2) adequate and clean drinking water in covered containers with spouts, and an adequate supply of paper or plastic cups for individual drinking use; and (3) a specified adult employee, who is appropriately equipped and is knowledgeable about first-aid treatment and readily available to give such treatment when needed.
(e) An employer or group of employers granted such a waiver shall provide emergency transportation either to the minor's permanent residence or to the nearest hospital for any 10 or 11 year old hand harvester who becomes ill or is injured during the normal hours of employment.
(f) No 10 or 11 year old employed under a waiver shall ride upon or be employed in the operation of or in the close proximity to any power driven machinery or equipment. Generally, a distance of fifty feet or more will be construed to meet the requirement that employment not be in “close proximity” to machinery or equipment.
(g) An employer or group of employers granted such a waiver who owns, operates, or causes to be operated any vehicle for the transportation of such minors shall be responsible for assuring that:
(1) Every such vehicle is in compliance with all applicable Federal and State safety and health standards and with the rules and regulations issued by the Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety, Federal Highway Administration of the U.S. Department of Transportation;
(2) Every such vehicle be designed for transporting passengers and be operated by a lawfully licensed driver; and
(3) A vehicle liability insurance policy provides insurance in an amount not less than the amounts applicable to vehicles used in the transportation of passengers under the Interstate Commerce Act and its regulations. These amounts currently are as follows:
Insurance Required for Passenger Equipment
12 or less passengers
More than 12 passengers
Limit for bodily injuries to or death of 1 person
$100,000
$100,000
Limit for bodily injuries to or death of all persons injured or killed in any 1 accident (subject to a maximum of $100,000 for bodily injuries to or death of 1 person)
300,000
500,000
Limit for loss or damage in any 1 accident to property of others (excluding cargo)
50,000
50,000
(h) A copy of the waiver shall be posted or readily available at the site or sites of such employment of such minors during the entire period.
(i) The employer or group of employers shall maintain and preserve a record of the name, address, and occupation of each minor employed under the waiver in accordance with § 516.33(b) of this chapter. In addition, the record shall also include the date of birth, the name and address of the school in which the minor is enrolled, and the number of hours worked each day and each week of the designated period. Each employer required to maintain records under this part shall preserve them for a period of at least 2 years.
(j) A waiver shall be effective for the period designated therein with no provision for amendment
[43 FR 26562, June 21, 1978; 43 FR 28471, June 30, 1978]
§ 575.9
Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the waiver.
If the employer or group of employers granted a waiver pursuant to section 13(c)(4) of the Act and this part do not comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the waiver and this part, the waiver shall be null and void and the employer or group of employers will be subject to civil money penalties under section 16(e) of the Act.
Pt. 578

# PART 578—TIP RETENTION, MINIMUM WAGE, AND OVERTIME VIOLATIONS—CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES
Sec.
578.1
What does this part cover?
578.2
Definitions.
578.3
What types of violations may result in a penalty being assessed?
578.4
Determination of penalty.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 216(e), as amended by sec. 9, Pub. L. 101-157, 103 Stat. 938, sec. 3103, Pub. L. 101-508, 104 Stat. 1388-29, sec. 302(a), Pub. L. 110-233, 122 Stat. 920, and sec. 1201, Div. S., Tit. XII, Pub. L. 115-141, 132 Stat. 348; Pub. L. 101-410, 104 Stat. 890 (28 U.S.C. 2461 note), as amended by sec. 31001(s), Pub. L. 104-134, 110 Stat. 1321-358, 1321-373, and sec. 701, Pub. L. 114-74, 129 Stat 584.

# Source:
57 FR 49129, Oct. 29, 1992, unless otherwise noted.
§ 578.1
What does this part cover?
Section 9 of the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1989 amended section 16(e) of the Act to provide that any person who repeatedly or willfully violates the minimum wage (section 6) or overtime provisions (section 7) of the Act shall be subject to a civil money penalty not to exceed $1,100 for each such violation. In 2001, the Wage and Hour Division (WHD) adjusted this penalty for inflation pursuant to the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134, section 31001(s)). The Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008 amended section 16(e) of the Act to reflect this increase.
See
Public aw. 110-233, sec. 302(a), 122 Stat. 920. Section 1201(b)(3) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018, amended section 16(e) to add that any person who violates section 3(m)(2)(B) of the Act shall be subject to a civil money penalty not to exceed $1,100. The Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134, section 31001(s)) and the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvements Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-74, section 701), requires that inflationary adjustments be annually made in these civil money penalties according to a specified cost-of-living formula. This part defines terms necessary for administration of the civil money penalty provisions, describes the violations for which a penalty may be imposed, and describes criteria for determining the amount of penalty to be assessed. The procedural requirements for assessing and contesting such penalties are contained in part 580 of this chapter.
[85 FR 86791, Dec. 30, 2020]
§ 578.2
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (52 Stat. 1060 (29 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
));
(b)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, and includes any official of the Wage and Hour Division who is authorized by the Administrator to perform any of the functions of the Administrator under this part.
(c)
Person
includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, business trust, legal representative, or organized group of persons.
[57 FR 49129, Oct. 29, 1992, as amended at 82 FR 2229, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 578.3
What types of violations may result in a penalty being assessed?
(a)
In general.
(1) A penalty of up to $1,409 per violation may be assessed against any person who violates section 3(m)(2)(B) of the Act.
(2) A penalty of up to $2,515 per violation may be assessed against any person who repeatedly or willfully violates section 6 (minimum wage) or section 7 (overtime) of the Act. The amount of the penalties stated in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section will be determined by applying the criteria in § 578.4.
(b)
Repeated violations.
An employer's violation of section 6 or section 7 of the Act shall be deemed to be “repeated” for purposes of this section:
(1) Where the employer has previously violated section 6 or section 7 of the Act, provided the employer has previously received notice, through a responsible official of the Wage and Hour Division or otherwise authoritatively, that the employer allegedly was in violation of the provisions of the Act; or
(2) Where a court or other tribunal has made a finding that an employer has previously violated section 6 or section 7 of the Act, unless an appeal therefrom which has been timely filed is pending before a court or other tribunal with jurisdiction to hear the appeal, or unless the finding has been set aside or reversed by such appellate tribunal.
(c)
Willful violations.
(1) An employer's violation of section 6 or section 7 of the Act shall be deemed to be “willful” for purposes of this section where the employer knew that its conduct was prohibited by the Act or showed reckless disregard for the requirements of the Act. All of the facts and circumstances surrounding the violation shall be taken into account in determining whether a violation was willful.
(2) For purposes of this section, the employer's receipt of advice from a responsible official of the Wage and Hour Division to the effect that the conduct in question is not lawful, among other situations, can be sufficient to show that the employer's conduct is knowing, but is not automatically dispositive.
(3) For purposes of this section, reckless disregard of the requirements of the Act means, among other situations, that the employer should have inquired further into whether its conduct was in compliance with the Act and failed to make adequate further inquiry.
[86 FR 52986, Sept. 24, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 2335, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2217, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1816, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1861, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 578.4
Determination of penalty.
(a) In determining the amount of penalty to be assessed for any violation of section 3(m)(2)(B) or repeated or willful violation of section 6 or section 7 of the Act, the Administrator shall consider the seriousness of the violations and the size of the employer's business.
(b) Where appropriate, the Administrator may also consider other relevant factors in assessing the penalty, including but not limited to the following:
(1) Whether the employer has made efforts in good faith to comply with the provisions of the Act and this part;
(2) The employer's explanation for the violations, including whether the violations were the result of a bona fide dispute of doubtful legal certainty;
(3) The previous history of violations, including whether the employer is subject to injunction against violations of the Act;
(4) The employer's commitment to future compliance;
(5) The interval between violations;
(6) The number of employees affected; and
(7) Whether there is any pattern to the violations.
[57 FR 49129, Oct. 29, 1992, as amended at 86 FR 52987, Sept. 24, 2021]
Pt. 579

# PART 579—CHILD LABOR VIOLATIONS—CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES
Sec.
579.1
Purpose and scope.
579.2
Definitions.
579.3
Violations for which child labor civil money penalties may be assessed.
579.4
[Reserved]
579.5
Determining the amount of the penalty and assessing the penalty.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 203(m), (l), 211, 212, 213(c), 216; Reorg. Plan No. 6 of 1950, 64 Stat. 1263, 5 U.S.C. App; secs. 25, 29, 88 Stat. 72, 76; Secretary of Labor's Order No. 01-2014 (Dec. 19, 2014), 79 FR 77527 (Dec. 24, 2014); 28 U.S.C. 2461 Note.
§ 579.1
Purpose and scope.
(a) Section 16(e), added to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1974, and as further amended by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1989, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1990, the Compactor and Balers Safety Standards Modernization Act of 1996, and the
Genetic Information Nondiscrimination Act of 2008, provides for the imposition of civil money penalties in the following manner:
(1)(i) Any person who violates the provisions of sections 212 or 213(c) of the FLSA, relating to child labor, or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed:
(A) $16,035 for each employee who was the subject of such a violation; or
(B) $72,876 with regard to each such violation that causes the death or serious injury of any employee under the age of 18 years, which penalty may be doubled where the violation is a repeated or willful violation.
(ii) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the term “serious injury” means:
(A) Permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of the senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation);
(B) Permanent loss or substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part; or
(C) Permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that causes loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part.
(2)(i) Any person who repeatedly or willfully violates section 206 or 207 of the FLSA, relating to wages, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $2,515 for each such violation.
(ii) Any person who violates section 203(m)(2)(B) of the FLSA, relating to the retention of tips, shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $1,409 for each such violation.
(3) In determining the amount of any penalty under section 216(e) of the FLSA, the appropriateness of such penalty to the size of the business of the person charged and the gravity of the violation shall be considered. The amount of any penalty under section 216(e) of the FLSA, when finally determined, may be:
(i) Deducted from any sums owing by the United States to the person charged;
(ii) Recovered in a civil action brought by the Secretary in any court of competent jurisdiction, in which litigation the Secretary shall be represented by the Solicitor of Labor; or
(iii) Ordered by the court, in an action brought for a violation of section 215(a)(4) or a repeated or willful violation of section 215(a)(2) of the FLSA, to be paid to the Secretary.
(4) Any administrative determination by the Secretary of the amount of any penalty under section 216(e) of the FLSA shall be final, unless within 15 days after receipt of notice thereof by certified mail the person charged with the violation takes exception to the determination that the violations for which the penalty is imposed occurred, in which event final determination of the penalty shall be made in an administrative proceeding after opportunity for hearing in accordance with section 554 of title 5, United States Code, and regulations to be promulgated by the Secretary.
(5) Except for civil penalties collected for violations of section 212 of the FLSA, sums collected as penalties pursuant to section 216(e) of the FLSA shall be applied toward reimbursement of the costs of determining the violations and assessing and collecting such penalties, in accordance with the provision of section 202 of the Act entitled “An Act to authorize the Department of Labor to make special statistical studies upon payment of the cost thereof and for other purposes” (29 U.S.C. 9a). Civil penalties collected for violations of section 212 shall be deposited in the general fund of the Treasury.
(b) The Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-410), as amended by the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134, section 31001(s)) and the Federal Civil Penalties Inflation Adjustment Act Improvement Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-74, section 701), requires that Federal agencies annually adjust their civil money penalties for inflation according to a specified cost-of-living formula.
(c) This part explains our procedures for issuing a notice of civil penalty to an employer that has violated section 12 or section 13(c)(5) of the Act, or any regulation issued under those sections; describes the types of violations for
which we may impose a penalty and the factors we will consider in assessing the amount of the penalty; outlines the procedure for a person charged with violations to file an exception to the determination that the violations occurred; and summarizes the methods we will follow for collecting and recovering the penalty.
[40 FR 25792, June 18, 1975, as amended at 56 FR 8679, Feb. 28, 1991; 66 FR 63503, Dec. 7, 2001; 69 FR 75405, Dec. 16, 2004; 75 FR 28460, May 20, 2010; 81 FR 43451, July 1, 2016; 82 FR 5382, Jan. 18, 2017; 83 FR 13, Jan. 2, 2018; 84 FR 219, Jan. 23, 2019; 85 FR 2298, Jan. 15, 2020; 86 FR 2969, Jan. 14, 2021; 86 FR 52987, Sept. 24, 2021; 87 FR 2335, Jan. 14, 2022; 88 FR 2217, Jan. 13, 2023; 89 FR 1816, Jan. 11, 2024; 90 FR 1861, Jan. 10, 2025]
§ 579.2
Definitions.
As used in this part and part 580 of this chapter:
Act
means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201,
et seq.).
Administrative law judge
means a person appointed as provided in 5 U.S.C. 3105 and subpart B of part 930 of title 5 of the CFR, and qualified to preside at hearings under 5 U.S.C. 554-557.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, and includes an authorized representative designated by the Administrator to perform any of the functions of the Administrator under this part and part 580 of this chapter.
Agency
has the meaning given it by 5 U.S.C. 551.
Chief Administrative Law Judge
means the Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of Administrative Law Judges, U.S. Department of Labor, 800 K Street, NW., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20001-8002.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Labor.
Person
includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, business trust, legal representative, or organized group of persons.
Repeated violations
has two components. An employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections shall be deemed to be
repeated
for purposes of this section:
(1) Where the employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, provided the employer has previously received notice, through a responsible official of the Wage and Hour Division or otherwise authoritatively, that the employer allegedly was in violation of the provisions of the Act; or,
(2) Where a court or other tribunal has made a finding that an employer has previously violated section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, unless an appeal therefrom which has been timely filed is pending before a court or other tribunal with jurisdiction to hear the appeal, or unless the finding has been set aside or reversed by such appellate tribunal.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, or an authorized representative of the Secretary.
Serious injury
means:
(1) Permanent loss or substantial impairment of one of the senses (sight, hearing, taste, smell, tactile sensation);
(2) Permanent loss or substantial impairment of the function of a bodily member, organ, or mental faculty, including the loss of all or part of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part; or,
(3) Permanent paralysis or substantial impairment that causes loss of movement or mobility of an arm, leg, foot, hand or other body part.
Solicitor of Labor
means the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, and includes attorneys designated by the Solicitor to perform functions of the Solicitor under this part and part 780 of this chapter.
Willful violations
under this section has several components. An employer's violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation issued pursuant to such sections, shall be deemed to be willful for purposes of this section where the employer knew that its conduct was prohibited by the Act or showed reckless disregard for the requirements of
the Act. All of the facts and circumstances surrounding the violation shall be taken into account in determining whether a violation was willful. In addition, for purposes of this section, the employer's receipt of advice from a responsible official of the Wage and Hour Division to the effect that the conduct in question is not lawful, among other situations, can be sufficient to show that the employer's conduct is knowing, but is not automatically dispositive. For purposes of this section, reckless disregard of the requirements of the Act means, among other situations, that the employer should have inquired further into whether its conduct was in compliance with the Act and failed to make adequate further inquiry.
[75 FR 28461, May 20, 2010, as amended at 86 FR 52987, Sept. 24, 2021]
§ 579.3
Violations for which child labor civil money penalties may be assessed.
(a)
What constitutes the violation.
Each of the following constitutes a violation of the Act and/or the Secretary's regulations for which a penalty as provided by section 16(e) of the Act and this part may be imposed, unless employment of the minor or minors referred to is shown to come within a specific exemption or exception described in paragraph (c) of this section:
(1) Each shipment or delivery for shipment in commerce by a producer, manufacturer, or dealer of any goods produced in an establishment situated in the United States in or about which, within thirty days prior to the removal of such goods therefrom, there has been employed any minor as described in paragraph (b) of this section;
(2) Each employment by an employer of any minor as described in paragraph (b) of this section, for any period in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce or in any enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce;
(3)-(4) [Reserved]
(5) The failure by an employer employing any minor for whom records must be kept under any provision of part 516 of this title to maintain and preserve, as required by such provision, such records concerning the date of the minor's birth and concerning the proof of the minor's age as specified therein; and
(6) The failure by an employer employing any minor subject to any provision of 29 CFR part 570, to take or cause to be taken such action as is necessary to assure compliance with all requirements of such provision which, by the regulations in such part, are made conditions for lawful employment of such minor.
(b)
Minors whose employment may result in violation.
The violations described in paragraph (a) may result from employment of any of the following minors as described:
(1) Any minor under the age of 18 years in any occupation (other than in agriculture) in which employment, as set forth in subpart E of part 570 of this chapter, has been found and declared by the Secretary to be particularly hazardous for or detrimental to the health or well-being of minors below such age;
(2) Any minor under the age of 16 years:
(i) In agriculture during school hours for the school district where such minor is living while so employed; or
(ii) In agriculture in any occupation found and declared by the Secretary as set forth in subpart E-1 of part 570 of this chapter, to be particularly hazardous for the employment of minors below such age; or
(iii) In any manufacturing or mining occupation; or
(iv) In any other occupation other than in agriculture unless it is established that such minor is at least 14 years of age and the employment of such minor in such occupation is specifically permitted by and in accord with regulations of the Secretary as set forth in subpart C of part 570 of this chapter;
(3) Any minor under the age of 14 years:
(i) In any occupation other than in agriculture; or
(ii) In agriculture, outside of school hours for the school district where such minor is living while so employed, unless it is established either:
(A) That such minor is not less than 12 years of age
and
either (
1
) that such
employment is with the written consent of a parent or person standing in place of a parent of such minor, or (
2
) that such employment is on the same farm where such parent or person is also employed; or
(B) That such minor, if less than 12 years of age, is employed as described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section; and
(4) Any minor under the age of 12 years, unless it is established that such minor is employed in agriculture outside of school hours for the school district where such minor is living while so employed, and:
(i) Is employed by a parent or by a person standing in place of a parent of such minor, on a farm owned or operated by such parent or person; or
(ii) Is employed with the written consent of a parent or person standing in place of a parent of such minor, on a farm where, because of the provisions of section 13(a)(6) of the Act, none of the employees are required to be paid at the wage rate prescribed by section 6(a)(5) of the Act.
(c)
Exemptions and exceptions.
Conduct which otherwise might constitute a violation of the Act as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section may be shown to be not violative of the child labor provisions by evidence that a specific exemption or exception provided in the Act makes such conduct permissible. Thus, the Act provides:
(1) That none of the child labor provisions of section 12 shall apply to: (i) Any child employed as an actor or performer in motion pictures or theatrical productions, or in radio or television productions; (ii) any employee engaged in the delivery of newspapers to the consumer; (iii) any homeworker engaged in the making of wreaths composed principally of natural holly, pine, cedar, or other evergreens (including the harvesting of the evergreens or other forest products used in making such wreaths); or (iv) any employee whose services during the workweek are performed in a workplace within a foreign country or within territory under the jurisdiction of the United States other than the States, territories, and possessions listed in section 13(f) of the Act (see Act, sections 13(c)(3), 13(d), 13(f));
(2) That, with respect to the violations described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any such shipment or delivery for shipment of such goods by a purchaser who acquired them in good faith in reliance on written assurance from the producer, manufacturer, or dealer that the goods were produced in compliance with the requirements of section 12 of the Act, and who acquired such goods for value without notice of any such violation, shall not be deemed prohibited (see Act, section 12(a) and 29 CFR part 789);
(3) That, with respect to violations described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section resulting from employment of minors as described in paragraph (b) (2)(iv), a parent or person standing in place of a parent may lawfully employ his or her own child or a child in his or her custody under the age of 16 years in an occupation
other than:
(i) Manufacturing or (ii) mining or (iii) an occupation found and declared by the Secretary of Labor to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children between the ages of 16 and 18 years or detrimental to their health or well-being, and an employer may lawfully employ a young worker between 14 and 16 years of age in an occupation permitted and under conditions prescribed by 29 CFR part 570, subpart C;
(4) That, with respect to violations described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section resulting from employment of minors in agriculture as described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii), a parent or person standing in place of a parent may lawfully employ on a farm owned or operated by such parent or person, his or her own child or a child in his or her custody under the age of 16 years in an occupation in agriculture found and declared by the Secretary of Labor to be particularly hazardous for the employment of children below such age;
(5) That, with respect to violations described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section resulting from employment of minors in agriculture as described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii), employment of minors 12 or 13 years of age is lawful under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(A) of this section and employment of minors under 12
years of age is lawful under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(B) of this section; and
(6) That, with respect to violations described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section resulting from employment of minors in agriculture as described in paragraph (b)(4), employment of minors under 12 years of age is lawful under the conditions prescribed in paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section.
[40 FR 25792, June 18, 1975, as amended at 41 FR 26836, June 29, 1976; 69 FR 75405, Dec. 16, 2004]
§ 579.4
[Reserved]
§ 579.5
Determining the amount of the penalty and assessing the penalty.
(a) The administrative determination of the amount of the civil penalty for each employee who was the subject of a violation of section 12 or section 13(c) of the Act relating to child labor or of any regulation under those sections will be based on the available evidence of the violation or violations and will take into consideration the size of the business of the person charged and the gravity of the violations as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.
(b) In determining the amount of such penalty there shall be considered the appropriateness of such penalty to the size of the business of the person charged with the violation or violations, taking into account the number of employees employed by that person (and if the employment is in agriculture, the man-days of hired farm labor used in pertinent calendar quarters), dollar volume of sales or business done, amount of capital investment and financial resources, and such other information as may be available relative to the size of the business of such person.
(c) In determining the amount of such penalty there shall be considered the appropriateness of such penalty to the gravity of the violation or violations, taking into account, among other things, any history of prior violations; any evidence of willfulness or failure to take reasonable precautions to avoid violations; the number of minors illegally employed; the age of the minors so employed and records of the required proof of age; the occupations in which the minors were so employed; exposure of such minors to hazards and any resultant injury to such minors; the duration of such illegal employment; and, as appropriate, the hours of the day in which it occurred and whether such employment was during or outside school hours.
(d) Based on all the evidence available, including the investigation history of the person so charged and the degree of willfulness involved in the violation, it shall further be determined, where appropriate,
(1) Whether the evidence shows that the violation is “de minimis” and that the person so charged has given credible assurance of future compliance, and whether a civil penalty in the circumstances is necessary to achieve the objectives of the Act; or
(2) Whether the evidence shows that the person so charged had no previous history of child labor violations, that the violations themselves involved no intentional or heedless exposure of any minor to any obvious hazard or detriment to health or well-being and were inadvertent, and that the person so charged has given credible assurance of future compliance, and whether a civil penalty in the circumstances is necessary to achieve the objectives of the Act.
(e) An administrative determination of the amount of the civil money penalty for a particular violation or particular violations of section 12 or section 13(c) relating to child labor or any regulation issued under those sections shall become final 15 days after receipt of the notice of penalty by certified mail by the person so charged unless such person has, pursuant to § 580.6 filed with the Secretary an exception to the determination that the violation or violations for which the penalty is imposed occurred.
(f) A determination of the penalty made in an administrative proceeding after opportunity for hearing as provided in section 16(e) of the Act and
pursuant to Part 580 of this chapter shall be final.
[40 FR 25792, June 18, 1975, as amended at 56 FR 8679, Feb. 28, 1991; 66 FR 63503, Dec. 7, 2001; 75 FR 28461, May 20, 2010; 81 FR 43451, July 1, 2016]
Pt. 580

# PART 580—CIVIL MONEY PENALTIES—PROCEDURES FOR ASSESSING AND CONTESTING PENALTIES
Sec.
580.1
Definitions.
580.2
Applicability of procedures and rules.
580.3
Written notice of determination required.
580.4
Contents of notice.
580.5
Finality of notice.
580.6
Exception to determination of penalty and request for hearing.

# Rules of Practice
580.7
General.
580.8
Service and computation of time.
580.9
Commencement of proceeding.

# Referral for Hearing
580.10
Referral to Administrative Law Judge.
580.11
Appointment of Administrative Law Judge and notification of prehearing conference and hearing date.
580.12
Decision and Order of Administrative Law Judge.
580.13
Procedures for appeals to the Administrative Review Board.
580.14
[Reserved]
580.15
Responsibility of the Office of Administrative Law Judges for the administrative record.
580.16
Decision of the Administrative Review Board.
580.17
Retention of official record.
580.18
Collection and recovery of penalty.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 9a, 203, 209, 211, 212, 213(c), 216; Reorg. Plan No. 6 of 1950, 64 Stat. 1263, 5 U.S.C. App; secs. 25, 29, 88 Stat. 72, 76; Secretary's Order 01-2014 (Dec. 19, 2014), 79 FR 77527 (Dec. 24, 2014); 5 U.S.C. 500, 503, 551, 559; 103 Stat. 938.

# Source:
56 FR 24991, May 31, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 580.1
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Act
means the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (52 Stat. 1060 as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
).
Administrative law judge
means a person appointed as provided in 5 U.S.C. 3105 and subpart B of part 930 of title 5 of the CFR, and qualified to preside at hearings under 5 U.S.C. 554-557.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, and includes any official of the Wage and Hour Division authorized by the Administrator to perform any of the functions of the Administrator under this part and parts 578 and 579 of this chapter.
Chief Administrative Law Judge
means the Chief Administrative Law Judge, Office of the Administrative Law Judges, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Labor.
Person
includes any individual, partnership, corporation, association, business trust, legal representative, or organized group of persons.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Labor, U.S. Department of Labor, or a designated representative of the Secretary.
Solicitor of Labor
means the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, and includes attorneys of the Office of the Solicitor authorized by the Solicitor to perform functions of the Solicitor under this part.
[56 FR 24991, May 31, 1991, as amended at 82 FR 2230, Jan. 9, 2017]
§ 580.2
Applicability of procedures and rules.
The procedures and rules contained in this part prescribe the administrative process for assessment of civil money penalties for any violation of the child labor provisions at section 12 of the Act and any regulation thereunder as set forth in part 579 of this chapter, and for assessment of civil money penalties for any violation of the tip retention provisions of section 3(m)(2)(B) or any repeated or willful violation of the minimum wage provisions of section 6 or the overtime provisions of section 7 of the Act or the regulations thereunder set forth in 29 CFR subtitle B, chapter V. The substantive requirements for assessment of civil money penalties are set forth at 29 CFR part 579 (child labor) and part 578 (minimum wage and overtime).
[56 FR 24991, May 31, 1991, as amended at 86 FR 52987, Sept. 24, 2021]
§ 580.3
Written notice of determination required.
Whenever the Administrator determines that there has been a violation by any person of section 12 of the Act relating to child labor or any regulation thereunder as set forth in part 579 of this chapter, or determines that there has been a violation by any person of section 3(m)(2)(B), or determines that there has been a repeated or willful violation by any person of section 6 or section 7 of the Act, and determines that imposition of a civil money penalty for such violation is appropriate, the Administrator shall issue and serve a notice of such penalty on such person in person or by certified mail. Where service by certified mail is not accepted by the party, notice shall be deemed received on the date of attempted delivery. Where service is not accepted, the Administrator may exercise discretion to serve the notice by regular mail.
[56 FR 24991, May 31, 1991, as amended at 86 FR 52987, Sept. 24, 2021]
§ 580.4
Contents of notice.
The notice required by § 580.3 of this part shall:
(a) Set forth the determination of the Administrator as to the amount of the penalty and the reason or reasons therefor;
(b) Set forth the right to take exception to the assessment of penalties and set forth the right to request a hearing on such determination;
(c) Inform any affected person or persons that in the absence of a timely exception to a determination of penalty and a request for a hearing received within 15 days of the date of receipt of the notice, the determination of the Administrator shall become final and unappealable; and
(d) Set forth the time and method for taking exception to the determination and requesting a hearing, and the procedures relating thereto, as set forth in § 580.6 of this part.
§ 580.5
Finality of notice.
If the person charged with violations does not, within 15 days after receipt of the notice, take exception to the determination that the violation or violations for which the penalty is imposed occurred, the administrative determination by the Administrator of the amount of such penalty shall be deemed final and not subject to administrative or judicial review. Upon the determination becoming final in such a manner, collection and recovery of the penalty shall be instituted pursuant to § 580.18.
[69 FR 75405, Dec. 16, 2004]
§ 580.6
Exception to determination of penalty and request for hearing.
(a) Any person desiring to take exception to the determination of penalty, or to seek judicial review, shall request an administrative hearing pursuant to this part. The exception shall be in writing to the official who issued the determination at the Wage and Hour Division address appearing on the determination notice, and must be received no later than 15 days after the date of receipt of the notice referred to in § 580.3. No additional time shall be added where service of the determination of penalties or of the exception thereto is made by mail. If such a request for an administrative hearing is timely filed, the Administrator's determination shall be inoperative unless and until the case is dismissed or the Administrative Law Judge issues a decision affirming the determination.
(b) No particular form is prescribed for any exception to determination of penalty and request for hearing permitted by this part. However, any such request shall:
(1) Be dated;
(2) Be typewritten or legibly written;
(3) Specify the issue(s) stated in the notice of determination giving rise to such request;
(4) State the specific reason(s) why the person requesting the hearing believes such determination is in error;
(5) Be signed by the person making the request or by an authorized representative of such person; and
(6) Include the address at which such person or authorized representative desires to receive further communications relating thereto.
[56 FR 24991, May 31, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 17222, Apr. 5, 1995; 69 FR 75405, Dec. 16, 2004]

# Rules of Practice
§ 580.7
General.
(a) Except as specifically provided in this subpart, and to the extent they do not conflict with the provisions of this subpart, the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges established by the Secretary at 29 CFR part 18 shall apply to administrative proceedings under this subpart.
(b) Subpart B of the Rules of Practice and Procedure for Administrative Hearings Before the Office of Administrative Law Judges (29 CFR part 18, subpart B) shall apply except as follows: Notwithstanding the provisions of subpart B, including the hearsay rule (§ 18.802), testimony of current or former Department of Labor employees concerning information obtained in the course of investigations and conclusions thereon, as well as any documents contained in Department of Labor files (other than the investigation file concerning the violation(s) as to which the penalty in litigation has been assessed), shall be admissible in proceedings under this subpart. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to limit the admissibility of any evidence which is otherwise admissible under 29 CFR part 18, subpart B.
§ 580.8
Service and computation of time.
(a) Service of documents under this subpart shall be made to the individual, an officer of a corporation, or attorney of record in accordance with 29 CFR part 18.
(b) Two (2) copies of all pleadings and other documents required for any administrative proceeding provided by this subpart shall be served on the attorneys for the Department of Labor. One copy shall be served on the Associate Solicitor, Division of Fair Labor Standards, Office of the Solicitor, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20210, and one copy on the attorney representing the Department in the proceeding.
(c) Time will be computed in accordance with part 18.
[56 FR 24991, May 31, 1991, as amended at 86 FR 1787, an. 11, 2021]
§ 580.9
Commencement of proceeding.
Each administrative proceeding permitted under the Act and these regulations shall be commenced upon receipt of a timely request for hearing filed in accordance with § 580.6 of this subpart.

# Referral for Hearing
§ 580.10
Referral to Administrative Law Judge.
(a) Upon receipt of a timely exception to a determination of penalties and request for a hearing filed pursuant to and in accordance with § 580.6 of this subpart, the Administrator, by the Associate Solicitor for the Division of Fair Labor Standards or by the Regional Solicitor for the Region in which the action arose, shall, by Order of Reference, refer the matter to the Chief Administrative Law Judge, for a determination in an administrative proceeding as provided herein. A copy of the notice of administrative determination and of the request for hearing shall be attached to the Order of Reference and shall, respectively, be given the effect of a complaint and answer thereto for purposes of the administrative proceeding, subject to any amendment that may be permitted under this subpart and 29 CFR part 18.
(b) A copy of the Order of Reference and attachments thereto, together with a copy of this part, shall be served by counsel for the Administrator upon the person requesting the hearing, in the manner provided in § 580.8 of this subpart.
§ 580.11
Appointment of Administrative Law Judge and notification of prehearing conference and hearing date.
Upon receipt from the Administrator of an Order of Reference, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall appoint an Administrative Law Judge to hear the case. The Administrative Law Judge shall notify all interested parties of the time and place of a prehearing conference and of the hearing.
§ 580.12
Decision and Order of Administrative Law Judge.
(a) The Administrative Law Judge shall render a decision on the issues referred by the Administrator.
(b) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be limited to a determination of whether the respondent has committed a violation of section 12, a violation of section 3(m)(2)(B), or a repeated or willful violation of section 6 or section 7 of the Act, and the appropriateness of the penalty assessed by the Administrator. The Administrative Law Judge shall not render determinations on the legality of a regulatory provision or the constitutionality of a statutory provision.
(c) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall include a statement of findings and conclusions, with reasons and basis therefor, upon each material issue presented on the record. The decision shall also include an appropriate order which may affirm, deny, reverse, or modify, in whole or in part, the determination of the Administrator.
(d) The Administrative Law Judge shall serve copies of the decision on each of the parties.
(e) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall constitute the final order of the Secretary unless, pursuant to § 580.13 of this part, there is an appeal to the Secretary.
[56 FR 24991, May 31, 1991, as amended at 86 FR 52987, Sept. 24, 2021]
§ 580.13
Procedures for appeals to the Administrative Review Board.
(a) Any party desiring review of a decision of the Administrative Law Judge, including judicial review, must file a petition for review with the Department's Administrative Review Board (Board). To be effective, such petition must be received by the Board within 30 days of the date of the decision of the Administrative Law Judge. Copies of the appeal shall be served on all parties and on the Chief Administrative Law Judge. If such a petition for review is timely filed, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall be inoperative unless and until the Board dismisses the appeal or issues a decision affirming the decision of the Administrative Law Judge.
(b) All documents submitted to the Board shall be filed with the Administrative Review Board in accordance with 29 CFR part 26.
(c) Documents are not deemed filed with the Board until actually received by the Board, either on or before the due date. No additional time shall be added where service of a document requiring action within a prescribed time was made by mail.
(d) A copy of each document filed with the Board shall be served upon all other parties involved in the proceeding in accordance with 29 CFR part 26. Service by mail is deemed effected at the time of mailing to the last known address of the party.
[69 FR 75405, Dec. 16, 2004, as amended at 86 FR 1787, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 580.14
[Reserved]
§ 580.15
Responsibility of the Office of Administrative Law Judges for the administrative record.
Upon receipt of a petition seeking review of the Decision and Order of an Administrative Law Judge, the Chief Administrative Law Judge shall promptly forward a copy of the complete hearing record to the Secretary.
§ 580.16
Decision of the Administrative Review Board.
The Board's decision shall be served upon all parties and the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
[86 FR 1787, Jan. 11, 2021]
§ 580.17
Retention of official record.
The official record of every completed administrative hearing provided by this part shall be maintained and filed under the custody and control of the Chief Administrative Law Judge.
§ 580.18
Collection and recovery of penalty.
(a) When the determination of the amount of any civil money penalty provided for in this part becomes final under § 580.5 in accordance with the administrative assessment thereof, or pursuant to the decision and order of an Administrative Law Judge in an administrative proceeding as provided in § 580.12, or the decision of the Board pursuant to § 580.16, the amount of the penalty as thus determined is immediately due and payable to the U.S. Department of Labor. The person assessed such penalty shall remit promptly the
amount thereof, as finally determined, to the Secretary. Payment shall be made by certified check or money order made payable and delivered or mailed according to the instructions provided by the Department; through the electronic pay portal located at
www.pay.gov
or any successor system; or by any additional payment method deemed acceptable by the Department.
(b) Pursuant to section 16(e) of the Act, the amount of the penalty, finally determined as provided in § 580.5, § 580.12 or § 580.16, may be:
(1) Deducted from any sums owing by the United States to the person charged. To effect this, any agency having sums owing from the United States to such person shall, on the request of the Secretary, withhold the specific amount of the penalty from the sums owed to the person so charged and remit the amount to the Secretary to satisfy the amount of the penalty assessed;
(2) Recovered in a civil action brought by the Secretary in any court of competent jurisdiction, in which litigation the Secretary shall be represented by the Solicitor of Labor. When the person against whom a final determination assessing a civil money penalty has been made does not voluntarily remit the amount of such penalty to the Secretary within a reasonable time after notification to do so, the Solicitor of Labor may institute such an action to recover the amount of the penalty; or
(3) Ordered by the court, in an action brought for a violation of section 15(a)(4) or a repeated or willful violation of section 15(a)(2), to be paid to the Secretary. Any such unlawful act or practice may be enjoined by the United States district courts under section 17 upon court action, filed by the Secretary; and failure of the person so enjoined to comply with the court order may subject such person to contempt proceedings. A willful violation of sections 6, 7, or 12 of the Act may subject the offender to the penalties provided in section 16(a) of the Act, enforced by the Department of Justice in criminal proceedings in the United States courts. In any of the foregoing civil or criminal proceedings, the court may order the payment to the Secretary of the civil penalty finally assessed by the Secretary.
[56 FR 24991, May 31, 1991, as amended at 69 FR 75406, Dec. 16, 2004; 84 FR 59931, Nov. 7, 2019; 86 FR 52987, Sept. 24, 2021]
Pt. 697

# PART 697—INDUSTRIES IN AMERICAN SAMOA
Sec.
697.1
Wage rates and industry definitions.
697.2
Industry wage rates and effective dates.
697.3
Notices.
697.4
Effective dates.

# Authority:
29 U.S.C. 205, 206, 208.
§ 697.1
Industry definitions.
(a)
Government employees.
This industry includes all activities of employees of the Government of American Samoa. This industry does not include any employees of the United States or its agencies.
(b)
Fish canning and processing.
This industry shall include the canning, freezing, preserving, and other processing of any kind of fish, shellfish, and other aquatic forms of animal life, the manufacture of any by-product thereof, and the manufacture of cans and related activities.
(c)
Petroleum marketing.
This industry shall include the wholesale marketing and distribution of gasoline, kerosene, lubricating oils, diesel and marine fuels, and other petroleum products, bunkering operations in connection therewith, and repair and maintenance of petroleum storage facilities.
(d)
Shipping and transportation.
This industry shall include the transportation of passengers and cargo by water or by air, and all activities in connection therewith, including storage and lighterage operations:
Provided, however,
that this industry shall not include the operation of tourist bureaus and of travel and ticket agencies.
Provided, further,
that this industry shall not include bunkering of petroleum products or activities engaged in by seamen on American vessels which are documented or numbered under the laws of the United States, which operate exclusively between points in the Samoan Islands, and which are not in excess of 350 tons net capacity. Within
this industry there shall be three classifications:
(1)
Classification A: Stevedoring, lighterage and maritime shipping agency activities.
This classification shall include all employees of employers who engage in each of the following three services: stevedoring, lighterage and maritime shipping agency activities.
(2)
Classification B: Unloading of fish.
This classification shall include the unloading of raw and/or frozen fish from vessels.
(3)
Classification C: All other activities.
This classification shall include all other activities in the shipping and transportation industry.
(e)
Construction.
This industry shall include all construction, reconstruction, structural renovation and demolition, on public or private account, of buildings, housing, highways and streets, catchments, dams, and any other structure.
(f)
Retailing, wholesaling and warehousing.
This industry includes all activities in connection with the selling of goods or services at retail, including the operation of retail stores and other retail establishments, the wholesaling and warehousing and other distribution of commodities including but without limitation the wholesaling, warehousing and other distribution activities of jobbers, importers and exporters, manufacturers' sales branches and sales offices engaged in the distribution of products manufactured outside of American Samoa, industrial distributors, mail order establishments, brokers and agents, and public warehouses:
Provided, however,
that this industry shall not include retailing and wholesaling activities included within other industry wage orders which are applicable in American Samoa.
(g)
Bottling, brewing and dairy products.
The bottling, brewing and dairy products industry includes the bottling, sale and distribution of malt beverages and soft drinks in bottles and other containers and the processing or recombining of fluid milk and cream for wholesale and retail distribution and the manufacture of malt beverages, butter, natural and processed cheese, condensed and evaporated milk, malted milk, ice cream and frozen desserts; including also any warehousing operation incidental to the above activities of firms engaged in these activities.
(h)
Printing.
The printing industry is that industry which is engaged in printing, job printing, and duplicating. This industry shall not include printing performed by an employer who publishes a newspaper, magazine, or similar publications.
(i)
Publishing.
This industry is that industry which is engaged in the publishing of newspapers, magazines, or similar publications other than the publishing of a weekly, semiweekly or daily newspaper with a circulation of less than 4,000, the major part of which circulation is within the county or counties contiguous thereto.
(j)
Finance and insurance.
The finance and insurance industry includes all banks (whether privately or government owned in whole or in part) and trust companies, credit agencies other than banks, holding companies, other investment companies, collection agencies, brokers and dealers in securities and commodity contracts, as well as carriers of all types of insurance, and insurance agents and brokers.
(k)
Ship maintenance.
This industry is defined as all work activity associated with ship repair and maintenance, including marine, railway, and dry dock operation.
(l)
Hotel.
This industry shall include all activities in connection with the operation of hotels (whether privately or government owned in whole or in part), motels, apartment hotels, and tourist courts engaged in providing lodging, with or without meals, for the general public, including such laundry and cleaning and other activities as are engaged in by a hotel or motel or other lodging facility on its own linens or on garments of its guests.
(m)
Tour and travel services.
This industry shall include the operation of tourist bureaus and of travel and passenger ticket services and agencies:
Provided, however,
that this industry shall not include the operation of a freight-shipping agency.
(n)
Private hospitals and educational institutions.
This industry shall include all activities performed in connection with the operation of private hospitals,
nursing homes, and related institutions primarily engaged in the care of the sick, the aged or the mentally or physically disabled or for gifted children, preschools, elementary or secondary schools, or institutions of higher education:
Provided, however,
that this industry shall not include employees of the Government of American Samoa or employees of any agency or corporation of the Government of American Samoa.
(o)
Garment manufacturing.
This industry is defined as the manufacture from any material of articles of apparel and clothing made by knitting, spinning, crocheting, cutting, sewing, embroidering, dyeing, or any other processes and includes but is not limited to all the following clothing: men's, women's, and children's suits, clothing and other products; hosiery; gloves and mittens; sweaters and other outerwear; swimwear; leather, leather goods, and related products; handkerchief, scarf, and art linen products; shirts; blouses; and underwear; uniforms and work clothing; and includes assembling, tagging, ironing, and packing apparel for shipping. This industry does not include manufacturing, processing or mending of apparel in retail or service establishments, including clothing stores, laundries, and other stores.
(p)
Miscellaneous activities.
This industry shall include every activity not included in any other industry defined herein.
[66 FR 44968, Aug. 27, 2001]
§ 697.2
Industry wage rates and effective dates.
Every employer shall pay to each employee in American Samoa, who in any workweek is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, or is employed in any enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, as these terms are defined in section 3 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, wages at a rate not less than the minimum rate prescribed in this section for the industries and classifications in which such employee is engaged.
Industry
Minimum wage
Effective
October 3, 2005
Effective
October 18, 2005
Effective
October 1, 2006
(a) Government Employees
$2.77
$2.84
$2.91
(b) Fish Canning and Processing
3.26
3.26
3.26
(c) Petroleum Marketing
3.85
3.85
3.85
(d) Shipping and Transportation:
(1) Classification A
4.09
4.09
4.09
(2) Classification B
3.92
3.92
3.92
(3) Classification C
3.88
3.88
3.88
(e) Construction
3.60
3.60
3.60
(f) Retailing, Wholesaling, and Warehousing
3.10
3.10
3.10
(g) Bottling, Brewing, and Dairy Products
3.19
3.19
3.19
(h) Printing
3.50
3.50
3.50
(i) Publishing
3.63
3.63
3.63
(j) Finance and Insurance
3.99
3.99
3.99
(k) Ship Maintenance
3.34
3.42
3.51
(l) Hotel
2.86
2.93
3.00
(m) Tour and Travel Services
3.31
3.39
3.48
(n) Private Hospitals and Educational Institutions
3.33
3.33
3.33
(o) Garment Manufacturing
2.68
2.68
2.68
(p) Miscellaneous Activities
2.57
2.63
2.70
[70 FR 57723, Oct. 3, 2005]
§ 697.3
Notices.
Every employer subject to the provisions of § 697.2 shall post in a conspicuous place in each department of his establishment where employees subject to the provisions of § 697.2 are working such notices of this part as shall be prescribed from time to time by the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division of the U.S. Department of Labor, and shall give such other notice as the Administrator may prescribe.
[41 FR 24121, June 15, 1976. Redesignated and amended at 66 FR 44969, Aug. 27, 2001]
§ 697.4
Effective dates.
The wage rates specified in § 697.2 shall be effective on October 18, 2005, except as otherwise specified.
[70 FR 57724, Oct. 3, 2005]

# SUBCHAPTER B—STATEMENTS OF GENERAL POLICY OR INTERPRETATION NOT DIRECTLY RELATED TO REGULATIONS
Pt. 775

# PART 775—GENERAL
Sec.
775.0
General enforcement policy.
775.1
Advisory interpretations announced by the Administrator.

# Authority:
52 Stat. 1060, 29 U.S.C. 201
et seq.,
61 Stat. 84, 29 U.S.C. 251
et seq.,
49 Stat. 2036, 41 U.S.C. 35
et seq.
§ 775.0
General enforcement policy.
(a) In order to clarify at this time the practices and policies which will guide the administration and enforcement of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (52 Stat. 1060, 29 U.S.C. 201-219), and the Walsh-Healey Act as amended (49 Stat. 2036, 41 U.S.C. 35-45), as affected by the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 (61 Stat. 84; 29 U.S.C. Sup. 251
et seq.
), the following policy is announced effective June 30, 1947.
(b) The investigation, inspection and enforcement activities of all officers and agencies of the Department of Labor as they relate to the Fair Labor Standards Act and the Walsh-Healey Act will be carried out on the basis that all employers in all industries whose activities are subject to the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act or the Walsh-Healey Act are responsible for strict compliance with the provisions thereof and the regulations issued pursuant thereto.
(c) Any statements, orders, or instructions inconsistent herewith are rescinded.
[12 FR 3915, June 17, 1947]
§ 775.1
Advisory interpretations announced by the Administrator.
Advisory interpretations announced by the Administrator serve only to indicate the construction of the law which will guide the Administrator in the performance of his administrative duties unless he is directed otherwise by the authoritative ruling of the courts, or unless he shall subsequently decide that his prior interpretation is incorrect.
[11 FR 14099, Dec. 5, 1946]
Pt. 776

# PART 776—INTERPRETATIVE BULLETIN ON THE GENERAL COVERAGE OF THE WAGE AND HOURS PROVISIONS OF THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT OF 1938

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
776.0
Subpart limited to individual employee coverage.

# Individual Employee Coverage
776.0a
Introductory statement.

# How Coverage Is Determined
776.1
General interpretative guides.
776.2
Employee basis of coverage.
776.3
Persons engaging in both covered and noncovered activities.
776.4
Workweek standard.
776.5
Coverage not dependent on method of compensation.
776.6
Coverage not dependent on place of work.
776.7
Geographical scope of coverage.

# Engaging “In Commerce”
776.8
The statutory provisions.
776.9
General scope of “in commerce” coverage.
776.10
Employees participating in the actual movement of commerce.
776.11
Employees doing work related to instrumentalities of commerce.
776.12
Employees traveling across State lines.
776.13
Commerce crossing international boundaries.

# Engaging In “The Production Of Goods For Commerce”
776.14
Elements of “production” coverage.
776.15
“Production.”
776.16
Employment in “producing, . . . or in any other manner working on” goods.
776.17
Employment in a “closely related process or occupation directly essential to” production of goods.
776.18
Employees of producers for commerce.
776.19
Employees of independent employers meeting needs of producers for commerce.
776.20
“Goods.”
776.21
“For” commerce.

# Subpart B—Construction Industry
776.22
Subpart limited to individual employee coverage.

# Enterprise Coverage
776.22a
Extension of coverage to employment in certain enterprises.

# Individual Employee Coverage In The Construction Industry
776.22b
Guiding principles.
776.23
Employment in the construction industry.
776.24
Travel in connection with construction projects.
776.25
Regular and recurring activities as basis of coverage.
776.26
Relationship of the construction work to the covered facility.
776.27
Construction which is related to covered production.
776.28
Covered preparatory activities.
776.29
Instrumentalities and channels of interstate commerce.
776.30
Construction performed on temporarily idle facilities.

# Authority:
52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201-219.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
15 FR 2925, May 17, 1950, unless otherwise noted.
§ 776.0
Subpart limited to individual employee coverage.
This subpart, which was adopted before the amendments of 1961 and 1966 to the Fair Labor Standards Act, is limited to discussion of general coverage of the Act on the traditional basis of engagement by individual employees “in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce”. The 1961 and 1966 amendments broadened coverage by extending it to other employees on an “enterprise” basis, when “employed in an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” as defined in section 3 (r), (s), of the present Act. Employees covered under the principles discussed in this subpart remain covered under the Act as amended; however, an employee who would not be individually covered under the principles discussed in this subpart may now be subject to the Act if he is employed in a covered enterprise as defined in the amendments. Questions of “enterprise coverage” not answered in published statements of the Department of Labor may be addressed to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210 or assistance may be requested from any of the Regional or District Offices of the Division.
[35 FR 5543, Apr. 3, 1970]

# Individual Employee Coverage
§ 776.0a
Introductory statement.
(a)
Scope and significance of this part.
(1) The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
1
(hereinafter referred to as the Act), brings within the general coverage of its wage and hours provisions every employee who is “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.”
2
What employees are so engaged must be ascertained in the light of the definitions of “commerce”, “goods”, and “produced” which are set forth in the Act as amended by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of
1949,
3
giving due regard to authoritative interpretations by the courts and to the legislative history of the Act, as amended. Interpretations of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division with respect to this general coverage are set forth in this part to provide “a practical guide to employers and employees as to how the office representing the public interest in its enforcement will seek to apply it.”
4
These interpretations with respect to the general coverage of the wage and hours provisions of the Act, indicate the construction of the law which the Administrator believes to be correct and which will guide him in the performance of his administrative duties under the Act unless and until he is otherwise directed by authoritative decisions of the courts or concludes, upon reexamination of an interpretation, that it is incorrect.
1
Pub. L. 718, 75th Cong., 3d sess. (52 Stat. 1060), as amended by the Act of June 26, 1940 (Pub. Res. No. 88, 76th Cong., 3d sess., 54 Stat. 616); by Reorganization Plan No. 2 (60 Stat. 1095), effective July 16, 1946; by the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947, approved May 14, 1947 (61 Stat. 84); and by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1949, approved October 26, 1949 (Pub. L. 393, 81st Cong., 1st sess., 63 Stat. 910); by Reorganization Plan No. 6 of 1950 (15 FR 3174), effective May 24, 1950; and by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1955, approved August 12, 1955 (Pub. L. 381, 84th Cong., 1st sess., C. 867, 69 Stat. 711).
2
The requirement of section 6 as to minimum wages is: “Every employer shall pay to each of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce wages at the following rates—” (not less than $1.00 an hour, except in Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands to which special provisions apply).
The requirement of section 7 as to maximum hours which an employee may work without receiving extra pay for overtime is: “no employer shall employ any of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce for a workweek longer than forty hours, unless such employee receives compensation for his employment in excess of the hours above specified at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate at which he is employed.”
3
Pub. L. 393, 81st Cong., 1st sess. (63 Stat. 910). These amendments, effective January 25, 1950, leave the existing law unchanged except as to provisions specifically amended and the addition of certain new provisions. Section 3(b) of the Act, defining “commerce”, and section 3(j), defining “produced”, were specifically amended as explained in §§ 776.13 and 776.17(a) herein.
4
Skidmore
v.
Swift
Co.,
323 U.S. 134, 138.
(2) Under the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947,
5
interpretations of the Administrator may, under certain circumstances, be controlling in determining the rights and liabilities of employers and employees. The interpretations contained in this bulletin are interpretations on which reliance may be placed as provided in section 10 of the Portal-to-Portal Act, so long as they remain effective and are not modified, amended, rescinded, or determined by judicial authority to be incorrect. However, the omission to discuss a particular problem in this part or in interpretations supplementing it should not be taken to indicate the adoption of any position by the Administrator with respect to such problem or to constitute an administrative interpretation or practice or enforcement policy.
5
Pub. L. 49, 80th Cong., 1st sess. (61 Stat. 84), discussed in part 790 of this chapter.
(b)
Exemptions and child labor provisions not discussed.
This part does not deal with the various specific exemptions provided in the statute, under which certain employees engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce and thus within the general coverage of the wage and hours provisions are wholly or partially excluded from the protection of the Act's minimum-wage and overtime-pay requirements. Some of these exemptions are self-executing; others call for definitions or other action by the Administrator. Regulations and interpretations relating to specific exemptions may be found in other parts of this chapter. Coverage and exemptions under the child labor provisions of the Act are discussed in a separate interpretative bulletin (§§ 570.101 to 570.121 of this chapter) issued by the Secretary of Labor.
(c)
Earlier interpretations superseded.
All general and specific interpretations issued prior to July 11, 1947, with respect to the general coverage of the wage and hours provisions of the Act were rescinded and withdrawn by § 776.0(b) of the general statement on this subject, published in the
Federal Register
on that date as part 776 of this chapter (12 FR 4583). To the extent that interpretations contained in such general statement or in releases, opinion letters, and other statements issued on or after July 11, 1947, are inconsistent with the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1949, they do not continue in effect after January 24, 1950.
6
Effective on the date of its publication in the
Federal
Register,
subpart A of this interpretative bulletin replaces and supersedes the general statement previously published as part 776 of this chapter, which statement is withdrawn. All other administrative rulings, interpretations, practices and enforcement policies relating to the general coverage of the wages and hours provisions of the Act and not withdrawn prior to such date are, to the extent that they are inconsistent with or in conflict with the principles stated in this interpretative bulletin, hereby rescinded and withdrawn.
6
Section 16(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1949 (63 Stat. 910) provides:
“Any order, regulation, or interpretation of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division or of the Secretary of Labor, and any agreement entered into by the Administrator or the Secretary, in effect under the provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, on the effective date of this Act, shall remain in effect as an order, regulation, interpretation, or agreement of the Administrator or the Secretary, as the case may be, pursuant to this Act, except to the extent that any such order, regulation, interpretation, or agreement may be inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, or may from time to time be amended, modified, or rescinded by the Administrator or the Secretary, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of this Act.”
[15 FR 2925, May 17, 1950, as amended at 21 FR 1448, Mar. 6, 1956. Redesignated at 35 FR 5543, Apr. 3, 1970]

# How Coverage Is Determined
§ 776.1
General interpretative guides.
The congressional policy under which employees “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” are brought within the general coverage of the Act's wage and hours provisions is stated in section 2 of the Act. This section makes it clear that the congressional power to regulate interstate and foreign commerce is exercised in this Act in order to remedy certain evils, namely, “labor conditions detrimental to the maintenance of the minimum standards of living necessary for health, efficiency, and the general well being of workers” which Congress found “(a) causes commerce and the channels and instrumentalities of commerce to be used to perpetuate such labor conditions among the workers of the several States; (b) burdens commerce and the free flow of goods in commerce; (c) constitutes an unfair method of competition in commerce; (d) leads to labor disputes burdening and obstructing commerce and the free flow of goods in commerce and (e) interferes with the orderly and fair marketing of goods in commerce.” In carrying out these broad remedial purposes, however, the Congress did not choose to make the scope of the Act coextensive in all respects with the limits of its power over commerce or to apply it to all activities affecting commerce.
7
Congress delimited the area in which the Act operates by providing for certain exceptions and exemptions, and by making wage-hour coverage applicable only to employees who are “engaged in” either “commerce”, as defined in the Act, or “production” of “goods” for such commerce, within the meaning of the Act's definitions of these terms. The Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1949 indicate an intention to restrict somewhat the category of employees within the reach of the Act under the former definition of “produced” and to expand to some extent the group covered under the former definition of “commerce.” In his interpretations, the Administrator will endeavor to give effect to both the broad remedial purposes of the Act and the limitations on its application, seeking guidance in his task from the terms of the statute, from authoritative court decisions, and from the legislative history of the Act, as amended.
8
7
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
317 U.S. 564;
10 East 40th St. Bldg. Co.
v.
Callus,
325 U.S. 578;
A. H. Phillips, Inc.
v.
Walling,
324 U.S. 490;
Fleming
v.
Hawkeye Pearl Button Co.,
113 F. 2d 52 (C.A. 8);
Armstrong
v.
Walling,
161 F. 2d 515 (C.A. 1);
Bowie
v.
Gonzalez,
117 F. 2d 11 (C.A. 1).
8
Footnote references to some of the relevant court decisions are made for the assistance of readers who may be interested in such decisions.
Footnote reference to the legislative history of the 1949 amendments are made at points in this part where it is believed they may be helpful. References to the
Statement of the Managers on the part of the House,
appended to the Conference Report on the amendments (H. Rept. No. 1453, 81st Cong., 1st sess.) are abbreviated: H. Mgrs. St. 1949, p. __. References to the
Statement of a majority of the Senate Conferees,
95 Cong. Rec., October 19, 1949 at 15372-15377 are abbreviated: Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec. References to the Congressional Record are to the 1949 daily issues, the permanent volumes being unavailable at the time this part was prepared.
§ 776.2
Employee basis of coverage.
(a) The coverage of the Act's wage and hours provisions as described in sections 6 and 7 does not deal in a blanket way with industries as a whole. Thus, in section 6, it is provided that every employer shall pay the statutory
minimum wage to “each of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.” It thus becomes primarily an individual matter as to the nature of the employment of the particular employee. Some employers in a given industry may have no employees covered by the Act; other employers in the industry may have some employees covered by the Act, and not others; still other employers in the industry may have all their employees within the Act's coverage. If, after considering all relevant factors, employees are found to be engaged in covered work, their employer cannot avoid his obligations to them under the Act on the ground that he is not “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.” To the extent that his employees are so engaged, he is himself so engaged.
9
9
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517. See also
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
317 U.S. 564;
McLeod
v.
Threlkeld,
319 U.S. 491;
Mabee
v.
White Plains Pub. Co.,
327 U.S. 178.
(b) In determining whether an individual employee is within the coverage of the wage and hours provisions, however, the relationship of an employer's business to commerce or to the production of goods for commerce may sometimes be an important indication of the character of the employee's work.
10
It is apparent, too, from the 1949 amendment to the definition of “produced” and its legislative history that an examination of the character of the employer's business will in some borderline situations be necessary in determining whether the employees' occupation bears the requisite close relationship to production for commerce.
11
10
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
325 U.S. 679;
10 E. 40th St. Bldg. Co.
v.
Callus,
325 U.S. 578;
Armour
Co.
v.
Wantock,
323 U.S. 126;
Donovan
v.
Shell Oil Co.,
168 F. 2d 229 (C.A. 4);
Hertz Driveurself Stations
v.
United States,
150 F. 2d 923 (C.A. 8);
Horton
v.
Wilson
Co.,
223 N.C. 71, 25 S.E. 2d 437.
11
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 14, 15; Sen. St. 1949 Cong. Rec. 15372.
§ 776.3
Persons engaging in both covered and noncovered activities.
The Act applies to employees “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” without regard to whether such employees, or their employer, are also engaged in other activities which would not bring them within the coverage of the Act. The Act makes no distinction as to the percentage, volume, or amount of activities of either employee or employer which constitute engaging in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce. Sections 6 and 7 refer to “each” and “any” employee so engaged, and section 15(a)(1) prohibits the introduction into the channels of interstate or foreign commerce of “any” goods in the production of which “any” employee was employed in violation of section 6 or section 7. Although employees doing work in connection with mere isolated, sporadic, or occasional shipments in commerce of insubstantial amounts of goods will not be considered covered by virtue of that fact alone, the law is settled that every employee whose engagement in activities in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, even though small in amount, is regular and recurring, is covered by the Act.
12
This does not, however, necessarily mean that an employee who at some particular time may engage in work which brings him within the coverage of the Act is, by reason of that fact, thereafter indefinitely entitled to its benefits.
12
United States
v.
Darby,
312 U.S. 100;
Mabee
v.
White Plains Pub. Co.,
327 U.S. 178;
Schmidt
v.
Peoples Telephone Union of Maryville, Missouri,
138 F. 2d 13 (C.A. 8);
New Mexico Public Service Co.
v.
Engel,
145 F. 2d 636 (C.A. 10);
Sun Pub. Co.
v.
Walling,
140 F. 2d 445 (C.A. 6), certiorari denied 322 U.S. 728;
Davis
v.
Goodman Lumber Co.,
133 F. 2d 52 (C.A. 4).
§ 776.4
Workweek standard.
(a) The workweek is to be taken as the standard in determining the applicability of the Act.
13
Thus, if in any workweek an employee is engaged in both covered and noncovered work he is entitled to both the wage and hours
benefits of the Act for all the time worked in that week, unless exempted therefrom by some specific provision of the Act. The proportion of his time spent by the employee in each type of work is not material. If he spends any part of the workweek in covered work he will be considered on exactly the same basis as if he had engaged exclusively in such work for the entire period. Accordingly, the total number of hours which he works during the workweek at both types of work must be compensated for in accordance with the minimum wage and overtime pay provisions of the Act.
13
See
Gordon's Transports
v.
Walling,
162 F. 2d 203 (C.A. 6), certiorari denied 332 U.S. 774;
Walling
v.
Fox-Pelletier Detective Agency,
4 W.H. Cases 452 (W.D. Tenn.), 8 Labor Cases 62,219;
Walling
v.
Black Diamond Coal Mining Co.,
59 F. Supp. 348 (W.D. Ky.);
Fleming
v.
Knox,
42 F. Supp. 948 (S.D. Ga.);
Roberg
v.
Henry Phipps Estate,
156 F. 2d 958 (C.A. 2). For a definition of the workweek, see § 778.2(c) of this chapter.
(b) It is thus recognized that an employee may be subject to the Act in one workweek and not in the next. It is likewise true that some employees of an employer may be subject to the Act and others not. But the burden of effecting segregation between covered and noncovered work as between particular workweeks for a given employee or as between different groups of employees is upon the employer. Where covered work is being regularly or recurrently performed by his employees, and the employer seeks to segregate such work and thereby relieve himself of his obligations under sections 6 and 7 with respect to particular employees in particular workweeks, he should be prepared to show, and to demonstrate from his records, that such employees in those workweeks did not engage in any activities in interstate or foreign commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce, which would necessarily include a showing that such employees did not handle or work on goods or materials shipped in commerce or used in production of goods for commerce, or engage in any other work closely related and directly essential to production of goods for commerce.
14
The Division's experience has indicated that much so-called “segregation” does not satisfy these tests and that many so-called “segregated” employees are in fact engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.
14
See
Guess
v.
Montague,
140 F. 2d 500 (C.A. 4).
§ 776.5
Coverage not dependent on method of compensation.
The Act's individual employee coverage is not limited to employees working on an hourly wage. The requirements of section 6 as to minimum wages are that “each” employee described therein shall be paid wages at a rate not less than a specified rate “an hour”.
15
This does not mean that employees cannot be paid on a piecework basis or on a salary, commission, or other basis; it merely means that whatever the basis on which the workers are paid, whether it be monthly, weekly, or on a piecework basis, they must receive at least the equivalent of the minimum hourly rate. “Each” and “any” employee obviously and necessarily includes one compensated by a unit of time, by the piece, or by any other measurement.
16
Regulations prescribed by the Administrator (part 516 of this chapter) provide for the keeping of records in such form as to enable compensation on a piecework or other basis to be translated into an hourly rate.
17
15
Special exceptions are made for Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.
16
United States
v.
Rosenwasser,
323 U.S. 360.
17
For methods of translating other forms of compensation into an hourly rate for purposes of sections 6 and 7, see parts 531 and 778 of this chapter.
[35 FR 5543, Apr. 3, 1970]
§ 776.6
Coverage not dependent on place of work.
Except for the general geographical limitations discussed in § 776.7, the Act contains no prescription as to the place where the employee must work in order to come within its coverage. It follows that employees otherwise coming within the terms of the Act are entitled to its benefits whether they perform their work at home, in the factory, or elsewhere.
18
The specific provisions of the Act relative to regulation of homework serve to emphasize this fact.
19
18
Walling
v.
American Needlecrafts,
139 F. 2d 60 (C.A. 6);
Walling
v.
Twyeffort Inc.,
158 F. 2d 944 (C.A. 2);
McComb
v.
Homeworkers' Handicraft Cooperative,
176 F. 2d 633 (C.A. 4).
19
See 6(a)(2); Sec. 11(d).
§ 776.7
Geographical scope of coverage.
(a) The geographical areas within which the employees are to be deemed “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” within the meaning of the Act, and thus within its coverage are governed by definitions in section 3 (b), (c), and (j). In the definition of “produced” in section 3(j), “production” is expressly confined to described employments “in any State.” (See § 776.15 (a).) “Commerce” is defined to mean described activities “among the several States or between any State and any place outside thereof.” (See § 776.8.) “State” is defined in section 3(c) to mean “any State of the United States or the District of Columbia or any Territory or possession of the United States.”
(b) Under the definitions in paragraph (a) of this section, employees within the District of Columbia; Puerto Rico; the Virgin Islands; Outer Continental Shelf lands defined in the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (ch. 345, 67 Stat. 462, 43 U.S.C. 1331); American Samoa; Guam; Wake Island; Enewetok Atoll; Kwajalein Atoll; Johnston Island; and the Canal Zone are dealt with on the same basis as employees working in any of the 50 States.
20
Congress did not exercise the national legislative power over the District of Columbia or the Territories or possessions referred to by extending the Act to purely local commerce within them.
20
An amendment to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, 71 Stat. 514 (approved Aug. 30, 1957) provides that no employer shall be subject to any liability or punishment under the Act with respect to work performed at any time in work places excluded from the Act's coverage by this law or for work performed prior to Nov. 29, 1957, on Guam, Wake Island, or the Canal Zone; or for work performed prior to the establishment, by the Secretary, of a minimum wage rate applicable to such work in American Samoa. Work performed by employees in “a work place within a foreign country or within territory under the jurisdiction of the United States” other than those enumerated in this paragraph is exempt by this amendment from coverage under the Act. When part of the work performed by an employee for an employer in any workweek is covered work performed in any State, it makes no difference where the remainder of such work is performed; the employee is entitled to the benefits of the Act for the entire workweek unless he comes within some specific exemption. The reference in 71 Stat. 514 to liability for work performed in American Samoa is an extension of the relief granted by the American Samoa Labor Standards Amendments of 1956 (29 U.S.C. Supp. IV, secs. 206, 213, and 216).
[15 FR 2925, May 17, 1950, as amended at 35 FR 5543, Apr. 3, 1970]

# Engaging “In Commerce”
§ 776.8
The statutory provisions.
(a) The activities constituting “commerce” within the meaning of the phrase “engaged in commerce” in sections 6 and 7 of the Act are defined in section 3(b) as follows:
Commerce
means trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States, or between any State and any place outside thereof.
21
21
As amended by section 3(a) of the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1949.
As has been noted in § 776.7, the word “State” in this definition refers not only to any of the fifty States but also to the District of Columbia and to any Territory or possession of the United States.
(b) It should be observed that the term
commerce
is very broadly defined. The definition does not limit the term to transportation, or to the “commercial” transactions involved in “trade,” although these are expressly included. Neither is the term confined to commerce in “goods.” Obviously, “transportation” or “commerce” between any State and any place outside its boundaries includes a movement of persons as well as a movement of goods. And “transmission” or “communication” across State lines constitutes “commerce” under the definition, without reference to whether anything so transmitted or communicated is “goods.”
22
22
“Goods” is, however, broadly defined in the Act. See § 776.20(a).
The inclusion of the term “commerce” in the definition of the same term as used in the Act implies that no special or limited meaning is intended; rather, that the scope of the term for purposes of the Act is at least as broad as it
would be under concepts of “commerce” established without reference to this definition.
§ 776.9
General scope of “in commerce” coverage.
Under the definitions quoted above, it is clear that the employees who are covered by the wage and hours provisions of the Act as employees “engaged in commerce” are employees doing work involving or related to the movement of persons or things (whether tangibles or intangibles, and including information and intelligence) “among the several States or between any State and any place outside thereof.”
23
Although this does not include employees engaged in activities which merely “affect” such interstate or foreign commerce, the courts have made it clear that coverage of the Act based on engaging in commerce extends to every employee employed “in the channels of” such commerce or in activities so closely related to such commerce, as a practical matter, that they should be considered a part of it.
24
The courts have indicated that the words “in commerce” should not be so limited by construction as to defeat the purpose of Congress, but should be interpreted in a manner consistent with their practical meaning and effect in the particular situation. One practical question to be asked is whether, without the particular service, interstate or foreign commerce would be impeded, impaired, or abated;
25
others are whether the service contributes materially to the consummation of transactions in interstate or foreign commerce
26
or makes it possible for existing instrumentalities of commerce
27
to accomplish the movement of such commerce effectively and to free it from burdens or obstructions.
28
23
“Any place outside thereof” is not limited in meaning to another State or country. Any movement between a State and a place “outside thereof” is “commerce” for purposes of the Act, such as ship-to-shore communication, or transportation out of a State by ship of food, fuel, or ice to be consumed at sea before arrival at another port.
24
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
317 U.S. 564;
Overstreet
v.
North Shore Corp.,
318 U.S. 125;
McLeod
v.
Threlkeld,
319 U.S. 491;
Boutell
v.
Walling,
327 U.S. 463;
Pedersen
v.
J. F. Fitzgerald Constr. Co.,
318 U.S. 740 and 324 U.S. 720.
25
Republic Pictures Corp.
v.
Kappler,
151 F. 2d 543 (C.A. 8), affirmed 327 U.S. 757;
New Mexico Public Service Co.
v.
Engel,
145 F. 2d 636 (C.A. 10).
26
Walling
v.
Sondock,
132 F. 2d 77 (C.A. 5), certiorari denied 318 U.S. 772. See also
Horton
v.
Wilson
Co.,
223 N.C. 71, 25 S.E. 2d 437, in which the court stated that an employee is engaged “in commerce” if his services—not too remotely but substantially and directly—aid in such commerce as defined in the Act.
27
For a list of such instrumentalities, see § 776.11.
28
Overstreet
v.
North Shore Corp.,
318 U.S. 125;
J. F. Fitzgerald Constr. Co.
v.
Pedersen,
324 U.S. 720;
Ritch
v.
Puget Sound Bridge
Dredging Co.,
156 F. 2d 334 (C.A. 9);
Walling
v.
McCrady Constr. Co.,
156 F. 2d 932 (C.A. 3);
Bennett
v.
V. P. Loftis,
167 F. 2d 286 (C.A. 4);
Walling
v.
Patton-Tully Transp. Co.,
134 F. 2d 945 (C.A. 6).
§ 776.10
Employees participating in the actual movement of commerce.
(a) Under the principles stated in § 776.9, the wage and hours provisions of the Act apply typically, but not exclusively, to employees such, as those in the telephone,
29
telegraph,
30
television, radio,
31
transportation and shipping
32
industries, since these industries serve as the actual instrumentalities and channels of interstate and
foreign commerce. Similarly, employees of such businesses as banking, insurance, newspaper publishing,
33
and others which regularly utilize the channels of interstate and foreign commerce in the course of their operations, are generally covered by the Act.
29
Schmidt
v.
Peoples Telephone Union of Maryville, Mo.,
138 F. 2d 13 (C.A. 8);
North Shore Corp.
v.
Barnett,
143 F. 2d 172 (C.A. 5);
Strand
v.
Garden Valley Telephone Co.,
51 F. Supp. 898 (D. Minn.).
30
Western Union Telegraph Co.
v.
Lenroot,
323 U.S. 490;
Western Union Telegraph Co.
v.
McComb,
165 F. 2d 65 (C.A. 6), certiorari denied 333 U.S. 862;
Moss
v.
Postal Telegraph Cable Co.,
42 F. Supp. 807 (M.D. Ga.).
31
Wilson
v.
Shuman,
140 F. 2d 644 (C.A. 8);
Wabash Radio Corp.
v.
Walling,
162 F. 2d 391 (C.A. 6).
32
Overnight Motor Co.
v.
Missel,
316 U.S. 572;
Hargis
v.
Wabash R. Co., 163 F. 2d 607 (C.A. 7); Rockton
Rion R.R.
v.
Walling
146 F. 2d 111 (C.A. 4), certiorari denied 334 U.S. 880;
Walling
v.
Keansburg Steamboat Co.,
162 F. 2d 405 (C.A. 3);
Knudsen
v.
Lee
Simmons,
163 F. 2d 95 (C.A. 2);
Walling
v.
Southwestern Greyhound Lines,
65 F. Supp. 52 (W.D. Mo.);
Walling
v.
Atlantic Greyhound Corp.,
61 F. Supp. 992 (E.D. S.C.).
33
Sun Pub. Co.
v.
Walling,
140 F. 2d 445 (C.A. 6), certiorari denied 322 U.S. 728. See also
Oklahoma Press Pub. Co.
v.
Walling,
327 U.S. 186, and
McComb
v.
Dessau,
9 W.H. Cases 332 (S.D. Calif.) 17 Labor Cases, 65, 643.
(b) Employees whose work is an essential part of the stream of interstate or foreign commerce, in whatever type of business they are employed, are likewise engaged in commerce and within the Act's coverage. This would include, for example, employees of a warehouse whose activities are connected with the receipt or distribution of goods across State lines.
34
Also, since “commerce” as used in the Act includes not only “transmission” of communications but “communication” itself, employees whose work involves the continued use of the interstate mails, telegraph, telephone or similar instrumentalities for communication across State lines are covered by the Act.
35
This does not mean that any use by an employee of the mails and other channels of communication is sufficient to establish coverage. But if the employee, as a regular and recurrent part of his duties, uses such instrumentalities in obtaining or communicating information or in sending or receiving written reports or messages, or orders for goods or services, or plans or other documents across State lines, he comes within the scope of the Act as an employee directly engaged in the work of “communication” between the State and places outside the State.
34
Phillips Co.
v.
Walling,
324 U.S. 490;
Clyde
v.
Broderick,
144 F. 2d 348 (C.A. 10).
35
McComb
v.
Weller,
9 W.H. Cases 53 (W.D. Tenn.);
Yunker
v.
Abbye Employment Agency,
32 N.Y.S. 2d 715; (Munic. Ct. N.Y.C.);
Phillips
v.
Meeker Coop. Light
Power Asso.,
63 F. Supp. 733 (D. Minn.);
Anderson Bros. Corp.
v.
Flynn,
218 S.W. 2d 653 (C.A. Ky.).
[15 FR 2925, May 17, 1950, as amended at 22 FR 5684, July 18, 1957]
§ 776.11
Employees doing work related to instrumentalities of commerce.
(a) Another large category of employees covered as “engaged in commerce” is comprised of employees performing the work involved in the maintenance, repair, or improvement of existing instrumentalities of commerce. (See the cases cited in footnote 28 to § 776.9. See also the discussion of coverage of employees engaged in building and construction work, in subpart B of this part.) Typical illustrations of instrumentalities of commerce include railroads, highways, city streets, pipe lines, telephone lines, electrical transmission lines, rivers, streams, or other waterways over which interstate or foreign commerce more or less regularly moves; airports; railroad, bus, truck, or steamship terminals; telephone exchanges, radio and television stations, post offices and express offices; bridges and ferries carrying traffic moving in interstate or foreign commerce (even though within a single State); bays, harbors, piers, wharves and docks used for shipping between a State and points outside; dams, dikes, revetments and levees which directly facilitate the uninterrupted movement of commerce by enhancing or improving the usefulness of waterways, railways, and highways through control of water depth, channels or flow in streams or through control of flood waters; warehouses or distribution depots devoted to the receipt and shipment of goods in interstate or foreign commerce; ships, vehicles, and aircraft regularly used in transportation of persons or goods in commerce; and similar fixed or movable facilities on which the flow of interstate and foreign commerce depends.
(b) It is well settled that the work of employees involved in the maintenance, repair, or improvement of such existing instrumentalities of commerce is so closely related to interstate or foreign commerce as to be in practice and in legal contemplation a part of it. Included among the employees who are thus “engaged in commerce” within the meaning of the Act are employees of railroads, telephone companies, and
similar instrumentalities who are engaged in maintenance-of-way work;
36
employees (including office workers, guards, watchmen, etc.) engaged in work on contracts or projects for the maintenance, repair, reconstruction or other improvement of such instrumentalities of commerce as the transportation facilities of interstate railroads, highways, waterways, or other interstate transportation facilities, or interstate telegraph, telephone, or electrical transmission facilities (see subpart B of this part); and employees engaged in the maintenance or alteration and repair of ships
37
or trucks
38
used as instrumentalities of interstate or foreign commerce. Also, employees have been held covered as engaged in commerce where they perform such work as watching or guarding ships or vehicles which are regularly used in commerce
39
or maintaining, watching, or guarding warehouses, railroad or equipment yards, etc., where goods moving in interstate commerce are temporarily held,
40
or acting as porters, janitors, or in other maintenance capacities in bus stations, railroad stations, airports, or other transportation terminals.
41
36
Davis
v.
Rockton
Rion R.R.,
65 F. Supp. 67 affirmed in 159 F. 2d 291 (C.A. 4);
North Shore Corp.
v.
Barnett,
143 F. 2d 172 (C.A. 5);
Palmer
v.
Howard,
12 Lab. Cas. (CCH) par. 63, 756 (W.D. Tenn.);
Williams
v.
Atlantic Coast Lines R.R. Co.,
1 W.M. Cases 289 (E.D. N.C. 1940), 2 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 18, 564.
37
Slover
v.
Wathen,
140 F. 2d 258 (C.A. 4);
Walling
v.
Keansburg Steamboat Co.,
162 F. 2d 405 (C.A. 3).
38
Boutell
v.
Walling,
327 U.S. 463;
Morris
v.
McComb,
332 U.S. 422;
Skidmore
v.
John J. Casale, Inc.,
160 F. 2d 527 (C.A. 2), certiorari denied 331 U.S. 812;
Hertz Drivurself Stations
v.
United States,
150 F. 2d 923 (C.A. 8);
Walling
v.
Sturm
Sons, Inc.,
6 W.H. Cases 131 (D.N.J.) 10 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 62, 980.
As to exemptions from the overtime requirements for mechanics employed by motor carriers, see part 782 of this chapter. For exemptions applicable to retail or service establishments, see part 779 of this chapter.
39
Slover
v.
Wathen,
140 F. 2d 258 (C.A. 4);
Agosto
v.
Rocafort,
5 W.H. Cases 176 (D.P.R.), 9 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 62, 610;
Cannon
v.
Miller,
155 F. 2d 500 (S. Ct. Wash.).
40
Engebretson
v.
E. J. Albrecht Co.,
150 F. 2d 602 (C.A. 7);
Mid-Continent Petroleum Corp.
v.
Keen,
157 F. 2d 310 (C.A. 8);
Walling
v.
Mutual Wholesale Food
Supply Co.,
141 F. 2d 331 (C.A. 8);
Walling
v.
Sondock,
132 F. 2d 77 (C.A. 5); certiorari denied 318 U.S. 772;
Reliance Storage
Insp. Co.
v.
Hubbard,
50 F. Supp. 1012 (W.D. Va.);
Walling
v.
Fox-Pelletier Detective Agency,
4 W.H. Cases 452 (W.D. Tenn. 1944); 8 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 62, 219;
McComb
v.
Russell Co.,
9 W.H. Cases 258 (D. Miss. 1949), 17 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 65, 519.
41
Mornford
v.
Andrews,
151 F. 2d 511 (C.A. 5);
Hargis
v.
Wabash R. Co.
163 F. 2d 607 (C.A. 7);
Walling
v.
Atlantic Greyhound Corp.,
61 F. Supp. 992 (E.D. S.C.);
Rouch
v.
Continental Oil Co.,
55 F. Supp. 315 (D. Kans.); see also
Williams
v.
Jacksonville Terminal Co.,
315 U.S. 386.
(c) On the other hand, work which is less immediately related to the functioning of instrumentalities of commerce than is the case in the foregoing examples may be too remote from interstate or foreign commerce to establish coverage on the ground that the employee performing it is “engaged in commerce.” This has been held true, for example, of a cook preparing meals for workmen who are repairing tracks over which interstate trains operate,
42
and of a porter caring for washrooms and lockers in a garage which is not an instrumentality of commerce, where trucks used both in intrastate and interstate commerce are serviced.
43
42
McLeod
v.
Threlkeld,
319 U.S. 491.
43
Skidmore
v.
John J. Casale, Inc.,
160 F. 2d 527, certiorari denied 331 U.S. 812 (use in interstate commerce of trucks serviced was from 10 to 25 percent of total use).
(d) There are other situations in which employees are engaged “in commerce” and therefore within the coverage of the Act because they contribute directly to the movement of commerce by providing goods or facilities to be used or consumed by instrumentalities of commerce in the direct furtherance of their activities of transportation, communication, transmission, or other movement in interstate or foreign commerce. Thus, for example, employees are considered engaged “in commerce” where they provide to railroads, radio stations, airports, telephone exchanges, or other similar instrumentalities of commerce such things as electric energy,
44
steam, fuel, or water, which are required for the movement of the commerce carried
by such instrumentalities.
45
Such work is “so related to the actual movement of commerce as to be considered an essential and indispensable part thereof, and without which it would be impeded or impaired.”
46
44
New Mexico Public Service Co.
v.
Engel,
145 F. 2d 636 (C.A. 10);
Walling
v.
Connecticut Co.,
154 F. 2d 552 (C.A. 2).
45
Such employees would also be covered as engaged in the production of goods for commerce. See
Lewis
v.
Florida Power
Light Co.,
154 F. 2d 751 (C.A. 5);
Walling
v.
Connecticut Co.,
154 F. 2d 552 (C.A. 2); also § 776.21(b).
46
New Mexico Public Service Co.
v.
Engel,
145 F. 2d 636, 640 (C.A. 10).
§ 776.12
Employees traveling across State lines.
Questions are frequently asked as to whether the fact that an employee crosses State lines in connection with his employment brings him within the Act's coverage as an employee “engaged in commerce.” Typical of the employments in which such questions arise are those of traveling service men, traveling buyers, traveling construction crews, collectors, and employees of such organizations as circuses, carnivals, road shows, and orchestras. The area of coverage in such situations cannot be delimited by any exact formula, since questions of degree are necessarily involved. If the employee transports material or equipment or other persons across State lines or within a particular State as a part of an interstate movement, it is clear of course, that he is engaging in commerce.
47
And as a general rule, employees who are regularly engaged in traveling across State lines in the performance of their duties (as distinguished from merely going to and from their homes or lodgings in commuting to a work place) are engaged in commerce and covered by the Act.
48
On the other hand, it is equally plain that an employee who, in isolated or sporadic instances, happens to cross a State line in the course of his employment, which is otherwise intrastate in character, is not, for that sole reason, covered by the Act. Nor would a man who occasionally moves to another State in order to pursue an essentially local trade or occupation there become an employee “engaged in commerce” by virtue of that fact alone. Doubtful questions arising in the area between the two extremes must be resolved on the basis of the facts in each individual case.
47
The employee may, however, be exempt from the overtime provisions of the Act under section 13(b)(1). See part 792 of this chapter.
48
Reck
v.
Zarmocay,
264 App. Div. 520, 36 N.Y.S. 2d 394;
Colbeck
v.
Dairyland Creamery Co.,
17 N.W. 2d 262 (S. Ct. S.D.).
§ 776.13
Commerce crossing international boundaries.
Under the Act, as amended, an employee engaged in “trade commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication” between any State and any place outside thereof is covered by the Act regardless of whether the “place outside” is another State or is a foreign country or is some other place. Before the amendment to section 3(b) which became effective January 25, 1950, employees whose work related solely to the flow of commerce into a State from places outside it which were not “States” as defined in the Act were not employees engaged in “commerce” for purposes of the Act, although employees whose work was concerned with the flow of commerce out of the State to such places were so engaged.
49
This placed employees of importers in a less favorable position under the Act than the employees of exporters. This inequality was removed by the amendment to section 3(b).
50
Accordingly, employees performing work in connection with the importation of goods from foreign countries are engaged “in commerce” and covered by the Act, as amended. The coverage of such employees, as of those performing work in connection with the exportation of goods to foreign countries, is determined by the same principles as in the case of employees whose work is connected with goods procured from or sent to other States.
49
The definition of “commerce” previously referred to commerce “from any State to any place outside thereof.” The amendment substituted “between” for “from” and “and” for “to” in this clause.
50
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 13, 14.

# Engaging in “The Production of Goods for Commerce”
§ 776.14
Elements of “production” coverage.
Sections 6 and 7 of the Act, as has been noted, cover not only employees who are engaged “in commerce” as explained above, but also “each” and “any” employee who is engaged in the “production” of “goods” for “commerce”. What employees are so engaged can be determined only by references to the very comprehensive definitions which Congress has supplied to make clear what is meant by “production”, by “goods,” and by “commerce” as those words are used in sections 6 and 7. In the light of these definitions, there are three interrelated elements of coverage to be considered in determining whether an employee is engaged in the production of goods for commerce: (a) There must be “production”; (b) such production must be of “goods”; (c) such production of goods must be “for commerce”; all within the meaning of the Act.
51
The three elements of “production” coverage are discussed in order in the sections following.
51
These elements need not be considered if the employee would be covered in any event because engaged “in commerce” under the principles discussed in preceding sections of this part.
§ 776.15
“Production.”
(a)
The statutory provisions.
The activities constituting “production” within the meaning of the phrase “engaged in * * * production of goods for commerce” are defined in the Act
52
as follows:
52
Act, section 3(j). This definition is also applicable in determining coverage of the child labor provisions of the Act. See part 4 of this title.
Produced
means produced, manufactured, mined, handled, or in any other manner worked on in any State; and for the purposes of this Act an employee shall be deemed to have been engaged in the production of goods if such employee was employed in producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, transporting, or in any other manner working on such goods, or in any closely related process or occupation directly essential to the production thereof, in any State.
The Act bars from interstate commerce “any” goods in the production of which “any” employee was employed in violation of the minimum-wage or overtime-pay provisions,
53
and provides that in determining, for purposes of this provision, whether an employee was employed in the production of such goods:
53
Act, section 15(a)(1). The only exceptions are stated in the section itself, which provides that “it shall be unlawful for any person—(1) to transport, offer for transportation, ship, deliver, or sell in commerce, or to ship, deliver, or sell with knowledge that shipment or delivery or sale thereof in commerce is intended, any goods in the production of which any employee was employed in violation of section 6 or section 7, or in violation of any regulation or order of the Administrator issued under section 14; except that no provision of this Act shall impose any liability upon any common carrier for the transportation in commerce in the regular course of its business of any goods not produced by such common carrier, and no provision of this Act shall excuse any common carrier from its obligation to accept any goods for transportation; and except that any such transportation, offer, shipment, delivery, or sale of such goods by a purchaser who acquired them in good faith in reliance on written assurance from the producer that the goods were produced in compliance with the requirements of the Act, and who acquired such goods for value without notice of any such violation, shall not be deemed unlawful;”
* * * proof that any employee was employed in any place of employment where goods shipped or sold in commerce were produced, within ninety days prior to the removal of the goods from such place of employment, shall be prima facie evidence that such employee was engaged in the production of such goods.
54
54
Act, sec. 15(b).
(b)
General scope of “production” coverage.
The statutory provisions quoted in paragraph (a) of this section, show that for purposes of the Act, wherever goods are being produced for interstate or foreign commerce, the employees who are covered as “engaged in the production” of such goods, include, in
general, all those whose work may fairly be said to be a part of their employer's production of such goods,
55
and include those whose work is closely related and directly essential thereto,
56
whether employed by the same or a different employee. (See §§ 776.17 to 776.19.) Typically, but not exclusively, this includes that large group of employees engaged in mines, oil fields, quarries, and manufacturing, processing, or distributing plants where goods are produced for commerce. The employees covered as engaged in “production” are not limited, however, to those engaged in actual physical work on the product itself or to those in the factories, mines, warehouses, or other place of employment where goods intended for commerce are being produced. If the requisite relationship to production of such goods is present, an employee is covered, regardless of whether his work brings him into actual contact with such goods or into the establishments where they are produced, and even though his employer may be someone other than the producer of the goods for commerce.
57
As explained more fully in the sections following, the Act's “production” coverage embraces many employees who serve productive enterprises in capacities which do not involve working directly on goods produced but which are nevertheless closely related and directly essential to successful operations in producing goods for interstate or foreign commerce. And as a general rule, in conformity with the provisions of the Act quoted in paragraph (a) of this section, an employee will be considered to be within the general coverage of the wage and hours provisions if he is working in a place of employment where goods sold or shipped in interstate commerce or foreign commerce are being produced, unless the employer maintains the burden of establishing that the employee's functions are so definitely segregated from such production that they should not be regarded as closely related and directly essential thereto.
58
55
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
325 U.S. 679;
Armour
Co.
v.
Wantock,
323 U.S. 126. See also paragraph (c) of this section.
56
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling,
326 U.S. 657; H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14; Sen. St. 1949 Cong. Rec. p. 15372.
57
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
325 U.S. 679;
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling.
326 U.S. 657;
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
Walton
v.
Southern Package Corp. 320 U.S. 540.
58
Guess
v.
Montague,
140 F. 2d 500 (C.A. 4).
Cf. Armour
Co.
v.
Wantock,
323 U.S. 126.
§ 776.16
Employment in “producing, * * * or in any other manner working on” goods.
(a)
Coverage in general.
Employees employed in “producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, or in any other manner working on” goods (as defined in the Act, including parts or ingredients thereof) for interstate or foreign commerce are considered actually engaged in the “production” of such goods, within the meaning of the Act. Such employees have been within the general coverage of the wage and hours provisions since enactment of the Act in 1938, and remain so under the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1949.
59
59
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14; Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15372.
(b)
Activities constituting actual “production” under statutory definition.
It will be noted that the actual productive work described in this portion of the definition of “produced” includes not only the work involved in making the products of mining, manufacturing, or processing operations, but also includes “handling, transporting, or in any other manner working on” goods. This is so, regardless of whether the goods are to be further processed or are so-called “finished goods.” The Supreme Court has stated that this language of the definition brings within the scope of the term “production,” as used in the Act, “every step in putting the subject to commerce in a state to enter commerce,” including “all steps, whether manufacture or not, which lead to readiness for putting goods into the stream of commerce,” and “every kind of incidental operation preparatory to putting goods into the stream of commerce.”
60
60
Western Union Tel. Co.
v.
Lenroot,
323 U.S. 490. See, to the same effect,
Walling
v.
Friend,
156 F. 2d 429 (C.A. 8);
Walling
v.
Commet Carriers,
151 F. 2d 107 (C.A. 2);
Phillips
v.
Star Overall Dry Cleaning Laundry Co.,
149 F. 2d 416 (C.A. 2); certiorari denied 327 U.S. 780;
Walling
v.
Griffin Cartage Co.,
62 F. Supp. 396, affirmed in 153 F. 2d 587 (C.A. 6). For examples, see paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. Employees who are not engaged in the actual production Activities described in section 3(j) of the Act are not engaged in “production” unless their work is “closely related” and “directly essential” to such production. See §§ 776.17-776.19.
However, where employees of a common carrier, by handling or working on goods, accomplish the interstate transit or movement in commerce itself, such handling or working on the goods is not “production.” The employees in that event are covered only under the phrase “engaged in commerce.”
61
61
Western Union Tel. Co.
v.
Lenroot,
323 U.S. 490. For examples, see paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Physical labor.
It is clear from the principles stated in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, that employees in shipping rooms, warehouses, distribution yards, grain elevators, etc., who sort, screen, grade, store, pack, label, address or otherwise handle or work on goods in preparation for shipment of the goods out of the State are engaged in the production of goods for commerce within the meaning of the Act.
62
The same has been held to be true of employees doing such work as handling ingredients (scrap iron) of steel used in building ships which will move in commerce;
63
handling and caring for livestock at stockyards where the livestock are destined for interstate shipment as such
64
or as meat products;
65
handling or transporting containers to be used in shipping products interstate;
66
transporting, within a single State, oil to a refinery
67
or lumber to a mill,
68
where products of the refinery or mill will be sent out of the State; transporting parts or ingredients of other types of goods or the finished goods themselves between processors, manufacturers, and storage places located in a single State, where goods so transported will leave the State in the same or an altered form;
69
and repairing or otherwise working on ships,
70
vehicles,
71
machinery,
72
clothing,
73
or other goods which may be expected to move in interstate commerce.
62
McComb
v.
Wyandotte Furn. Co.,
169 F. 2d 766 (C.A. 8);
Walling
v.
Mutual Wholesale Food
Supply Co.,
141 F. 2d 331 (C.A. 8);
West Kentucky Coal Co.
v.
Walling,
153 F. 2d 582 (C.A. 6);
Walling
v.
Home Loose Leaf Tobacco Warehouse Co.,
51 F. Supp. 914 (E.D. Ky.);
Walling
v.
Yeakley,
3 W.H. Cases 27, modified and affirmed in 140 F. 2d 830 (C.A. 10);
Shain
v.
Armour
Co.,
50 F. Supp. 907 (W.D. Ky.);
Walling
v.
McCracken County Peach Growers Assn.,
50 F. Supp. 900 (W.D. Ky). See also
Clyde
v.
Broderick,
144 F. 2d 348 (C.A. 10).
63
Bracey
v.
Luray,
138 F. 2d 8 (C.A. 4).
64
Walling
v.
Friend,
156 F. 2d 429 (C.A. 8).
65
Fleming
v.
Swift
Co.,
41 F. Supp. 825, affirmed in 131 F. 2d 249 (C.A. 7);
McComb
v.
Benz Co.,
9 W.H. Cases 277 (S.D. Ind.).
66
Walling
v.
Villaume Box
Lbr. Co.,
58 F. Supp. 150 (D. Minn.).
67
Mid-Continent Pipe Line Co.
v.
Hargrave,
129 F. 2d 655 (C.A. 10);
Boling
v.
R. J. Allison Co., Inc.,
4 W.H. Cases 500 (N.D. Okla.).
68
Hanson
v.
Lagerstrom,
133 F. 2d 120 (C.A. 8).
69
Walling
v.
Griffin Cartage Co.,
62 F. Supp. 696, affirmed in 153 F. 2d 587 (C.A. 6);
Walling
v.
Comet Carriers,
151 F. 2d 107 (C.A. 2).
70
Slover
v.
Walthen,
140 F. 2d 258 (C.A. 4).
71
Hertz Drivurself Stations
v.
United States,
150 F. 2d 923 (C.A. 8);
Walling
v.
Armbruster,
51 F. Supp. 166 (W.D. Ark.);
McComb
v.
Weller,
9. W.H. Cases 53 (W.D. Tenn.), 17 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 65, 332;
Walling
v.
Strum
Sons,
6 W.H. Cases 131 (D. N.J.), 11 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 63, 249.
72
Engebretson
v.
Albrecht,
150 F. 2d 602 (C.A. 7);
Guess
v.
Montague,
140 F. 2d 500 (C.A. 4).
73
Walling
v.
Belikoff,
147 F. 2d 1008 (C.A. 2);
Campbell
v.
Zavelo,
243 Ala. 361, 10 So. 2d 29;
Phillips
v.
Star Overall Dry Cleaning Laundry Co.,
149 F. 2d 416 (C.A. 2), certiorari denied 327 U.S. 780.
These examples are, of course, illustrative rather than exhaustive. Some of them relate to situations in which the handling or working on goods for interstate or foreign commerce may constitute not only “production for commerce” but also engaging “in commerce” because the activities are so closely related to commerce as to be for all practical purposes a part of it.
74
However, as noted in paragraph (b) of this section, handling or working on goods constitutes engagement in “commerce” only and not engagement in “production” of the goods when it is done by employees of a common carrier and is itself the means whereby interstate transit or movement of the goods by the carrier is accomplished. Thus,
employees of a telegraph company preparing messages for interstate transmission, television cameramen photographing sports or news events for simultaneous viewing at television receiving sets in other State, and railroad train crews or truck drivers hauling goods from one State to another are not engaged in the “production” of goods by virtue of such activities, but are covered by the Act only as employees “engaged in commerce.”
74
Slover
v.
Walthen,
140 F. 2d 258 (C.A. 4);
Hertz Drivurself Stations
v.
United States,
150 F. 2d 923 (C.A. 8);
Engebretson
v.
Albrecht,
150 F. 2d 602 (C.A. 7);
Walling
v.
Strum
Sons,
6 W.H. Cases 131 (D. N.J.).
(d)
Nonmanual work.
The “production” described by the phrase “producing * * * or in any other manner working on” goods includes not only the manual, physical labor involved in processing and working on the tangible products of a producing enterprise, but equally the administration, planning, management, and control of the various physical processes together with the accompanying accounting and clerical activities.
75
An enterprise producing goods for commerce does not accomplish the actual production of such goods solely with employees performing physical labor on them. Other employees may be equally important in actually producing the goods, such as employees who conceive and direct policies of the enterprise; employees who dictate, control, and coordinate the steps involved in the physical production of goods; employees who maintain detailed and meticulous supervision of productive activities; and employees who direct the purchase of raw materials and supplies, the methods of production, the amounts to be produced, the quantity and character of the labor, the safety measures, the budgeting and financing, the labor policies, and the maintenance of the plants and equipment. (For regulations governing exemption from the wage and hours provisions of employees employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity, see part 541 of this chapter.) Employees who perform these and similar activities are an integral part of the coordinated productive pattern of a modern industrial organization. The Supreme Court of the United States has held that from a productive standpoint and for purposes of the Act the employees who perform such activities “are actually engaged in the production of goods for commerce just as much as are those who process and work on the tangible products” in the manufacturing plant or other producing facilities of the enterprise.
76
75
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
325 U.S. 679;
Hertz Drivurself Stations.
v.
United States,
150 F. 2d 923 (C.A. 8);
Callus
v.
10 E. 40th St. Bldg.,
146 F. 2d 438 (C.A. 2), reversed on other grounds in 325 U.S. 578.
76
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
325 U.S. 679, 683.
§ 776.17
Employment in a “closely related process or occupation directly essential to” production of goods.
(a)
Coverage in general.
Employees who are not actually “producing * * * or in any other manner working on” goods for commerce are, nevertheless, engaged in the “production” of such goods within the meaning of the Act and therefore within its general coverage if they are employed “in any closely related process or occupation directly essential to the production thereof, in any State.”
77
Prior to the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1949, this was true of employees engaged “in any process or occupation necessary to the production” of goods for commerce. The amendments deleted the word “necessary” and substituted the words “closely related” and “directly essential” contained in the present law. The words “directly essential” were adopted by the Conference Committee in lieu of the word “indispensable” contained in the amendments as first passed by the House of Representatives. Under the amended language, an employee is covered if the process or occupation in which he is employed is both “closely related” and “directly essential” to the production of goods for interstate or foreign commerce.
77
If coverage of an employee is determined to exist on either basis, it is, of course, not necessary to determine whether the employee would also be covered on the other ground. See
Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co.
v.
Hall,
124 F. 2d 42 (C.A. 5), affirmed in 317 U.S. 88.
The legislative history shows that the new language in the final clause of section 3(j) of the Act is intended to narrow, and to provide a more precise guide to, the scope of its coverage with respect to employees (engaged neither
“in commerce” nor in actually “producing or in any other manner working on” goods for commerce) whose coverage under the Act formerly depended on whether their work was “necessary” to the production of goods for commerce. Some employees whose work might meet the “necessary” test are now outside the coverage of the Act because their work is not “closely related” and “directly essential” to such production; others, however, who would have been excluded if the indispensability of their work to production had been made the test, remain within the coverage under the new language.
78
The scope of coverage under the “closely related” and “directly essential” language is discussed in the paragraphs following. In the light of explanations provided by managers of the legislation in Congress
78
including expressions of their intention to leave undisturbed the areas of coverage established under court decisions containing similar language,
79
this new language should provide a more definite guide to the intended coverage under the final clause of section 3(j) than did the earlier “necessary” test. However, while the coverage or noncoverage of many employees may be determined with reasonable certainty, no precise line for inclusion or exclusion may be drawn; there are bound to be borderline problems of coverage under the new language which cannot be finally determined except by authoritative decisions of the courts.
78
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14; Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec. p. 15372; Statement of the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor explaining the conference agreement to the House of Representatives, 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15135; colloquy between Representatives McConnell and Javits, 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15129; of statements of Representative Barden (1949 Cong. Rec. p. 15131), Representative Brehm (1949 Cong. Rec. p. 15132), and Senator Taft (1950 Cong. Rec., p. A-1162).
79
See Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517.
(b)
Meaning of “closely related” and “directly essential”.
The terms “closely related” and “directly essential” are not susceptible of precise definition; as used in the Act they together describe a situation in which, under all the facts and circumstances, the process or occupation in which the employee is employed bears a relationship to the production of goods for interstate or foreign commerce: (1) Which may reasonably be considered close, as distinguished from remote or tenuous, and (2) in which the work of the employee directly aids production in a practical sense by providing something essential to the carrying on in an effective, efficient, and satisfactory manner of an employer's operations in producing such goods.
80
80
See H. Mgrs. St. 1949, pp. 14, 15; Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15372; cf.
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517.
Not all activities that are “closely related” to production will be “directly essential” to it, nor will all activities “directly essential” to production meet the “closely related” test. For example, employees employed by an employer in an enterprise, or portion thereof, which is devoted to the production of goods for interstate or foreign commerce will, as a general rule, be considered engaged in work “closely related” to such production, but some such employees may be outside the coverage of the Act because their work is not “directly essential” to production of the goods. (For a discussion of this point and specific illustration, see § 776.18(b).) Similarly, there are some situations in which an employee performing work “directly essential” to production by an employer other than his own may not be covered because the kind of work and the circumstances under which it is performed show the employee's activities to be so much a part of an essentially local business operated by his employer that it would be unrealistic to consider them “closely related” to the productive activities of another. (For a more detailed discussion and specific illustrations see § 776.19.)
(c)
Determining whether activities are “closely related” and “directly essential”.
(1) The close relationship of an activity to production, which may be tested by a wide variety of relevant factors, is to be distinguished from its direct essentiality to production, which is dependent solely on considerations of need or
function of the activity in the productive enterprise. The words “directly essential” refer only to the relationship of the employee's work to production. Work “directly essential” to production remains so no matter whose employee does it and regardless of the nature or purpose of the employer's business. It seems clear, on the other hand, that the criteria for determining whether a process or occupation is “closely related” to production cannot be limited to those which show its closeness in terms of need or function.
81
It may also be important to ascertain, for instance, whether the activity of the employee bears a relationship to production which is close in terms either of the place or the time of its performance, or in terms of the purposes with which the activity is performed by the particular employer through the employee, or in terms of relative directness or indirectness of the activity's effect in relation to such production, or in terms of employment within or outside the productive enterprise. (Examples of the application of these principles may be found in §§ 776.18 and 776.19.)
81
Of course, if the need of function of the activity in production is such that the tie between them is both close and immediate (cf.
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517), as for example, where an employee is employed to repair electric motors which are used in factories in the production of goods for commerce, this fact may be sufficient to show both the direct essentiality and the close relationship of the employee's work to production. See
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling,
326 U.S. 657. See also § 776.19 and H. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 14, 15.
(2) The determination of whether an activity is closely or only remotely related to production may thus involve consideration of such factors, among others, as the contribution which the activity makes to the production; who performs the activity; where, when and how it is performed in relation to the production to which it pertains; whether its performance is with a view to aiding production or for some different purpose; how immediate or delayed its effect on production is; the number and nature of any intervening operations or processes between the activity and the production in question; and, in an appropriate case, the characteristics and purposes of the employer's business.
82
Moreover, in some cases where particular work “directly essential” to production is performed by an employer other than the producer the degree of such essentiality may be a significant factor in determining whether the work is also “closely related” to such production. (See § 776.19.) No one of the factors listed in this paragraph is necessarily controlling, and other factors may assume importance. Some may have more significance than others in particular cases, depending upon the facts. They are merely useful guides for determining whether the total situation in respect to a particular process or occupation demonstrates the requisite “close and immediate tie”
83
to the production of goods for interstate or foreign commerce. It is the sum of the factors relevant to each case that determines whether the particular activity is “closely related” to such production. The application of the principles in this paragraph is further explained and illustrated in §§ 776.18 and 776.19.
82
Cf.
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
10 E. 40th St. Bldg.
v.
Callus,
325 U.S. 578;
Schulte Co.
v.
Gangi,
328 U.S. 108;
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
325 U.S. 679;
Armour
Co.
v.
Wantock,
323 U.S. 126.
83
See
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517.
(3) In determining whether an activity is “directly essential” to production, a practical judgment is required as to whether, in terms of the function and need of such activity in successful production operations, it is “essential” and “directly” so to such operations. These are questions of degree; even “directly” essential activities (for example, machinery repair, custodial, and clerical work in a producing plant) (for other examples, see §§ 776.18(a) and 776.19) will vary in the degree of their essentiality and in the directness of the aid which they provide to production. An activity may be “directly essential” without being indispensable in the sense that it cannot be done without; yet some activities which, in a long chain of causation, might be indispensable to production, such as the manufacture of brick for a new factory, or even the construction of the new
factory itself, are not “directly” essential.
84
An activity which provides something essential to meet the immediate needs of production, as, for example, the manufacture of articles like machinery or tools or dies for use in the production of goods for commerce (see § 776.19(b)) will, however, be no less “directly” essential because intervening activities must be performed in the distribution, transportation, and installation of such products before they can be used in production.
85
The application of the principles in this paragraph is further explained and illustrated in §§ 776.18 and 776.19.
84
Cf. 10
E. 40th St. Bldg.
v.
Callus,
325 U.S. 578; Sen. St. 95 Cong. Rec., October 19, 1949, at 15372.
85
See
Walling
v.
Hamner,
64 F. Supp. 690 (W.D. Va.).
§ 776.18
Employees of producers for commerce.
(a)
Covered employments illustrated.
Some illustrative examples of the employees employed by a producer of goods for interstate or foreign commerce who are or are not engaged in the “production” of such goods within the meaning of the Act have already been given. Among the other employees of such a producer, doing work in connection with his production of goods for commerce, who are covered because their work, if not actually a part of such production, is “closely related” and “directly essential” to it,
86
are such employees as bookkeepers, stenographers, clerks, accountants and auditors, employees doing payroll, timekeeping and time study work, draftsmen, inspectors, testers and research workers, industrial safety men, employees in the personnel, labor relations, advertising, promotion, and public relations activities of the producing enterprise, work instructors, and other office and white collar workers; employees maintaining, servicing, repairing or improving the buildings,
87
machinery, equipment, vehicles, or other facilities used in the production of goods for commerce,
88
and such custodial and protective employees as watchmen, guards, firemen, patrolmen, caretakers, stockroom workers, and warehousemen; and transportation workers bringing supplies, materials, or equipment to the producer's premises, removing slag or other waste materials therefrom, or transporting materials or other goods, or performing such other transportation activities, as the needs of production may require. These examples are intended as illustrative, rather than exhaustive of the group of employees of a producer who are “engaged in the production” of goods for commerce, within the meaning of the Act, and who are therefore entitled to its wage and hours benefits unless specifically exempted by some provision of the Act.
86
See H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14; Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15372. See also
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
325 U.S. 679.
87
No distinction of economic or statutory significance can be drawn between such work in a building where the production of goods is carried on physically and in one where such production is administered, managed, and controlled.
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
324 U.S. 679.
88
Such mechanics and laborers as machinists, carpenters, electricians, plumbers, steamfitters, plasters, glaziers, painters, metal workers, bricklayers, hod carriers, roofers, stationary engineers, their apprentices and helpers, elevator starters and operators, messengers, janitors, charwomen, porters, handy men, and other maintenance workers would come within this category.
(b)
Employments not directly essential to production distinguished.
Employees of a producer of goods for commerce are not covered as engaged in such production if they are employed solely in connection with essentially local activities which are undertaken by the employer independently of his productive operations or at most as a dispensable, collateral incident to them and not with a view to any direct function which the activities serve in production. It is clear, for example, that an employee would not be covered merely because he works as a domestic servant in the home of an employer whose factory produces goods for commerce, even though he is carried on the factory payroll. To illustrate further, a producer may engage in essentially local activities as a landlord, restauranteur, or merchant in order to utilize the opportunity for separate and additional profit from such ventures or to provide a convenient means
of meeting personal needs of his employees. Employees exclusively employed in such activities of the producer are not engaged in work “closely related” and “directly essential” to his production of goods for commerce merely because they provide residential, eating, or other living facilities for his employees who are engaged in the production of such goods.
89
Such employees are to be distinguished from employees like cooks, cookees, and bull cooks in isolated lumber camps or mining camps, where the operation of a cookhouse may in fact be “closely related” and “directly essential” or, indeed, indispensable to the production of goods for commerce.
90
89
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 14, 15; see also
Brogan
v.
National Surety Co.,
246 U.S. 257. Cf. Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15372.
90
See
Brogan
v.
National Surety Co.,
246 U.S. 257;
Consolidated Timber Co.
v.
Womack,
132 F. 2d 101 (C.A. 9);
Hanson
v.
Lagerstrom,
133 F. 2d 120 (C.A. 8); cf. H. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 14, 15 and Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15372.
Some specific examples of the application of these principles may be helpful. Such services as watching, guarding, maintaining or repairing the buildings, facilities, and equipment used in the production of goods for commerce are “directly essential” as well as “closely related” to such production as it is carried on in modern industry.
91
But such services performed with respect to private dwellings tenanted by employees of the producer, as in a mill village, would not be “directly essential” to production merely because the dwellings were owned by the producer and leased to his employees.
92
Similarly, employees of the producer or of an independent employer who are engaged only in maintaining company facilities for entertaining the employer's customers, or in providing food, refreshments, or recreational facilities, including restaurants, cafeterias, and snack bars, for the producer's employees in a factory, or in operating a children's nursery for the convenience of employees who leave young children there during working hours, would not be doing work “directly essential” to the production of goods for commerce.
93
91
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14; Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15372;
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
Borden Co.
v.
Borella,
325 U.S. 679;
Walton
v.
Southern Package Corp.
320 U.S. 540;
Armour
Co.
v.
Wantock,
325 U.S. 126.
92
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 14, 15;
Morris
v.
Beaumont Mfg. Co.,
84 F. Supp. 909 (W.D. S.C.); cf.
Wilson
v.
Reconstruction Finance Corp.,
158 F. 2d 564 (C.A. 5), certiorari denied, 331 U.S. 810. Cf.
Brogan
v.
National Surety Co.,
246 U.S. 257;
Consolidated Timber Co.
v.
Womack,
132 F. 2d 101 (C.A. 9);
Hanson
v.
Lagerstrom,
133 F. 2d 120 (C.A. 8).
93
Cf. H. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 14, 15.
§ 776.19
Employees of independent employers meeting needs of producers for commerce.
(a)
General statement.
(1) If an employee of a producer of goods for commerce would not, while performing particular work, be “engaged in the production” of such goods for purposes of the Act under the principles heretofore stated, an employee of an independent employer performing the same work on behalf of the producer would not be so engaged. Conversely, as shown in the paragraphs following, the fact that employees doing particular work on behalf of such a producer are employed by an independent employer rather than by the producer will not take them outside the coverage of the Act if their work otherwise qualifies as the “production” of “goods” for “commerce.”
(2) Of course, in view of the Act's definition of “goods” as including “any part or ingredient” of goods (see § 776.20 (a), (c)), employees of an independent employer providing other employers with materials or articles which become parts or ingredients of goods produced by such other employers for commerce are actually employed by a producer of goods for commerce and their coverage under the Act must be considered in the light of this fact. For example, an employee of such an independent employer who handles or in any manner works on the goods which become parts or ingredients of such other producer's goods is engaged in actual production of goods (parts of ingredients) for commerce, and the question of his coverage is determined by this fact without reference to whether his work is “closely related” and “directly essential” to the production by the other employer of the goods in
which such parts or ingredients are incorporated. So also, if the employee is not engaged in the actual production of such parts or ingredients, his coverage will depend on whether as an employee of a producer of goods for commerce, his work is “closely related” and “directly essential” to the production of the parts or ingredients, rather than on the principles applicable in determining the coverage of employees of an independent employer who does not himself produce the goods for commerce.
94
94
Bracey
v.
Luray,
138 F. 2d 8 (C.A. 4);
Walling
v.
Peoples Packing Co.,
132 F. 2d 236 (C.A. 10), certiorari denied 318 U.S. 774;
Mid-Continent Pipe Line Co.
v.
Hargrave,
129 F. 2d 655 (C.A. 10);
Walling
v.
W. D. Haden Co.,
153 F. 2d 196 (C.A. 5).
(3) Where the work of an employee would be “closely related” and “directly essential” to the production of goods for commerce if he were employed by a producer of the goods, the mere fact that the employee is employed by an independent employer will not justify a different answer.
95
This does not necessarily mean that such work in every case will remain “closely related” to production when performed by employees of an independent employer. It will, of course, be as “directly essential” to production in the one case as in the other. (See § 776.17(c)). But in determining whether an employee's work is “closely” or only remotely related to the production of goods for commerce by an employer other than his own, the nature and purpose of the business in which he is employed and in the course of which he performs the work may sometimes become important.
95
See
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling,
326 U.S. 657;
Farmers Reservoir Co.
v.
McComb,
337 U.S. 755; H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14. See also Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15372.
Such factors may prove decisive in particular situations where the employee's work, although “directly essential” to the production of goods by someone other than his employer, is not far from the borderline between those activities which are “directly essential” and those which are not. In such a situation, it may appear that his performance of the work is so much a part of an essentially local business carried on by his employer without any intent or purpose of aiding production of goods for commerce by others that the work, as thus performed, may not reasonably be considered “closely related” to such production.
96
In other situations, however, where the degree to which the work is directly essential to production by the producer is greater the fact that the independent employer is engaged in a business having local aspects may not be sufficient to negate a close relationship between his employees' work and such production.
97
And it seems clear that where the independent employer operates a business which, unlike that of the ordinary local merchant, is directed to providing producers with materials or services directly essential to the production of their goods for commerce, the activities of such a business may be found to be “closely related” to such production.
98
In such event, all the employees of the independent employer whose work is part of his integrated effort to meet such needs of producers are covered as engaged in work closely related and directly essential to production of goods for commerce.
99
96
M. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 14, 15,
10 E. 40th St. Bldg. Co.
v.
Callus,
325 U.S. 578.
97
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14;
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co.
v.
Hall,
317 U.S. 88.
98
See H. Mgrs. St., p. 14, and
10 E. 40th St. Bldg. Co.
v.
Callus,
325 U.S. 578.
99
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517 (Stationary engineers and firemen, watchmen, elevator operators, electricians, carpenters, carpenters' helper, engaged in maintaining and servicing loft building for producers);
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling,
326 U.S. 657 (foremen, trouble shooters, mechanics, helpers, and office employees of company selling and servicing electric motors, generators, and equipment for commercial and industrial firms);
Meeker Coop. Light
Power Assn.
v.
Phillips,
158 F. 2d 698 (C.A. 8) (outside employees and office employees of light and power company serving producers);
Walling
v.
New Orleans Private Patrol Service,
57 F. Supp. 143 (E. D. La.) (guards, watchmen, and office employees of company providing patrol service for producers);
Walling
v.
Thompson,
65 F. Supp. 686 (S.D. Cal.) (installation and service men, shopmen, bookkeeper, salesman, dispatcher of company supplying burglar alarm service to producers).
In H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14 it is said, “Employees engaged in such maintenance, custodial and clerical work will remain subject to the Act, notwithstanding they are employed by an independent employer performing such work on behalf of the manufacturer, mining company, or other producer for commerce. All such employees perform activities that are closely related and directly essential to the production of goods for commerce.”
(b)
Extent of coverage under “closely related” and “directly essential” clause illustrated.
In paragraphs (b)(1) to (5) of this section, the principles discussed above are illustrated by reference to a number of typical situations in which goods or services are provided to producers of goods for commerce by the employees of independent employers. These examples are intended not only to answer questions as to coverage in the particular situations discussed, but to provide added guideposts for determining whether employees in other situations are doing work closely related and directly essential to such production.
(1) Many local merchants sell to local customers within the same State goods which do not become a part or ingredient (as to parts or ingredients, see § 776.20(c)) of goods produced by any of such customers. Such a merchant may sell to his customers, including producers for commerce, such articles, for example, as paper towels, or record books, or paper clips, or filing cabinets, or automobiles and trucks, or paint, or hardware, not specially designed for use in the production of other goods.
Where such a merchant's business is essentially local in nature, selling its goods to the usual miscellany of local customers without any particular intent or purpose of aiding production of other goods for commerce by such customers, the local merchant's employees are not doing work both “closely related” and “directly essential” to production, so as to bring them within the reach of the Act, merely “because some of the customers * * * are producing goods for interstate [or foreign] commerce.”
1
Therefore, if they do not otherwise engage “in commerce” (see §§ 776.8 to 776.13) or in the “production” of goods for commerce, they are not covered by the Act.
1
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, pp. 14, 15.
In such a situation, moreover, even where the work done by the employees is “directly essential” to such production by their employer's customers, it may not meet the “closely related” test. But the more directly essential to the production of goods for commerce such work is, the more likely it is that a close and immediate tie between it and such production exists which will be sufficient, notwithstanding the local aspect of the employer's business, to bring the employees within the coverage of the Act on the ground that their work is “closely related” as well as “directly essential” to production by the employer's customers.
Such a close and immediate tie with production exists, for example, where the independent employer, through his employees, supplies producers of goods for commerce with things as directly essential to production as electric motors or machinery or machinery parts for use in producing the goods of a manufacturer, for mining operations, or for production of oil, or for other production operations or the power, water, or fuel required in such production operations, to mention a few typical examples.
2
The fact that these needs of producers are supplied through the agency of businesses having certain local aspects cannot alter the obvious fact that the employees of such businesses who supply these needs are doing work both “closely related” and “directly essential” to production by the employer's customers. As the United States Supreme Court has stated: “Such sales and services must be immediately available to * * * [the
customers] or their production will stop.”
3
2
See H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14; Sen. St., 95 Cong. Rec., October 19, 1949, at 15372; Statement of the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor explaining the conference agreement to the House of Representatives, 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15135;
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling,
326 U.S. 657;
Reynolds
v.
Salt River Valley Water Users Assn.,
143 F. 2d 863 (C.A. 9);
Meeker Coop. Light
Power Assn.
v.
Phillips,
158 F. 2d 698 (C.A. 8);
Walling
v.
Hammer,
64 F. Supp. 690 (W.D. Va.);
Holland
v.
Amoskeag Machine Co.,
44 F. Supp. 884 (D. N.H.);
Princeton Mining Co.
v.
Veach,
63 N.E. 2d 306 (Ind. App.).
3
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling,
326 U.S. 657, 664.
It should be noted that employees of independent employers providing such essential goods and services to producers will not be removed from coverage because an unsegregated portion of their work is performed for customers other than producers of goods for commerce. For example, employees of public utilities, furnishing gas, electricity or water to firms within the State engaged in manufacturing, mining, or otherwise producing goods for commerce, are subject to the Act notwithstanding such gas, electricity or water is also furnished to consumers who do not produce goods for commerce.
4
4
Meeker Coop. Light
Power Assn.
v.
Phillips,
158 F. 2d 698 (C.A. 8); H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14. For another illustration see H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 26, with reference to industrial laundries.
(2) On similar principles, employees of independent employers providing to manufacturers, mining companies, or other producers such goods used in their production of goods for commerce as tools and dies, patterns, designs, or blueprints are engaged in work “closely related” as well as “directly essential” to the production of the goods for commerce;
5
the same is true of employees of an independent employer engaged in such work as producing and supplying to a steel mill, sand meeting the mill's specifications for cast shed, core, and molding sands used in the production by the mill of steel for commerce.
6
Another illustration of such covered work, according to managers of the bill in Congress, is that of employees of industrial laundry and linen supply companies serving the needs of customers engaged in manufacturing or mining goods for commerce.
7
5
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14; Sen. St., 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15372.
6
Walling
v.
Amidon,
153 F. 2d 159 (C.A. 10); Sen. St., 95 Cong. Rec., October 19, 1949, at 15372.
7
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 26; Sen. St., 95 Cong. Rec., October 19, 1949, at 15372. See also
Koerner
v.
Associated Linen Laundry Suppliers,
270 App. Div. 986, 62 N.Y.S. 2d 774.
On the other hand, the legislative history makes it clear that employees of a “local architectural firm” are not brought within the coverage of the Act by reason of the fact that their activities “include the preparation of plans for the alteration of buildings within the State which are used to produce goods for interstate commerce.” Such activities are not “directly essential” enough to the production of goods in the buildings to establish the required close relationship between their performance and such production when they are performed by employees of such a “local” firm.
8
Of course, this result is even more apparent where the activities of the employees of such a “local” business may not be viewed as “directly essential” to production. It is clear, for example, that Congress did not believe “employees of an independently owned and operated restaurant” should be brought under the coverage of the Act because the restaurant is “located in a factory.” To establish coverage on “production” grounds, an employee must be “shown to have a closer and more direct relationship to the producing * * * activity” than this.
9
8
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 15. See also
McComb
v.
Turpin,
81 F. Supp. 86, 1948 (D. Md.).
9
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14. Cf.
Bayer
v.
Courtemanche,
76 F. Supp. 193 (D. Conn.). See also § 776.18(b).
(3) Some further examples may help to clarify the line to be drawn in such cases. The work of employees constructing a dike to prevent the flooding of an oil field producing oil for commerce would clearly be work not only “directly essential” but also “closely related” to the production of the oil. However, employees of a materialman quarrying, processing, and transporting stone to the construction site for use in the dike would be doing work too far removed from production of the oil to be considered “closely related” thereto.
10
Similarly, the sale of sawmill equipment to a producer of mine props which are in turn sold to mines within the same State producing coal for commerce is too remote from production of the coal to be considered
“closely related” thereto, but production of the mine props, like the manufacture of tools, dies, or machinery for use in producing goods for commerce, has such a close and immediate tie with production of the goods for commerce that it meets the “closely related” (as well as the “directly essential”) test.
11
10
See
E. C. Schroeder Co.
v.
Clifton,
153 F. 2d 385 (C.A. 10) (opinion of Judge Phillips) and H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 15.
11
See
Wailing
v.
Hamner,
64 F. Supp. 690 (W.D. Va.), and statement of the Chairman of the Committee on Education and Labor explaining the conference agreement to the House of Representatives, 1949 Cong. Rec., p. 15135.
(4) A further illustration of the distinction between work that is, and work that is not, “closely related” to the production of goods for commerce may be found in situations involving activities which are directly essential to the production by farmers of farm products which are shipped in commerce. Employees of an employer furnishing to such farmers, within the same State, water for the irrigation of their crops, power for use in their agricultural production for commerce, or seed from which the crops grow, are engaged in work “closely related” as well as “directly essential” to the production of goods for commerce.
12
On the other hand, it is apparent from the legislative history that Congress did not regard, as “closely related” to the production of farm products for commerce, the activities of employees in a local fertilizer plant producing fertilizer for use by farmers within the same State to improve the productivity of the land used in growing such products.
13
Fertilizer is ordinarily thought to be assimilated by the soil rather than by the crop and, in the ordinary case, may be considered less directly essential to production of farm products than the water or seed, without which such production would not be possible. Probably the withdrawal from coverage of such employees (who were held “necessary” to production of goods for commerce under the Act prior to the 1949 amendments
14
) rests wholly or in part on the principles stated in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Heretofore the Department has taken the position that producing or supplying feed for poultry and livestock to be used by farmers within the State in the production of poultry or cattle for commerce was covered. The case of Mitchell v. Garrard Mills
15
has reached a contrary conclusion as to a local producer of such feed in a situation where all of the feed was sold to farmers and dealers for use exclusively within the State. For the time being, and until further clarification from the courts, the Divisions will not assert the position that coverage exists under the factual situation which existed in this case.
12
See
Farmers Reservoir Co.
v.
McComb,
337 U.S. 755;
Reynolds
v.
Salt River Valley Water Users Assn.,
143 F. 2d 863 (C.A. 9);
Meeker Coop. Light
Power Assn.
v.
Phillips,
158 F. 2d 698 (C.A. 8).
Reference should be made to section 13 (a) (6) of the Act providing an exemption from the wage and hours provisions for employees employed in agriculture and for certain employees of nonprofit and sharecrop irrigation companies.
13
H. Mgrs. St. 1949, p. 15.
14
McComb
v.
Super-A Fertilizer Works,
165 F. 2d 824 (C.A. 1).
15
241 F. 2d 249 (C.A. 6).
(5) Managers of the legislation in Congress stated that all maintenance, custodial, and clerical employees of manufacturers, mining companies, and other producers of goods for commerce perform activities that are both “closely related” and “directly essential” to the production of goods for commerce, and that the same is true of employees of an independent employer performing such maintenance, custodial, and clerical work “on behalf of” such producers.
Typical of the employees in this covered group are those repairing or maintaining the machinery or buildings used by the producer in his production of goods for commerce and employees of a watchman or guard or patrol or burglar alarm service protecting the producer's premises.
16
On the other hand, the House managers of the bill made it clear that employees engaged in cleaning windows or cutting grass at the plant of a producer of goods for
commerce were not intended to be included as employees doing work “closely related” to production on “on behalf of” the producer where they were employed by a “local window-cleaning company” or a “local independent nursery concern,” merely because the customers of the employer happen to include producers of goods for commerce.
17
A similar view was expressed with respect to employees of a “local exterminator service firm” working wholly within the State exterminating pests in private homes, in a variety of local establishments, “and also in buildings within the State used to produce goods for interstate commerce.”
17
16
See H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 14; Sen. St. 1949 Cong. Rec. p. 15372;
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling,
326 U.S. 657;
Walling
v.
Sondock,
132 F. 2d 77 (C.A. 5);
Holland
v.
Amoskeag Machine Co.,
44 F. Supp. 884 (D.N.H.).
17
H. Mgrs. St., 1949, page 15.
[15 FR 2925, May 17, 1950, as amended at 22 FR 9692, Dec. 4, 1957]
§ 776.20
“Goods.”
(a)
The statutory provision.
An employee is covered by the wage and hours provisions of the Act if he is engaged in the “production” (as explained in §§ 776.15 through 776.19) “for commerce” (as explained in § 776.21) of anything defined as “goods” in section 3(i) of the Act. This definition is:
Goods
means goods (including ships and marine equipment), wares, products, commodities, merchandise, or articles or subjects of commerce of any character, or any part or ingredient thereof, but does not include goods after their delivery into the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof.
(b)
“Articles or subjects of commerce of any character.”
It will be observed that “goods” as defined in the Act are not limited to commercial goods or articles of trade, or, indeed, to tangible property, but include “articles or subjects of commerce of
any character
(emphasis supplied).
18
It is well settled that things such as “ideas, * * * orders, and intelligence” are “subjects of commerce.” Telegraphic messages have, accordingly, been held to be “goods” within the meaning of the Act.
19
Other articles or subjects of commerce which fall within the definition of “goods” include written materials such as newspapers, magazines, brochures, pamphlets, bulletins, and announcements;
20
written reports, fiscal and other statements and accounts, correspondence, lawyers' briefs and other documents;
21
advertising, motion picture, newspaper and radio copy, artwork and manuscripts for publication;
22
sample books;
23
letterheads, envelopes, shipping tags, labels, check books, blank books, book covers, advertising circulars and candy wrappers.
24
Insurance policies are “goods”
within the meaning of the Act;
25
so are bonds, stocks, bills of exchange, bills of lading, checks, drafts, negotiable notes and other commercial paper.
26
“Goods” includes gold;
27
livestock;
28
poultry and eggs;
29
vessels;
30
vehicles;
31
aircraft;
32
garments being laundered or rented;
33
ice;
34
containers, as, for example, cigar boxes or wrapping paper and packing materials for other goods shipped in commerce;
35
electrical energy or power, gas, etc.;
36
and by-products,
37
to mention only a few illustrations of the articles or subjects of “trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States, or between any State and any place outside thereof” which the Act refers to as “goods.” The Act's definitions do not, however, include as “goods” such things as dams, river improvements, highways and viaducts, or railroad lines.
38
18
As pointed out in
Lenroot
v.
Western Union Tel. Co.,
141 F. 2d 400 (C.A. 2), the legislative history shows that the definition was originally narrower, and that subjects of commerce were added by a Senate amendment.
19
Western Union Tel. Co.
v.
Lenroot
323 U.S. 490.
20
Mabee
v.
White Plains Pub. Co.,
327 U.S. 178;
Yunker
v.
Abbye Employment Agency,
32 N.Y.S. 2d 715;
Berry
v.
34 Irving Place Corp.,
52 F. Supp. 875 (S.D. N.Y.);
Ullo
v.
Smith,
62 F. Supp. 757, affirmed in 177 F. 2d 101 (C.A. 2); see also opinion of the four dissenting justices in
10 E. 40th St. Bldg.
v.
Callus,
325 U.S. at p. 586.
Waste paper collected for shipment in commerce is goods. See
Fleming
v.
Schiff,
1 W.H. Cases 893 (D. Colo.), 15 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 60,864.
21
Phillips
v.
Meeker Coop. Light
Power Asso.,
63 F. Supp. 733, affirmed in 158 F. 2d 698 (C.A. 8);
Lofther
v.
First Nat. Bank of Chicago,
48 F. Supp. 692 (N.D. Ill.) See also
Rausch
v.
Wolf,
72 F. Supp. 658 (N.D. Ill). There are other cases (e.g.,
Kelly
v.
Ford, Bacon
Davis,
162 F. 2d 555 (C.A. 3) and
Bozant
v.
Bank of New York,
156 F. 2d 787 (C.A. 2) which suggest that such things are “goods” only when they are articles of trade. Although the Supreme Court has not settled the question, such a view appears contrary to the express statutory definitions of “goods” and “commerce”.
22
Robert
v.
Henry Phipps Estate,
156 F. 2d 958 (C.A. 2);
Baldwin
v.
Emigrant Industrial Sav. Bank,
150 F. 2d 524 (C.A. 2), certiorari denied 326 U.S. 757;
Bittner
v.
Chicago Daily News Ptg. Co.,
4 W.H. Cases 837 (N.D. Ill.), 29 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 62,479;
Schinck
v.
386 Fourth Ave. Corp.,
49 N.Y.S. 2d 872.
23
Walling
v.
Higgins,
47 F. Supp. 856 (E.D. Pa.).
24
McAdams
v.
Connelly,
8 W.H. Cases 498 (W.D. Ark.), 16 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 64,963;
Walling
v.
Lacy,
51 F. Supp. 1002 (D. Colo.);
Tobin
v.
Grant
8 W.H. Cases 361 (N.D. Calif.). See also
Walling
v.
Sieving,
5 W.H. Cases 1009 (N.D. Ill.), 11 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 63,098.
25
Darr
v.
Mutual Life Ins. Co.,
169 F. 2d 262 (C.A. 2), certiorari denied 335 U.S. 871.
26
Bozant
v.
Bank of New York,
156 F. 2d 787 (C.A. 2).
27
Walling
v.
Haile Gold Mines,
136 F. 2d 102 (C.A. 4);
Fox
v.
Summit King Mines,
143 F. 2d 926 (C.A. 9).
28
Walling
v.
Friend,
156 F. 2d 429 (C.A. 8).
29
Walling
v.
DeSoto Creamery
Produce Co.,
51 F. Supp. 938 (D. Minn).
30
Slover
v.
Wathen,
140 F. 2d 258 (C.A. 4).
31
Hertz Drivurself Stations
v.
United States,
150 F. 2d 923 (C.A. 8).
32
Jackson
v.
Northwest Airlines,
75 F. Supp. 32 (D. Minn.).
33
Phillips
v.
Star Overall Dry Cleaning Laundry Co.,
149 F. 2d 416 (C.A. 2).
34
Hamlet Ice Co.
v.
Fleming,
127 F. 2d 165 (C.A. 4);
Atlantic Co.
v.
Walling,
131 F. 2d 518 (C.A. 5).
35
Enterprise Box Co.
v.
Fleming,
125 F. 2d 897 (C.A. 5), certiorari denied, 316 U.S. 704;
Fleming
v.
Schiff,
1 W.H. Cases 883 (D. Colo.), 5 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 60,864.
36
Walling
v.
Connecticut Co.;
62 F. Supp. 733 (D. Conn.), affirmed 154 F. 2d 552 (C.A. 2).
37
Walling
v.
Peoples Packing Co.,
132 F. 2d 236 (C.A. 10), certiorari denied 318 U.S. 774.
38
Engebretsen
v.
Albrecht,
150 F. 2d 602 (C.A. 7);
Kenny
v.
Wigton-Abbott Corp.,
80 F. Supp. 489 (D. N.J.).
(c)
“Any part or ingredient.”
Section 3(i) draws no distinction between goods and their ingredients and in fact defines goods to mean “goods” * * * or any part or ingredient thereof.” The fact that goods are processed or changed in form by several employers before going into interstate or foreign commerce does not affect the character of the original product as “goods” produced for commerce. Thus, if a garment manufacturer sends goods to an independent contractor within the State to have them sewn, after which he further processes and ships them in interstate commerce, the division of the production functions between the two employees does not alter the fact that the employees of the independent contractor are actually producing (“working on”) the “goods” (parts or ingredients of goods) which enter the channels of commerce.
39
39
Schulte Co.
v.
Gangi,
328 U.S. 108.
Similarly, if a manufacturer of buttons sells his products within the State to a manufacturer of shirts, who ships the shirts in interstate commerce, the employees of the button manufacturer would be engaged in the production of goods for commerce; or, if a lumber manufacturer sells his lumber locally to a furniture manufacturer who sells furniture in interstate commerce, the employees of the lumber manufacturer would likewise come within the scope of the Act. Any employee who is engaged in the “production” (as explained in § 776.15) of any part or ingredient of goods produced for trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication among the several States or between any State and any place outside thereof is engaged in the production of “goods” for commerce within the meaning of the Act.
40
40
Roland Electrical Co.
v.
Walling,
326 U.S. 657;
Bracy
v.
Luray,
138 F. 2d 8 (C.A. 4);
Walling
v.
W. J. Haden Co.,
153 F. 2d 196 (C.A. 5);
Mid-Continent Pipe Line Co.
v.
Hargrave,
129 F. 2d 655 (C.A. 10);
Boiling
v.
Allison,
4 W. H. Cases 500 (N.D. Okla.);
Hanson
v.
Lagerstrom,
133 F. 2d 120 (C.A. 8);
Walling
v.
Comet Carriers,
151 F. 2d 107 (C.A. 2);
Walling
v.
Griffin Cartage Co.,
62 F. Supp. 396, affirmed in 153 F. 2d 587 (C.A. 6);
Walling
v.
Kerr,
47 F. Supp. 852 (E.D. Pa.).
(d)
Effect of the exclusionary clause.
The exclusionary clause in the definition that excepts “goods after their delivery into the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof,” is intended to protect ultimate consumers other than
producers, manufacturers, or processors of the goods in question
41
from the “hot goods” provisions of section 15(a)(1) of the Act.
42
Section 15(a)(1) makes it unlawful for any person “to transport * * * (or * * * ship * * * in commerce * * * any goods” produced in violation of the wage and hours standards established by the Act. (Exceptions are made subject to specified conditions for common carriers and for certain purchasers acting in good faith reliance on written statements of compliance. See footnote 53 to § 776.15(a).) By defining “goods” in section 3(i) so as to exclude goods after their delivery into the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer (other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof) Congress made it clear that it did not intend to hold the ultimate consumer as a violator of section 15(a)(1) if he should transport “hot goods” across a State line.
43
Thus, if a person purchases a pair of shoes for himself from a retail store
44
and carries the shoes across a State line, the purchaser is not guilty of a violation of section 15(a)(1) if the shoes were produced in violation of the wage or hours provisions of the statute. But the fact that goods produced for commerce lose their character as “goods” after they come into the actual physical possession of an ultimate consumer who does not further process or work on them, does not affect their character as “goods” while they are still in the actual physical possession of the producer, manufacturer or processor who is handling or working on them with the intent or expectation that they will subsequently enter interstate or foreign commerce.
45
Congress clearly did not intend to permit an employer to avoid the minimum wage and maximum hours standards of the Act by making delivery within the State into the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer who transports or ships the goods outside of the State. Thus, employees engaged in building a boat for delivery to the purchaser at the boatyard are considered within the coverage of the Act if the employer, at the time the boat is being built, intends, hopes, or has reason to believe that the purchase will sail it outside the State.
46
41
Southern Advance Bag
Paper Co.
v.
United States,
183 F. 2d 449 (C.A. 5);
Phillips
v.
Star Overall Dry Cleaning Laundry Co,
149 F. 2d 485 (C.A. 2), certiorari denied 327 U.S. 780.
42
Jackson
v.
Northwest Airlines,
70 F. Supp. 501.
43
Hamlet Ice Co.
v.
Fleming,
127 F. 2d 165 (C.A. 4), certiorari denied 317 U.S. 634.
44
Note that the retail or service establishment exemption in section 13(a)(2) does not protect the retail store from a violation of the “hot goods” provision if it sells in interstate commerce goods produced in violation of section 6 or 7.
45
See cases cited above in footnotes 41, 42, 43, this section.
46
Walling
v.
Lowe,
5 W.H. Cases (S.D. Fla.), 10 Labor Cases (CCH) 63,033. See also
Walling
v.
Armbruster,
51 F. Supp. 166 (W.D. Ark.);
Joshua Hendy Corp.
v.
Mills,
169 F. 2d 898 (C.A. 9);
St. Johns River Shipbuilding Co.
v.
Adams,
164 F. 2d 1012 S. (C.A. 5).
§ 776.21
“For” commerce.
(a)
General principles.
As has been made clear previously, where “goods” (as defined in the Act) are produced “for commerce,” every employee engaged in the “production” (as explained in §§ 776.15 through 776.19) of such goods (including any part or ingredient thereof) is within the general coverage of the wage and hours provisions of the Act. Goods are produced for “commerce” if they are produced for “trade, commerce, transporation, transmission, or communication among the several States or between any State and any place outside thereof.”
47
Goods are produced “for” such commerce where the employer intends, hopes, expects, or has reason to believe that the goods or any unsegregated part of them will move (in the same or in an altered form or as a part or ingredient of other goods) in such interstate or foreign commerce.
48
If such movement of the goods in commerce can be reasonably anticipated by the employer when his employees perform work defined in the Act as “production” of such goods, it makes no difference whether he himself, or a subsequent owner or possessor of the goods, put the goods in interstate or foreign
commerce.
49
The fact that goods do move in interstate or foreign commerce is strong evidence that the employer intended, hoped, expected, or had reason to believe that they would so move.
47
Fair Labor Standards Act, section 3(b).
48
United States
v.
Darby,
312 U.S. 100;
Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co.
v.
Hall,
371 U.S. 88;
Schulte Co.
v.
Gangi,
328 U.S. 108.
49
Schulte Co.
v.
Gangi,
328 U.S. 108;
Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co.
v.
Hall,
417 U.S. 88. See paragraph (d) of this section.
Although it is generally well understood that goods are produced “for” commerce if they are produced for movement in commerce to points outside the State, questions have been raised as to whether work done on goods may constitute production “for” commerce even though the goods do not ultimately leave the State. As is explained more fully in the paragraphs following, there are certain situations in which this may be true, either under the principles above stated (see paragraph (c) of this section), or because it appears that the goods are produced “for” commerce in the sense that they are produced for use directly in the furtherance, within the particular State, of the actual movement to, from, or across such State or interstate or foreign commerce. (See paragraph (b) of this section).
(b)
Goods produced for direct furtherance of interstate movement.
(1) The Act's definition of “commerce,” as has been seen, describes a movement, among the several States or between any State and any outside place, of trade, commerce, transportation, transmission, or communication.” Whenever goods are produced “for” such movement, such goods are produced “for commerce,” whether or not there is any expectation or reason to anticipate that the particular goods will leave the State.
50
50
Fleming
v.
Atlantic Co.,
40 F. Supp. 654, affirmed in 131 F. 2d 518 (C.A. 5).
(2) The courts have held that particular goods are produced “for” commerce when they are produced with a view to their use, whether within or without the State, in the direct furtherance of the movement of interstate or foreign commerce. Thus, it is well settled that ice is produced “for” commerce when it is produced for use by interstate rail or motor carriers in the refrigeration or cooling of the equipment in which the interstate traffic actually moves, even though the particular ice may melt before the equipment in which it is placed leaves the State.
51
The goods (ice) produced for such use “enter into the very means of transportation by which the burdens of traffic are borne.”
52
The same may be said of electrical energy produced and sold within a single State for such uses as lighting and operating signals on railroads and at airports to guide interstate traffic, lighting and operating radio stations transmitting programs interstate, and lighting and message transmission of telephone and telegraph companies.
53
Similar principles would apply to the production of fuel or water for use in the operation of railroads with which interstate and foreign commerce is carried on; the production of radio or television scripts which provide the basis for programs transmitted interstate; the production of telephone and telegraph poles for use in the necessary repair, maintenance, or improvement of interstate communication systems; the production of crushed rock, ready-mixed concrete, cross-ties, concrete culvert pipe, bridge timbers, and similar items for use in the necessary repair, maintenance, or improvement of railroad roadbeds and bridges which serve as the instrumentalities over which interstate traffic moves.
51
Hamlet Ice Co.
v.
Fleming,
127 F. 2d 165 (C.A. 4), certiorari denied 317 U.S. 634;
Atlantic Co.
v.
Walling,
131 F. 2d 518 (C.A. 5);
Chapman
v.
Home Ice Co.
; 136 F. 2d 353 (C.A. 6) certiorari denied 320 U.S. 761;
Southern United Ice Co.
v.
Hendrix,
153 F. 2d 689 (C.A. 6);
Hansen
v.
Salinas Valley Ice Co.,
62 Cal. App. 357, 144 F. 2d 896.
52
Hamlet Ice Co.
v.
Fleming,
127 F. 2d 165 (C.A. 4).
53
Lewis
v.
Florida Power
Light Co.,
154 F. 2d 751 (C.A. 5); see also
Walling
v.
Connecticut Co.,
154 F. 2d 552 (C.A. 2).
Similarly, in the case of highways, pipe lines, and waterways which serve as instrumentalities of interstate and foreign commerce, the production of goods for use in the direct furtherance of the movement of commerce thereon would be the production of goods “for
commerce.” The production of materials
54
for use in the necessary maintenance, repair, or improvement of the instrumentality so that the flow of commerce will not be impeded or impaired is an example of this. Thus, stone or ready-mixed concrete, crushed rock, sand, gravel, and similar materials for bridges or dams; like materials or bituminous aggregate or oil for road surfacing; concrete or galvanized pipe for road drainage; bridge planks and timbers; paving blocks; and other such materials may be produced “for” commerce even though they do not leave the State.
54
Walling
v.
Staffen,
5 W.H. Cases 1002 (W.D. N.Y.), 11 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 63, 102;
McCombs
v.
Carter,
8 W.H. Cases 498 (E.D. Va.), 16 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 64, 964.
Contra, McComb
v.
Trimmer,
85 F. Supp. 565 (D. N.J.). Cf.
Engebretson
v.
Albrecht,
150 F. 2d 602 (C.A. 7).
(3) This does not, however, necessarily mean that the production of such materials within a State is always production “for” commerce when the materials are used in the same State for the maintenance, repair, or improvement of highways or other instrumentalities carrying interstate traffic. In determining whether the production is actually “for” commerce in a situation where there is no reason to believe that the goods will leave the State, a practical judgment is required. Some illustrations may be helpful.
On the one hand, there are situations where there is little room for doubt that the goods are produced “for” commerce in the sense that the goods are intended for the direct furtherance of the movement of commerce over the instrumentalities of transportation and communication. The most obvious illustration is that of special-purpose goods such as cross-ties for railroads, telephone or telegraph poles, or concrete pipe designed for highway use. Another illustration is sand and gravel for highway repair or reconstruction which is produced from a borrow pit opened expressly for that purpose, or from the pits of an employer whose business operations are conducted wholly or in the substantial part with the intent or purpose of filling highway contracts. (The fact that a substantial portion of the employer's gross income is derived from supplying such materials for highway repair and reconstruction would be one indication that a substantial part of his business is directed to the purpose of meeting such needs of commerce.)
On the other hand, there are situations where materials or other goods used in maintaining, repairing, or reconstructing instrumentalities of commerce are produced and supplied by local materialmen under circumstances which may require the conclusion that the goods are not produced “for” commerce. Thus, a materialman may be engaged in an essentially local business serving the usual miscellany of local customers, without any substantial part of such business being directed to meeting the needs of highway repair or reconstruction. If, on occasion, he happens to produce or supply some materials which are used within the State to meet such highway needs, and he does so as a mere incident of his essentially local business, the Administrator will not consider that his employees handling or working on such materials are producing goods “for” commerce. This is, rather, a typically local activity of the kind the Act was not intended to cover. The same may be said of the production of ice by an essentially local ice plant where the only basis of coverage is the delivery of ice for the water cooler in the community railroad station. The employees producing ice in the ice plant for local use would not by reason of this be covered as engaged in the production of goods “for” commerce.
Other illustrations might be given but these should emphasize the essential distinction which must be kept in mind. Borderline cases will, of course, arise. In each such case the facts must be examined and a determination made as to whether or not the goods may fairly be viewed as produced “for” use in the direct furtherance of the movement of interstate or foreign commerce, and thus “for” commerce.
(c)
Controlling effect of facts at time “production” occurs.
(1) Whether employees are engaged in the production of goods “for” commerce depends upon circumstances as they exist at the time the goods are being produced, not upon
some subsequent event. Thus, if a lumber manufacturer produces lumber to fill an out-of-State order, the employees working on the lumber are engaged in the production of goods for commerce and within the coverage of the Act's wage and hours provisions, even though the lumber does not ultimately leave the State because it is destroyed by fire before it can be shipped. Similarly, employees drilling for oil which the employer expects to leave the State either as crude oil or refined products are engaged in the production of goods for commerce while the drilling operations are going on and are entitled to be paid on that basis notwithstanding some of the wells drilled may eventually prove to be dry holes.
55
55
Culver
v.
Bell
Loffland,
146 F. 2d 29 (C.A. 9); see also
Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co.
v.
Hall,
317 U.S. 88.
(2) On the other hand, if the lumber manufacturer first mentioned produces lumber to fill the order of a local contractor in the expectation that it will be used to build a schoolhouse within the State, the employees producing the lumber are not engaged in the production of goods “for” commerce and are not covered by the Act. This would remain true notwithstanding the contractor subsequently goes bankrupt and the lumber is sold to a purchaser who moves it to another State; the status of the employees for purposes of coverage cannot in this situation, any more than in the others, be retroactively changed by the subsequent event.
(d)
Goods disposed of locally to persons who place them in commerce.
It is important to remember that if, at the time when employees engage in activities which constitute “production of goods” within the meaning of the Act, their employer intends, hopes, expects, or has reason to believe that such goods will be taken or sent out of the State by a subsequent purchaser or other person into whose possession the goods will come, this is sufficient to establish that such employees are engaged in the production of such goods “for” commerce and covered by the Act. Whether the producer passes title to the goods to another within the State is immaterial.
56
The goods are produced “for” commerce in such a situation whether they are purchased f.o.b. the factory and are taken out of the State by the purchaser, or whether they are sold within the State to a wholesaler or retailer or manufacturer or processor who in turn sells them, either in the same form or after further processing, in interstate or foreign commerce. The same is true where the goods worked on by the producer's employees are not owned by the producer and are returned, after the work is done, to the possession of the owner who takes or sends them out of the State.
57
Similarly, employees are engaged in the production of goods “for” commerce when they are manufacturing, handling, working on, or otherwise engaging in the production of boxes, barrels, bagging, crates, bottles, or other containers, wrapping or packing material which their employer has reason to believe will be used to hold the goods of other producers which will be sent out of the State in such containers or wrappings. It makes no difference that such other producers are located in the same State and that the containers are sold and delivered to them there.
58
56
Hamlet Ice Co.
v.
Fleming,
127 F. 2d 165 (C.A. 4). certiorari denied 317 U.S. 634;
Bracey
v.
Luray,
138 F. 2d 8 (C.A. 4).
57
Schulte Co.
v.
Gangi,
328 U.S. 108;
Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co.
v.
Hall,
317 U.S. 88;
Walling
v.
Kerr,
47 F. Supp. 852 (E.D. Pa.).
58
Enterprise Box Co.
v.
Fleming,
125 F. 2d 897 (C.A. 5), certiorari denied 316 U.S. 704;
Dize
v.
Maddrix,
144 F. 2d 584 (C.A. 4), affirmed 324 U.S. 697;
Walling
v.
Burch,
5 W. H. Cases 323 (S.D. Ga.); 9 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 62, 613;
Fleming
v.
Schiff,
1 W.H. Cases 893 (D. Colo.), 5 Labor Cases (CCH) par. 60, 864.
It should be noted that where empty containers are purchased, loaded, or transported within a single State as a part of their movement, as empty containers, out of the State, an employee engaged in such purchasing, loading, or transporting operations is covered by the Act as engaged “in commerce.”
Atlantic Co.
v.
Weaver,
150 F. 2d 843 (C.A. 4);
Klotz
v.
Ippolito,
40 F. Supp. 422 (S.D. Tex.);
Orange Crush Bottling Co.
v.
Tuggle,
70 Ga. App. 144, 27 S.E. 2d 769.

# Subpart B—Construction Industry

# Source:
21 FR 5439, July 20, 1956, unless otherwise noted.
§ 776.22
Subpart limited to individual employee coverage.
This subpart, which was adopted before the amendments of 1961 and 1966 to the Fair Labor Standards Act, is limited to discussion of the traditional general coverage of employees employed in activities of the character performed in the construction industry, which depends on whether such employees are, individually, “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” within the meaning of the Act. The 1961 and 1966 amendments broadened coverage by extending it to other employees of the construction industry on an “enterprise” basis, as explained in § 776.22a. Employees covered under the principles discussed in this subpart remain covered under the Act as amended; however, an employee who would not be individually covered under the principles discussed in this subpart may now be subject to the Act if he is employed in an enterprise engaged in covered construction as defined in the amendments.
[35 FR 5543, Apr. 3, 1970]

# Enterprise Coverage
§ 776.22a
Extension of coverage to employment in certain enterprises.
Whether or not individually covered on the traditional basis, an employee is covered on an “enterprise” basis by the Act as amended in 1961 and 1966 if he is “employed in an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” as defined in section 3 (r), (s), of the Act. “Enterprise” is defined generally by section 3(r) to mean “the related activities performed (either through unified operation or common control) by any person or persons for a common business purpose, and includes all such activities whether performed in one or more establishments or by one or more corporate or other organizational units.” If an “enterprise” as thus defined is an “enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” as defined and described in section 3(s) of the Act as amended, any employee employed in such enterprise is subject to the provisions of the Act to the same extent as if he were individually engaged “in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce”, unless specifically exempt, section 3(s), insofar as pertinent to the construction industry, reads as follows:
Enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce means an enterprise which has employees engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, including employees handling, selling, or otherwise working on goods that have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person, and which:
(3) Is engaged in the business of construction or reconstruction, or both.
Questions of “enterprise coverage” in the construction industry which are not answered in published statements of the Department of Labor may be addressed to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, or assistance may be requested from any of the Regional or District Offices of the Division.
[35 FR 5543, Apr. 3, 1970]

# Individual Employee Coverage in the Construction Industry
§ 776.22b
Guiding principles.
(a)
Scope of bulletin and general coverage statement.
This subpart contains the opinions of the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division with respect to the applicability of the Fair Labor Standards Act to employees engaged in the building and construction industry. The provisions of the Act expressly make its application dependent on the character of an employee's activities, that is, on whether he is engaged “in commerce” or in the “production of goods for commerce including any closely related process or occupation directly essential to such production.” Under either of the two prescribed areas of covered work, coverage cannot be determined by a rigid or technical formula. The United States Supreme Court has said of both phases that coverage must be given “a liberal construction” determined “by practical considerations, not by technical
conceptions.”
1
The Court has specifically rejected the technical “new construction” concept, as a reliable test for determining coverage under this Act.
2
1
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer
Co.,
349 U.S. 427;
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517;
Alstate Construction Co.
v.
Durkin,
345 U.S. 13.
2
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer
Co.,
ante.
So far as construction work specifically is concerned, the courts have cast the relevant tests for determining the scope of “in commerce” coverage in substantially similar language as they have used in construing the “production” phase of coverage. Thus the Act applies to construction work which is so intimately related to the functioning of interstate commerce as to be, in practical effect, a part of it, as well as to construction work which has a close and immediate tie with the process of production.
3
3
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer
Co.,
ante; Cf.
Armour
Co.
v.
Wantock,
323 U.S. 126.
(b)
Engagement in commerce.
The United States Supreme Court has held that the “in commerce” phase of coverage extends “throughout the farthest reaches of the channels of interstate commerce,” and covers not only construction work physically in or on a channel or instrumentality of interstate commerce but also construction work “so directly and vitally related to the functioning of an instrumentality or facility of interstate commerce as to be, in practical effect, a part of it, rather than isolated, local activity.”
4
4
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer
Co.,
ante;
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
317 U.S. 564;
Overstreet
v.
North Shore Corp.,
318 U.S. 125.
(c)
Production of goods for commerce.
The “production” phase of coverage includes “any closely related process or occupation directly essential” to production of goods for commerce. An employee need not be engaged in activities indispensable to production in order to be covered. Conversely, even indispensable or essential activities, in the sense of being included in the long line of causation which ultimately results in production of finished goods, may not be covered. The work must be both closely related and directly essential to the covered production.
5
5
Armour
Co.
v.
Wantock,
ante;
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 417; Cf.
10 E. 40th St. Co.
v.
Callus,
325 U.S. 578.
(d)
State and national authority.
Consideration must also be given to the relationship between state and national authority because Congress intended “to leave local business to the protection of the State.”
6
Activities which superficially appear to be local in character, when isolated, may in fact have the required close or intimate relationship with the area of commerce to which the Act applies. The courts have stated that a project should be viewed as a whole in a realistic way and not broken down into its various phases so as to defeat the purposes of the Act.
7
6
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
ante;
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
ante;
Phillips Co.
v.
Walling,
324 U.S. 490, 497.
7
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
ante;
Bennett
v.
V. P. Loftis Co.,
167 F. (2d) 286 (C.A.4);
Tobin
v.
Pennington-Winter Const. Co.,
198 F. (2d) 334 (C.A.10), certiorari denied 345 U.S. 915; See General Coverage Bulletin, §§ 776.19 (a), (b), and 776.21(b).
(e)
Interpretations.
In his task of distinguishing covered from non-covered employees the Administrator will be guided by authoritative court decisions. To the extent that prior administrative rulings, interpretations, practices and enforcement policies relating to employees in the construction industry are inconsistent or in conflict with the principles stated in this subpart, they are hereby rescinded and withdrawn.
[21 FR 5439, July 20, 1956. Redesignated at 35 FR 5543, Apr. 3, 1970]
§ 776.23
Employment in the construction industry.
(a)
In general.
The same principles for determining coverage under the Fair Labor Standards Act generally apply to employees in the building and construction industry. As in other situations, it is the employee's activities rather than the employer's business which is the important consideration, and it is immaterial if the employer is an independent contractor who performs the construction work for or on behalf of a firm which is engaged in
interstate commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce.
8
8
Mitchell
v.
Joyce Agency,
348 U.S. 945, affirming 110 F. Supp. 918;
Fleming
v.
Sondeck,
132 F. (2d) 77 (C.A. 5), certiorari denied 318 U.S. 772;
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
ante;
Walling
v.
McCrady Construction Co.,
156 F. (2d) 932. certiorari denied 329 U.S. 785;
Mitchell
v.
Brown Engineering Co.,
224 F. (2d) 359 (C.A. 8), certiorari denied 350 U.S. 875;
Chambers Construction Co. and L. H. Chambers
v.
Mitchell,
decided June 5, 1965 (C.A. 8).
(b)
On both covered and non-covered work.
If the employee is engaged in both covered and non-covered work during the workweek he is entitled to the benefits of the Act for the entire week regardless of the amount of covered activities which are involved. The covered activities must, however, be regular or recurring rather than isolated, sporadic or occasional.
9
9
See General Coverage Bulletin, §§ 776.2 and 776.4
(c)
On covered construction projects.
All employees who are employed in connection with construction work which is closely or intimately related to the functioning of existing instrumentalities and channels of interstate commerce or facilities for the production of goods for such commerce are within the scope of the Act. Closely or intimately related construction work includes the maintenance, repair, reconstruction, redesigning, improvement, replacement, enlargement or extension of a covered facility.
10
If the construction project is subject to the Act, all employees who participate in the integrated effort are covered, including not only those who are engaged in work at the site of the construction such as mechanics, laborers, handymen, truckdrivers, watchmen, guards, timekeepers, inspectors, checkers, surveyors, payroll workers, and repair men, but also office, clerical, bookkeeping, auditing, promotional, drafting, engineering, custodial and stock room employees.
11
10
Walling
v.
McCrady Const. Co.,
156 F. (2d) 932, certiorari denied 329 U.S. 785;
Chambers Construction Co. and L. H. Chambers
v.
Mitchell,
decided June 5, 1956 (C.A. 8);
Tobin
v.
Pennington-Winter Const. Co.
ante;
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer
Co.,
ante.
11
Mitchell
v.
Brown Engineering Co.,
ante;
Chambers Construction Co. and L. H. Chambers
v.
Mitchell,
ante;
Ritch
v.
Puget Sound Bridge
Dredging Co.,
156 F. (2d) 334 (C.A. 9).
(d)
On non-covered construction projects.
(1) A construction project maybe purely local and, therefore, not covered, but some individual employees may nonetheless be covered on independent ground by reason of their interstate activities. Under the principle that coverage depends upon the particular activities of the employee and not on the nature of the business of the employer, individual employees engaged in interstate activities are covered even though their activities may be performed in connection with a non-covered construction project. Thus, the Act is applicable to employees who are regularly engaged in ordering or procuring materials and equipment from outside the State or receiving, unloading, checking, watching or guarding such goods while they are still in transit. For example, laborers on a non-covered construction project who regularly unload materials and equipment from vehicles or railroad cars which are transporting such articles from other States are performing covered work.
12
12
Clyde
v.
Broderick,
144 F. (2d) 348 (C.A. 10);
Durnil
v.
J. E. Dunn Construction Co.
186 F (2d) 27 (C.A. 8),
Donahue
v.
George A. Fuller Co.,
104 F. Supp. 145; Cf.
Mitchell
v.
Royal Baking Co.,
219 F. (2d) 532 (C.A. 5).
(2) Similarly, employees who regularly use instrumentalities of commerce, such as the telephone, telegraph and mails for interstate communication are within the scope of the Act, as are employees who are regularly engaged in preparing, handling, or otherwise working on goods which will be sent to other States. This includes the preparation of plans, orders, estimates, accounts, reports and letters for interstate transmittal.
§ 776.24
Travel in connection with construction projects.
The Act also applies to employees who regularly travel across State lines in the performance of their duties, even though the construction project itself
is not covered.
13
If an employee regularly transports persons, materials, or equipment between jobs across State lines, or to a covered project, even within the State, as part of his duties for the contractor, he would be covered. As in other situations, the Act would not apply if crossing State lines or transporting persons, materials or equipment by the employee was isolated or sporadic rather than regular and recurring. Also, ordinary home-to-work travel, even across State lines, is not covered.
13
Reck v. Zarmacay,
264 App. Div. 520, 36 N.Y.S. (2d) 394;
Colbeck
v.
Dairyland Creamery Co.,
17 N.W. (2d) 262 (S. Ct. S.D.).
§ 776.25
Regular and recurring activities as basis of coverage.
Regular and recurring may mean a very small amount and is not to be determined by volume or percentages. Coverage depends on the character rather than the volume of the employee's activities. For example, if an employee in the course of his duties regularly engages in covered work even though the covered work constitutes only a small part of his duties, he would be covered in any week when he performs such covered work.
14
14
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
ante;
Mabee
v.
White Plains Publishing Co.,
327 U.S. 178.
§ 776.26
Relationship of the construction work to the covered facility.
Unless the construction work is physically or functionally integrated or closely identified with an existing covered facility it is not regarded as covered construction because it is not closely enough related to or integrated with the production of goods for commerce or the engagement in commerce. For this reason the erection, maintenance or repair of dwellings, apartments, hotels, churches and schools are not covered projects.
15
Similarly the construction of a separate, wholly new, factory building, not constructed as an integral part or as an improvement of an existing covered production plant, is not covered (Cf. § 776.27(c)). Coverage of any construction work, whether new or repair work, depends upon how closely integrated it is with, and how essential it is to the functioning of, existing covered facilities. Neither the mere fact that the construction is “new construction” nor the fact that it is physically separated from an existing covered plant, is determinative. Moreover, the court decisions make it clear that the construction project itself need not be actually employed in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce during the time of its construction in order to be covered.
16
Such factors may be considered in determining whether as a practical matter the work is directly and vitally related to the functioning of the covered facility but would not be decisive.
15
Cf. § 776.18(b).
16
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer,
ante;
Bennett
v.
V. P. Loftis Co.,
ante;
Mitchell
v.
Chambers Const. Co.,
214 F. (2d) 515 (C.A. 10);
Walling
v.
McCrady Const. Co.,
ante;
Tobin
v.
Pennington-Winter Const. Co.,
198 F. (2d) 334 (C.A. 5), certiorari denied, 345 U.S. 915.
§ 776.27
Construction which is related to covered production.
(a)
Existing production establishments.
(1) Covered production facilities within the concept of the Act include mines, oil wells, banks, manufacturing, packing and processing plants, filtration, sewage treatment, electric power and water plants, shipyards, warehouses in which goods are broken down, packed or handled preparatory to being sent in interstate commerce, and similar establishments.
(2) The repair or maintenance of a covered production unit is essential for its continued operation and has a close and immediate tie with the production of goods for commerce.
17
The Act is also applicable to other construction which is an integral part of a covered production unit, such as the replacement, enlargement, reconstruction, extension or other improvement of the premises, the buildings, the machinery, tools and dies and other equipment. Functionally such work is like maintenance and repair and is necessary for the continued, efficient and effective operation of the facility as a unit. Thus the construction of new appurtenances of a covered production establishment such as parking aprons, access roads, railroad spurs, drainage ditches, storm,
waste and sanitary sewers or adjacent integrated buildings is subject to the Act. Similarly, the Act applies to the installation of telephone, electric, gas and water lines, machinery and other equipment on the premises of such a facility.
17
Kirschbaum Co.
v.
Walling,
ante;
Walling
v.
McCrady Const. Co.,
ante.
(3) On the other hand, the production and furnishings, within the State, of construction materials, such as sand, gravel, brick and other construction materials produced for general local use, is not covered even if the producer also supplies such materials to construction companies which use them within the State in the repair, maintenance or improvement of facilities for the production of goods for commerce. Employees of the materialman in such a situation would not have such a close and immediate tie to the production of goods for commerce as to be considered “closely related” and “directly essential” to such production.
18
18
See General Coverage Bulletin, § 776.19(b)(3); but see § 776.19 (b) (1), (2) and (3); on coverage of furnishing materials “specially designed”, or meeting particular specifications, for use in production of particular kinds of goods for commerce; and paragraph (d) of this section, on coverage of producing and furnishing materials for use in construction work on instrumentalities of commerce.
(b)
Utilities which serve production establishments.
The Act applies to employees of public utilities which furnish gas, electricity, water or fuel to firms engaged within the same State in manufacturing, processing, producing, or mining goods for commerce.
19
Construction work performed upon the plant and facilities of such a utility is covered as in the case of any other covered production establishment.
20
The extension of the lines or other facilities of a covered utility for the first time to the premises of an establishment which produces goods for commerce would be subject to the Act, because such extension is simply an improvement or enlargement of an existing covered utility.
21
Furthermore, the maintenance or repair of the wires, pipes, or other conduits of a covered utility which serves business and manufacturing as well as residential areas would also be within the Act. On the other hand, extension or repair of lines or other facilities serving only residential areas would not be covered unless the electricity, gas, fuel, or water comes from out of the State.
19
House Manager's Statement, 1949 Amendments.
20
See decisions cited in footnotes 10 and 11, of this subpart.
21
Meeker Cooperative Light
Power Ass'n
v.
Phillips,
158 F. (2d) 698 (C.A. 8); Cf.
New Mexico Public Service Co.
v.
Engel,
145 F. (2d) 636 (C.A. 10);
Lewis
v.
Florida Power
Light Co.,
154 F. (2d) 75 (C.A. 5).
(c)
New construction which is not integrated with existing production facilities.
(1) Construction of a new factory building, even though its use for interstate production upon completion may be contemplated, will not ordinarily be considered covered. However, if the new building is designed as a replacement of or an addition or an improvement to, an existing interstate production facility, its construction will be considered subject to the Act.
(2) If the new building, though not physically attached to an existing plant which produces goods for commerce, is designed to be an integral part of the improved, expanded or enlarged plant, the construction, like maintenance and repair, it would be subject to the Act.
22
22
Walling
v.
McCrady Const. Co.,
ante.
(d)
Production of materials for use in construction work on interstate instrumentalities.
(1) The Act applies to employees who are engaged, at the job site or away from it, in the production of goods to be used within the State for the maintenance, repair, extension, enlargement, improvement, replacement or reconstruction of an instrumentality of interstate commerce. The goods need not go out of the State since the Act applies to the production of goods “for” commerce, including for use in commerce, and is not limited to “production of goods for transportation in commerce,” that is, to be sent across State lines.
23
23
Alstate Construction Co.
v.
Durkin,
345 U.S. 13;
Tobin
v.
Johnson,
198 F. (2d) 130 (C.A. 8);
Mitchell
v.
Emulsified Asphalt Products Co.,
222 F. (2) 913 (C.A. 6).
(2) The Act would also apply to the production of such items as electricity, fuel or water, for use in the operation of railroads or other instrumentalities
of commerce.
24
Therefore, as in the case of other production units, the maintenance, repair or other improvement of the premises or buildings or the appurtenances, including the machinery, tools and dies and equipment, of the facilities which are used to produce such goods, are subject to the Act.
24
Sections 776.19(b)(2) and 776.21. See also paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) Coverage also extends to employees who produce sand, gravel, asphalt, cement, crushed rock, railroad ties, pipes, conduits, wires, concrete pilings and other materials which are to be used in the construction of instrumentalities which serve as the means for the interstate movement of goods or persons.
(4) This does not mean, however, that in every case where employees produce such materials which are used within the State in the maintenance, repair, or reconstruction of an instrumentality of commerce, the production of such materials is necessarily considered as production “for” commerce. A material supply company may be engaged in an independent business which is essentially local in nature, selling its materials to the usual miscellany of local customers without any particular intent or purpose of supplying materials for the maintenance, repair, or reconstruction of instrumentalities of commerce, and without any substantial portion of its business being directed to such specific uses. Employees of such an “essentially local business” are not covered by the Act merely because as an incident to its essentially local business, the company, on occasion, happens to produce or supply some materials which are used within the State to meet the needs of instrumentalities of commerce.
25
25
See §§ 776.19 (a) and (b) and 776.21(b)(3). See also cases cited in footnote 22 of this subpart.
§ 776.28
Covered preparatory activities.
(a)
Before production begins.
(1) The United States Supreme Court has held that the Act is applicable to employees of a company which was engaged in preliminary oil well drilling, even though the holes were drilled to a specified depth which was short of where the oil was expected to be found.
26
The Act would also apply to drilling operations even though no oil was discovered.
27
Laborers employed in erecting drilling rigs would also be covered.
28
Other preparatory work before drilling begins in an oil field, such as staking oil claims, surveying, clearing the land, assembling materials and equipment, erecting sheds, derricks or dikes would also be within the scope of the Act.
29
Preliminary work such as the foregoing has the requisite close and immediate tie with the production of goods for commerce to be within the coverage of the Act.
26
Warren-Bradshaw Drilling Co.
v.
Hall,
317 U.S. 8.
27
Culver
v.
Bell
Loffland,
146 F. (2d) 20.
28
Devine
v.
Levy,
39 F. Supp. 44.
29
Straughn
v.
Schlumberger Well Surveying Corp.,
72 F. Supp. 511.
(2) Similarly, coverage extends to employees engaged in the installation of machinery to be used in covered production in a new factory building, even though the construction of the building itself may not have been subject to the Act. Such installation is considered to be a preliminary production activity rather than simply part of the construction of the building.
(3) If the construction project is subject to the Act, preliminary activities, such as surveying, clearing, draining and leveling the land, erecting necessary buildings to house materials and equipment, or the demolition of structures in order to begin building the covered facility, are subject to the Act.
30
30
Coverage of preparation of plans and designs is discussed in § 776.19(b) (2).
(b)
Facilities used in aid of the covered construction.
The installation of facilities, and the repair and maintenance of trucks, tools, machinery and other equipment to be used by a contractor in the furtherance of his covered construction work, are activities subject to the Act.
§ 776.29
Instrumentalities and channels of interstate commerce.
(a)
Typical examples.
Instrumentalities and channels which serve as the media for the movement of goods and persons in interstate commerce or for
interstate communications include railroads, highways, city streets; telephone, gas, electric and pipe line systems; radio and television broadcasting facilities; rivers, canals and other waterways; airports; railroad, bus, truck or steamship terminals; freight depots, bridges, ferries, bays, harbors, docks, wharves, piers; ships, vehicles and aircraft which are regularly used in interstate commerce.
31
31
General coverage bulletin, § 776.11.
(b)
General character of an instrumentality of interstate commerce.
(1) An instrumentality of interstate commerce need not stretch across State lines but may operate within a particular State as a link in a chain or system of conduits through which interstate commerce moves.
32
Obvious examples of such facilities are railroad terminals, airports which are components of a system of air transportation, bridges and canals. A facility may be used for both interstate and intrastate commerce but when it is so used it is nonetheless an interstate instrumentality. Such double use does not exclude construction employees from being engaged in commerce.
32
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer,
ante;
Bennett.
v.
V. P. Loftis,
167 F. (2d) 286 (C.A. 4);
Overstreet
v.
North Shore Corp.,
ante;
Rockton
Rion R. R.
v.
Walling,
146 F. (2d) 111, certiorari denied 324 U.S. 880;
National Labor Relations Board
v.
Central Missouri Tel. Co.,
115 F. (2d) 563 (C.A. 8).
(2) The term instrumentality of interstate commerce may refer to one unit or the entire chain of facilities. An instrumentality such as a railroad constitutes a system or network of facilities by which the interstate movement of goods and persons is accomplished. Each segment of the network is integrally connected with the whole and must be viewed as part of the system as a whole, not as an isolated local unit.
(3) A construction project which changes the interstate system as a whole, or any of its units, would have a direct bearing on the flow of interstate commerce throughout the network. Thus, the new construction of an alternate route or an additional unit which alters the system or any segment of it, would have such a direct and vital relationship to the functioning of the instrumentality of interstate commerce as to be, in practical effect, a part of such commerce rather than isolated local activity. For example, such construction as the maintenance, repair, replacement, expansion, enlargement, extension, reconstruction, redesigning, or other improvement, of a railroad system as a whole, or of any part of it, would have a close and intimate relationship with the movement of goods and persons across State lines. All such construction, therefore, is subject to the Act.
(4) The same would be true with respect to other systems of interstate transportation or communication such as roads, waterways, airports, pipe, gas and electric lines, and ship, bus, truck, telephone and broadcasting facilities. Consequently, construction projects for lengthening, widening, deepening, relocating, redesigning, replacing and adding new, substitute or alternate facilities; shortening or straightening routes or lines; providing cutoffs, tunnels, trestles, causeways, overpasses, underpasses and bypasses are subject to the Act. Furthermore, the fact that such construction serves another purpose as well as the improvement of the interstate facility, or that the improvement to the interstate facility was incidental to other non-covered work, would not exclude it from the Act's coverage.
33
33
Tobin
v.
Pennington-Winter Const. Co.,
ante;
Oklahoma
v.
Atkinson Co.,
313 U.S. 508;
Cuascut
v.
Standard Dredging Corp.,
94 F. Supp. 197.
(c)
Examples of construction projects which are subject to the Act.
Coverage extends to employees who are engaged on such work as repairing or replacing abutments and superstructures on a washed out railroad bridge;
34
replacing an old highway bridge with a new one at a different location;
35
removing an old railroad bridge and partially rebuilding a new one; repairing a railroad roundhouse, signal tower, and storage building; relocating portions of a county road; erecting new bridges with new approaches in different locations from
the old ones; widening a city street; relocating, improving or extending interstate telephone facilities including the addition of new conduits and new trunk lines.
36
Also within the scope of the Act are employees who are engaged in the construction, maintenance and repair of ships, barges and other vessels used for interstate commerce, including those belonging to the Government,
37
and facilities used in the production and transmission of electric, fuel, water, steam and other powers to instrumentalities of interstate commerce.
38
34
Pedersen
v.
J. F. Fitzgerald,
318 U.S. 740.
35
Bennett
v.
V. P. Loftis Co.,
167 F. (2d) 286 (C.A. 4).
36
Walling
v.
McCrady Const. Co.,
ante.
37
Divins
v.
Hazeltine Electronics Corp.,
163 F. (2d) 100 (C.A. 2); Cf.
Walling
v.
Haile Gold Mines, Inc.,
136 F. (2d) 102 (C.A. 4).
38
New Mexico Public Service Co.
v.
Engel,
ante;
Lewis
v.
Florida Light
Power Co.,
ante;
Mitchell
v.
Mercer Water Co.,
208 F. (2d) 900 (C.A. 3);
Mitchell
v.
Brown Engineering Co.,
ante.
(d)
Construction of new facilities.
(1) In a case before the United States Supreme Court, the question was presented whether the Act applied to the construction of a new canal at some distance from the one then in use. The new canal was to be an alternate route for entering the Mississippi River and would relieve traffic congestion in the existing canal. The latter would continue in operation but could not be widened because of its location in a highly developed industrial section of New Orleans. The Court in holding the construction of the new canal to be within the coverage of the Act stated that the new construction was as intimately related to the improvement of navigation on the Gulf Intercoastal Waterway as dredging in the existing canal would be and that the project was “part of the redesigning of an existing facility of interstate commerce.”
39
Thus the construction of a new facility in a network of instrumentalities of interstate commerce, in order to serve the system, or to function as an alternate route, or to relieve traffic congestion in another unit, or to replace an outmoded facility, is subject to the Act.
39
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer
Co.,
ante; see also
Bennett
v.
V. P. Loftis,
ante.
(2) Similarly, the construction of a new unit, such as a new airport which is an addition to the entire interstate system of air transportation although not physically attached to any other unit, would, as a practical matter, necessarily expand, promote and facilitate the movement of interstate commerce over the airway system, and consequently, would be subject to the Act. In such a situation the interstate system, although composed of physically separate local units, is, as a whole, the instrumentality of commerce which is improved. In most cases such an addition would also directly enhance, improve or replace some particular nearby unit in the interstate network. The new addition would thus relieve traffic congestion and facilitate the interstate movement of commerce over the existing instrumentality as a whole, as well as at the particular nearby units. The same principle would apply to highways, turnpikes and similar systems of interstate facilities.
(3) In like manner, the reconstruction, extension or expansion of a small unit in a system of interstate facilities, such as the enlargement of a small airport which is regularly used for interstate travel or transportation, is covered, regardless of the relative sizes of the original unit and the new one. The construction in such situations facilitates and improves the interstate commerce served by, and is directly related to the continued, efficient and effective operation of, both the particular original unit and the interstate system as a whole. Also, the construction of facilities such as hangars, repair shops and the like at a covered airport, which are “directly and vitally related to the functioning” of the instrumentality of commerce, would be subject to the Act.
40
40
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer
Co.,
ante.
(e)
Construction on waterways.
Courts have consistently held that the engagement in interstate commerce includes the maintenance, repair or improvement of navigable waterways even when the construction work is performed on the non-navigable parts of the instrumentality such as at the
headwaters and watersheds or in tributary streams.
41
41
Tobin
v.
Pennington-Winter Const. Co.
, ante;
Oklahoma
v.
Atkinson Co.,
ante;
United States
v.
Appalachian Power Co.,
311 U.S. 426.
Construction which improves rivers and waterways serving as instrumentalities of interstate commerce includes dredging; the building, maintenance, repair, replacement, reconstruction, improvement, or enlargement of dikes, revetments, levees, harbor facilities, retaining walls, channels, berths, piers, wharves, canals, dams, reservoirs and similar projects; also the removal of debris and other impediments in the waterway and flood control work in general.
42
42
Walling
v.
Patton-Tulley Transportation Co.,
134 F. (2d) 945 (C.A. 6);
Ritch
v.
Puget Sound Bridge
Dredging Co.,
156 F. (2d) 334.
The Act applies to construction work which increases the navigability of a waterway, protects it from floods or otherwise improves or maintains its use as an instrumentality of interstate commerce. The courts have held that a program for controlling floods is inseparably related to the stabilization and maintenance of the navigable channel of the river, since levees, dams, dikes and like structures, which hold back the waters in time of flood, at the same time confine a more efficient body of water during other periods by increasing its velocity and scouring and deepening its channels.
43
43
Tobin
v.
Pennington-Winter Const. Co.,
ante;
Tobin
v.
Ramey,
206 F. (2d) 505 (C.A. 5) certiorari denied, sub nom
Hughes Construction Co.
v.
Secretary of Labor,
346 U.S. 925;
Jackson
v.
U.S.,
230 U.S. 1.
(1)
Flood control work in non-navigable parts of a waterway.
Both Congress and the courts have considered that watersheds and headwaters are keys to the control of floods on navigable streams and that the control over the non-navigable parts of a river is essential for the prevention of overflows on the navigable portions. It is also well settled that in order to control floods on a navigable stream it is necessary to take flood control measures on its tributaries.
(2)
Basis of coverage.
(i) The construction of a levee, dam or other improvement in any part of a river or its tributaries for the purpose of preventing floods or aiding navigation must be considered as an integral part of a single comprehensive project for improvement of the river system. Even though a particular levee or dike, by itself, may not effect an improvement, the courts have made it clear that the combined effect of a chain of such structures serves as the basis for determining coverage. The construction of a particular river structure may, therefore, be subject to the Act simply because it is part of a comprehensive system of structures, whose combined effect will achieve the improvement of the navigable channel. Thus, it has been held that site clearance work in the construction of a multiple-purpose dam on a non-navigable stream is covered by the Act where the work is an integral part of a comprehensive system for the control of floods and the betterment of navigation on the Arkansas and Mississippi Rivers.
44
Similarly, the enlargement of a set-back levee, located from two to six miles from the banks of the Mississippi, was held to be covered because it was part of the Mississippi levee system even though the set-back levee, when viewed separately, was not directly related to the functioning of the Mississippi as an instrumentality of commerce.
45
44
Tobin
v.
Pennington-Winter Const. Co.,
ante.
45
Tobin
v.
Ramey,
205 F. (2d) 606, rehearing denied 206 F. (2d) 505 (C.A. 5) certiorari denied, sub nom
Hughes Construction Co.
v.
Secretary of Labor,
346 U.S. 925.
(ii) The principle involved applies also to other instrumentalities of interstate commerce. As in the case of covered waterway projects, individual additions or improvements to other instrumentalities of interstate commerce may for coverage purposes be considered as part of a whole program rather than separately. The Act will apply to the construction in such situations if the unit, considered by itself or as part of a larger program, promotes the efficient or effective operation of the instrumentality of interstate commerce.
(3)
Construction of wharves, piers and docks.
The Act also applies to the construction of new piers, wharves, docks and other facilities if they are integrated with the interstate commerce
functions of an existing harbor. Similarly, the new construction of such facilities in other locations along the waterway is subject to the Act if they are regularly used by vessels carrying goods or persons in interstate commerce.
(f)
Highways, county roads and city streets
—(1)
Typical examples.
As a generic term highways includes bridges, underpasses, overpasses, bypasses, county roads, access roads, city streets and alternate roads, draw bridges, toll bridges, toll roads and turnpikes, but does not include roads or parking facilities on privately owned land and which are not for use by the general public for interstate traffic.
(2)
Basis of coverage.
The general rules for determining the coverage of employees engaged in the construction of other instrumentalities of interstate commerce apply to highway construction work. The United States Supreme Court has stated that in applying the Act to highway construction as to other coverage problems, practical rather than technical constructions are decisive.
46
After the Court remanded the Overstreet case to the district court, the latter held that the employees engaged in maintaining and repairing the facilities regularly used and available for interstate commerce were engaged in commerce, regardless of the extent of the interstate traffic.
47
The court recognized that although the amount of the interstate commerce in the Overstreet case was very small it was regular and recurring and not occasional nor incidental. Thus, under the authoritative decision a percentage test is not regarded as a practical guide for ascertaining whether a particular facility is an instrumentality of interstate commerce.
48
Employees who are engaged in the repair, maintenance, extension, enlargement, replacement, reconstruction, redesigning or other improvement of such a road are subject to the Act. The fact that the road is owned or controlled by the State or Federal Government or by any subdivision thereof would not affect the applicability of the Act. The same would be true if State or Federal funds were used to finance the construction. It should be noted, however, that if the employees are actually employees of a State, or a political subdivision thereof, they are excepted from coverage of the Act under section 3(d).
46
Overstreet
v.
North Shore Corp.,
ante.
47
52 F. Supp. 503.
48
North Shore Corp.
v.
Barnett,
143 F. (2d) 172 (C.A. 5);
Schmidt
v.
Peoples Telephone Union of Maryville, Mo.,
138 F. (2d) 13 (C.A. 8).
(3)
City streets.
The construction, reconstruction or repair of a city street, whether residential or not, which is part of an interstate highway or which directly connects with any interstate highway is so closely related to the interstate commerce moving on the existing highway as to be a part of it. Construction of other streets, which are not a part of a public road building program and are constructed on private property as a part of a new residential development, will not be considered covered until further clarification from the courts.
(4)
New highway construction.
Although a number of appellate court decisions have held that the construction of new highways is not within the coverage of the Act, these decisions relied upon the technical “new construction” concept which the United States Supreme Court has subsequently held to be inapplicable as the basis for determining coverage under this Act.
49
Under the principles now established by that Court's decision, which require determination of coverage on the basis of realistic, practical considerations, the construction of new expressways and highways that will connect with an interstate highway system is so “related to the functioning of an instrumentality or facility of interstate commerce as to be, in practical effect, a part of it, rather than isolated, local activity.”
50
Such highways and expressways not only are so designed as
necessarily to become a part of or additions to an existing interstate highway system, but their construction is plainly of a national rather than a local character, as evidenced by the Federal financial contribution to their construction. And neither the fact that they are not dedicated to interstate use during their construction, nor the fact that they will constitute alternate routes rather than replacement of existing road, constitute sufficient basis, under the controlling court decisions, for excluding them from the coverage of the Act.
51
Accordingly, unless and until authoritative court decision in the future hold otherwise, the construction of such new highways and expressways will be regarded as covered.
49
Compare
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer,
ante, with
Koepfie
v.
Garavaglia,
200 F. (2d) 191 (C.A. 6);
Moss
v.
Gillioz Const. Co.,
206 F. (2d) 819 (C.A. 10); and
Van Klaveren
v.
Killian House,
210 F. (2d) 510 (C.A. 5). The Vollmer decision specifically rejected the applicability of the decision construing the Federal Employer's Liability Act, on which the cited appellate court decision relied.
50
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer,
ante;
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
ante; and
Overstreet
v.
North Shore Corp.,
ante.
51
Mitchell
v.
Vollmer
Co.,
ante;
Tobin
v.
Pennington-Winter Const. Co.,
198 F. (2d) 334, certiorari denied 345 U.S. 915; and
Bennett
v.
V. P. Loftis Co.,
167 F. (2d) 286.
§ 776.30
Construction performed on temporarily idle facilities.
The Act applies to work on a covered interstate instrumentality or production facility even though performed during periods of temporary non-use or idleness.
52
The courts have held the Act applicable to performance of construction work upon a covered facility even though the use of the facility was temporarily interrupted or discontinued.
53
It is equally clear that the repair or maintenance of a covered facility (including its machinery, tools, dies, and other equipment) though performed during the inactive or dead season, is subject to the Acts.
54
52
Walton
v.
Southern Package Corp.,
320 U.S. 540;
Slover
v.
Wathen
Co.,
140 F. (2d) 258 (C.A. 4);
Bodden
v.
McCormick Shipping Corp.,
188 F. (2d) 733; and
Russell Co.
v.
McComb,
187 F. (2d) 524 (C.A. 5).
53
Pedersen
v.
J. F. Fitzgerald Construction Co.,
ante;
Bennett
v.
V. P. Loftis,
ante;
Walling
v.
McCrady Const. Co.,
ante; and
Bodden
v.
McCormick Shipping Corp.,
188 F. (2d) 733.
54
Maneja
v.
Waialua Agricultural Co.,
349 U.S. 254;
Bowie
v.
Gonzalez,
117 F. (2d) 11;
Weaver
v.
Pittsburgh Steamship Co.,
153 F. (2d) 597, certiorari denied 328 U.S. 858;
Walling
v.
Keensburg Steamship Co.,
462 F. (2d) 405.
Pt. 778

# PART 778—OVERTIME COMPENSATION

# Subpart A—General Considerations
Sec.
778.0
Introductory statement.
778.1
Introductory statement.
778.2
Coverage and exemptions not discussed.
778.3
Interpretations made, continued, and superseded by this part.
778.4
Reliance on interpretations.
778.5
Relation to other laws generally.
778.6
Effect of Davis-Bacon Act.
778.7
Effect of Service Contract Act of 1965.

# Subpart B—The Overtime Pay Requirements

# Introductory
778.100
The maximum-hours provisions.
778.101
Maximum nonovertime hours.
778.102
Application of overtime provisions generally.
778.103
The workweek as the basis for applying section 7(a).
778.104
Each workweek stands alone.
778.105
Determining the workweek.
778.106
Time of payment.

# Principles for Computing Overtime Pay Based on the “Regular Rate”
778.107
General standard for overtime pay.
778.108
The “regular rate”.
778.109
The regular rate is an hourly rate.
778.110
Hourly rate employee.
778.111
Pieceworker.
778.112
Day rates and job rates.
778.113
Salaried employees—general.
778.114
Fluctuating workweek method of computing overtime.
778.115
Employees working at two or more rates.
778.116
Payments other than cash.
778.117
Commission payments—general.
778.118
Commission paid on a workweek basis.
778.119
Deferred commission payments—general rules.
778.120
Deferred commission payments not identifiable as earned in particular workweeks.
778.121
Commission payments—delayed credits and debits.
778.122
Computation of overtime for commission employees on established basic rate.

# Subpart C—Payments That May Be Excluded From the “Regular Rate”

# The Statutory Provisions
778.200
Provisions governing inclusion, exclusion, and crediting of particular payments.

# Extra Compensation Paid for Overtime
778.201
Overtime premiums—general.
778.202
Premium pay for hours in excess of a daily or weekly standard.
778.203
Premium pay for work on Saturdays, Sundays, and other “special days”.
778.204
“Clock pattern” premium pay.
778.205
Premiums for weekend and holiday work—example.
778.206
Premiums for work outside basic workday or workweek—examples.
778.207
Other types of contract premium pay distinguished.

# Bonuses
778.208
Inclusion and exclusion of bonuses in computing the “regular rate”.
778.209
Method of inclusion of bonus in regular rate.
778.210
Percentage of total earnings as bonus.
778.211
Discretionary bonuses.
778.212
Gifts, Christmas and special occasion bonuses.
778.213
Profit-sharing, thrift, and savings plans.
778.214
Benefit plans; including profit-sharing plans or trusts providing similar benefits.
778.215
Conditions for exclusion of benefit-plan contributions under section 7(e)(4).

# Payments Not for Hours Worked
778.216
The provisions of section 7(e)(2) of the Act.
778.217
Reimbursement for expenses.
778.218
Pay for certain idle hours.
778.219
Pay for foregoing holidays and unused leave.
778.220
“Show-up” or “reporting” pay.
778.221
“Call-back” pay.
778.222
Other payments similar to “call-back” pay.
778.223
Pay for non-productive hours distinguished.
778.224
“Other similar payments”.

# Talent Fees in the Radio and Television Industry
778.225
Talent fees excludable under regulations.

# Subpart D—Special Problems

# Introductory
778.300
Scope of subpart.

# Change in the Beginning of the Workweek
778.301
Overlapping when change of workweek is made.
778.302
Computation of overtime due for overlapping workweeks.

# Additional Pay for Past Period
778.303
Retroactive pay increases.

# How Deductions Affect the Regular Rate
778.304
Amounts deducted from cash wages—general.
778.305
Computation where particular types of deductions are made.
778.306
Salary reductions in short workweeks.
778.307
Disciplinary deductions.

# Lump Sum Attributed to Overtime
778.308
The overtime rate is an hourly rate.
778.309
Fixed sum for constant amount of overtime.
778.310
Fixed sum for varying amounts of overtime.
778.311
Flat rate for special job performed in overtime hours.

# “Task” Basis of Payment
778.312
Pay for task without regard to actual hours.
778.313
Computing overtime pay under the Act for employees compensated on task basis.
778.314
Special situations.

# Effect of Failure To Count or Pay for Certain Working Hours
778.315
Payment for all hours worked in overtime workweek is required.
778.316
Agreements or practices in conflict with statutory requirements are ineffective.
778.317
Agreements not to pay for certain nonovertime hours.
778.318
Productive and nonproductive hours of work.

# Effect of Paying for But Not Counting Certain Hours
778.319
Paying for but not counting hours worked.
778.320
Hours that would not be hours worked if not paid for.

# Reduction in Workweek Schedule With No Change in Pay
778.321
Decrease in hours without decrease in pay—general.
778.322
Reducing the fixed workweek for which a salary is paid.
778.323
Effect if salary is for variable workweek.
778.324
Effect on hourly rate employees.
778.325
Effect on salary covering more than 40 hours' pay.
778.326
Reduction of regular overtime workweek without reduction of take-home pay.
778.327
Temporary or sporadic reduction in schedule.
778.328
Plan for gradual permanent reduction in schedule.
778.329
Alternating workweeks of different fixed lengths.

# Prizes as Bonuses
778.330
Prizes or contest awards generally.
778.331
Awards for performance on the job.
778.332
Awards for activities not normally part of employee's job.
778.333
Suggestion system awards.

# Subpart E—Exceptions From the Regular Rate Principles

# Computing Overtime Pay on an “Established” Rate
778.400
The provisions of section 7(g)(3) of the Act.
778.401
Regulations issued under section 7(g)(3).

# Guaranteed Compensation Which Includes Overtime Pay
778.402
The statutory exception provided by section 7(f) of the Act.
778.403
Constant pay for varying workweeks including overtime is not permitted except as specified in section 7(f).
778.404
Purposes of exemption.
778.405
What types of employees are affected.
778.406
Nonovertime hours as well as overtime hours must be irregular if section 7(f) is to apply.
778.407
The nature of the section 7(f) contract.
778.408
The specified regular rate.
778.409
Provision for overtime pay.
778.410
The guaranty under section 7(f).
778.411
Sixty-hour limit on pay guaranteed by contract.
778.412
Relationship between amount guaranteed and range of hours employee may be expected to work.
778.413
Guaranty must be based on rates specified in contract.
778.414
“Approval” of contracts under section 7(f).

# Computing Overtime Pay on the Rate Applicable to the Type of Work Performed in Overtime Hours (Secs. 7(
g

# )(1) and (2))
778.415
The statutory provisions.
778.416
Purpose of provisions.
778.417
General requirements of section 7(g).
778.418
Pieceworkers.
778.419
Hourly workers employed at two or more jobs.
778.420
Combined hourly rates and piece rates.
778.421
Offset hour for hour.

# Subpart F—Pay Plans Which Circumvent the Act

# Devices To Evade the Overtime Requirements
778.500
Artificial regular rates.
778.501
The “split-day” plan.

# Pseudo-Bonuses
778.502
Artificially labeling part of the regular wages a “bonus”.
778.503
Pseudo “percentage bonuses”.

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous
778.600
Veterans' subsistence allowances.
778.601
Special overtime provisions available for hospital and residential care establishments under section 7(j).
778.602
Special overtime provisions under section 7(b).
778.603
Special overtime provisions for certain employees receiving remedial education under section 7(q).

# Authority:
52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 29 U.S.C. 201
et seq.
Section 778.200 also issued under Pub. L. 106-202, 114 Stat. 308 (29 U.S.C. 207(e) and (h)).

# Source:
33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Considerations
§ 778.0
Introductory statement.
The Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, hereinafter referred to as the Act, is a Federal statute of general application which establishes minimum wage, overtime pay, child labor, and equal pay requirements that apply as provided in the Act. All employees whose employment has the relationship to interstate or foreign commerce which the Act specifies are subject to the prescribed labor standards unless specifically exempted from them. Employers having such employees are required to comply with the Act's provisions in this regard unless relieved therefrom by some exemption in the Act. Such employers are also required to comply with specified recordkeeping requirements contained in part 516 of this chapter. The law authorizes the Department of Labor to investigate for
compliance and, in the event of violations, to supervise the payment of unpaid wages or unpaid overtime compensation owing to any employee. The law also provides for enforcement in the courts.
§ 778.1
Introductory statement.
(a) This part contains the Department of Labor's general interpretations with respect to the meaning and application of the maximum hours and overtime pay requirements contained in section 7 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (“the Act” or “FLSA”). The Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division will use these interpretations to guide the performance of his or her duties under the Act, and intends the interpretations to be used by employers, employees, and courts to understand employers' obligations and employees' rights under the Act. These official interpretations are issued by the Administrator on the advice of the Solicitor of Labor, as authorized by the Secretary (Reorg. Pl. 6 of 1950, 64 Stat. 1263; Gen. Ord. 45A, published in the
Federal Register
on May 24, 1950).
(b) The Department recognizes that compensation practices can vary significantly and will continue to evolve in the future. The Department also recognizes that it is not feasible to address all of the various compensation and benefits arrangements that may exist between employers and employees, both currently and in the future. In general, the FLSA does not restrict the forms of “remuneration” that an employer may pay—which may include an hourly rate, salary, commission, piece rate, a combination thereof, or any other method—as long as the regular rate is equal to at least the applicable minimum wage and compensation for overtime hours worked is paid at the rate of at least one and one-half times the regular rate. While the eight categories of payments in section 7(e)(1)-(8) are the exhaustive list of payments excludable from the regular rate, this part does not contain an exhaustive list of permissible or impermissible compensation practices under section 7(e), unless otherwise indicated. Rather, it provides examples of regular rate and overtime calculations under the FLSA and the types of compensation that may be excluded from regular rate calculations under section 7(e) of the FLSA.
[84 FR 68770, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.2
Coverage and exemptions not discussed.
This part 778 does not deal with the general coverage of the Act or various specific exemptions provided in the statute, under which certain employees within the general coverage of the wage and hours provisions are wholly or partially excluded from the protection of the Act's minimum-wage and overtime-pay requirements. Some of these exemptions are self-executing; others call for definitions or other action by the Administrator. Regulations and interpretations relating to general coverage and specific exemptions may be found in other parts of this chapter.
§ 778.3
Interpretations made, continued, and superseded by this part.
On and after publication of this part in the
Federal Register,
the interpretations contained therein shall be in effect and shall remain in effect until they are modified, rescinded or withdrawn. This part supersedes and replaces the interpretations previously published in the
Federal Register
and Code of Federal Regulations as part 778 of this chapter. Prior opinions, rulings and interpretations and prior enforcement policies which are not inconsistent with the interpretations in this part or with the Fair Labor Standards Act as amended are continued in effect; all other opinions, rulings, interpretations, and enforcement policies on the subjects discussed in the interpretations in this part are rescinded and withdrawn. Questions on matters not fully covered by this part may be addressed to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, or to any Regional Office of the Division.
[46 FR 7309, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.4
Reliance on interpretations.
The interpretations of the law contained in this part 778 are official interpretations which may be relied upon as
provided in section 10 of the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 (61 Stat. 84).
§ 778.5
Relation to other laws generally.
Various Federal, State, and local laws require the payment of minimum hourly, daily or weekly wages different from the minimum set forth in the Fair Labor Standards Act, and the payment of overtime compensation computed on bases different from those set forth in the Fair Labor Standards Act. Where such legislation is applicable and does not contravene the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act, nothing in the act, the regulations or the interpretations announced by the Administrator should be taken to override or nullify the provisions of these laws. Compliance with other applicable legislation does not excuse noncompliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act. Where a higher minimum wage than that set in the Fair Labor Standards Act is applicable to an employee by virtue of such other legislation, the regular rate of the employee, as the term is used in the Fair Labor Standards Act, cannot be lower than such applicable minimum, for the words “regular rate at which he is employed” as used in section 7 must be construed to mean the regular rate at which he is lawfully employed.
§ 778.6
Effect of Davis-Bacon Act.
Section 1 of the Davis-Bacon Act (46 Stat. 1494, as amended; 40 U.S.C. 276a) provides for the inclusion of certain fringe benefits in the prevailing wages that are predetermined by the Secretary of Labor, under that Act and related statutes, as minimum wages for laborers and mechanics employed by contractors and subcontractors performing construction activity on Federal and federally assisted projects. Laborers and mechanics performing work subject to such predetermined minimum wages may, if they work overtime, be subject to overtime compensation provisions of other laws which may apply concurrently to them, including the Fair Labor Standards Act. In view of this fact, specific provision was made in the Davis-Bacon Act for the treatment of such predetermined fringe benefits in the computation of overtime compensation under other applicable statutes including the Fair Labor Standards Act. The application of this provision is discussed in § 5.32 of this title, which should be considered together with the interpretations in this part 778 in determining any overtime compensation payable under the Fair Labor Standards Act to such laborers and mechanics in any workweek when they are subject to fringe benefit wage determinations under the Davis-Bacon and related acts.
§ 778.7
Effect of Service Contract Act of 1965.
The McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act of 1965, which provides for the predetermination and the specification in service contracts entered into by the Federal Government or the District of Columbia, of the minimum wages and fringe benefits to be received by employees of contractors and subcontractors employed in work on such contracts, contains the following provision:
Sec. 6.
In determining any overtime pay to which such service employees are entitled under any Federal law, the regular or basic hourly rate of pay of such an employee shall not include any fringe benefit payments computed hereunder which are excluded from the regular rate under the Fair Labor Standards Act by provisions of section 7(e)* thereof. (*Subsection designation changed in text from section 7(d) to 7(e) to conform with the relettering enacted by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1966.)
Where the fringe benefits specified in such a service contract are furnished to an employee, the above provision permits exclusion of such fringe benefits from the employee's regular rate of pay under the Fair Labor Standards Act pursuant to the rules and principles set forth in subpart C of this part 778. However, the McNamara-O'Hara Act permits an employer to discharge his obligation to provide the specified fringe benefits by furnishing any equivalent combinations of bona fide fringe benefits or by making equivalent or differential payments in cash. Permissible methods of doing this are set forth in part 4 of this title, subpart B. If the employer furnishes equivalent benefits or makes cash payments, or
both, to an employee as therein authorized, the amounts thereof, to the extent that they operate to discharge the employer's obligation under the McNamara-O'Hara Act to furnish such specified fringe benefits, may be excluded pursuant to such Act from the employee's regular or basic rate of pay in computing any overtime pay due the employee under the Fair Labor Standards Act, pursuant to the rule provided in § 4.55 of this title. This means that such equivalent fringe benefits or cash payments which are authorized under the McNamara-O'Hara Act to be provided in lieu of the fringe benefits specified in determinations issued under such Act are excludable from the regular rate in applying the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act if the fringe benefits specified under the McNamara-O'Hara Act would be so excludable if actually furnished. This is true regardless of whether the equivalent benefits or payments themselves meet the requirements of section 7(e) of the Fair Labor Standards Act and subpart C of this part 778.

# Subpart B—The Overtime Pay Requirements

# Introductory
§ 778.100
The maximum-hours provisions.
Section 7(a) of the Act deals with maximum hours and overtime compensation for employees who are within the general coverage of the Act and are not specifically exempt from its overtime pay requirements. It prescribes the maximum weekly hours of work permitted for the employment of such employees in any workweek without extra compensation for overtime, and a general overtime rate of pay not less than one and one-half times the employee's regular rate which the employee must receive for all hours worked in any workweek in excess of the applicable maximum hours. The employment by an employer of an employee in any work subject to the Act in any workweek brings these provisions into operation. The employer is prohibited from employing the employee in excess of the prescribed maximum hours in such workweek without paying him the required extra compensation for the overtime hours worked at a rate meeting the statutory requirement.
§ 778.101
Maximum nonovertime hours.
As a general standard, section 7(a) of the Act provides 40 hours as the maximum number that an employee subject to its provisions may work for an employer in any workweek without receiving additional compensation at not less than the statutory rate for overtime. Hours worked in excess of the statutory maximum in any workweek are overtime hours under the statute; a workweek no longer than the prescribed maximum is a nonovertime workweek under the Act, to which the pay requirements of section 6 (minimum wage and equal pay) but not those of section 7(a) are applicable.
[46 FR 7309, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.102
Application of overtime provisions generally.
Since there is no absolute limitation in the Act (apart from the child labor provisions and regulations thereunder) on the number of hours that an employee may work in any workweek, he may work as many hours a week as he and his employer see fit, so long as the required overtime compensation is paid him for hours worked in excess of the maximum workweek prescribed by section 7(a). The Act does not generally require, however, that an employee be paid overtime compensation for hours in excess of eight per day, or for work on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays or regular days of rest. If no more than the maximum number of hours prescribed in the Act are actually worked in the workweek, overtime compensation pursuant to section 7(a) need not be paid. Nothing in the Act, however, will relieve an employer of any obligation he may have assumed by contract or of any obligation imposed by other Federal or State law to limit overtime hours of work or to pay premium rates for work in excess of a daily standard or for work on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, or other periods outside of or in excess of the normal or regular workweek or workday. (The effect of
making such payments is discussed in §§ 778.201 through 778.207 and 778.219.)
[46 FR 7309, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.103
The workweek as the basis for applying section 7(a).
If in any workweek an employee is covered by the Act and is not exempt from its overtime pay requirements, the employer must total all the hours worked by the employee for him in that workweek (even though two or more unrelated job assignments may have been performed), and pay overtime compensation for each hour worked in excess of the maximum hours applicable under section 7(a) of the Act. In the case of an employee employed jointly by two or more employers (see part 791 of this chapter), all hours worked by the employee for such employers during the workweek must be totaled in determining the number of hours to be compensated in accordance with section 7(a). The principles for determining what hours are hours worked within the meaning of the Act are discussed in part 785 of this chapter.
§ 778.104
Each workweek stands alone.
The Act takes a single workweek as its standard and does not permit averaging of hours over 2 or more weeks. Thus, if an employee works 30 hours one week and 50 hours the next, he must receive overtime compensation for the overtime hours worked beyond the applicable maximum in the second week, even though the average number of hours worked in the 2 weeks is 40. This is true regardless of whether the employee works on a standard or swing-shift schedule and regardless of whether he is paid on a daily, weekly, biweekly, monthly or other basis. The rule is also applicable to pieceworkers and employees paid on a commission basis. It is therefore necessary to determine the hours worked and the compensation earned by pieceworkers and commission employees on a weekly basis.
§ 778.105
Determining the workweek.
An employee's workweek is a fixed and regularly recurring period of 168 hours—seven consecutive 24-hour periods. It need not coincide with the calendar week but may begin on any day and at any hour of the day. For purposes of computing pay due under the Fair Labor Standards Act, a single workweek may be established for a plant or other establishment as a whole or different workweeks may be established for different employees or groups of employees. Once the beginning time of an employee's workweek is established, it remains fixed regardless of the schedule of hours worked by him. The beginning of the workweek may be changed if the change is intended to be permanent and is not designed to evade the overtime requirements of the Act. The proper method of computing overtime pay in a period in which a change in the time of commencement of the workweek is made, is discussed in §§ 778.301 and 778.302.
§ 778.106
Time of payment.
There is no requirement in the Act that overtime compensation be paid weekly. The general rule is that overtime compensation earned in a particular workweek must be paid on the regular pay day for the period in which such workweek ends. When the correct amount of overtime compensation cannot be determined until some time after the regular pay period, however, the requirements of the Act will be satisfied if the employer pays the excess overtime compensation as soon after the regular pay period as is practicable. Payment may not be delayed for a period longer than is reasonably necessary for the employer to compute and arrange for payment of the amount due and in no event may payment be delayed beyond the next payday after such computation can be made. Where retroactive wage increases are made, retroactive overtime compensation is due at the time the increase is paid, as discussed in § 778.303. For a discussion of overtime payments due because of increases by way of bonuses, see § 778.209.

# Principles for Computing Overtime Pay Based on the “Regular Rate”
§ 778.107
General standard for overtime pay.
The general overtime pay standard in section 7(a) requires that overtime
must be compensated at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate at which the employee is actually employed. The regular rate of pay at which the employee is employed may in no event be less than the statutory minimum. (The statutory minimum is the specified minimum wage applicable under section 6 of the Act, except in the case of workers specially provided for in section 14 and workers in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa who are covered by wage orders issued pursuant to section 8 of the Act.) If the employee's regular rate of pay is higher than the statutory minimum, his overtime compensation must be computed at a rate not less than one and one-half times such higher rate. Under certain conditions prescribed in section 7 (f), (g), and (j), the Act provides limited exceptions to the application of the general standard of section 7(a) for computing overtime pay based on the regular rate. With respect to these, see §§ 778.400 through 778.421 and 778.601 and part 548 of this chapter. The Act also provides, in section 7(b), (i), (k) and (m) and in section 13, certain partial and total exemptions from the application of section 7(a) to certain employees and under certain conditions. Regulations and interpretations concerning these exemptions are outside the scope of this part 778 and reference should be made to other applicable parts of this chapter.
[46 FR 7309, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.108
The “regular rate”.
The “regular rate” of pay under the Act cannot be left to a declaration by the parties as to what is to be treated as the regular rate for an employee; it must be drawn from what happens under the employment contract (
Bay Ridge Operating Co.
v.
Aaron,
334 U.S. 446). The Supreme Court has described it as the hourly rate actually paid the employee for the normal, nonovertime workweek for which he is employed—an “actual fact” (
Walling
v.
Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood Co.,
325 U.S. 419). Section 7(e) of the Act requires inclusion in the “regular rate” of “all remuneration for employment paid to, or on behalf of, the employee” except payments specifically excluded by paragraphs (1) through (7) of that subsection. (These seven types of payments, which are set forth in § 778.200 and discussed in §§ 778.201 through 778.224, are hereafter referred to as “statutory exclusions.”) As stated by the Supreme Court in the Youngerman-Reynolds case cited above: “Once the parties have decided upon the amount of wages and the mode of payment the determination of the regular rate becomes a matter of mathematical computation, the result of which is unaffected by any designation of a contrary ‘regular rate’ in the wage contracts.”
§ 778.109
The regular rate is an hourly rate.
The “regular rate” under the Act is a rate per hour. The Act does not require employers to compensate employees on an hourly rate basis; their earnings may be determined on a piece-rate, salary, commission, or other basis, but in such case the overtime compensation due to employees must be computed on the basis of the hourly rate derived therefrom and, therefore, it is necessary to compute the regular hourly rate of such employees during each workweek, with certain statutory exceptions discussed in §§ 778.400 through 778.421. The regular hourly rate of pay of an employee is determined by dividing his total remuneration for employment (except statutory exclusions) in any workweek by the total number of hours actually worked by him in that workweek for which such compensation was paid. The following sections give some examples of the proper method of determining the regular rate of pay in particular instances: (The maximum hours standard used in these examples is 40 hours in a workweek).
§ 778.110
Hourly rate employee.
(a)
Earnings at hourly rate exclusively.
If the employee is employed solely on the basis of a single hourly rate, the hourly rate is the “regular rate.” For overtime hours of work the employee must be paid, in addition to the straight time hourly earnings, a sum determined by multiplying one-half the hourly rate by the number of hours worked in excess of 40 in the week. Thus a $12 hourly rate will bring, for an employee who works 46 hours, a total weekly wage of $588 (46 hours at $12
plus 6 at $6). In other words, the employee is entitled to be paid an amount equal to $12 an hour for 40 hours and $18 an hour for the 6 hours of overtime, or a total of $588.
(b)
Hourly rate and bonus.
If the employee receives, in addition to the earnings computed at the $12 hourly rate, a production bonus of $46 for the week, the regular hourly rate of pay is $13 an hour (46 hours at $12 yields $552; the addition of the $46 bonus makes a total of $598; this total divided by 46 hours yields a regular rate of $13). The employee is then entitled to be paid a total wage of $637 for 46 hours (46 hours at $13 plus 6 hours at $6.50, or 40 hours at $13 plus 6 hours at $19.50).
[76 FR 18857, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 778.111
Pieceworker.
(a)
Piece rates and supplements generally.
When an employee is employed on a piece-rate basis, the regular hourly rate of pay is computed by adding together total earnings for the workweek from piece rates and all other sources (such as production bonuses) and any sums paid for waiting time or other hours worked (except statutory exclusions). This sum is then divided by the number of hours worked in the week for which such compensation was paid, to yield the pieceworker's “regular rate” for that week. For overtime work the pieceworker is entitled to be paid, in addition to the total weekly earnings at this regular rate for all hours worked, a sum equivalent to one-half this regular rate of pay multiplied by the number of hours worked in excess of 40 in the week. (For an alternative method of complying with the overtime requirements of the Act as far as pieceworkers are concerned,
see
§ 778.418.) Only additional half-time pay is required in such cases where the employee has already received straight-time compensation at piece rates or by supplementary payments for all hours worked. Thus, for example, if the employee has worked 50 hours and has earned $491 at piece rates for 46 hours of productive work and in addition has been compensated at $8.00 an hour for 4 hours of waiting time, the total compensation, $523.00, must be divided by the total hours of work, 50, to arrive at the regular hourly rate of pay—$10.46. For the 10 hours of overtime the employee is entitled to additional compensation of $52.30 (10 hours at $5.23). For the week's work the employee is thus entitled to a total of $575.30 (which is equivalent to 40 hours at $10.46 plus 10 overtime hours at $15.69).
(b)
Piece rates with minimum hourly guarantee.
In some cases an employee is hired on a piece-rate basis coupled with a minimum hourly guaranty. Where the total piece-rate earnings for the workweek fall short of the amount that would be earned for the total hours of work at the guaranteed rate, the employee is paid the difference. In such weeks the employee is in fact paid at an hourly rate and the minimum hourly guaranty is the regular rate in that week. In the example just given, if the employee was guaranteed $11 an hour for productive working time, the employee would be paid $506 (46 hours at $11) for the 46 hours of productive work (instead of the $491 earned at piece rates). In a week in which no waiting time was involved, the employee would be owed an additional $5.50 (half time) for each of the 6 overtime hours worked, to bring the total compensation up to $539 (46 hours at $11 plus 6 hours at $5.50 or 40 hours at $11 plus 6 hours at $16.50). If the employee is paid at a different rate for waiting time, the regular rate is the weighted average of the 2 hourly rates, as discussed in § 778.115.
[76 FR 18857, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 778.112
Day rates and job rates.
If the employee is paid a flat sum for a day's work or for doing a particular job, without regard to the number of hours worked in the day or at the job, and if he receives no other form of compensation for services, his regular rate is determined by totaling all the sums received at such day rates or job rates in the workweek and dividing by the total hours actually worked. He is then entitled to extra half-time pay at this rate for all hours worked in excess of 40 in the workweek.
§ 778.113
Salaried employees—general.
(a)
Weekly salary.
If the employee is employed solely on a weekly salary basis, the regular hourly rate of pay, on which time and a half must be paid,
is computed by dividing the salary by the number of hours which the salary is intended to compensate. If an employee is hired at a salary of $350 and if it is understood that this salary is compensation for a regular workweek of 35 hours, the employee's regular rate of pay is $350 divided by 35 hours, or $10 an hour, and when the employee works overtime the employee is entitled to receive $10 for each of the first 40 hours and $15 (one and one-half times $10) for each hour thereafter. If an employee is hired at a salary of $375 for a 40-hour week the regular rate is $9.38 an hour.
(b)
Salary for periods other than workweek.
Where the salary covers a period longer than a workweek, such as a month, it must be reduced to its workweek equivalent. A monthly salary is subject to translation to its equivalent weekly wage by multiplying by 12 (the number of months) and dividing by 52 (the number of weeks). A semimonthly salary is translated into its equivalent weekly wage by multiplying by 24 and dividing by 52. Once the weekly wage is arrived at, the regular hourly rate of pay will be calculated as indicated above. The regular rate of an employee who is paid a regular monthly salary of $1,560, or a regular semimonthly salary of $780 for 40 hours a week, is thus found to be $9 per hour. Under regulations of the Administrator, pursuant to the authority given to him in section 7(g)(3) of the Act, the parties may provide that the regular rates shall be determined by dividing the monthly salary by the number of working days in the month and then by the number of hours of the normal or regular workday. Of course, the resultant rate in such a case must not be less than the statutory minimum wage.
[46 FR 7310, Jan. 23, 1981, as amended at 76 FR 18857, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 778.114
Fluctuating Workweek Method of Computing Overtime.
(a) An employer may use the fluctuating workweek method to properly compute overtime compensation based on the regular rate for a nonexempt employee under the following circumstances:
(1) The employee works hours that fluctuate from week to week;
(2) The employee receives a fixed salary that does not vary with the number of hours worked in the workweek, whether few or many;
(3) The amount of the employee's fixed salary is sufficient to provide compensation to the employee at a rate not less than the applicable minimum wage rate for every hour worked in those workweeks in which the number of hours the employee works is greatest;
(4) The employee and the employer have a clear and mutual understanding that the fixed salary is compensation (apart from overtime premiums and any bonuses, premium payments, commissions, hazard pay, or other additional pay of any kind not excludable from the regular rate under section 7(e)(l) through (8) of the Act) for the total hours worked each workweek regardless of the number of hours, although the clear and mutual understanding does not need to extend to the specific method used to calculate overtime pay; and
(5) The employee receives overtime compensation, in addition to such fixed salary and any bonuses, premium payments, commissions, hazard pay, and additional pay of any kind, for all overtime hours worked at a rate of not less than one-half the employee's regular rate of pay for that workweek. Since the salary is fixed, the regular rate of the employee will vary from week to week and is determined by dividing the amount of the salary and any non-excludable additional pay received each workweek by the number of hours worked in the workweek. Payment for overtime hours at not less than one-half such rate satisfies the overtime pay requirement because such hours have already been compensated at the straight time rate by payment of the fixed salary and non-excludable additional pay. Payment of any bonuses, premium payments, commissions, hazard pay, and additional pay of any kind is compatible with the fluctuating workweek method of overtime payment, and such payments must be included in the calculation of the regular rate unless excludable under section 7(e)(1) through (8) of the Act.
(b) The application of the principles stated above may be illustrated by the
case of an employee whose hours of work do not customarily follow a regular schedule but vary from week to week, whose work hours never exceed 50 hours in a workweek, and whose salary of $600 a week is paid with the understanding that it constitutes the employee's compensation (apart from overtime premiums and any bonuses, premium payments, commissions, hazard pay, or other additional pay of any kind not excludable from the regular rate under section 7(e)(1) through (8)) for all hours worked in the workweek.
(1)
Example.
If during the course of 4 weeks this employee receives no additional compensation and works 37.5, 44, 50, and 48 hours, the regular rate of pay in each of these weeks is $16, $13.64, $12, and $12.50, respectively. Since the employee has already received straight time compensation for all hours worked in these weeks, only additional half-time pay is due for overtime hours. For the first week the employee is owed $600 (fixed salary of $600, with no overtime hours); for the second week $627.28 (fixed salary of $600, and 4 hours of overtime pay at one-half times the regular rate of $13.64 for a total overtime payment of $27.28); for the third week $660 (fixed salary of $600, and 10 hours of overtime pay at one-half times the regular rate of $12 for a total overtime payment of $60); for the fourth week $650 (fixed salary of $600, and 8 overtime hours at one-half times the regular rate of $12.50 for a total overtime payment of $50).
(2)
Example.
If during the course of 2 weeks this employee works 37.5 and 48 hours and 4 of the hours the employee worked each week were nightshift hours compensated at a premium rate of an extra $5 per hour, the employee's total straight time earnings would be $620 (fixed salary of $600 plus $20 of premium pay for the 4 nightshift hours). In this case, the regular rate of pay in each of these weeks is $16.53 and $12.92, respectively, and the employee's total compensation would be calculated as follows: For the 37.5 hour week the employee is owed $620 (fixed salary of $600 plus $20 of non-overtime premium pay, with no overtime hours); and for the 48 hour week $671.68 (fixed salary of $600 plus $20 of non-overtime premium pay, and 8 hours of overtime at one-half times the regular rate of $12.92 for a total overtime payment of $51.68). This principle applies in the same manner regardless of the reason for the hourly premium rate (e.g., weekend hours).
(3)
Example.
If during the course of 2 weeks this employee works 37.5 and 48 hours and the employee received a $100 productivity bonus each week, the employee's total straight time earnings would be $700 (fixed salary of $600 plus $100 productivity bonus). In this case, the regular rate of pay in each of these weeks is $18.67 and $14.58, respectively, and the employee's total compensation would be calculated as follows: For the 37.5 hour week the employee is owed $700 (fixed salary of $600 plus $100 productivity bonus, with no overtime hours); and for the 48 hour week $758.32 (fixed salary of $600 plus $100 productivity bonus, and 8 hours of overtime at one-half times the regular rate of $14.58 for a total overtime payment of $58.32).
(c) Typically, such fixed salaries are paid to employees who do not customarily work a regular schedule of hours and are in amounts agreed on by the parties as adequate compensation for long workweeks as well as short ones, under the circumstances of the employment as a whole. Where the conditions for the use of the fluctuating workweek method of overtime payment are present, the Act, in requiring that “not less than” the prescribed premium of 50 percent for overtime hours worked be paid, does not prohibit paying more. On the other hand, where all the facts indicate that an employee is being paid for overtime hours at a rate no greater than that which the employee receives for nonovertime hours, compliance with the Act cannot be rested on any application of the fluctuating workweek overtime formula.
(d) The fixed salary described in paragraph (a) of this section does not vary with the number of hours worked in the workweek, whether few or many. However, employers using the fluctuating workweek method of overtime payment may take occasional disciplinary deductions from the employee's salary for willful absences or tardiness or for infractions of major work rules, provided that the deductions do not cut
into the minimum wage or overtime pay required by the Act.
[85 FR 34992, June 8, 2020]
§ 778.115
Employees working at two or more rates.
Where an employee in a single workweek works at two or more different types of work for which different nonovertime rates of pay (of not less than the applicable minimum wage) have been established, his regular rate for that week is the weighted average of such rates. That is, his total earnings (except statutory exclusions) are computed to include his compensation during the workweek from all such rates, and are then divided by the total number of hours worked at all jobs. Certain statutory exceptions permitting alternative methods of computing overtime pay in such cases are discussed in §§ 778.400 and 778.415 through 778.421.
§ 778.116
Payments other than cash.
Where payments are made to employees in the form of goods or facilities which are regarded as part of wages, the reasonable cost to the employer or the fair value of such goods or of furnishing such facilities must be included in the regular rate. (See part 531 of this chapter for a discussion as to the inclusion of goods and facilities in wages and the method of determining reasonable cost.) Where, for example, an employer furnishes lodging to his employees in addition to cash wages the reasonable cost or the fair value of the lodging (per week) must be added to the cash wages before the regular rate is determined.
[46 FR 7310, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.117
Commission payments—general.
Commissions (whether based on a percentage of total sales or of sales in excess of a specified amount, or on some other formula) are payments for hours worked and must be included in the regular rate. This is true regardless of whether the commission is the sole source of the employee's compensation or is paid in addition to a guaranteed salary or hourly rate, or on some other basis, and regardless of the method, frequency, or regularity of computing, allocating and paying the commission. It does not matter whether the commission earnings are computed daily, weekly, biweekly, semimonthly, monthly, or at some other interval. The fact that the commission is paid on a basis other than weekly, and that payment is delayed for a time past the employee's normal pay day or pay period, does not excuse the employer from including this payment in the employee's regular rate.
[36 FR 4981, Mar. 16, 1971]
§ 778.118
Commission paid on a workweek basis.
When the commission is paid on a weekly basis, it is added to the employee's other earnings for that workweek (except overtime premiums and other payments excluded as provided in section 7(e) of the Act), and the total is divided by the total number of hours worked in the workweek to obtain the employee's regular hourly rate for the particular workweek. The employee must then be paid extra compensation at one-half of that rate for each hour worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard.
§ 778.119
Deferred commission payments—general rules.
If the calculation and payment of the commission cannot be completed until sometime after the regular pay day for the workweek, the employer may disregard the commission in computing the regular hourly rate until the amount of commission can be ascertained. Until that is done he may pay compensation for overtime at a rate not less than one and one-half times the hourly rate paid the employee, exclusive of the commission. When the commission can be computed and paid, additional overtime compensation due by reason of the inclusion of the commission in the employee's regular rate must also be paid. To compute this additional overtime compensation, it is necessary, as a general rule, that the commission be apportioned back over the workweeks of the period during which it was earned. The employee must then receive additional overtime compensation for each week during the period in which he worked in excess of the applicable maximum
hours standard. The additional compensation for that workweek must be not less than one-half of the increase in the hourly rate of pay attributable to the commission for that week multipled by the number of hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard in that workweek.
§ 778.120
Deferred commission payments not identifiable as earned in particular workweeks.
If it is not possible or practicable to allocate the commission among the workweeks of the period in proportion to the amount of commission actually earned or reasonably presumed to be earned each week, some other reasonable and equitable method must be adopted. The following methods may be used:
(a)
Allocation of equal amounts to each week.
Assume that the employee earned an equal amount of commission in each week of the commission computation period and compute any additional overtime compensation due on this amount. This may be done as follows:
(1) For a commission computation period of 1 month, multiply the commission payment by 12 and divide by 52 to get the amount of commission allocable to a single week. If there is a semimonthly computation period, multiply the commission payment by 24 and divide by 52 to get each week's commission. For a commission computation period of a specific number of workweeks, such as every 4 weeks (as distinguished from every month) divide the total amount of commission by the number of weeks for which it represents additional compensation to get the amount of commission allocable to each week.
(2) Once the amount of commission allocable to a workweek has been ascertained for each week in which overtime was worked, the commission for that week is divided by the total number of hours worked in that week, to get the increase in the hourly rate. Additional overtime due is computed by multiplying one-half of this figure by the number of overtime hours worked in the week. A shorter method of obtaining the amount of additional overtime compensation due is to multiply the amount of commission allocable to the week by the decimal equivalent of the fraction
Overtime hours
————————
Total hours × 2
A coefficient table (WH-134) has been prepared which contains the appropriate decimals for computing the extra half-time due.

# Examples:
(i) If there is a monthly commission payment of $416, the amount of commission allocable to a single week is $96 ($416 × 12 = $4,992 ÷ 52 = $96). In a week in which an employee who is due overtime compensation after 40 hours works 48 hours, dividing $96 by 48 gives the increase to the regular rate of $2. Multiplying one-half of this figure by 8 overtime hours gives the additional overtime pay due of $8. The $96 may also be multiplied by 0.083 (the appropriate decimal shown on the coefficient table) to get the additional overtime pay due of $8.
(ii) An employee received $384 in commissions for a 4-week period. Dividing this by 4 gives him a weekly increase of $96. Assume that he is due overtime compensation after 40 hours and that in the 4-week period he worked 44, 40, 44 and 48 hours. He would be due additional compensation of $4.36 for the first and third week ($96 ÷ 44 = $2.18 ÷ 2 = $1.09 × 4 overtime hours = $4.36), no extra compensation for the second week during which no overtime hours were worked, and $8 for the fourth week, computed in the same manner as weeks one and three. The additional overtime pay due may also be computed by multiplying the amount of the weekly increase by the appropriate decimal on the coefficient table, for each week in which overtime was worked.
(b)
Allocation of equal amounts to each hour worked.
Sometimes, there are facts which make it inappropriate to assume equal commission earnings for each workweek. For example, the number of hours worked each week may vary significantly. In such cases, rather than following the method outlined in paragraph (a) of this section, it is reasonable to assume that the employee earned an equal amount of commission in each hour that he worked during the commission computation period. The amount of the commission payment should be divided by the number of hours worked in the period in order to determine the amount of the increase in the regular rate allocable
to the commission payment. One-half of this figure should be multiplied by the number of statutory overtime hours worked by the employee in the overtime workweeks of the commission computation period, to get the amount of additional overtime compensation due for this period.

# Example:
An employee received commissions of $192 for a commission computation period of 96 hours, including 16 overtime hours (
i.e.,
two workweeks of 48 hours each). Dividing the $192 by 96 gives a $2 increase in the hourly rate. If the employee is entitled to overtime after 40 hours in a workweek, he is due an additional $16 for the commission computation period, representing an additional $1 for each of the 16 overtime hours.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7310, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.121
Commission payments—delayed credits and debits.
If there are delays in crediting sales or debiting returns or allowances which affect the computation of commissions, the amounts paid to the employee for the computation period will be accepted as the total commission earnings of the employee during such period, and the commission may be allocated over the period from the last commission computation date to the present commission computation date, even though there may be credits or debits resulting from work which actually occurred during a previous period. The hourly increase resulting from the commission may be computed as outlined in the preceding paragraphs.
§ 778.122
Computation of overtime for commission employees on established basic rate.
Overtime pay for employees paid wholly or partly on a commission basis may be computed on an established basic rate, in lieu of the method described above. See § 778.400 and part 548 of this chapter.

# Subpart C—Payments That May Be Excluded From the “Regular Rate”

# The Statutory Provisions
§ 778.200
Provisions governing inclusion, exclusion, and crediting of particular payments.
(a)
Section 7(e).
This subsection of the Act provides as follows:
As used in this section the “regular rate” at which an employee is employed shall be deemed to include all remuneration for employment paid to, or on behalf of, the employee, but shall not be deemed to include:
(1) Sums paid as gifts; payments in the nature of gifts made at Christmas time or on other special occasions, as a reward for service, the amounts of which are not measured by or dependent on hours worked, production, or efficiency; [discussed in § 778.212].
(2) Payments made for occasional periods when no work is performed due to vacation, holiday, illness, failure of the employer to provide sufficient work, or other similar cause; reasonable payments for traveling expenses, or other expenses, incurred by an employee in the furtherance of his employer's interests and properly reimbursable by the employer; and other similar payments to an employee which are not made as compensation for his hours of employment; [discussed in §§ 778.216 through 778.224].
(3) Sums paid in recognition of services performed during a given period if either, (a) both the fact that payment is to be made and the amount of the payment are determined at the sole discretion of the employer at or near the end of the period and not pursuant to any prior contract, agreement, or promise causing the employee to expect such payments regularly; or (b) the payments are made pursuant to a bona fide profit-sharing plan or trust or bona fide thrift or savings plan, meeting the requirements of the Secretary of Labor set forth in appropriate regulations which he shall issue, having due regard among other relevant factors, to the extent to which the amounts paid to the employee are determined without regard to hours of work, production, or efficiency; or (c) the payments are talent fees (as such talent fees are defined and delimited by regulations of the Secretary) paid to performers, including announcers, on radio and television programs; [discussed in §§ 778.208 through 778.215 and 778.225].
(4) Contributions irrevocably made by an employer to a trustee or third person pursuant to a bona fide plan for providing old-age, retirement, life, accident, or health insurance or similar benefits for employees; [discussed in §§ 778.214 and 778.215].
(5) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid for certain hours worked by the employee in any day or workweek because such hours are hours worked in excess of eight in a day or in excess of the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under subsection (a) or in excess of the employee's normal working hours or regular working hours, as the case may be; [discussed in §§ 778.201 and 778.202].
(6) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid for work by the employee on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, or regular days of rest, or on the sixth or seventh day of the workweek, where such premium rate is not less than one and one-half times the rate established in good faith for like work performed in nonovertime hours on other days; or [discussed in §§ 778.203, 778.205, and 778.206].
(7) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid to the employee, in pursuance of an applicable employment contract or collective bargaining agreement, for work outside of the hours established in good faith by the contract or agreement as the basic, normal, or regular workday (not exceeding eight hours) or workweek (not exceeding the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under subsection (a)), where such premium rate is not less than one and one-half times the rate established in good faith by the contract or agreement for like work performed during such workday or workweek; [discussed in §§ 778.201 and 778.206].
(8) Any value or income derived from employer-provided grants or rights provided pursuant to a stock option, stock appreciation right, or bona fide employee stock purchase program which is not otherwise excludable under any of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(7) of this section if—
(i) Grants are made pursuant to a program, the terms and conditions of which are communicated to participating employees either at the beginning of the employee's participation in the program or at the time of the grant;
(ii) In the case of stock options and stock appreciation rights, the grant or right cannot be exercisable for a period of at least 6 months after the time of grant (except that grants or rights may become exercisable because of an employee's death, disability, retirement, or a change in corporate ownership, or other circumstances permitted by regulation), and the exercise price is at least 85 percent of the fair market value of the stock at the time of grant;
(iii) Exercise of any grant or right is voluntary; and
(iv) Any determinations regarding the award of, and the amount of, employer-provided grants or rights that are based on performance are—
(A) Made based upon meeting previously established performance criteria (which may include hours of work, efficiency, or productivity) of any business unit consisting of at least 10 employees or of a facility, except that, any determinations may be based on length of service or minimum schedule of hours or days of work; or
(B) Made based upon the past performance (which may include any criteria) of one or more employees in a given period so long as the determination is in the sole discretion of the employer and not pursuant to any prior contract.
(b)
Section 7(h).
This subsection of the Act provides as follows:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), sums excluded from the regular rate pursuant to subsection (e) shall not be creditable toward wages required under section 6 or overtime compensation required under this section.
(2) Extra compensation paid as described in paragraphs (5), (6), and (7) of subsection (e) of this section shall be creditable toward overtime compensation payable pursuant to this section.
(c)
Only the statutory exclusions are authorized.
It is important to determine the scope of these exclusions, since all remuneration for employment paid to employees which does not fall within one of these seven exclusionary clauses must be added into the total compensation received by the employee before his regular hourly rate of pay is determined.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 76 FR 18858, Apr. 5, 2011]

# Extra Compensation Paid for Overtime
§ 778.201
Overtime premiums—general.
(a) Certain premium payments made by employers for work in excess of or outside of specified daily or weekly standard work periods or on certain special days are regarded as overtime premiums. In such case, the extra compensation provided by the premium rates need not be included in the employee's regular rate of pay for the purpose of computing overtime compensation due under section 7(a) of the Act. Moreover, under section 7(h) this extra compensation may be credited toward the overtime payments required by the Act.
(b) The three types of extra premium payments which may thus be treated as overtime premiums for purposes of
the Act are outlined in section 7(e) (5), (6), and (7) of the Act as set forth in § 778.200(a). These are discussed in detail in the sections following.
(c) Section 7(h) of the Act specifically states that the extra compensation provided by these three types of payments may be credited toward overtime compensation due under section 7(a) for work in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard. No other types of remuneration for employment may be so credited.
§ 778.202
Premium pay for hours in excess of a daily or weekly standard.
(a)
Hours in excess of 8 per day or statutory weekly standard.
A written or unwritten employment contract, agreement, understanding, handbook, policy, or practice may provide for the payment of overtime compensation for hours worked in excess of 8 per day or 40 per week. If the payment of such overtime compensation is in fact contingent upon the employee's having worked in excess of 8 hours in a day or in excess of the number of hours in the workweek specified in section 7(a) of the Act as the weekly maximum and such hours are reflected in an agreement or by established practice, the extra premium compensation paid for the excess hours is excludable from the regular rate under section 7(e)(5) of the Act and may be credited toward statutory overtime payments pursuant to section 7(h) of the Act. In applying the rules in this paragraph (a) to situations where it is the custom to pay employees for hours during which no work is performed due to vacation, holiday, illness, failure of the employer to provide sufficient work, or other similar cause, as these terms are explained in §§ 778.216 through 778.224, it is permissible (but not required) to count these hours as hours worked in determining the amount of overtime premium pay, due for hours in excess of 8 per day or the applicable maximum hours standard, which may be excluded from the regular rate and credited toward the statutory overtime compensation.
(b)
Hours in excess of normal or regular working hours.
Similarly, where the employee's normal or regular daily or weekly working hours are greater or fewer than 8 hours and 40 hours respectively and such hours are reflected in an agreement or by established practice, and the employee receives payment of premium rates for work in excess of such normal or regular hours of work for the day or week (such as 7 in a day or 35 in a week), the extra compensation provided by such premium rates, paid for excessive hours, is a true overtime premium to be excluded from the regular rate and it may be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act.
(c)
Premiums for excessive daily hours.
If an employee whose maximum hours standard is 40 hours is hired at the rate of $12 an hour and receives, as overtime compensation under his contract, $12.50 per hour for each hour actually worked in excess of 8 per day (or in excess of his normal or regular daily working hours), his employer may exclude the premium portion of the overtime rate from the employee's regular rate and credit the total of the extra 50-cent payments thus made for daily overtime hours against the overtime compensation which is due under the statute for hours in excess of 40 in that workweek. If the same contract further provided for the payment of $13 for hours in excess of 12 per day, the extra $1 payments could likewise be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act. To qualify as overtime premiums under section 7(e)(5) of the Act, the daily overtime premium payments must be made for hours in excess of 8 hours per day or the employee's normal or regular working hours. If the normal workday is artificially divided into a “straight time” period to which one rate is assigned, followed by a so-called “overtime” period for which a higher “rate” is specified, the arrangement will be regarded as a device to contravene the statutory purposes and the premiums will be considered part of the regular rate. For a fuller discussion of this problem, see § 778.501.
(d)
Hours in excess of other statutory standard.
Where payment at premium rates for hours worked in excess of a specified daily or weekly standard is made pursuant to the requirements of another applicable statute, the extra compensation provided by such premium rates will be regarded as a true overtime premium.
(e)
Premium pay for sixth or seventh day worked.
Under sections 7(e)(6) and 7(h), extra premium compensation paid for work on the sixth or seventh day worked in the workweek (where the workweek schedule is reflected in an agreement or by established practice) is regarded in the same light as premiums paid for work in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard or the employee's normal or regular workweek.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7311, Jan. 23, 1981; 84 FR 68771, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.203
Premium pay for work on Saturdays, Sundays, and other “special days”.
Under section 7(e)(6) and 7(h) of the Act, extra compensation provided by a Premium rate of at least time and one-half which is paid for work on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, or regular days of rest or on the sixth or seventh day of the workweek (hereinafter referred to as “special days”) may be treated as an overtime premium for the purposes of the Act. If the premium rate is less than time and one-half, the extra compensation provided by such rate must be included in determining the employee's regular rate of pay and cannot be credited toward statutory overtime due, unless it qualifies as an overtime premium under section 7(e)(5).
(a) “Special days” rate must be at least time and one-half to qualify as overtime premium: The premium rate must be at least “one and one-half times the rate established in good faith for like work performed in nonovertime hours on other days.” Where an employee is hired on the basis of a salary for a fixed workweek or at a single hourly rate of pay, the rate paid for work on “special days” must be at least time and one-half his regular hourly rate in order to qualify under section 7(e)(6). If the employee is a pieceworker or if he works at more than one job for which different hourly or piece rates have been established and these are bona fide rates applicable to the work when performed during nonovertime hours, the extra compensation provided by a premium rate of at least one and one-half times either (1) the bona fide rate applicable to the type of job the employee performs on the “special days”, or (2) the average hourly earnings in the week in question, will qualify as an overtime premium under this section. (For a fuller discussion of computation on the average rate, see § 778.111; on the rate applicable to the job, see §§ 778.415 through 778.421; on the “established” rate, see § 778.400.)
(b) Bona fide base rate required. The statute authorizes such premiums paid for work on “special days” to be treated as overtime premiums only if they are actually based on a “rate established in good faith for like work performed in nonovertime hours on other days.” This phrase is used for the purpose of distinguishing the bona fide employment standards contemplated by section 7(e)(6) from fictitious schemes and artificial or evasive devices as discussed in Subpart F of this part. Clearly, a rate which yields the employee less than time and one-half the minimum rate prescribed by the Act would not be a rate established in good faith.
(c) Work on the specified “special days”: To qualify as an overtime premium under section 7(e)(6), the extra compensation must be paid for work on the specified days. The term “holiday” is read in its ordinary usage to refer to those days customarily observed in the community in celebration of some historical or religious occasion. A day of rest arbitrarily granted to employees because of lack of work is not a “holiday” within the meaning of this section, nor is it a “regular day of rest.” The term “regular day of rest” means a day on which the employee in accordance with his regular prearranged schedule is not expected to report for work. In some instances the “regular day of rest” occurs on the same day or days each week for a particular employee; in other cases, pursuant to a swing shift schedule, the schedule day of rest rotates in a definite pattern, such as 6 days work followed by 2 days of rest. In either case the extra compensation provided by a premium rate for work on such scheduled days of rest (if such rate is at least one and one-half times the bona fide rate established for like work during nonovertime hours on other days) may be
treated as an overtime premium and thus need not be included in computing the employee's regular rate of pay and may be credited toward overtime payments due under the Act.
(d) Payment of premiums for work performed on the “special day”: To qualify as an overtime premium under section 7(e)(6), the premium must be paid because work is performed on the days specified and not for some other reason which would not qualify the premium as an overtime premium under sections 7(e)(5), (6), or (7) of the Act. (For examples distinguishing pay for work on a holiday from idle holiday pay, see § 778.219.) Thus a premium rate paid to an employee only when he received less than 24 hours' notice that he is required to report for work on his regular day of rest is not a premium paid for work on one of the specified days; it is a premium imposed as a penalty upon the employer for failure to give adequate notice to compensate the employee for the inconvenience of disarranging his private life. The extra compensation is not an overtime premium. It is part of his regular rate of pay unless such extra compensation is paid the employee so as to qualify for exclusion under section 7(e)(2) of the Act in which event it need not be included in computing his regular rate of pay, as explained in § 778.222.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 84 FR 68771, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.204
“Clock pattern” premium pay.
(a)
Overtime premiums under section 7(e)(7).
Where a collective bargaining agreement or other applicable employment contract in good faith establishes certain hours of the day as the basic, normal, or regular workday (not exceeding 8 hours) or workweek (not exceeding the maximum hours standard applicable under section 7(a)) and provides for the payment of a premium rate for work outside such hours, the extra compensation provided by such premium rate will be treated as an overtime premium if the premium rate is not less than one and one-half times the rate established in good faith by the contract or agreement for like work performed during the basic, normal or regular workday or workweek.
(b)
Premiums for hours outside established working hours.
To qualify as an overtime premium under section 7(e)(7) the premium must be paid because the work was performed during hours “outside of the hours established * * * as the basic * * * workday or workweek” and not for some other reason. Thus, if the basic workday is established in good faith as the hours from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. a premium of time and one-half paid for hours between 5 p.m. and 8 a.m. would qualify as an overtime premium. However, where the contract does not provide for the payment of a premium except for work between midnight and 6 a.m. the premium would not qualify under this section since it is not a premium paid for work outside the established workday but only for certain special hours outside the established workday, in most instances because they are undesirable hours. Similarly, where payments of premium rates for work are made after 5 p.m. only if the employee has not had a meal period or rest period, they are not regarded as overtime premiums; they are premiums paid because of undesirable working conditions.
(c)
Payment in pursuance of agreement.
Premiums of the type which section 7(e)(7) authorizes to be treated as overtime premiums must be paid “in pursuance of an applicable employment contract or collective bargaining agreement,” and the rates of pay and the daily and weekly work periods referred to must be established in good faith by such contract or agreement. Although as a general rule a collective bargaining agreement is a formal agreement which has been reduced to writing, an employment contract for purposes of section 7(e)(7) may be either written or oral. Where there is a written employment contract and the practices of the parties differ from its provisions, it must be determined whether the practices of the parties have modified the contract. If the practices of the parties have modified the written provisions of the contract, the provisions of the contract as modified by the practices of the parties will be controlling in determining whether the requirements of section 7(e)(7) are satisfied. The determination as to the existence
of the requisite provisions in an applicable oral employment contract will necessarily be based on all the facts, including those showing the terms of the oral contract and the actual employment and pay practices thereunder.
§ 778.205
Premiums for weekend and holiday work—example.
The application of section 7(e)(6) of the Act may be illustrated by the following example: Suppose, based on a written or unwritten employment contract, agreement, understanding, handbook, policy, or practice, an employee earns $18 an hour for all hours worked on a holiday or on Sunday in the operation of machines by operators whose maximum hours standard is 40 hours and who are paid a bona fide hourly rate of $12 for like work performed during nonovertime hours on other days. Suppose further that the workweek of such an employee begins at 12:01 a.m. Sunday, and in a particular week he works a schedule of 8 hours on Sunday and on each day from Monday through Saturday, making a total of 56 hours worked in the workweek. Tuesday is a holiday. The payment of $768 to which the employee is entitled will satisfy the requirements of the Act since the employer may properly exclude from the regular rate the extra $48 paid for work on Sunday and the extra $48 paid for holiday work and credit himself with such amount against the statutory overtime premium required to be paid for the 16 hours worked over 40.
[84 FR 68771, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.206
Premiums for work outside basic workday or workweek—examples.
The effect of section 7(e)(7) where “clock pattern” premiums are paid may be illustrated by reference to provisions typical of the applicable collective bargaining agreements traditionally in effect between employers and employees in the longshore and stevedoring industries. These agreements specify straight time rates applicable during the hours established in good faith under the agreement as the basic, normal, or regular workday and workweek. Under one such agreement, for example, such workday and workweek are established as the first 6 hours of work, exclusive of mealtime, each day, Monday through Friday, between the hours of 8 a.m. and 5 p.m. Under another typical agreement, such workday and workweek are established as the hours between 8 a.m. and 12 noon and between 1 p.m. and 5 p.m., Monday through Friday. Work outside such workday and workweek is paid for at premium rates not less than one and one-half times the bona fide straight-time rates applicable to like work when performed during the basic, normal, or regular workday or workweek. The extra compensation provided by such premium rates will be excluded in computing the regular rate at which the employees so paid are employed and may be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act. For example, if an employee is paid $5 an hour under such an agreement for handling general cargo during the basic, normal, or regular workday and $7.50 per hour for like work outside of such workday, the extra $2.50 will be excluded from the regular rate and may be credited to overtime pay due under the Act. Similarly, if the straight time rate established in good faith by the contract should be higher because of handling dangerous or obnoxious cargo, recognition of skill differentials, or similar reasons, so as to be $7.50 an hour during the hours established as the basic or normal or regular workday or workweek, and a premium rate of $11.25 an hour is paid for the same work performed during other hours of the day or week, the extra $3.75 may be excluded from the regular rate of pay and may be credited toward overtime pay due under the Act. Similar principles are applicable where agreements following this general pattern exist in other industries.
[46 FR 7311, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.207
Other types of contract premium pay distinguished.
(a)
Overtime premiums are those defined by the statute.
The various types of premium payments which provide extra compensation qualifying as overtime premiums to be excluded from the regular rate (under sections 7(e)(5), (6), and (7) and credited toward statutory
overtime pay requirements (under section 7(h)) have been described in §§ 778.201 through 778.206. The plain wording of the statute makes it clear that extra compensation provided by premium rates other than those described in the statute cannot be treated as overtime premiums. When such other premiums are paid, they must be included in the employee's regular rate before statutory overtime compensation is computed; no part of such premiums may be credited toward statutory overtime pay.
(b)
Nonovertime premiums.
The Act requires the inclusion in the regular rate of such extra premiums as nightshift differentials (whether they take the form of a percent of the base rate or an addition of so many cents per hour) and premiums paid for hazardous, arduous or dirty work. It also requires inclusion of any extra compensation which is paid as an incentive for the rapid performance of work, and since any extra compensation in order to qualify as an overtime premium must be provided by a premium rate per hour, except in the special case of pieceworkers as discussed in § 778.418, lump sum premiums which are paid without regard to the number of hours worked are not overtime premiums and must be included in the regular rate. For example, where an employer pays 8 hours' pay for a particular job whether it is performed in 8 hours or in less time, the extra premium of 2 hours' pay received by an employee who completes the job in 6 hours must be included in his regular rate. Similarly, where an employer pays for 8 hours at premium rates for a job performed during the overtime hours whether it is completed in 8 hours or less, no part of the premium paid qualifies as overtime premium under sections 7(e) (5), (6), or (7). (For a further discussion of this and related problems, see §§ 778.308 to 778.314.)
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 84 FR 68772, Dec. 16, 2019]

# Bonuses
§ 778.208
Inclusion and exclusion of bonuses in computing the “regular rate.”
Section 7(e) of the Act requires the inclusion in the regular rate of all remuneration for employment except eight specified types of payments. Among these excludable payments are discretionary bonuses, gifts and payments in the nature of gifts on special occasions, contributions by the employer to certain welfare plans and payments made by the employer pursuant to certain profit-sharing, thrift and savings plans. These are discussed in §§ 778.211 through 778.214. Bonuses which do not qualify for exclusion from the regular rate as one of these types must be totaled in with other earnings to determine the regular rate on which overtime pay must be based. Bonus payments are payments made in addition to the regular earnings of an employee. For a discussion on the bonus form as an evasive bookkeeping device, see §§ 778.502 and 778.503.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 76 FR 18858, Apr. 5, 2011]
§ 778.209
Method of inclusion of bonus in regular rate.
(a)
General rules.
Where a bonus payment is considered a part of the regular rate at which an employee is employed, it must be included in computing his regular hourly rate of pay and overtime compensation. No difficulty arises in computing overtime compensation if the bonus covers only one weekly pay period. The amount of the bonus is merely added to the other earnings of the employee (except statutory exclusions) and the total divided by total hours worked. Under many bonus plans, however, calculations of the bonus may necessarily be deferred over a period of time longer than a workweek. In such a case the employer may disregard the bonus in computing the regular hourly rate until such time as the amount of the bonus can be ascertained. Until that is done he may pay compensation for overtime at one and one-half times the hourly rate paid by the employee, exclusive of the bonus. When the amount of the bonus
can be ascertained, it must be apportioned back over the workweeks of the period during which it may be said to have been earned. The employee must then receive an additional amount of compensation for each workweek that he worked overtime during the period equal to one-half of the hourly rate of pay allocable to the bonus for that week multiplied by the number of statutory overtime hours worked during the week.
(b)
Allocation of bonus where bonus earnings cannot be identified with particular workweeks.
If it is impossible to allocate the bonus among the workweeks of the period in proportion to the amount of the bonus actually earned each week, some other reasonable and equitable method of allocation must be adopted. For example, it may be reasonable and equitable to assume that the employee earned an equal amount of bonus each week of the period to which the bonus relates, and if the facts support this assumption additional compensation for each overtime week of the period may be computed and paid in an amount equal to one-half of the average hourly increase in pay resulting from bonus allocated to the week, multiplied by the number of statutory overtime hours worked in that week. Or, if there are facts which make it inappropriate to assume equal bonus earnings for each workweek, it may be reasonable and equitable to assume that the employee earned an equal amount of bonus each hour of the pay period and the resultant hourly increase may be determined by dividing the total bonus by the number of hours worked by the employee during the period for which it is paid. The additional compensation due for the overtime workweeks in the period may then be computed by multiplying the total number of statutory overtime hours worked in each such workweek during the period by one-half this hourly increase.
§ 778.210
Percentage of total earnings as bonus.
In some instances the contract or plan for the payment of a bonus may also provide for the simultaneous payment of overtime compensation due on the bonus. For example, a contract made prior to the performance of services may provide for the payment of additional compensation in the way of a bonus at the rate of 10 percent of the employee's straight-time earnings, and 10 percent of his overtime earnings. In such instances, of course, payments according to the contract will satisfy in full the overtime provisions of the Act and no recomputation will be required. This is not true, however, where this form of payment is used as a device to evade the overtime requirements of the Act rather than to provide actual overtime compensation, as described in §§ 778.502 and 778.503.
§ 778.211
Discretionary bonuses.
(a)
Statutory provision.
Section 7(e) (3)(a) of the Act provides that the regular rate shall not be deemed to include “sums paid in recognition of services performed during a given period if * * * (a) both the fact that payment is to be made and the amount of the payment are determined at the sole discretion of the employer at or near the end of the period and not pursuant to any prior contract, agreement, or promise causing the employee to expect such payments regularly * * *”. Such sums may not, however, be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act.
(b)
Discretionary character of excluded bonus.
In order for a bonus to qualify for exclusion as a discretionary bonus under section 7(e)(3)(a) the employer must retain discretion both as to the fact of payment and as to the amount until a time quite close to the end of the period for which the bonus is paid. The sum, if any, to be paid as a bonus is determined by the employer without prior promise or agreement. The employee has no contract right, express or implied, to any amount. If the employer promises in advance to pay a bonus, he has abandoned his discretion with regard to it. Thus, if an employer announces to his employees in January that he intends to pay them a bonus in June, he has thereby abandoned his discretion regarding the fact of payment by promising a bonus to his employees. Such a bonus would not be excluded from the regular rate under section 7(e)(3)(a). Similarly, an employer who promises to sales employees that
they will receive a monthly bonus computed on the basis of allocating 1 cent for each item sold whenever, is his discretion, the financial condition of the firm warrants such payments, has abandoned discretion with regard to the amount of the bonus though not with regard to the fact of payment. Such a bonus would not be excluded from the regular rate. On the other hand, if a bonus such as the one just described were paid without prior contract, promise or announcement and the decision as to the fact and amount of payment lay in the employer's sole discretion, the bonus would be properly excluded from the regular rate.
(c)
Promised bonuses not excluded.
The bonus, to be excluded under section 7(e)(3)(a), must not be paid pursuant to any prior contract, agreement, or promise. For example, any bonus which is promised to employees upon hiring or which is the result of collective bargaining would not be excluded from the regular rate under this provision of the Act. Bonuses which are announced to employees to induce them to work more steadily or more rapidly or more efficiently or to remain with the firm are regarded as part of the regular rate of pay. Most attendance bonuses, individual or group production bonuses, bonuses for quality and accuracy of work, bonuses contingent upon the employee's continuing in employment until the time the payment is to be made and the like are in this category; in such circumstances they must be included in the regular rate of pay.
(d)
Labels are not determinative.
The label assigned to a bonus does not conclusively determine whether a bonus is discretionary under section 7(e)(3). Instead, the terms of the statute and the facts specific to the bonus at issue determine whether bonuses are excludable discretionary bonuses. Thus, regardless of the label or name assigned to bonuses, bonuses are discretionary and excludable if both the fact that the bonuses are to be paid and the amounts are determined at the sole discretion of the employer at or near the end of the periods to which the bonuses correspond and they are not paid pursuant to any prior contract, agreement, or promise causing the employee to expect such payments regularly. Examples of bonuses that may be discretionary include bonuses to employees who made unique or extraordinary efforts which are not awarded according to pre-established criteria, severance bonuses, referral bonuses for employees not primarily engaged in recruiting activities, bonuses for overcoming challenging or stressful situations, employee-of-the-month bonuses, and other similar compensation. Such bonuses are usually not promised in advance and the fact and amount of payment is in the sole discretion of the employer until at or near the end of the period to which the bonus corresponds.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 84 FR 68772, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.212
Gifts, Christmas and special occasion bonuses.
(a)
Statutory provision.
Section 7(e)(1) of the Act provides that the term “regular rate” shall not be deemed to include “sums paid as gifts; payments in the nature of gifts made at Christmas time or on other special occasions, as a reward for service, the amounts of which are not measured by or dependent on hours worked, production, or efficiency * * *”. Such sums may not, however, be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act.
(b)
Gift or similar payment.
To qualify for exclusion under section 7(e)(1) the bonus must be actually a gift or in the nature of a gift. If it is measured by hours worked, production, or efficiency, the payment is geared to wages and hours during the bonus period and is no longer to be considered as in the nature of a gift. If the payment is so substantial that it can be assumed that employees consider it a part of the wages for which they work, the bonus cannot be considered to be in the nature of a gift. Obviously, if the bonus is paid pursuant to contract (so that the employee has a legal right to the payment and could bring suit to enforce it), it is not in the nature of a gift.
(c)
Application of exclusion.
If the bonus paid at Christmas or on other special occasion is a gift or in the nature of a gift, it may be excluded from the regular rate under section 7(e)(1) even though it is paid with regularity so that the employees are led to expect it and even though the amounts paid to
different employees or groups of employees vary with the amount of the salary or regular hourly rate of such employees or according to their length of service with the firm so long as the amounts are not measured by or directly dependent upon hours worked, production, or efficiency. A Christmas bonus paid (not pursuant to contract) in the amount of two weeks' salary to all employees and an equal additional amount for each 5 years of service with the firm, for example, would be excludable from the regular rate under this category. Employers may also provide gifts with more regularity throughout the year, as long as they are provided with the understanding that they are gifts. Office coffee and snacks provided to employees, for example, would also be excludable from the regular rate under this category.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 84 FR 68772, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.213
Profit-sharing, thrift, and savings plans.
Section 7(e)(3)(b) of the Act provides that the term “regular rate” shall not be deemed to include “sums paid in recognition of services performed during a given period if * * * the payments are made pursuant to a bona fide profit-sharing plan or trust or bona fide thrift or savings plan, meeting the requirements of the Secretary of Labor set forth in appropriate regulations * * *”. Such sums may not, however, be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act. The regulations issued under this section are parts 547 and 549 of this chapter. Payments in addition to the regular wages of the employee, made by the employer pursuant to a plan which meets the requirements of the regulations in part 547 or 549 of this chapter, will be properly excluded from the regular rate.
§ 778.214
Benefit plans; including profit-sharing plans or trusts providing similar benefits.
(a)
Statutory provision.
Section 7(e)(4) of the Act provides that the term “regular rate” shall not be deemed to include: “contributions irrevocably made by an employer to a trustee or third person pursuant to a bona fide plan for providing old age, retirement, life, accident, or health insurance or similar benefits for employees * * *.” Such sums may not, however, be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act.
(b)
Scope and application of exclusion generally.
Plans for providing benefits of the kinds described in section 7(e)(4) are referred to herein as “benefit plans”. It is section 7(e)(4) which governs the status for regular rate purposes of any contributions made by an employer pursuant to a plan for providing the described benefits. This is true irrespective of any other features the plan may have. Thus, it makes no difference whether or not the benefit plan is one financed out of profits or one which by matching employee contributions or otherwise encourages thrift or savings. Where such a plan or trust is combined in a single program (whether in one or more documents) with a plan or trust for providing profit-sharing payments to employees, the profit-sharing payments may be excluded from the regular rate if they meet the requirements of the Profit-Sharing Regulations, part 549 of this chapter, and the contributions made by the employer for providing the benefits described in section 7(e)(4) of the Act may be excluded from the regular rate if they meet the tests set forth in § 778.215. Advance approval by the Department of Labor is not required.
(c)
Tests must be applied to employer contributions.
It should be emphasized that it is the employer's contribution made pursuant to the benefit plan that is excluded from or included in the regular rate according to whether or not the requirements set forth in § 778.215 are met. If the contribution is not made as provided in section 7(e)(4) or if the plan does not qualify as a bona fide benefit plan under that section, the contribution is treated the same as any bonus payment which is part of the regular rate of pay, and at the time the contribution is made the amount thereof must be apportioned back over the workweeks of the period during which it may be said to have accrued. Overtime compensation based upon the resultant increases in the regular hourly rate is due for each overtime hour
worked during any workweek of the period. The subsequent distribution of accrued funds to an employee on account of severance of employment (or for any other reason) would not result in any increase in his regular rate in the week in which the distribution is made.
(d)
Employer contributions when included in fringe benefit wage determinations under Davis-Bacon Act.
As noted in § 778.6 where certain fringe benefits are included in the wage predeterminations of the Secretary of Labor for laborers and mechanics performing contract work subject to the Davis-Bacon Act and related statutes, the provisions of Public Law 88-349 discussed in § 5.32 of this title should be considered together with the interpretations in this part 778 in determining the excludability of such fringe benefits from the regular rate of such employees. Accordingly, reference should be made to § 5.32 of this title as well as to § 778.215 for guidance with respect to exclusion from the employee's regular rate of contributions made by the employer to any benefit plan if, in the workweek or workweeks involved, the employee performed work as a laborer or mechanic subject to a wage determination made by the Secretary pursuant to part 1 of this title, and if fringe benefits of the kind represented by such contributions constitute a part of the prevailing wages required to be paid such employee in accordance with such wage determination.
(e)
Employer contributions or equivalents pursuant to fringe benefit determinations under Service Contract Act of 1965.
Contributions by contractors and subcontractors to provide fringe benefits specified under the McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act of 1965, which are of the kind referred to in section 7(e)(4), are excludable from the regular rate under the conditions set forth in § 778.215. Where the fringe benefit contributions specified under such Act are so excludable, equivalent benefits or payments provided by the employer in satisfaction of his obligation to provide the specified benefits are also excludable from the regular rate if authorized under part 4 of this title, subpart B, pursuant to the McNamara-O'Hara Act, and their exclusion therefrom is not dependent on whether such equivalents, if separately considered, would meet the requirements of § 778.215. See § 778.7.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 36 FR 4699, Mar. 11, 1971]
§ 778.215
Conditions for exclusion of benefit-plan contributions under section 7(e)(4).
(a)
General rules.
In order for an employer's contribution to qualify for exclusion from the regular rate under section 7(e)(4) of the Act the following conditions must be met:
(1) The contributions must be made pursuant to a specific plan or program adopted by the employer, or by contract as a result of collective bargaining, and communicated to the employees. This may be either a company-financed plan or an employer-employee contributory plan.
(2) The primary purpose of the plan must be to provide systematically for the payment of benefits to employees on account of death, disability, advanced age, retirement, illness, medical expenses, hospitalization, accident, unemployment, legal services, or other events that could cause significant future financial hardship or expense.
(3) In a plan or trust, either:
(i) The benefits must be specified or definitely determinable on an actuarial basis; or
(ii) There must be both a definite formula for determining the amount to be contributed by the employer and a definite formula for determining the benefits for each of the employees participating in the plan; or
(iii) There must be both a formula for determining the amount to be contributed by the employer and a provision for determining the individual benefits by a method which is consistent with the purposes of the plan or trust under section 7(e)(4) of the Act.
(iv)
Note:
The requirements in paragraphs (a)(3) (ii) and (iii) of this section for a formula for determining the amount to be contributed by the employer may be met by a formula which requires a specific and substantial minimum contribution and which provides that the employer may add somewhat to that amount within specified limits;
provided, however, that there is a reasonable relationship between the specified minimum and maximum contributions. Thus, formulas providing for a minimum contribution of 10 percent of profits and giving the employer discretion to add to that amount up to 20 percent of profits, or for a minimum contribution of 5 percent of compensation and discretion to increase up to a maximum of 15 percent of compensation, would meet the requirement. However, a plan which provides for insignificant minimum contributions and permits a variation so great that, for all practical purposes, the formula becomes meaningless as a measure of contributions, would not meet the requirements.
(4) The employer's contributions must be paid irrevocably to a trustee or third person pursuant to an insurance agreement, trust or other funded arrangement. The trustee must assume the usual fiduciary responsibilities imposed upon trustees by applicable law. The trust or fund must be set up in such a way that in no event will the employer be able to recapture any of the contributions paid in nor in any way divert the funds to his own use or benefit. (It should also be noted that in the case of joint employer-employee contributory plans, where the employee contributions are not paid over to a third person or to a trustee unaffiliated with the employer, violations of the Act may result if the employee contributions cut into the required minimum or overtime rates. See part 531 of this chapter.) Although an employer's contributions made to a trustee or third person pursuant to a benefit plan must be irrevocably made, this does not prevent return to the employer of sums which he had paid in excess of the contributions actually called for by the plan, as where such excess payments result from error or from the necessity of marking payments to cover the estimated cost of contributions at a time when the exact amount of the necessary contributions under the plan is not yet ascertained. For example, a benefit plan may provide for definite insurance benefits for employees in the event of the happening of a specified contingency such as death, sickness, accident, etc., and may provide that the cost of such definite benefits, either in full or any balance in excess of specified employee contributions, will be borne by the employer. In such a case the return by the insurance company to the employer of sums paid by him in excess of the amount required to provide the benefits which, under the plan, are to be provided through contributions by the employer, will not be deemed a recapture or diversion by the employer of contributions made pursuant to the plan.
(5) The plan must not give an employee the right to assign his benefits under the plan nor the option to receive any part of the employer's contributions in cash instead of the benefits under the plan:
Provided, however,
That if a plan otherwise qualified as a bona fide benefit plan under section 7(e)(4) of the Act, it will still be regarded as a bona fide plan even though it provides, as an incidental part thereof, for the payment to an employee in cash of all or a part of the amount standing to his credit (i) at the time of the severance of the employment relation due to causes other than retirement, disability, or death, or (ii) upon proper termination of the plan, or (iii) during the course of his employment under circumstances specified in the plan and not inconsistent with the general purposes of the plan to provide the benefits described in section 7(e)(4) of the Act.
(b)
Plans under sections of the Internal Revenue Code.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, where the benefit plan or trust has been approved by the Internal Revenue Service as satisfying the requirements of section 401(a), 403(a), or 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, is otherwise maintained pursuant to a written document that the plan sponsor reasonably believes satisfies the requirements of section 401(a), 403(a), 403(b), 408(k) or 408(p) of the Internal Revenue Code, or is sponsored by a government employer that reasonably believes the plan satisfies the requirements of section 457(b) of the Internal Revenue Code, the plan or trust will be considered to meet the
conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), (4), and (5) of this section.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7312, Jan. 23, 1981; 84 FR 68772, Dec. 16, 2019]

# Payments not for Hours Worked
§ 778.216
The provisions of section 7(e)(2) of the Act.
Section 7(e)(2) of the Act provides that the term “regular rate” shall not be deemed to include “payments made for occasional periods when no work is performed due to vacation, holiday, illness, failure of the employer to provide sufficient work, or other similar cause; reasonable payments for traveling expenses, or other expenses, incurred by an employee in the furtherance of his employer's interests and properly reimbursable by the employer; and other similar payments to an employee which are not made as compensation for his hours of employment * * *.” However, since such payments are not made as compensation for the employee's hours worked in any workweek, no part of such payments can be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act.
§ 778.217
Reimbursement for expenses.
(a)
General rule.
Where an employee incurs expenses on his employer's behalf or where he is required to expend sums by reason of action taken for the convenience of his employer, section 7(e)(2) is applicable to reimbursement for such expenses. Payments made by the employer to cover such expenses are not included in the employee's regular rate (if the amount of the reimbursement reasonably approximates the expense incurred). Such payment is not compensation for services rendered by the employees during any hours worked in the workweek.
(b)
Illustrations.
Payment by way of reimbursement for the following types of expenses will not be regarded as part of the employee's regular rate:
(1) The actual amount expended by an employee in purchasing supplies, tools, materials, cell phone plans, or equipment on behalf of his employer or in paying organization membership dues or credentialing exam fees where relevant to the employer's business.
(2) The actual or reasonably approximate amount expended by an employee in purchasing, laundering or repairing uniforms or special clothing which his employer requires him to wear.
(3) The actual or reasonably approximate amount expended by an employee, who is traveling “over the road” on his employer's business, for transportation (whether by private car or common carrier) and living expenses away from home, other travel expenses, such as taxicab fares, incurred while traveling on the employer's business.
(4) “Supper money”, a reasonable amount given to an employee, who ordinarily works the day shift and can ordinarily return home for supper, to cover the cost of supper when he is requested by his employer to continue work during the evening hours.
(5) The actual or reasonably approximate amount expended by an employee as temporary excess home-to-work travel expenses incurred (i) because the employer has moved the plant to another town before the employee has had an opportunity to find living quarters at the new location or (ii) because the employee, on a particular occasion, is required to report for work at a place other than his regular workplace.
The foregoing list is intended to be illustrative rather thanexhaustive.
(c)
Payments excluding expenses.
(1) It should be noted that only the actual or reasonably approximate amount of the expense is excludable from the regular rate. If the amount paid as “reimbursement” is disproportionately large, the excess amount will be included in the regular rate.
(2) A reimbursement amount for an employee traveling on his or her employer's business is per se reasonable, and not disproportionately large, if it:
(i) Is the same or less than the maximum reimbursement payment or per diem allowance permitted for the same type of expense under 41 CFR subtitle F (the Federal Travel Regulation System) or IRS guidance issued under 26 CFR 1.274-5(g) or (j); and
(ii) Otherwise meets the requirements of this section.
(3) Paragraph (c)(2) of this section creates no inference that a reimbursement for an employee traveling on his
or her employer's business exceeding the amount permitted under 41 CFR subtitle F (the Federal Travel Regulation System) or IRS guidance issued under 26 CFR 1.274-5(g) or (j) is unreasonable for purposes of this section.
(d)
Payments for expenses personal to the employee.
The expenses for which reimbursement is made must in order to merit exclusion from the regular rate under this section, be expenses incurred by the employee on the employer's behalf or for his benefit or convenience. If the employer reimburses the employee for expenses normally incurred by the employee for his own benefit, he is, of course, increasing the employee's regular rate thereby. An employee normally incurs expenses in traveling to and from work, buying lunch, paying rent, and the like. If the employer reimburses him for these normal everyday expenses, the payment is not excluded from the regular rate as “reimbursement for expenses.” Whether the employer “reimburses” the employee for such expenses or furnishes the facilities (such as free lunches or free housing), the amount paid to the employee (or the reasonable cost to the employer or fair value where facilities are furnished) enters into the regular rate of pay as discussed in § 778.116. See also § 531.37(b) of this chapter.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 84 FR 68772, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.218
Pay for certain idle hours.
(a)
General rules.
Payments which are made for occasional periods when the employee is not at work due to vacation, holiday, illness, failure of the employer to provide sufficient work, or other similar cause, where the payments are in amounts approximately equivalent to the employee's normal earnings for a similar period of time, are not made as compensation for his hours of employment. Therefore, such payments may be excluded from the regular rate of pay under section 7(e)(2) of the Act and, for the same reason, no part of such payments may be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act.
(b)
Limitations on exclusion.
The provision of section 7(e)(2) of the Act deals with the type of absences which are infrequent or sporadic or unpredictable. It has no relation to regular “absences” such as regularly scheduled days of rest. Sundays may not be workdays in a particular establishment, but this does not make them either “holidays” or “vacations,” or days on which the employee is absent because of the failure of the employer to provide sufficient work. The term holiday is read in its ordinary usage to refer to those days customarily observed in the community in celebration of some historical or religious occasion; it does not refer to days of rest given to employees in lieu of or as an addition to compensation for working on other days.
(c)
Failure to provide work.
The term “failure of the employer to provide sufficient work” is intended to refer to occasional, sporadically recurring situations where the employee would normally be working but for such a factor as machinery breakdown, failure of expected supplies to arrive, weather conditions affecting the ability of the employee to perform the work and similarly unpredictable obstacles beyond the control of the employer. The term does not include reduction in work schedule (as discussed in §§ 778.321 through 778.329), ordinary temporary layoff situations, or any type of routine, recurrent absence of the employee.
(d)
Other similar cause.
The term “other similar cause” refers to payments made for periods of absence due to factors like holidays, vacations, sickness, and failure of the employer to provide work. Examples of “similar causes” are absences due to jury service, reporting to a draft board, attending a funeral, inability to reach the workplace because of weather conditions, attending adoption or child custody hearings, attending school activities, donating organs or blood, voting, volunteering as a first responder, military leave, family medical leave, and nonroutine paid leave required under state or local laws. Only absences of a non-routine character which are infrequent or sporadic or unpredictable are included in the “other similar cause” category.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 84 FR 68772, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.219
Pay for forgoing holidays and unused leave.
(a)
Sums payable whether employee works or not.
As explained in § 778.218, certain payments made to an employee for periods during which he performs no work because of a holiday, vacation, or illness are not required to be included in the regular rate because they are not regarded as compensation for working. When an employee who is entitled to such paid leave forgoes the use of leave and instead receives a payment that is the approximate equivalent to the employees' normal earnings for a similar period of working time, and is in addition to the employee's normal compensation for hours worked, the sum allocable to the forgone leave may be excluded from the regular rate. Such payments may be excluded whether paid out during the pay period in which the holiday or prescheduled leave is forgone or as a lump sum at a later point in time. Since it is not compensation for work, pay for unused leave may not be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act. Four examples in which the maximum hours standard is 40 hours may serve to illustrate this principle:
(1) An employee whose rate of pay is $12 an hour and who usually works a 6-day, 48-hour week is entitled, under his employment contract, to a week's paid vacation in the amount of his usual straight-time earnings—$576. He forgoes his vacation and works 50 hours in the week in question. He is owed $600 as his total straight-time earnings for the week, and $576 in addition as his vacation pay. Under the statute he is owed an additional $60 as overtime premium (additional half-time) for the 10 hours in excess of 40. His regular rate of $12 per hour has not been increased by virtue of the payment of $576 vacation pay, but no part of the $576 may be offset against the statutory overtime compensation which is due. (Nothing in this example is intended to imply that the employee has a statutory right to $576 or any other sum as vacation pay. This is a matter of private contract between the parties who may agree that vacation pay will be measured by straight-time earnings for any agreed number of hours or days, or by total normal or expected take-home pay for the period, or that no vacation pay at all will be paid. The example merely illustrates the proper method of computing overtime for an employee whose employment contract provides $576 vacation pay.)
(2) An employee who is entitled under his employment contract to 8 hours' pay at his rate of $12 an hour for the Christmas holiday, forgoes his holiday and works 9 hours on that day. During the entire week, he works a total of 50 hours. He is paid under his contract $600 as straight-time compensation for 50 hours plus $96 as idle holiday pay. He is owed, under the statute, an additional $60 as overtime premium (additional half-time) for the 10 hours in excess of 40. His regular rate of $12 per hour has not been increased by virtue of the holiday pay but no part of the $96 holiday pay may be credited toward statutory overtime compensation due.
(3) An employee whose rate of pay is $12 an hour and who usually works a 40-hour week is entitled to two weeks of paid time off per year per his or her employer's policies. The employee takes one week of paid time off during the year and is paid $480 pursuant to employer policy for the one week of unused paid time off at the end of the year. The leave payout may be excluded from the employee's regular rate of pay, but no part of the payout may be credited toward statutory overtime compensation due.
(4) An employee is scheduled to work a set schedule of two 24-hour shifts on duty, followed by four 24-hour shifts off duty. This cycle repeats every six days. The employer recognizes ten holidays per year and provides employees with holiday pay for these days at amounts approximately equivalent to their normal earnings for a similar period of working time. Due to the cycle of the schedule, employees may be on duty during some recognized holidays and off duty during others, and due to the nature of their work, employees may be required to forgo a holiday if an emergency arises. In recognition of this fact, the employer provides the employees holiday pay regardless of whether the employee works on the holiday. If the employee works on the holiday, the employee will receive his
or her regular salary in addition to the holiday pay. In these circumstances, the sum allocable to the holiday pay may be excluded from the regular rate.
(b)
Premiums for holiday work distinguished.
The example in paragraph (a)(2) of this section should be distinguished from a situation in which an employee is entitled to idle holiday pay under the employment agreement only when he is actually idle on the holiday, and who, if he forgoes his holiday also, under his contract, forgoes his idle holiday pay.
(1) The typical situation is one in which an employee is entitled by contract to 8 hours' pay at his rate of $12 an hour for certain named holidays when no work is performed. If, however, he is required to work on such days, he does not receive his idle holiday pay. Instead he receives a premium rate of $18 (time and one-half) for each hour worked on the holiday. If he worked 9 hours on the holiday and a total of 50 hours for the week, he would be owed, under his contract, $162 (9 × $18) for the holiday work and $492 for the other 41 hours worked in the week, a total of $654. Under the statute (which does not require premium pay for a holiday) he is owed $660 for a workweek of 50 hours at a rate of $12 an hour. Since the holiday premium is one and one-half times the established rate for nonholiday work, it does not increase the regular rate because it qualifies as an overtime premium under section 7(e)(6), and the employer may credit it toward statutory overtime compensation due and need pay the employee only the additional sum of $6 to meet the statutory requirements. (For a discussion of holiday premiums see § 778.203.)
(2) If all other conditions remained the same but the contract called for the payment of $24 (double time) for each hour worked on the holiday, the employee would receive, under his contract $216 (9 × $24) for the holiday work in addition to $492 for the other 41 hours worked, a total of $708. Since this holiday premium is also an overtime premium under section 7(e)(6), it is excludable from the regular rate and the employer may credit it toward statutory overtime compensation due. Because the total thus paid exceeds the statutory requirements, no additional compensation is due under the Act. In distinguishing this situation from that in the example in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, it should be noted that the contract provisions in the two situations are different and result in the payment of different amounts. In the example in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the employee received a total of $204 attributable to the holiday: 8 hours' idle holiday pay at $12 an hour (8 × $12), due him whether he worked or not, and $108 pay at the nonholiday rate for 9 hours' work on the holiday. In the situation discussed in this paragraph (b)(2), the employee received $216 pay for working on the holiday—double time for 9 hours of work. All of the pay in this situation is paid for and directly related to the number of hours worked on the holiday.
[84 FR 68773, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.220
“Show-up” or “reporting” pay.
(a)
Applicable principles.
Under some employment agreements, an employee may be paid a minimum of a specified number of hours' pay at the applicable straight time or overtime rate on infrequent and sporadic occasions when, after reporting to work at his scheduled starting time on a regular work day or on another day on which he has been scheduled to work, he is not provided with the expected amount of work. The amounts that may be paid under such an agreement over and above what the employee would receive if paid at his customary rate only for the number of hours worked are paid to compensate the employee for the time wasted by him in reporting for work and to prevent undue loss of pay resulting from the employer's failure to provide expected work during regular hours. One of the primary purposes of such an arrangement is to discourage employers from calling their employees in to work for only a fraction of a day when they might get full-time work elsewhere. Pay arrangements of this kind are commonly referred to as “show-up” or “reporting” pay. Under the principles and subject to the conditions set forth in subpart B of this part and §§ 778.201 through 778.207, that portion of such payment which represents
compensation at the applicable rates for the straight time or overtime hours actually worked, if any, during such period may be credited as straight time or overtime compensation, as the case may be, in computing overtime compensation due under the Act. The amount by which the specified number of hours' pay exceeds such compensation for the hours actually worked is considered as a payment that is not made for hours worked. As such, it may be excluded from the computation of the employee's regular rate and cannot be credited toward statutory overtime compensation due him.
(b)
Application illustrated.
To illustrate, assume that an employee entitled to overtime pay after 40 hours a week whose workweek begins on Monday and who is paid $12 an hour reports for work on Monday according to schedule and is sent home after being given only 2 hours of work. He then works 8 hours each day on Tuesday through Saturday, inclusive, making a total of 42 hours for the week. The employment agreement covering the employees in the plant, who normally work 8 hours a day, Monday through Friday, provides that an employee reporting for scheduled work on any day will receive a minimum of 4 hours' work or pay. The employee thus receives not only the $24 earned in the 2 hours of work on Monday but an extra 2 hours' “show-up” pay, or $24 by reason of this agreement. However, since this $24 in “show-up” pay is not regarded as compensation for hours worked, the employee's regular rate remains $12 and the overtime requirements of the Act are satisfied if he receives, in addition to the $504 straight-time pay for 42 hours and the $24 “show-up” payment, the sum of $12 as extra compensation for the 2 hours of overtime work on Saturday.
(c)
Show-up or reporting pay mandated by law.
State and local laws may mandate payments or penalties paid to an employee when, before or after reporting to work as scheduled, the employee is not provided with the expected amount of work. All such payments or penalties paid to employees that are mandated by such laws and that are not payments for hours worked by the employee are excludable from the regular rate if such penalties are paid or payments made on an infrequent or sporadic basis. They cannot be credited toward statutory overtime compensation due.
[46 FR 7312, Jan. 23, 1981, as amended at 85 FR 68774, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.221
“Call-back” pay.
(a)
General.
Typically, “call-back” or “call-out” payments are made pursuant to agreement or established practice and consist of a specified number of hours' pay at the applicable straight time or overtime rates received by an employee on occasions when, after his scheduled hours of work have ended and without prearrangement, he responds to a call from his employer to perform extra work. The amount by which the specified number of hours' pay exceeds the compensation for hours actually worked is considered as a payment that is not made for hours worked. As such, it may be excluded from the computation of the employee's regular rate and cannot be credited toward statutory overtime compensation due the employee. Payments that are prearranged, however, may not be excluded from the regular rate. For example, if an employer retailer called in an employee to help clean up the store for 3 hours after an unexpected roof leak, and then again 3 weeks later for 2 hours to cover for a coworker who left work for a family emergency, payments for those instances would be without prearrangement and any call-back pay that exceeded the amount the employee would receive for the hours worked would be excludable. However, when payments under §§ 778.221 and 778.222 are prearranged, they are compensation for work. The key inquiry for determining prearrangement is whether the extra work was anticipated and therefore reasonably could have been scheduled. For example, if an employer restaurant anticipates needing extra servers for two hours during the busiest part of each Saturday evening and calls in employees to meet that need instead of scheduling additional servers, that would be prearrangement and any call-back pay would be included in the regular rate.
(b)
Application illustrated.
The application of the principles in paragraph
(a) of this section to call-back payments may be illustrated as follows: An employment agreement provides a minimum of 3 hours' pay at time and one-half for any employee called back to work outside his scheduled hours. The employees covered by the agreement, who are entitled to overtime pay after 40 hours a week, normally work 8 hours each day, Monday through Friday, inclusive, in a workweek beginning on Monday, and are paid overtime compensation at time and one-half for all hours worked in excess of 8 in any day or 40 in any workweek. Assume that an employee covered by this agreement and paid at the rate of $12 an hour works 1 hour overtime or a total of 9 hours on Monday, and works 8 hours each on Tuesday through Friday, inclusive. After he has gone home on Friday evening, he is called back to perform an emergency job. His hours worked on the call total 2 hours and he receives 3 hours' pay at time and one-half, or $54, under the call-back provision, in addition to $480 for working his regular schedule and $18 for overtime worked on Monday evening. In computing overtime compensation due this employee under the Act, the 43 actual hours (not 44) are counted as working time during the week. In addition to $516 pay at the $12 rate for all these hours, he has received under the agreement a premium of $6 for the 1 overtime hour on Monday and of $12 for the 2 hours of overtime work on the call, plus an extra sum of $18 paid by reason of the provision for minimum call-back pay. For purposes of the Act, the extra premiums paid for actual hours of overtime work on Monday and on the Friday call (a total of $18) may be excluded as true overtime premiums in computing his regular rate for the week and may be credited toward compensation due under the Act, but the extra $18 received under the call-back provision is not regarded as paid for hours worked; thus, it may be excluded from the regular rate, but it cannot be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act. The regular rate of the employee, therefore, remains $12, and he has received an overtime premium of $6 an hour for 3 overtime hours of work. This satisfies the requirements of section 7 of the Act. The same would be true, of course, if in the foregoing example, the employee was called back outside his scheduled hours for the 2-hour emergency job on another night of the week or on Saturday or Sunday, instead of on Friday night.
[84 FR 68774, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.222
Other payments similar to “call-back” pay.
The principles discussed in § 778.221 are also applied with respect to certain types of extra payments which are similar to call-back pay. Payments are similar to call-back pay if they are extra payments, including payments made pursuant to state or local scheduling laws, to compensate an employee for working unanticipated or insufficiently scheduled hours or shifts. The extra payment, over and above the employee's earnings for the hours actually worked at his applicable rate (straight time or overtime, as the case may be), is considered as a payment that is not made for hours worked. Payments that are prearranged, however, may not be excluded from the regular rate. Examples of payments similar to excludable call-back pay include:
(a) Extra payments made to employees for failure to give the employee sufficient notice to report for work on regular days of rest or during hours outside of his regular work schedule;
(b) Extra payments made solely because the employee has been called back to work before the expiration of a specified number of hours between shifts or tours of duty, sometimes referred to as a “rest period;”
(c) Pay mandated by state or local law for employees who are scheduled to work the end of one day's shift and the start of the next day's shift with fewer than the legally required number of hours between the shifts; and
(d) “Predictability pay” mandated by state or local law for employees who do not receive requisite notice of a schedule change.
[84 FR 68775, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.223
Pay for non-productive hours distinguished.
(a) Under the Act an employee must be compensated for all hours worked. As a general rule the term “hours worked” will include:
(1) All time during which an employee is required to be on duty or to be on the employer's premises or at a prescribed workplace; and
(2) All time during which an employee is suffered or permitted to work whether or not he is required to do so.
(b) Thus, working time is not limited to the hours spent in active productive labor, but includes time given by the employee to the employer even though part of the time may be spent in idleness. Some of the hours spent by employees, under certain circumstances, in such activities as waiting for work, remaining “on call”, traveling on the employer's business or to and from workplaces, and in meal periods and rest periods are regarded as working time and some are not. The governing principles are discussed in part 785 of this chapter (interpretative bulletin on “hours worked”) and part 790 of this chapter (statement of effect of Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947). To the extent that these hours are regarded as working time, payment made as compensation for these hours obviously cannot be characterized as “payments not for hours worked.” Such compensation is treated in the same manner as compensation for any other working time and is, of course, included in the regular rate of pay. Where payment is ostensibly made as compensation for such of these hours as are not regarded as working time under the Act, the payment is nevertheless included in the regular rate of pay unless it qualifies for exclusion from the regular rate as one of a type of “payments made for occasional periods when no work is performed due to failure of the employer to provide sufficient work, or other similar cause” as discussed in § 778.218 or is excludable on some other basis under section 7(e)(2). For example, an employment contract may provide that employees who are assigned to take calls for specific periods will receive a payment of $5 for each 8-hour period during which they are “on call” in addition to pay at their regular (or overtime) rate for hours actually spent in making calls. If the employees who are thus on call are not confined to their homes or to any particular place, but may come and go as they please, provided that they leave word where they may be reached, the hours spent “on call” are not considered as hours worked. Although the payment received by such employees for such “on call” time is, therefore, not allocable to any specific hours of work, it is clearly paid as compensation for performing a duty involved in the employee's job and is not of a type excludable under section 7(e)(2). The payment must therefore be included in the employee's regular rate in the same manner as any payment for services, such as an attendance bonus, which is not related to any specific hours of work. The principle in this paragraph (b) also applies when such “on call” pay is mandated by state or local law.
[84 FR 68775, Dec. 16, 2019]
§ 778.224
“Other similar payments”.
(a)
General.
Sections 778.216 through 778.223 have enumerated and discussed the basic types of payments for which exclusion from the regular rate is specifically provided under section 7(e)(2) because they are not made as compensation for hours of work. Section 7(e)(2) also authorizes exclusion from the regular rate of other similar payments to an employee which are not made as compensation for his hours of employment. Such payments do not depend on hours worked, services rendered, job performance, or other criteria that depend on the quality or quantity of the employee's work. Conditions not dependent on the quality or quality of work include a reasonable waiting period for eligibility, the requirement to repay benefits as a remedy for employee misconduct, and limiting eligibility on the basis of geographic location or job position. Since a variety of miscellaneous payments are paid by an employer to an employee under peculiar circumstances, it was not considered feasible to attempt to list them. They must, however, be “similar” in character to the payments specifically described in section 7(e)(2). It is clear that the clause was not intended to permit the exclusion from
the regular rate of payments such as most bonuses or the furnishing of facilities like board and lodging which, though not directly attributable to any particular hours of work are, nevertheless, clearly understood to be compensation for services.
(b)
Examples of other excludable payments.
A few examples may serve to illustrate some of the types of payments intended to be excluded as “other similar payments”.
(1) Sums paid to an employee for the rental of his truck or car.
(2) Loans or advances made by the employer to the employee.
(3) The cost to the employer of conveniences furnished to the employee such as:
(i) Parking spaces and parking benefits;
(ii) Restrooms and lockers;
(iii) On-the-job medical care;
(iv) Treatment provided on-site from specialists such as chiropractors, massage therapists, physical therapists, personal trainers, counselors, or Employee Assistance Programs; or
(v) Gym access, gym memberships, fitness classes, and recreational facilities.
(4) The cost to the employer of providing wellness programs, such as health risk assessments, biometric screenings, vaccination clinics (including annual flu vaccinations), nutrition classes, weight loss programs, smoking cessation programs, stress reduction programs, exercise programs, coaching to help employees meet health goals, financial wellness programs or financial counseling, and mental health wellness programs.
(5) Discounts on employer-provided retail goods and services, and tuition benefits (whether paid to an employee, an education provider, or a student loan program).
(6) Adoption assistance (including financial assistance, legal services, or information and referral services).
[84 FR 68775, Dec. 16, 2019]

# Talent Fees in the Radio and Television Industry
§ 778.225
Talent fees excludable under regulations.
Section 7(e)(3) provides for the exclusion from the regular rate of “talent fees (as such talent fees are defined and delimited by regulations of the Secretary) paid to performers, including announcers, on radio and television programs.” Regulations defining “talent fees” have been issued as part 550 of this chapter. Payments which accord with this definition are excluded from the regular rate.

# Subpart D—Special Problems

# Introductory
§ 778.300
Scope of subpart.
This subpart applies the principles of computing overtime to some of the problems that arise frequently.

# Change in the Beginning of the Workweek
§ 778.301
Overlapping when change of workweek is made.
As stated in § 778.105, the beginning of the workweek may be changed for an employee or for a group of employees if the change is intended to be permanent and is not designed to evade the overtime requirements of the Act. A change in the workweek necessarily results in a situation in which one or more hours or days fall in both the “old” workweek as previously constituted and the “new” workweek. Thus, if the workweek in the plant commenced at 7 a.m. on Monday and it is now proposed to begin the workweek at 7 a.m. on Sunday, the hours worked from 7 a.m. Sunday to 7 a.m. Monday will constitute both the last hours of the old workweek and the first hours of the newly established workweek.
§ 778.302
Computation of overtime due for overlapping workweeks.
(a)
General rule.
When the beginning of the workweek is changed, if the hours which fall within both “old” and “new” workweeks as explained in § 778.301 are hours in which the employee does no work, his statutory
compensation for each workweek is, of course, determinable in precisely the same manner as it would be if no overlap existed. If, on the other hand, some of the employee's working time falls within hours which are included in both workweeks, the Department of Labor, as an enforcement policy, will assume that the overtime requirements of section 7 of the Act have been satisfied if computation is made as follows:
(1) Assume first that the overlapping hours are to be counted as hours worked only in the “old” workweek and not in the new; compute straight time and overtime compensation due for each of the 2 workweeks on this basis and total the two sums.
(2) Assume now that the overlapping hours are to be counted as hours worked only in the new workweek and not in the old, and complete the total computation accordingly.
(3) Pay the employee an amount not less than the greater of the amounts computed by methods (1) and (2).
(b)
Application of rule illustrated.
Suppose that, in the example given in § 778.301, the employee, who receives $5 an hour and is subject to overtime pay after 40 hours a week, worked 5 hours on Sunday, March 7, 1965. Suppose also that his last “old” workweek commenced at 7 a.m. on Monday, March 1, and he worked 40 hours March 1 through March 5 so that for the workweek ending March 7 he would be owed straight time and overtime compensation for 45 hours. The proposal is to commence the “new” workweek at 7 a.m. on March 7. If in the “new” workweek of Sunday, March 7, through Saturday, March 13, the employee worked a total of 40 hours, including the 5 hours worked on Sunday, it is obvious that the allocation of the Sunday hours to the old workweek will result in higher total compensation to the employee for the 13-day period. He should, therefore, be paid $237.50 (40 × $5 + 5 × $7.50) for the period of March 1 through March 7, and $175 (35 × $5) for the period of March 8 through March 13.
(c)
Nonstatutory obligations unaffected.
The fact that this method of compensation is permissible under the Fair Labor Standards Act when the beginning of the workweek is changed will not alter any obligation the employer may have under his employment contract to pay a greater amount of overtime compensation for the period in question.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7314, Jan. 23, 1981]

# Additional Pay for Past Period
§ 778.303
Retroactive pay increases.
Where a retroactive pay increase is awarded to employees as a result of collective bargaining or otherwise, it operates to increase the regular rate of pay of the employees for the period of its retroactivity. Thus, if an employee is awarded a retroactive increase of 10 cents per hour, he is owed, under the Act, a retroactive increase of 15 cents for each overtime hour he has worked during the period, no matter what the agreement of the parties may be. A retroactive pay increase in the form of a lump sum for a particular period must be prorated back over the hours of the period to which it is allocable to determine the resultant increases in the regular rate, in precisely the same manner as a lump sum bonus. For a discussion of the method of allocating bonuses based on employment in a prior period to the workweeks covered by the bonus payment, see § 778.209.

# How Deductions Affect the Regular Rate
§ 778.304
Amounts deducted from cash wages—general.
(a) The word “deduction” is often loosely used to cover reductions in pay resulting from several causes:
(1) Deductions to cover the cost to the employer of furnishing “board, lodging or other facilities,” within the meaning of section 3(m) of the Act.
(2) Deductions for other items such as tools and uniforms which are not regarded as “facilities.”
(3) Deductions authorized by the employee (such as union dues) or required by law (such as taxes and garnishments).
(4) Reductions in a fixed salary paid for a fixed workweek in weeks in which the employee fails to work the full schedule.
(5) Deductions for disciplinary reasons.
(b) In general, where such deductions are made, the employee's “regular rate” is the same as it would have been if the occasion for the deduction had not arisen. Also, as explained in part 531 of this chapter, the requirements of the Act place certain limitations on the making of some of the above deductions.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7314, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.305
Computation where particular types of deductions are made.
The regular rate of pay of an employee whose earnings are subject to deductions of the types described in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (3) of § 778.304 is determined by dividing his total compensation (except statutory exclusions) before deductions by the total hours worked in the workweek. (See also §§ 531.36-531.40 of this chapter.)
§ 778.306
Salary reductions in short workweeks.
(a) The reductions in pay described in § 778.304(a)(4) are not, properly speaking, “deductions” at all. If an employee is compensated at a fixed salary for a fixed workweek and if this salary is reduced by the amount of the average hourly earnings for each hour lost by the employee in a short workweek, the employee is, for all practical purposes, employed at an hourly rate of pay. This hourly rate is the quotient of the fixed salary divided by the fixed number of hours it is intended to compensate. If an employee is hired at a fixed salary of $200 for a 40-hour week, his hourly rate is $5. When he works only 36 hours he is therefore entitled to $180. The employer makes a “deduction” of $20 from his salary to achieve this result. The regular hourly rate is not altered.
(b) When an employee is paid a fixed salary for a workweek of variable hours (or a guarantee of pay under the provisions of section 7(f) of the Act, as discussed in §§ 778.402 through 778.414), the understanding is that the salary or guarantee is due the employee in short workweeks as well as in longer ones and “deductions” of this type are not made. Therefore, in cases where the understanding of the parties is not clearly shown as to whether a fixed salary is intended to cover a fixed or a variable workweek the practice of making “deductions” from the salary for hours not worked in short weeks will be considered strong, if not conclusive, evidence that the salary covers a fixed workweek.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7314, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.307
Disciplinary deductions.
Where deductions as described in § 778.304(a)(5) are made for disciplinary reasons, the regular rate of an employee is computed before deductions are made, as in the case of deductions of the types in paragraphs (a) (1), (2), and (3) of § 778.304. Thus where disciplinary deductions are made from a piece-worker's earnings, the earnings at piece rates must be totaled and divided by the total hours worked to determine the regular rate before the deduction is applied. In no event may such deductions (or deductions of the type described in § 778.304(a)(2)) reduce the earnings to an average below the applicable minimum wage or cut into any part of the overtime compensation due the employee. For a full discussion of the limits placed on such deductions, see part 531 of this chapter. The principles set forth therein with relation to deductions have no application, however, to situations involving refusal or failure to pay the full amount of wages due. See part 531 of this chapter; also § 778.306. It should be noted that although an employer may penalize an employee for lateness subject to the limitations stated above by deducting a half hour's straight time pay from his wages, for example, for each half hour, or fraction thereof of his lateness, the employer must still count as hours worked all the time actually worked by the employee in determining the amount of overtime compensation due for the workweek.
[46 FR 7314, Jan. 23, 1981]

# Lump Sum Attributed to Overtime
§ 778.308
The overtime rate is an hourly rate.
(a) Section 7(a) of the Act requires the payment of overtime compensation for hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate. The overtime rate, like the regular rate, is a rate per hour. Where employees are paid on some basis other than an hourly rate, the regular hourly rate is derived, as previously explained, by dividing the total compensation (except statutory exclusions) by the total hours of work for which the payment is made. To qualify as an overtime premium under section 7(e)(5), (6), or (7), the extra compensation for overtime hours must be paid pursuant to a premium rate which is likewise a rate per hour (subject to certain statutory exceptions discussed in §§ 778.400 through 778.421).
(b) To qualify under section 7(e)(5), the overtime rate must be greater than the regular rate, either a fixed amount per hour or a multiple of the nonovertime rate, such as one and one-third, one and one-half or two times that rate. To qualify under section 7(e) (6) or (7), the overtime rate may not be less than one and one-half times the bonafide rate established in good faith for like work performed during nonovertime hours. Thus, it may not be less than time and one-half but it may be more. It may be a standard multiple greater than one and one-half (for example, double time); or it may be a fixed sum of money per hour which is, as an arithmetical fact, at least one and one-half times the nonovertime rate for example, if the nonovertime rate is $5 per hour, the overtime rate may not be less than $7.50 but may be set at a higher arbitrary figure such as $8 per hour.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7314, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.309
Fixed sum for constant amount of overtime.
Where an employee works a regular fixed number of hours in excess of the statutory maximum each workweek, it is, of course, proper to pay him, in addition to his compensation for nonovertime hours, a fixed sum in any such week for his overtime work, determined by multiplying his overtime rate by the number of overtime hours regularly worked.
§ 778.310
Fixed sum for varying amounts of overtime.
A premium in the form of a lump sum which is paid for work performed during overtime hours without regard to the number of overtime hours worked does not qualify as an overtime premium even though the amount of money may be equal to or greater than the sum owed on a per hour basis. For example, an agreement that provides for the payment of a flat sum of $75 to employees who work on Sunday does not provide a premium which will qualify as an overtime premium, even though the employee's straight time rate is $5 an hour and the employee always works less than 10 hours on Sunday. Likewise, where an agreement provides for the payment for work on Sunday of either the flat sum of $75 or time and one-half the employee's regular rate for all hours worked on Sunday, whichever is greater, the $75 guaranteed payment is not an overtime premium. The reason for this is clear. If the rule were otherwise, an employer desiring to pay an employee a fixed salary regardless of the number of hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard could merely label as overtime pay a fixed portion of such salary sufficient to take care of compensation for the maximum number of hours that would be worked. The Congressional purpose to effectuate a maximum hours standard by placing a penalty upon the performance of excessive overtime work would thus be defeated. For this reason, where extra compensation is paid in the form of a lump sum for work performed in overtime hours, it must be included in the regular rate and may not be credited against statutory overtime compensation due.
[46 FR 7314, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.311
Flat rate for special job performed in overtime hours.
(a)
Flat rate is not an overtime premium.
The same reasoning applies where employees are paid a flat rate
for a special job performed during overtime hours, without regard to the time actually consumed in performance. (This situation should be distinguished from “show-up” and “call-back” pay situations discussed in §§ 778.220 through 778.222 and from payment at a rate not less than one and one-half times the applicable rate to pieceworkers for work performed during overtime hours, as discussed in §§ 778.415 through 778.421). The total amount paid must be included in the regular rate; no part of the amount may be credited toward statutory overtime compensation due.
(b)
Application of rule illustrated.
It may be helpful to give a specific example illustrating the result of paying an employee on the basis under discussion.
(1) An employment agreement calls for the payment of $5 per hour for work during the hours established in good faith as the basic workday or workweek; it provides for the payment of $7.50 per hour for work during hours outside the basic workday or workweek. It further provides that employees doing a special task outside the basic workday or workweek shall receive 6 hours' pay at the rate of $7.50 per hour (a total payment of $45) regardless of the time actually consumed in performance. The applicable maximum hours standard is 40 hours in a workweek.
(2) Suppose an employee under such an agreement works the following schedule:
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
Hours within basic workday
8
8
7
8
8
0
0
Pay under contract
$40
$40
$35
$40
$40
0
0
Hours outside basic workday
2
2
1
1
0
0
4
0
Pay under contract
$15
$45
$7.50
0
0
$30
0
1
Hours spent in the performance of special work.
(3) To determine the regular rate, the total compensation (except statutory exclusions) must be divided by the total number of hours worked. The only sums to be excluded in this situation are the extra premiums provided by a premium rate (a rate per hour) for work outside the basic workday and workweek, which qualify for exclusion under section 7(e)(7) of the Act, as discussed in § 778.204. The $15 paid on Monday, the $7.50 paid on Wednesday and the $30 paid on Saturday are paid pursuant to rates which qualify as premium rates under section 7(e)(7) of the Act. The total extra compensation (over the straight time pay for these hours) provided by these premium rates is $17.50. The sum of $17.50 should be subtracted from the total of $292.50 due the employee under the employment agreement. No part of the $45 payment for the special work performed on Tuesday qualifies for exclusion. The remaining $275 must thus be divided by 48 hours to determine the regular rate—$5.73 per hour. The employee is owed an additional one-half this rate under the Act for each of 8 overtime hours worked—$22.92. The extra compensation in the amount of $17.50 payable pursuant to contract premium rates which qualify as overtime premiums may be credited toward the $22.92 owed as statutory overtime premiums. No part of the $45 payment may be so credited. The employer must pay the employee an additional $5.42 as statutory overtime pay—a total of $297.92 for the week.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7315, Jan. 23, 1981]

# “Task” Basis of Payment
§ 778.312
Pay for task without regard to actual hours.
(a) Under some employment agreements employees are paid according to a job or task rate without regard to the number of hours consumed in completing the task. Such agreements take various forms but the two most usual forms are the following:
(1) It is determined (sometimes on the basis of a time study) that an employee (or group) should complete a particular task in 8 hours. Upon the completion of the task the employee is credited with 8 “hours” of work though in fact he may have worked more or less than 8 hours to complete the task. At the end of the week an employee entitled to statutory overtime compensation for work in excess of 40 hours is paid at an established hourly rate for the first 40 of the “hours” so credited and at one and one-half times such rate
for the “hours” so credited in excess of 40. The number of “hours” credited to the employee bears no necessary relationship to the number of hours actually worked. It may be greater or less. “Overtime” may be payable in some cases after 20 hours of work; in others only after 50 hours or any other number of hours.
(2) A similar task is set up and 8 hours' pay at the established rate is credited for the completion of the task in 8 hours or less. If the employee fails to complete the task in 8 hours he is paid at the established rate for each of the first 8 hours he actually worked. For work in excess of 8 hours or after the task is completed (whichever occurs first) he is paid one and one-half times the established rate for each such hour worked. He is owed overtime compensation under the Act for hours worked in the workweek in excess of 40 but is paid his weekly overtime compensation at the premium rate for the hours in excess of 40 actual or “task” hours (or combination thereof) for which he received pay at the established rate. “Overtime” pay under this plan may be due after 20 hours of work, 25 or any other number up to 40.
(b) These employees are in actual fact compensated on a daily rate of pay basis. In plans of the first type, the established hourly rate never controls the compensation which any employee actually receives. Therefore, the established rate cannot be his regular rate. In plans of the second type the rate is operative only for the slower employees who exceed the time allotted to complete the task; for them it operates in a manner similar to a minimum hourly guarantee for piece workers, as discussed in § 778.111. On such days as it is operative it is a genuine rate; at other times it is not.
(c) Since the premium rates (at one and one-half times the established hourly rate) are payable under both plans for hours worked within the basic or normal workday (if one is established) and without regard to whether the hours are or are not in excess of 8 per day or 40 per week, they cannot qualify as overtime premiums under section 7(e) (5), (6), or (7) of the Act. They must therefore be included in the regular rate and no part of them may be credited against statutory overtime compensation due. Under plans of the second type, however, where the pay of an employee on a given day is actually controlled by the established hourly rate (because he fails to complete the task in the 8-hour period) and he is paid at one and one-half times the established rate for hours in excess of 8 hours actually worked, the premium rate paid on that day will qualify as an overtime premium under section 7(e)(5).
§ 778.313
Computing overtime pay under the Act for employees compensated on task basis.
(a) An example of the operation of a plan of the second type discussed in § 778.312 may serve to illustrate the effects on statutory overtime computations of payment on a task basis. Assume the following facts: The employment agreement establishes a basic hourly rate of $5 per hour, provides for the payment of $7.50 per hour for overtime work (in excess of the basic workday or workweek) and defines the basic workday as 8 hours, and the basic workweek as 40 hours, Monday through Friday. It further provides that the assembling of a machine constitutes a day's work. An employee who completes the assembling job in less than 8 hours will be paid 8 hours' pay at the established rate of $5 per hour and will receive pay at the “overtime” rate for hours worked after the completion of the task. An employee works the following hours in a particular week:
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
Hours spent on task
6
7
7
9
8
1/2
6
0
Day's pay under contract
$40
$40
$40
$40
$40
$60
0
Additional hours
2
0
2
0
1/2
0
0
Additional pay under contract
$15
0
$15
$7.50
$7.50
0
0
(b) In the example in paragraph (a) of this section the employee has actually worked a total of 48 hours and is owed under the contract a total of $305 for the week. The only sums which can be excluded as overtime premiums from this total before the regular rate is determined are the extra $2.50 payments for the extra hour on Thursday and Friday made because of work actually in excess of 8 hours. The payment of the other premium rates under the contract is either without regard to whether or not the hours they compensated were in excess of a bona fide daily or weekly standard or without regard to the number of overtime hours worked. Thus only the sum of $5 is excluded from the total. The remaining $300 is divided by 48 hours to determine the regular rate—$6.25 per hour. One-half this rate is due under the Act as extra compensation for each of the 8 overtime hours—$25. The $5 payment under the contract for actual excess hours may be credited and the balance—$20—is owed in addition to the $305 due under the contract.
[46 FR 7315, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.314
Special situations.
There may be special situations in which the facts demonstrate that the hours for which contract overtime compensation is paid to employees working on a “task” or “stint” basis actually qualify as overtime hours under section 7(e)(5), (6), or (7). Where this is true, payment of one and one-half times an agreed hourly rate for “task” or “stint” work may be equivalent to payment pursuant to agreement of one and one-half time a piece rate. The alternative methods of overtime pay computation permitted by section 7(g)(1) or (2), as explained in §§ 778.415 through 778.421 may be applicable in such a case.

# Effect of Failure To Count or Pay for Certain Working Hours
§ 778.315
Payment for all hours worked in overtime workweek is required.
In determining the number of hours for which overtime compensation is due, all hours worked (see § 778.223) by an employee for an employer in a particular workweek must be counted. Overtime compensation, at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate of pay, must be paid for each hour worked in the workweek in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard. This extra compensation for the excess hours of overtime work under the Act cannot be said to have been paid to an employee unless all the straight time compensation due him for the nonovertime hours under his contract (express or implied) or under any applicable statute has been paid.
§ 778.316
Agreements or practices in conflict with statutory requirements are ineffective.
While it is permissible for an employer and an employee to agree upon different base rates of pay for different types of work, it is settled under the Act that where a rate has been agreed upon as applicable to a particular type of work the parties cannot lawfully agree that the rate for that work shall be lower merely because the work is performed during the statutory overtime hours, or during a week in which statutory overtime is worked. Since a lower rate cannot lawfully be set for overtime hours it is obvious that the parties cannot lawfully agree that the working time will not be paid for at all. An agreement that only the first 8 hours of work on any days or only the hours worked between certain fixed hours of the day or only the first 40 hours of any week will be counted as working time will clearly fail of its evasive purpose. An announcement by the employer that no overtime work will be permitted, or that overtime work will not be compensated unless authorized in advance, will not impair the employee's right to compensation for work which he is actually suffered or permitted to perform.
§ 778.317
Agreements not to pay for certain nonovertime hours.
An agreement not to compensate employees for certain nonovertime hours stands on no better footing since it would have the same effect of diminishing the employee's total overtime
compensation. An agreement, for example, to pay an employee whose maximum hours standard for the particular workweek is 40 hours, $5 an hour for the first 35 hours, nothing for the hours between 35 and 40 and $7.50 an hour for the hours in excess of 40 would not meet the overtime requirements of the Act. Under the principles set forth in § 778.315, the employee would have to be paid $25 for the 5 hours worked between 35 and 40 before any sums ostensibly paid for overtime could be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act. Unless the employee is first paid $5 for each nonovertime hour worked, the $7.50 per hour payment purportedly for overtime hours is not in fact an overtime payment.
[46 FR 7315, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.318
Productive and nonproductive hours of work.
(a)
Failure to pay for nonproductive time worked.
Some agreements provide for payment only for the hours spent in productive work; the work hours spent in waiting time, time spent in travel on the employer's behalf or similar nonproductive time are not made compensable and in some cases are neither counted nor compensated. Payment pursuant to such an agreement will not comply with the Act; such nonproductive working hours must be counted and paid for.
(b)
Compensation payable for nonproductive hours worked.
The parties may agree to compensate nonproductive hours worked at a rate (at least the minimum) which is lower than the rate applicable to productive work. In such a case, the regular rate is the weighted average of the two rates, as discussed in § 778.115 and the employee whose maximum hours standard is 40 hours is owed compensation at his regular rate for all of the first 40 hours and at a rate not less than one and one-half times this rate for all hours in excess of 40. (See § 778.415 for the alternative method of computing overtime pay on the applicable rate.) In the absence of any agreement setting a different rate for nonproductive hours, the employee would be owed compensation at the regular hourly rate set for productive work for all hours up to 40 and at a rate at least one and one-half times that rate for hours in excess of 40.
(c)
Compensation attributable to both productive and nonproductive hours.
The situation described in paragraph (a) of this section is to be distinguished from one in which such nonproductive hours are properly counted as working time but no special hourly rate is assigned to such hours because it is understood by the parties that the other compensation received by the employee is intended to cover pay for such hours. For example, while it is not proper for an employer to agree with his pieceworkers that the hours spent in down-time (waiting for work) will not be paid for or will be neither paid for nor counted, it is permissible for the parties to agree that the pay the employees will earn at piece rates is intended to compensate them for all hours worked, the productive as well as the nonproductive hours. If this is the agreement of the parties, the regular rate of the pieceworker will be the rate determined by dividing the total piecework earnings by the total hours worked (both productive and nonproductive) in the workweek. Extra compensation (one-half the rate as so determined) would, of course, be due for each hour worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard.

# Effect of Paying for But Not Counting Certain Hours
§ 778.319
Paying for but not counting hours worked.
In some contracts provision is made for payment for certain hours, which constitute working time under the Act, coupled with a provision that these hours will not be counted as working time. Such a provision is a nullity. If the hours in question are hours worked, they must be counted as such in determining whether more than the applicable maximum hours have been worked in the workweek. If more hours have been worked, the employee must be paid overtime compensation at not less than one and one-half times his regular rate for all overtime hours. A provision that certain hours will be compensated only at straight time rates is likewise invalid. If the hours are actually hours worked in excess of
the applicable maximum hours standard, extra half-time compensation will be due regardless of any agreement to the contrary.
§ 778.320
Hours that would not be hours worked if not paid for.
In some cases an agreement or established practice provides for compensation for hours spent in certain types of activities which would not be regarded as working time under the Act if no compensation were provided. Preliminary and postliminary activities and time spent in eating meals between working hours fall in this category. Compensation for such hours does not convert them into hours worked unless it appears from all the pertinent facts that the parties have treated such time as hours worked. Except for certain activity governed by the Portal-to-Portal Act (see paragraph (b) of this section), the agreement or established practice of the parties will be respected, if reasonable.
(a)
Time treated as hours worked.
Where the parties have reasonably agreed to include as hours worked time devoted to activities of the type described in the introductory text of this section, payments for such hours will not have the mathematical effect of increasing or decreasing the regular rate of an employee if the hours are compensated at the same rate as other working hours. The requirements of section 7(a) of the Act will be considered to be met where overtime compensation at one and one-half times such rate is paid for the hours so compensated in the workweek which are in excess of the statutory maximum.
(b)
Time not treated as hours worked.
Under the principles set forth in § 778.319, where the payments are made for time spent in an activity which, if compensable under contract, custom, or practice, is required to be counted as hours worked under the Act by virtue of section 4 of the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947 (see parts 785 and 790 of this chapter), no agreement by the parties to exclude such compensable time from hours worked would be valid. On the other hand, in the case of time spent in an activity which would not be hours worked under the Act if not compensated and would not become hours worked under the Portal-to-Portal Act even if made compensable by contract, custom, or practice, such time will not be counted as hours worked unless agreement or established practice indicates that the parties have treated the time as hours worked. Such time includes bona fide meal periods, see § 785.19. Unless it appears from all the pertinent facts that the parties have treated such activities as hours worked, payments for such time will be regarded as qualifying for exclusion from the regular rate under the provisions of section 7(e)(2), as explained in §§ 778.216 through 778.224. The payments for such hours cannot, of course, qualify as overtime premiums creditable toward overtime compensation under section 7(h) of the Act.
[84 FR 68776, Dec. 16, 2019]

# Reduction in Workweek Schedule With No Change in Pay
§ 778.321
Decrease in hours without decreasing pay—general.
Since the regular rate of pay is the average hourly rate at which an employee is actually employed, and since this rate is determined by dividing his total remuneration for employment (except statutory exclusions) for a given workweek by the total hours worked in that workweek for which such remuneration was paid, it necessarily follows that if the schedule of hours is reduced while the pay remains the same, the regular rate has been increased.
§ 778.322
Reducing the fixed workweek for which a salary is paid.
If an employee whose maximum hours standard is 40 hours was hired at a salary of $200 for a fixed workweek of 40 hours, his regular rate at the time of hiring was $5 per hour. If his workweek is later reduced to a fixed workweek of 35 hours while his salary remains the same, it is the fact that it now takes him only 35 hours to earn $200, so that he earns his salary at the average rate of $5.71 per hour. His regular rate thus becomes $5.71 per hour; it is no longer $5 an hour. Overtime pay is due under the Act only for hours worked in excess of 40, not 35, but if the understanding of the parties is that the salary of $200
now covers 35 hours of work and no more, the employee would be owed $5.71 per hour under his employment contract for each hour worked between 35 and 40. He would be owed not less than one and one-half times $5.71 ($8.57) per hour, under the statute, for each hour worked in excess of 40 in the workweek. In weeks in which no overtime is worked only the provisions of section 6 of the Act, requiring the payment of not less than the applicable minimum wage for each hour worked, apply so that the employee's right to receive $5.71 per hour is enforceable only under his contract. However, in overtime weeks the Administrator has the duty to insure the payment of at least one and one-half times the employee's regular rate of pay for hours worked in excess of 40 and this overtime compensation cannot be said to have been paid until all straight time compensation due the employee under the statute or his employment contract has been paid. Thus if the employee works 41 hours in a particular week, he is owed his salary for 35 hours—$200, 5 hours' pay at $5.71 per hour for the 5 hours between 35 and 40—$28.55, and 1 hour's pay at $8.57 for the 1 hour in excess of 40—$8.57, or a total of $237.12 for the week.
[46 FR 7316, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.323
Effect if salary is for variable workweek.
The discussion in the prior section sets forth one result of reducing the workweek from 40 to 35 hours. It is not either the necessary result or the only possible result. As in all cases of employees hired on a salary basis, the regular rate depends in part on the agreement of the parties as to what the salary is intended to compensate. In reducing the customary workweek schedule to 35 hours the parties may agree to change the basis of the employment arrangement by providing that the salary which formerly covered a fixed workweek of 40 hours now covers a variable workweek up to 40 hours. If this is the new agreement, the employee receives $200 for workweeks of varying lengths, such as 35, 36, 38, or 40 hours. His rate thus varies from week to week, but in weeks of 40 hours or over, it is $5 per hour (since the agreement of the parties is that the salary covers up to 40 hours and no more) and his overtime rate, for hours in excess of 40, thus remains $7.50 per hour. Such a salary arrangement presumably contemplates that the salary will be paid in full for any workweek of 40 hours or less. The employee would thus be entitled to his full salary if he worked only 25 or 30 hours. No deductions for hours not worked in short workweeks would be made. (For a discussion of the effect of deductions on the regular rate, see §§ 778.304 to 778.307.)
[46 FR 7316, Jan. 23, 1981; 46 FR 33516, June 30, 1981]
§ 778.324
Effect on hourly rate employees.
A similar situation is presented where employees have been hired at an hourly rate of pay and have customarily worked a fixed workweek. If the workweek is reduced from 40 to 35 hours without reduction in total pay, the average hourly rate is thereby increased as in § 778.322. If the reduction in work schedule is accompanied by a new agreement altering the mode of compensation from an hourly rate basis to a fixed salary for a variable workweek up to 40 hours, the results described in § 778.323 follow.
§ 778.325
Effect on salary covering more than 40 hours' pay.
The same reasoning applies to salary covering straight time pay for a longer workweek. If an employee whose maximum hours standard is 40 hours was hired at a fixed salary of $275 for 55 hours of work, he was entitled to a statutory overtime premium for the 15 hours in excess of 40 at the rate of $2.50 per hour (half-time) in addition to his salary, and to statutory overtime pay of $7.50 per hour (time and one-half) for any hours worked in excess of 55. If the scheduled workweek is later reduced to 50 hours, with the understanding between the parties that the salary will be paid as the employee's nonovertime compensation for each workweek of 55 hours or less, his regular rate in any overtime week of 55 hours or less is determined by dividing the salary by the number of hours worked to earn it in that particular week, and additional half-time, based on that rate, is due for
each hour in excess of 40. In weeks of 55 hours or more, his regular rate remains $5 per hour and he is due, in addition to his salary, extra compensation of $2.50 for each hour over 40 but not over 55 and full time and one-half, or $7.50, for each hour worked in excess of 55. If, however, the understanding of the parties is that the salary now covers a fixed workweek of 50 hours, his regular rate is $5.50 per hour in all weeks. This assumes that when an employee works less than 50 hours in a particular week, deductions are made at a rate of $5.50 per hour for the hours not worked.
[46 FR 7316, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.326
Reduction of regular overtime workweek without reduction of take-home pay.
The reasoning applied in the foregoing sections does not, of course, apply to a situation in which the former earnings at both straight time and overtime are paid to the employee for the reduced workweek. Suppose an employee was hired at an hourly rate of $5 an hour and regularly worked 50 hours, earning $275 as his total straight time and overtime compensation, and the parties now agree to reduce the workweek to 45 hours without any reduction in take-home pay. The parties in such a situation may agree to an increase in the hourly rate from $5 per hour to $6 so that for a workweek of 45 hours (the reduced schedule) the employee's straight time and overtime earnings will be $285. The parties cannot, however, agree that the employee is to receive exactly $285 as total compensation (including overtime pay) for a workweek varying, for example, up to 50 hours, unless he does so pursuant to contracts specifically permitted in section 7(f) of the Act, as discussed in §§ 778.402 through 778.414. An employer cannot otherwise discharge his statutory obligation to pay overtime compensation to an employee who does not work the same fixed hours each week by paying a fixed amount purporting to cover both straight time and overtime compensation for an “agreed” number of hours. To permit such a practice without proper statutory safeguards would result in sanctioning the circumvention of the provisions of the Act which require that an employee who works more than 40 hours in any workweek be compensated, in accordance with express congressional intent, at a rate not less than one and one-half times his regular rate of pay for the burden of working long hours. In arrangements of this type, no additional financial pressure would fall upon the employer and no additional compensation would be due to the employee under such a plan until the workweek exceeded 50 hours.
[46 FR 7316, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.327
Temporary or sporadic reduction in schedule.
(a) The problem of reduction in the workweek is somewhat different where a temporary reduction is involved. Reductions for the period of a dead or slow season follow the rules announced above. However, reduction on a more temporary or sporadic basis presents a different problem. It is obvious that as a matter of simple arithmetic an employer might adopt a series of different rates for the same work, varying inversely with the number of overtime hours worked in such a way that the employee would earn no more than his straight time rate no matter how many hours he worked. If he set the rate at $6 per hour for all workweeks in which the employee worked 40 hours or less, approximately $5.93 per hour for workweeks of 41 hours, approximately $5.86 for workweeks of 42 hours, approximately $5.45 for workweeks of 50 hours, and so on, the employee would always receive (for straight time and overtime at these “rates”) $6 an hour regardless of the number of overtime hours worked. This is an obvious bookkeeping device designed to avoid the payment of overtime compensation and is not in accord with the law. See
Walling
v.
Green Head Bit
Supply Co.,
138 F. 2d 453. The regular rate of pay of this employee for overtime purposes is, obviously, the rate he earns in the normal nonovertime week—in this case, $6 per hour.
(b) The situation is different in degree but not in principle where employees who have been at a bona fide $6 rate usually working 50 hours and taking home $330 as total straight time and overtime pay for the week are, during occasional weeks, cut back to 42 hours.
If the employer raises their rate to $7.65 for such weeks so that their total compensation is $328.95 for a 42-hour week the question may properly be asked, when they return to the 50-hour week, whether the $6 rate is really their regular rate. Are they putting in 8 additional hours of work for that extra $1.05 or is their “regular” rate really now $7.65 an hour since this is what they earn in the short workweek? It seems clear that where different rates are paid from week to week for the same work and where the difference is justified by no factor other than the number of hours worked by the individual employee—the longer he works the lower the rate—the device is evasive and the rate actually paid in the shorter or nonovertime week is his regular rate for overtime purposes in all weeks.
[46 FR 7317, Jan. 23, 1981; 46 FR 33516, June 30, 1981]
§ 778.328
Plan for gradual permanent reduction in schedule.
In some cases, pursuant to a definite plan for the permanent reduction of the normal scheduled workweek from say, 48 hours to 40 hours, an agreement is entered into with a view to lessening the shock caused by the expected reduction in take-home wages. The agreement may provide for a rising scale of rates as the workweek is gradually reduced. The varying rates established by such agreement will be recognized as bona fide in the weeks in which they are respectively operative provided that (a) the plan is bona fide and there is no effort made to evade the overtime requirements of the Act; (b) there is a clear downward trend in the duration of the workweek throughout the period of the plan even though fluctuations from week-to-week may not be constantly downward; and (c) the various rates are operative for substantial periods under the plan and do not vary from week-to-week in accordance with the number of hours which any particular employee or group happens to work.
§ 778.329
Alternating workweeks of different fixed lengths.
In some cases an employee is hired on a salary basis with the understanding that his weekly salary is intended to cover the fixed schedule of hours (and no more) and that this fixed schedule provides for alternating workweeks of different fixed lengths. For example, many offices operate with half staff on Saturdays and, in consequence, employees are hired at a fixed salary covering a fixed working schedule of 7 hours a day Monday through Friday and 5 hours on alternate Saturdays. The parties agree that extra compensation is to be paid for all hours worked in excess of the schedule in either week at the base rate for hours between 35 and 40 in the short week and at time and one-half such rate for hours in excess of 40 in all weeks. Such an arrangement results in the employee's working at two different rates of pay—one thirty-fifth of the salary in short workweeks and one-fourtieth of the salary in the longer weeks. If the provisions of such a contract are followed, if the nonovertime hours are compensated in full at the applicable regular rate in each week and overtime compensation is properly computed for hours in excess of 40 at time and one-half the rate applicable in the particular workweek, the overtime requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act will be met. While this situation bears some resemblance to the one discussed in § 778.327 there is this significant difference; the arrangement is permanent, the length of the respective workweeks and the rates for such weeks are fixed on a permanent-schedule basis far in advance and are therefore not subject to the control of the employer and do not vary with the fluctuations in business. In an arrangement of this kind, if the employer required the employee to work on Saturday in a week in which he was scheduled for work only on the Monday through Friday schedule, he would be paid at his regular rate for all the Saturday hours in addition to his salary.

# Prizes as Bonuses
§ 778.330
Prizes or contest awards generally.
All compensation (except statutory exclusions) paid by or on behalf of an employer to an employee as remuneration for employment must be included
in the regular rate, whether paid in the form of cash or otherwise. Prizes are therefore included in the regular rate if they are paid to an employee as remuneration for employment. If therefore it is asserted that a particular prize is not to be included in the regular rate, it must be shown either that the prize was not paid to the employee for employment, or that it is not a thing of value which is part of wages.
§ 778.331
Awards for performance on the job.
Where a prize is awarded for the quality, quantity or efficiency of work done by the employee during his customary working hours at his normal assigned tasks (whether on the employer's premises or elsewhere) it is obviously paid as additional remuneration for employment. Thus prizes paid for cooperation, courtesy, efficiency, highest production, best attendance, best quality of work, greatest number of overtime hours worked, etc., are part of the regular rate of pay. If the prize is paid in cash, the amount paid must be allocated (for the method of allocation see § 778.209) over the period during which it was earned to determine the resultant increase in the average hourly rate for each week of the period. If the prize is merchandise, the cost to the employer is the sum which must be allocated. Where the prize is either cash or merchandise, with the choice left the employee, the amount to be allocated is the amount (or the cost) of the actual prize he accepts.
§ 778.332
Awards for activities not normally part of employee's job.
(a) Where the prize is awarded for activities outside the customary working hours of the employee, beyond the scope of his customary duties or away from the employer's premises, the question of whether the compensation is remuneration for employment will depend on such factors as the amount of time, if any, spent by the employee in competing, the relationship between the contest activities and the usual work of the employee, whether the competition involves work usually performed by other employees for employers, whether an employee is specifically urged to participate or led to believe that he will not merit promotion or advancement unless he participates.
(b) By way of example, a prize paid for work performed in obtaining new business for an employer would be regarded as remuneration for employment. Although the duties of the employees who participate in the contest may not normally encompass this type of work, it is work of a kind normally performed by salesmen for their employers, and the time spent by the employee in competing for such a prize (whether successfully or not) is working time and must be counted as such in determining overtime compensation due under the Act. On the other hand a prize or bonus paid to an employee when a sale is made by the company's sales representative to a person whom he recommended as a good sales prospect would not be regarded as compensation for services if in fact the prize-winner performed no work in securing the name of the sales prospect and spent no time on the matter for the company in any way.
§ 778.333
Suggestion system awards.
The question has been raised whether awards made to employees for suggestions submitted under a suggestion system plan are to be regarded as part of the regular rate. There is no hard and fast rule on this point as the term “suggestion system” has been used to describe a variety of widely differing plans. It may be generally stated, however, that prizes paid pursuant to a bona fide suggestion system plan may be excluded from the regular rate at least in situations where it is the fact that:
(a) The amount of the prize has no relation to the earnings of the employee at his job but is rather geared to the value to the company of the suggestion which is submitted; and
(b) The prize represents a bona fide award for a suggestion which is the result of additional effort or ingenuity unrelated to and outside the scope of the usual and customary duties of any employee of the class eligible to participate and the prize is not used as a substitute for wages; and
(c) No employee is required or specifically urged to participate in the
suggestion system plan or led to believe that he will not merit promotion or advancement (or retention of his existing job) unless he submits suggestions; and
(d) The invitation to employees to submit suggestions is general in nature and no specific assignment is outlined to employees (either as individuals or as a group) to work on or develop; and
(e) There is no time limit during which suggestions must be submitted; and
(f) The employer has, prior to the submission of the suggestion by an employee, no notice or knowledge of the fact that an employee is working on the preparation of a suggestion under circumstances indicating that the company approved the task and the schedule of work undertaken by the employee.

# Subpart E—Exceptions From the Regular Rate Principles

# Computing Overtime Pay on an “Established” Rate
§ 778.400
The provisions of section 7(g)(3) of the Act.
Section 7(g)(3) of the Act provides the following exception from the provisions of section 7(a):
(g) No employer shall be deemed to have violated subsection (a) by employing any employee for a workweek in excess of the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under such subsection if, pursuant to an agreement or understanding arrived at between the employer and the employee before performance of the work, the amount paid to the employee for the number of hours worked by him in such workweek in excess of the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under such subsection:
(3) is computed at a rate not less than one and one-half times the rate established by such agreement or understanding as the basic rate to be used in computing overtime compensation thereunder:
Provided,
That the rate so established shall be authorized by regulation by the Secretary of Labor as being substantially equivalent to the average hourly earnings of the employee, exclusive of overtime premiums, in the particular work over a representative period of time; and if (1) the employee's average hourly earnings for the workweek exclusive of payments described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (e) are not less than the minimum hourly rate required by applicable law, and (ii) extra overtime compensation is properly computed and paid on other forms of additional pay required to be included in computing the regular rate.
§ 778.401
Regulations issued under section 7(g)(3).
Regulations issued pursuant to section 7(g) (3) of the Act are published as Part 548 of this chapter. Payments made in conformance with these regulations satisfy the overtime pay requirements of the Act.

# Guaranteed Compensation Which Includes Overtime Pay
§ 778.402
The statutory exception provided by section 7(f) of the Act.
Section 7(f) of the Act provides the following exception from the provisions of section 7(a):
(f) No employer shall be deemed to have violated subsection (a) by employing any employee for a workweek in excess of the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under subsection (a) if such employee is employed pursuant to a bona fide individual contract, or pursuant to an agreement made as a result of collective bargaining by representatives of employees, if the duties of such employee necessitate irregular hours of work, and the contract or agreement (1) specifies a regular rate of pay of not less than the minimum hourly rate provided in subsection (a) or (b) of section 6 (whichever may be applicable) and compensation at not less than one and one-half times such rate for all hours worked in excess of such maximum workweek, and (2) provides a weekly guaranty of pay for not more than 60 hours based on the rates so specified.
§ 778.403
Constant pay for varying workweeks including overtime is not permitted except as specified in section 7(f).
Section 7(f) is the only provision of the Act which allows an employer to pay the same total compensation each week to an employee who works overtime and whose hours of work vary from week to week. (See in this connection the discussion in §§ 778.207, 778.321-778.329, and 778.308-778.315.) Unless the pay arrangements in a particular situation meet the requirements of section 7(f) as set forth, all
the compensation received by the employee under a guaranteed pay plan is included in his regular rate and no part of such guaranteed pay may be credited toward overtime compensation due under the Act. Section 7(f) is an exemption from the overtime provisions of the Act. No employer will be exempt from the duty of computing overtime compensation for an employee under section 7(a) unless the employee is paid pursuant to a plan which actually meets all the requirements of the exemption. These requirements will be discussed separately in the ensuing sections.
§ 778.404
Purposes of exemption.
The exception to the requirements of section 7(a) provided by section 7(f) of the Act is designed to provide a means whereby the employer of an employee whose duties necessitate irregular hours of work and whose total wages if computed solely on an hourly rate basis would of necessity vary widely from week to week, may guarantee the payment, week-in, week-out, of at least a fixed amount based on his regular hourly rate. Section 7(f) was proposed and enacted in 1949 with the stated purpose of giving express statutory validity, subject to prescribed limitations, to a judicial “gloss on the Act” by which an exception to the usual rule as to the actual regular rate had been recognized by a closely divided Supreme Court as permissible with respect to employment in such situations under so-called “Belo” contracts. See
McComb
v.
Utica Knitting Co.,
164 F. 2d 670, rehearing denied 164 F. 2d 678 (C.A. 2);
Walling
v.
A. H. Belo Co.,
316 U.S. 624;
Walling
v.
Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Co.,
331 U.S. 17; 95 Cong. Rec. 11893, 12365, 14938, A2396, A5233, A5476. Such a contract affords to the employee the security of a regular weekly income and benefits the employer by enabling him to anticipate and control in advance at least some part of his labor costs. A guaranteed wage plan also provides a means of limiting overtime computation costs so that wide leeway is provided for working employees overtime without increasing the cost to the employer, which he would otherwise incur under the Act for working employees in excess of the statutory maximum hours standard. Recognizing both the inherent advantages and disadvantages of guaranteed wage plans, when viewed in this light, Congress sought to strike a balance between them which would, on the one hand, provide a feasible method of guaranteeing pay to employees who needed this protection without, on the other hand, nullifying the overtime requirements of the Act. The provisions of section 7(f) set forth the conditions under which, in the view of Congress, this may be done. Plans which do not meet these conditions were not thought to provide sufficient advantage to the employee to justify Congress in relieving employers of the overtime liability section 7(a).
§ 778.405
What types of employees are affected.
The type of employment agreement permitted under section 7(f) can be made only with (or by his representatives on behalf of) an employee whose “duties * * * necessitate irregular hours of work.” It is clear that no contract made with an employee who works a regularly scheduled workweek or whose schedule involves alternating fixed workweeks will qualify under this subsection. Even if an employee does in fact work a variable workweek, the question must still be asked whether his duties necessitate irregular hours of work. The subsection is not designed to apply in a situation where the hours of work vary from week to week at the discretion of the employer or the employee, nor to a situation where the employee works an irregular number of hours according to a predetermined schedule. The nature of the employee's duties must be such that neither he nor his employer can either control or anticipate with any degree of certainty the number of hours he must work from week to week. Furthermore, for the reasons set forth in § 778.406, his duties must necessitate significant variations in weekly hours of work both below and above the statutory weekly limit on nonovertime hours. Some examples of the types of employees whose duties may necessitate irregular hours of work would be outside buyers, on-call servicemen, insurance adjusters,
newspaper reporters and photographers, propmen, script girls and others engaged in similar work in the motion picture industry, firefighters, troubleshooters and the like. There are some employees in these groups whose hours of work are conditioned by factors beyond the control of their employer or themselves. However, the mere fact that an employee is engaged in one of the jobs just listed, for example, does not mean that his duties necessitate irregular hours. It is always a question of fact whether the particular employee's duties do or do not necessitate irregular hours. Many employees not listed here may qualify. Although office employees would not ordinarily qualify, some office employees whose duties compel them to work variable hours could also be in this category. For example, the confidential secretary of a top executive whose hours of work are irregular and unpredictable might also be compelled by the nature of her duties to work variable and unpredictable hours. This would not ordinarily be true of a stenographer or file clerk, nor would an employee who only rarely or in emergencies is called upon to work outside a regular schedule qualify for this exemption.
§ 778.406
Nonovertime hours as well as overtime hours must be irregular if section 7(f) is to apply.
Any employment in which the employee's hours fluctuate only in the overtime range above the maximum workweek prescribed by the statute lacks the irregularity of hours for which the Supreme Court found the so-called “Belo” contracts appropriate and so fails to meet the requirements of section 7(f) which were designed to validate, subject to express statutory limitations, contracts of a like kind in situations of the type considered by the Court (see § 778.404). Nothing in the legislative history of section 7(f) suggests any intent to suspend the normal application of the general overtime provisions of section 7(a) in situations where the weekly hours of an employee fluctuate only when overtime work in excess of the prescribed maximum weekly hours is performed. Section 7(a) was specifically designed to deal with such a situation by making such regular resort to overtime more costly to the employer and thus providing an inducement to spread the work rather than to impose additional overtime work on employees regularly employed for a workweek of the maximum statutory length. The “security of a regular weekly income” which the Supreme Court viewed as an important feature of the “Belo” wage plan militating against a holding that the contracts were invalid under the Act is, of course, already provided to employees who regularly work at least the maximum number of hours permitted without overtime pay under section 7(a). Their situation is not comparable in this respect to employees whose duties cause their weekly hours to fluctuate in such a way that some workweeks are short and others long and they cannot, without some guarantee, know in advance whether in a particular workweek they will be entitled to pay for the regular number of hours of nonovertime work contemplated by section 7(a). It is such employees whose duties necessitate “irregular hours” within the meaning of section 7(f) and whose “security of a regular weekly income” can be assured by a guarantee under that section which will serve to increase their hourly earnings in short workweeks under the statutory maximum hours. It is this benefit to the employee that the Supreme Court viewed, in effect, as a quid pro quo which could serve to balance a relaxation of the statutory requirement, applicable in other cases, that any overtime work should cost the employer 50 percent more per hour. In the enactment of section 7(f), as in the enactment of section 7(b) (1) and (2), the benefits that might inure to employees from a balancing of long workweeks against short workweeks under prescribed safeguards would seem to be the reason most likely to have influenced the legislators to provide express exemptions from the strict application of section 7(a). Consequently, where the fluctuations in an employee's hours of work resulting from his duties involve only overtime hours worked in excess of the statutory maximum hours, the hours are not “irregular” within the purport of section 7(f) and a payment plan lacking this factor does
not qualify for the exemption. (See
Goldberg
v.
Winn-Dixie Stores
(S.D. Fla.), 15 WH Cases 641;
Wirtz
v.
Midland Finance Co.
(N.D. Ga.), 16 WH Cases 141;
Trager
v.
J. E. Plastics Mfg. Co.
(S.D.N.Y.), 13 WH Cases 621;
McComb
v.
Utica Knitting Co.,
164 F. 2d 670;
Foremost Dairies
v.
Wirtz,
381 F. 2d 653 (C.A. 5).)
§ 778.407
The nature of the section 7(f) contract.
Payment must be made “pursuant to a bona fide individual contract or pursuant to an agreement made as a result of collective bargaining by representatives of employees.” It cannot be a onesided affair determinable only by examination of the employer's books. The employee must not only be aware of but must have agreed to the method of compensation in advance of performing the work. Collective bargaining agreements in general are formal agreements which have been reduced to writing, but an individual employment contract may be either oral or written. While there is no requirement in section 7(f) that the agreement or contract be in writing, it is certainly desirable to reduce the agreement to writing, since a contract of this character is rather complicated and proof both of its existence and of its compliance with the various requirements of the section may be difficult if it is not in written form. Furthermore, the contract must be “bona fide.” This implies that both the making of the contract and the settlement of its terms were done in good faith.
§ 778.408
The specified regular rate.
(a) To qualify under section 7(f), the contract must specify “a regular rate of pay of not less than the minimum hourly rate provided in subsection (a) or (b) of section 6 (whichever may be applicable).” The word “regular” describing the rate in this provision is not to be treated as surplusage. To understand the nature of this requirement it is important to consider the past history of this type of agreement in the courts. In both of the two cases before it, the Supreme Court found that the relationship between the hourly rate specified in the contract and the amount guaranteed was such that the employee in a substantial portion of the workweeks of the period examined by the court worked sufficient hours to earn in excess of the guaranteed amount and in those workweeks was paid at the specified hourly rate for the first 40 hours and at time and one-half such rate for hours in excess of 40 (
Walling
v.
A. H. Belo Company,
316 U.S. 624, and
Walling
v.
Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Company,
331 U.S.17). The fact that section 7(f) requires that a contract, to qualify an employee for exemption under section 7(f), must specify a “regular rate,” indicates that this criterion of these two cases is still important.
(b) The regular rate of pay specified in the contract may not be less than the applicable minimum rate. There is no requirement, however, that the regular rate specified be equal to the regular rate at which the employee was formerly employed before the contract was entered into. The specified regular rate may be any amount (at least the applicable minimum wage) which the parties agree to and which can reasonably be expected to be operative in controlling the employee's compensation.
(c) The rate specified in the contract must also be a “regular” rate which is operative in determining the total amount of the employee's compensation. Suppose, for example, that the compensation of an employee is normally made up in part by regular bonuses, commissions, or the like. In the past he has been employed at an hourly rate of $5 per hour in addition to which he has received a cost-of-living bonus of $7 a week and a 2-percent commission on sales which averaged $70 per week. It is now proposed to employ him under a guaranteed pay contract which specifies a rate of $5 per hour and guarantees $200 per week, but he will continue to receive his cost-of-living bonus and commissions in addition to the guaranteed pay. Bonuses and commissions of this type are, of course, included in the “regular rate” as defined in section 7(e). It is also apparent that the $5 rate specified in the contract is not a “regular rate” under the requirements of section 7(f) since it never controls or determines the total compensation he receives. For this reason,
it is not possible to enter into a guaranteed pay agreement of the type permitted under section 7(f) with an employee whose regular weekly earnings are made up in part by the payment of regular bonuses and commissions of this type. This is so because even in weeks in which the employee works sufficient hours to exceed, at his hourly rate, the sum guaranteed, his total compensation is controlled by the bonus and the amount of commissions earned as well as by the hourly rate.
(d) In order to qualify as a “regular rate” under section 7(f) the rate specified in the contract together with the guarantee must be the actual measure of the regular wages which the employee receives. However, the payment of extra compensation, over and above the guaranteed amount, by way of extra premiums for work on holidays, or for extraordinarily excessive work (such as for work in excess of 16 consecutive hours in a day, or for work in excess of 6 consecutive days of work), year-end bonuses and similar payments which are not regularly paid as part of the employee's usual wages, will not invalidate a contract which otherwise qualifies under section 7(f).
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7317, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.409
Provision for overtime pay.
The section 7(f) contract must provide for compensation at not less than one and one-half times the specified regular rate for all hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard for the particular workweek. All excessive hours, not merely those covered by the guarantee, must be compensated at one and one-half times (or a higher multiple) of the specified regular rate. A contract which guaranteed a weekly salary of $169, specified a rate of $3.60 per hour, and provided that not less than one and one-half times such rate would be paid only for all hours up to and including 46
2/3
hours would not qualify under this section. The contract must provide for payment at time and one-half (or more) for all hours in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard in any workweek. A contract may provide a specific overtime rate greater than one and one-half times the specified rate, for example, double time. If it does provide a specific overtime rate it must provide that such rate will be paid for all hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard.
[46 FR 7317, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.410
The guaranty under section 7(f).
(a) The statute provides that the guaranty must be a weekly guaranty. A guaranty of monthly, semimonthly, or biweekly pay (which would allow averaging wages over more than one workweek) does not qualify under this paragraph. Obviously guarantees for periods less than a workweek do not qualify. Whatever sum is guaranteed must be paid in full in all workweeks, however short in which the employee performs any amount of work for the employer. The amount of the guaranty may not be subject to proration or deduction in short weeks.
(b) The contract must provide a guaranty of pay. The amount must be specified. A mere guaranty to provide work for a particular number of hours does not qualify under this section.
(c) The pay guaranteed must be “for not more than 60 hours based on the rate so specified.”
§ 778.411
Sixty-hour limit on pay guaranteed by contract.
The amount of weekly pay guaranteed may not exceed compensation due at the specified regular rate for the applicable maximum hours standard and at the specified overtime rate for the additional hours, not to exceed a total of 60 hours. Thus, if the maximum hours standard is 40 hours and the specified regular rate is $5 an hour the weekly guaranty cannot be greater than $350. This does not mean that an employee employed pursuant to a guaranteed pay contract under this section may not work more than 60 hours in any week; it means merely that pay in an amount sufficient to compensate for a greater number of hours cannot be covered by the guaranteed pay. If he works in excess of 60 hours he must be paid, for each hour worked in excess of 60, overtime compensation as provided
in the contract, in addition to the guaranteed amount.
[46 FR 7317, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.412
Relationship between amount guaranteed and range of hours employee may be expected to work.
While the guaranteed pay may not cover more than 60 hours, the contract may guarantee pay for a lesser number of hours. In order for a contract to qualify as a bona fide contract for an employee whose duties necessitate irregular hours of work, the number of hours for which pay is guaranteed must bear a reasonable relation to the number of hours the employee may be expected to work. A guaranty of pay for 60 hours to an employee whose duties necessitate irregular hours of work which can reasonably be expected to range no higher than 50 hours would not qualify as a bona fide contract under this section. The rate specified in such a contract would be wholly fictitious and therefore would not be a “regular rate” as discussed above. When the parties enter into a guaranteed pay contract, therefore, they should determine, as far as possible, the range of hours the employee is likely to work. In deciding the amount of the guaranty they should not choose a guaranty of pay to cover the maximum number of hours which the employee will be likely to work at any time but should rather select a figure low enough so that it may reasonably be expected that the rate will be operative in a significant number of workweeks. In both
Walling
v.
A. H. Belo Co.,
316 U.S. 624 and
Walling
v.
Halliburton Oil Well Cementing Co.,
331 U.S. 17 the court found that the employees did actually exceed the number of hours (60 and 84 respectively) for which pay was guaranteed on fairly frequent occasions so that the hourly rate stipulated in the contract in each case was often operative and did actually control the compensation received by the employees. In cases where the guaranteed number of hours has not been exceeded in a significant number of workweeks, this fact will be weighed in the light of all the other facts and circumstances pertinent to the agreement before reaching a conclusion as to its effect on the validity of the pay arrangement. By a periodic review of the actual operation of the contract the employer can determine whether a stipulated contract rate reasonably expected by the parties to be operative in a significant number of workweeks is actually so operative or whether adjustments in the contract are necessary to ensure such an operative rate.
§ 778.413
Guaranty must be based on rates specified in contract.
The guaranty of pay must be “based on the rate so specified,” in the contract. If the contract specifies a regular rate of $5 and an overtime rate of $7.50 and guarantees pay for 50 hours and the maximum hours standard is 40 hours, the amount of the guaranty must be $275, if it is to be based on the rates so specified. A guaranty of $290 in such a situation would not, obviously, be based on the rates specified in the contract. Moreover, a contract which provides a variety of different rates for shift differentials, arduous or hazardous work, stand-by time, piece-rate incentive bonuses, commissions or the like in addition to a specified regular rate and a specified overtime rate with a guaranty of pay of, say, $290 from all sources would not qualify under this section, since the guaranty of pay in such a case is not based on the regular and overtime rates specified in the contract.
[46 FR 7318, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.414
“Approval” of contracts under section 7(f).
(a) There is no requirement that a contract, to qualify under section 7(f), must be approved by the Secretary of Labor or the Administrator. The question of whether a contract which purports to qualify an employee for exemption under section 7(f) meets the requirements is a matter for determination by the courts. This determination will in all cases depend not merely on the wording of the contract but upon the actual practice of the parties thereunder. It will turn on the question of whether the duties of the employee in fact necessitate irregular hours, whether the rate specified in the contract is a “regular rate”—that is, whether it was designed to be actually
operative in determining the employee's compensation—whether the contract was entered into in good faith, whether the guaranty of pay is in fact based on the regular and overtime rates specified in the contract. While the Administrator does have the authority to issue an advisory opinion as to whether or not a pay arrangement accords with the requirements of section 7(f) he can do so only if he has knowledge of these facts.
(b) As a guide to employers, it may be helpful to describe a fact situation in which the making of a guaranteed salary contract would be appropriate and to set forth the terms of a contract which would comply, in the circumstances described, with the provisions of section 7(f).

# Example:
An employee is employed as an insurance claims adjuster; because of the fact that he must visit claimants and witnesses at their convenience, it is impossible for him or his employer to control the hours which he must work to perform his duties. During the past 6 months his weekly hours of work have varied from a low of 30 hours to a high of 58 hours. His average workweek for the period was 48 hours. In about 80 percent of the workweeks he worked less than 52 hours. It is expected that his hours of work will continue to follow this pattern. The parties agree upon a regular rate of $5 per hour. In order to provide for the employee the security of a regular weekly income the parties further agree to enter into a contract which provides a weekly guaranty of pay. If the applicable maximum hours standard is 40 hours, guaranty of pay for a workweek somewhere between 48 hours (his average week) and 52 would be reasonable. In the circumstances described the following contract would be appropriate.
The X Company hereby agrees to employ John Doe as a claims adjuster at a regular hourly rate of pay of $5 per hour for the first 40 hours in any workweek and at the rate of $7.50 per hour for all hours in excess of 40 in any workweek, with a guarantee that John Doe will receive, in any week in which he performs any work for the company, the sum of $275 as total compensation, for all work performed up to and including 50 hours in such workweek.
(c) The situation described in paragraph (b) of this section is merely an example and nothing herein is intended to imply that contracts which differ from the example will not meet the requirements of section 7(f).
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7318, Jan. 23, 1981]

# Computing Overtime Pay on the Rate Applicable to the Type of Work Performed in Overtime Hours (Secs. 7(
g

# )(1) and (2))
§ 778.415
The statutory provisions.
Sections 7(g) (1) and (2) of the Act provide:
(g) No employer shall be deemed to have violated subsection (a) by employing any employee for a workweek in excess of the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under such subsection if, pursuant to an agreement or understanding arrived at between the employer and the employee before performance of the work, the amount paid to the employee for the number of hours worked by him in such workweek in excess of the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under such subsection:
(1) In the case of an employee employed at piece rates, is computed at piece rates not less than one and one-half times the bona fide piece rates applicable to the same work when performed during nonovertime hours; or
(2) In the case of an employee performing two or more kinds of work for which different hourly or piece rates have been established, is computed at rates not less than one and one-half times such bona fide rates applicable to the same work when performed during nonovertime hours;
and if (i) the employee's average hourly earnings for the workweek exclusive of payments described in paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (e) are not less than the minimum hourly rate required by applicable law, and (ii) extra overtime compensation is properly computed and paid on other forms of additional pay required to be included in computing the regular rate.
§ 778.416
Purpose of provisions.
The purpose of the provisions set forth in § 778.415 is to provide an exception from the requirement of computing overtime pay at not less than one and one-half times the regular rate for hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard for a particular workweek and to allow, under specified conditions, a simpler method of computing overtime pay for
employees paid on the basis of a piece rate, or at a variety of hourly rates or piece rates, or a combination thereof. This provision is not designed to exclude any group of employees from the overtime benefits of the Act. The intent of the provision is merely to simplify the method of computation while insuring the receipt by the affected employees of substantially the same amount of overtime compensation.
§ 778.417
General requirements of section 7(g).
The following general requirements must be met in every case before the overtime computation authorized under section 7(g)(1) or (2) may be utilized.
(a) First, in order to insure that the method of computing overtime pay permitted in this section will not in any circumstances be seized upon as a device for avoiding payment of the minimum wage due for each hour, the requirement must be met that employee's average hourly earnings for the workweek (exclusive of overtime pay and of all other pay which is excluded from the regular rate) are not less than the minimum. This requirement insures that the employer cannot pay subminimum nonovertime rates with a view to offsetting part of the compensation earned during the overtime hours against the minimum wage due for the workweek.
(b) Second, in order to insure that the method of computing overtime pay permitted in this section will not be used to circumvent or avoid the payment of proper overtime compensation due on other sums paid to employees, such as bonuses which are part of the regular rate, the section requires that extra overtime compensation must be properly computed and paid on other forms of additional pay required to be included in computing the regular rate.
§ 778.418
Pieceworkers.
(a) Under section 7(g)(1), an employee who is paid on the basis of a piece rate for the work performed during nonovertime hours may agree with his employer in advance of the performance of the work that he shall be paid at a rate not less than one and one-half times this piece rate for each piece produced during the overtime hours. No additional overtime pay will be due under the Act provided that the general conditions discussed in § 778.417 are met and:
(1) The piece rate is a bona fide rate;
(2) The overtime hours for which the overtime rate is paid qualify as overtime hours under section 7(e) (5), (6), or (7);
(3) The number of overtime hours for which such overtime piece rate is paid equals or exceeds the number of hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard for the particular workweek; and
(4) The compensation paid for the overtime hours is at least equal to pay at one and one-half times the applicable minimum rate for the total number of hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard.
(b) The piece rate will be regarded as bona fide if it is the rate actually paid for work performed during the nonovertime hours and if it is sufficient to yield at least the minimum wage per hour.
(c) If a pieceworker works at two or more kinds of work for which different straight time piece rates have been established, and if by agreement he is paid at a rate not less than one and one-half whichever straight time piece rate is applicable to the work performed during the overtime hours, such piece rate or rates must meet all the tests set forth in this section and the general tests set forth in § 778.417 in order to satisfy the overtime requirements of the Act under section 7(g) (2).
§ 778.419
Hourly workers employed at two or more jobs.
(a) Under section 7(g)(2) an employee who performs two or more different kinds of work, for which different straight time hourly rates are established, may agree with his employer in advance of the performance of the work that he will be paid during overtime hours at a rate not less than one and one-half times the hourly nonovertime rate established for the type of work he is performing during such overtime hours. No additional overtime pay will be due under the act provided that the general requirements set forth in § 778.417 are met and;
(1) The hourly rate upon which the overtime rate is based in a bona fide rate;
(2) The overtime hours for which the overtime rate is paid qualify as overtime hours under section 7(e) (5), (6), or (7); and
(3) The number of overtime hours for which the overtime rate is paid equals or exceeds the number of hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard.
(b) An hourly rate will be regarded as a bona fide rate for a particular kind of work it is equal to or greater than the applicable minimum rate therefor and if it is the rate actually paid for such work when performed during nonovertime hours.
§ 778.420
Combined hourly rates and piece rates.
Where an employee works at a combination of hourly and piece rates, the payment of a rate not less than one and one-half times the hourly or piece rate applicable to the type of work being performed during the overtime hours will meet the overtime requirements of the Act if the provisions concerning piece rates (as discussed in § 778.418) and those concerning hourly rates (as discussed in § 778.419) are respectively met.
§ 778.421
Offset hour for hour.
Where overtime rates are paid pursuant to statute or contract for hours in excess of 8 in a day, or in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard, or in excess of the employees' normal working hours or regular working hours (as under section 7(e)(5) or for work on “special days” (as under section 7(e)(6), or pursuant to an applicable employment agreement for work outside of the hours established in good faith by the agreement as the basic, normal, or regular workday (not exceeding 8 hours) or workweek (not exceeding the applicable maximum hours standard) (under section 7(e) (7), the requirements of section 7(g) (1) and 7(g)(2) will be met if the number of such hours during which overtime rates were paid equals or exceeds the number of hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard for the particular workweek. It is not necessary to determine whether the total amount of compensation paid for such hours equals or exceeds the amount of compensation which would be due at the applicable rates for work performed during the hours after the applicable maximum in any workweek.

# Subpart F—Pay Plans Which Circumvent the Act

# Devices To Evade the Overtime Requirements
§ 778.500
Artificial regular rates.
(a) Since the term
regular rate
is defined to include all remuneration for employment (except statutory exclusions) whether derived from hourly rates, piece rates, production bonuses or other sources, the overtime provisions of the act cannot be avoided by setting an artificially low hourly rate upon which overtime pay is to be based and making up the additional compensation due to employees by other means. The established hourly rate is the “regular rate” to an employee only if the hourly earnings are the sole source of his compensation. Payment for overtime on the basis of an artificial “regular” rate will not result in compliance with the overtime provisions of the Act.
(b) It may be helpful to describe a few schemes that have been attempted and to indicate the pitfalls inherent in the adoption of such schemes. The device of the varying rate which decreases as the length of the workweek increases has already been discussed in §§ 778.321 through 778.329. It might be well, however, to re-emphasize that the hourly rate paid for the identical work during the hours in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard cannot be lower than the rate paid for the nonovertime hours nor can the hourly rate vary from week to week inversely with the length of the workweek. It has been pointed out that, except in limited situations under contracts which qualify under section 7(f), it is not possible for an employer lawfully to agree with his employees that they will receive the same total sum, comprising both straight time and overtime compensation, in all weeks without regard to the number of overtime hours (if
any) worked in any workweek. The result cannot be achieved by the payment of a fixed salary or by the payment of a lump sum for overtime or by any other method or device.
(c) Where the employee is hired at a low hourly rate supplemented by facilities furnished by the employer, bonuses (other than those excluded under section 7(e)), commissions, pay ostensibly (but not actually) made for idle hours, or the like, his regular rate is not the hourly rate but is the rate determined by dividing his total compensation from all these sources in any workweek by the number of hours worked in the week. Payment of overtime compensation based on the hourly rate alone in such a situation would not meet the overtime requirements of the Act.
(d) One scheme to evade the full penalty of the Act was that of setting an arbitrary low hourly rate upon which overtime compensation at time and one-half would be computed for all hours worked in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard; coupled with this arrangement was a guarantee that if the employee's straight time and overtime compensation, based on this rate, fell short, in any week, of the compensation that would be due on a piece-rate basis of x cents per piece, the employee would be paid on the piece-rate basis instead. The hourly rate was set so low that it never (or seldom) was operative. This scheme was found by the Supreme Court to be violative of the overtime provisions of the Act in the case of
Walling
v.
Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood Co.,
325 U.S. 427. The regular rate of the employee involved was found to be the quotient of total piece-rate earnings paid in any week divided by the total hours worked in such week.
(e) The scheme is no better if the employer agrees to pay straight time and overtime compensation on the arbitrary hourly rates and to make up the difference between this total sum and the piece-rate total in the form of a bonus to each employee. (For further discussion of the refinements of this plan, see §§ 778.502 and 778.503.)
§ 778.501
The “split-day” plan.
(a) Another device designed to evade the overtime requirements of the Act was a plan known as the “Poxon” or “split-day” plan. Under this plan the normal or regular workday is artificially divided into two portions one of which is arbitrarily labeled the “straight time” portion of the day and the other the “overtime” portion. Under such a plan, an employee who would ordinarily command an hourly rate of pay well in excess of the minimum for his work is assigned a low hourly rate (often the minimum) for the first hour (or the first 2 or 4 hours) of each day. This rate is designated as the regular rate: “time and one-half” based on such rate is paid for each additional hour worked during the workday. Thus, for example, an employee is arbitrarily assigned an hourly rate of $5 per hour under a contract which provides for the payment of so-called “overtime” for all hours in excess of 4 per day. Thus, for the normal or regular 8-hour day the employee would receive $20 for the first 4 hours and $30 for the remaining 4 hours; and a total of $50 for 8 hours. (This is exactly what he would receive at the straight time rate of $6.25 per hour.) On the sixth 8-hour day the employee likewise receives $50 and the employer claims to owe no additional overtime pay under the statute since he has already compensated the employee at “overtime” rates for 20 hours of the workweek.
(b) Such a division of the normal 8-hour workday into 4 straight time hours and 4 overtime hours is purely fictitious. The employee is not paid at the rate of $5 an hour and the alleged overtime rate of $7.50 per hour is not paid for overtime work. It is not geared either to hours “in excess of the employee's normal working hours or regular working hours” (section 7(e)(5) or for work “outside of the hours established in good faith * * * as the basic, normal, or regular workday” (section 7(e) (7)) and it cannot therefore qualify as an overtime rate. The regular rate of pay of the employee in this situation is $6.25 per hour and he is owed additional overtime compensation, based on this rate, for all hours in excess of the applicable maximum hours standard. This rule was settled by the Supreme Court in the case of
Walling
v.
Helmerich
Payne,
323 U.S. 37, and its validity has been reemphasized by the
definition of the term “regular rate” in section 7(e) of the Act as amended.
[46 FR 7318, Jan. 23, 1981; 46 FR 33516, June 30, 1981]

# Pseudo-Bonuses
§ 778.502
Artificially labeling part of the regular wages a “bonus”.
(a) The term “bonus” is properly applied to a sum which is paid as an addition to total wages usually because of extra effort of one kind or another, or as a reward for loyal service or as a gift. The term is improperly applied if it is used to designate a portion of regular wages which the employee is entitled to receive under his regular wage contract.
(b) For example, if an employer has agreed to pay an employee $300 a week without regard to the number of hours worked, the regular rate of pay of the employee is determined each week by dividing the $300 salary by the number of hours worked in the week. The situation is not altered if the employer continues to pay the employee, whose applicable maximum hours standard is 40 hours, the same $300 each week but arbitrarily breaks the sum down into wages for the first 40 hours at an hourly rate of $4.80 an hour, overtime compensation at $7.20 per hour and labels the balance a “bonus” (which will vary from week to week, becoming smaller as the hours increase and vanishing entirely in any week in which the employee works 55 hours or more). The situation is in no way bettered if the employer, standing by the logic of his labels, proceeds to compute and pay overtime compensation due on this “bonus” by prorating it back over the hours of the workweek. Overtime compensation has still not been properly computed for this employee at his regular rate.
(c) An illustration of how the plan works over a 3-week period may serve to illustrate this principle more clearly:
(1) In the first week the employee whose applicable maximum hours standard is 40 hours, works 40 hours and receives $300. The books show he has received $192 (40 hours × $4.80 an hour) as wages and $108 as bonus. No overtime has been worked so no overtime compensation is due.
(2) In the second week he works 45 hours and receives $300. The books show he has received $192 for the first 40 hours and $36 (5 hours × $7.20 an hour) for the 5 hours over 40, or a total of $228 as wages, and the balance as a bonus of $72. Overtime compensation is then computed by the employer by dividing $72 by 45 hours to discover the average hourly increase resulting from the bonus—$1.60 per hour—and half this rate is paid for the 5 overtime hours—$4. This is improper. The employee's regular rate in this week is $6.67 per hour. He is owed $316.85 not $304.
(3) In the third week the employee works 50 hours and is paid $300. The books show that the employee received $192 for the first 40 hours and $72 (10 hours × $7.20 per hour) for the 10 hours over 40, for a total of $264 and the balance as a bonus of $36. Overtime pay due on the “bonus” is found to be $3.60. This is improper. The employee's regular rate in this week is $6 and he is owed $330, not $303.60.
(d) Similar schemes have been devised for piece-rate employees. The method is the same. An employee is assigned an arbitrary hourly rate (usually the minimum) and it is agreed that his straight-time and overtime earnings will be computed on this rate but that if these earnings do not amount to the sum he would have earned had his earnings been computed on a piece-rate basis of “x” cents per piece, he will be paid the difference as a “bonus.” The subterfuge does not serve to conceal the fact that this employee is actually compensated on a piece-rate basis, that there is no bonus and his regular rate is the quotient of piece-rate earnings divided by hours worked (
Walling
v.
Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood Company,
325 U.S. 419).
(e) The general rule may be stated that wherever the employee is guaranteed a fixed or determinable sum as his wages each week, no part of this sum is a true bonus and the rules for determining overtime due on bonuses do not apply.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968; 33 FR 3172, Feb. 20, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7318, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.503
Pseudo “percentage bonuses.”
As explained in § 778.210 of this part, a true bonus based on a percentage of total wages—both straight time and overtime wages—satisfies the Act's overtime requirements, if it is paid unconditionally. Such a bonus increases both straight time and overtime wages by the same percentage, and thereby includes proper overtime compensation as an arithmetic fact. Some bonuses, however, although expressed as a percentage of both straight time and overtime wages, are in fact a sham. Such bonuses, like the bonuses described in § 778.502 of this part, are generally separated out of a fixed weekly wage and usually decrease in amount in direct proportion to increases in the number of hours worked in a week in excess of 40. The hourly rate purportedly paid under such a scheme is artificially low, and the difference between the wages paid at the hourly rate and the fixed weekly compensation is labeled a percentage of wage “bonus.”

# Example:
An employer's wage records show an hourly rate of $5.62 per hour, and an overtime rate of one and one-half times that amount, or $8.43 per hour. In addition, the employer pays an alleged percentage of wage bonus on which no additional overtime compensation is paid:
Week 1—40 hours worked:
40 hours at $5.62 per hour
$224.80
Percentage of total earnings bonus at 33.45% of $224.80
75.20
Total
300.00
Week 2—43 hours worked:
40 hours at $5.62 per hour
224.80
3 hours at $8.43 per hour
25.29
Subtotal
250.09
Percentage of total earnings bonus at 19.96% of $250.09
49.91
Total
300.00
Week 3—48 hours worked:
40 hours at $5.62 per hour
224.80
8 hours at $8.43 per hour
67.44
Subtotal
292.24
Percentage of total earnings bonus at 2.66% of $292.24
7.76
Total
300.00
This employee is in fact being paid no overtime compensation at all. The records in fact reveal that the employer pays exactly $300 per week, no matter how many hours the employee works. The employee's regular rate is $300 divided by the number of hours worked in the particular week, and his overtime compensation due must be computed as shown in § 778.114.
[46 FR 7319, Jan. 23, 1981]

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous
§ 778.600
Veterans' subsistence allowances.
Subsistence allowances paid under Public Law 346 (commonly known as the G.I. bill of rights) to a veteran employed in on-the-job training program work may not be used to offset the wages to which he is entitled under the Fair Labor Standards Act. The subsistence allowances provided by Public Law 346 for payment to veterans are not paid as compensation for services rendered to an employer nor are they intended as subsidy payments for such employer. In order to qualify as wages under either section 6 or section 7 of the Act, sums paid to an employee must be paid by or on behalf of the employer. Since veterans' subsistence allowances are not so paid, they may not be used to make up the minimum wage or overtime pay requirements of the Act nor are they included in the regular rate of pay under section 7.
§ 778.601
Special overtime provisions available for hospital and residential care establishments under section 7(j).
(a)
The statutory provision.
Section 7(j) of the Act provides, for hospital and residential care establishment employment, under prescribed conditions, an exemption from the general requirement of section 7(a) that overtime compensation be computed on a workweek basis. It permits a 14-day period to be established for the purpose of computing overtime compensation by an agreement or understanding between an employer engaged in the operation of a hospital or residential care establishment, and any of his employees employed in connection therewith. The exemption provided by section 7(j) applies:
if, pursuant to an agreement or understanding arrived at between the employer and employee before performance of the work, a work period of 14 consecutive days is
accepted in lieu of the workweek of 7 consecutive days for purposes of overtime computation and if, for his employment in excess of 8 hours in any workday and in excess of 80 hours in such 14-day period, the employee receives compensation at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate at which he is employed.
(b)
Conditions for application of exemption.
As conditions for use of the 14-day period in lieu of the workweek in computing overtime, section 7(j) requires, first, an agreement or understanding between the employer and the employee before performance of the work that such period is to be used, and second, the payment to the employee of overtime compensation at a rate not less than one and one-half times his regular rate for all hours worked in excess of eight in any workday within such period and in excess of 80 during the period as a whole.
(c)
The agreement or understanding.
The agreement or understanding between the employer and employee to use the 14-day period for computing overtime must be entered into before the work to which it is intended to apply is performed. It may be arrived at directly with the employee or through his representative. It need not be in writing, but if it is not, a special record concerning it must be kept as required by part 516 of this chapter. The 14-day period may begin at any hour of any day of the week; it need not commence at the beginning of a calendar day. It consists of 14 consecutive 24-hour periods, at the end of which a new 14-day period begins. The election to use the 14-day period in lieu of the workweek must, like selection of an employee's workweek (§ 778.105) be with the intent to use such period permanently or for a substantial period of time. Changes from such period to the workweek and back again to take advantage of less onerous overtime pay liabilities with respect to particular work schedules under one system than under the other are not permissible.
(d)
Payment for overtime under the special provisions.
If the parties have the necessary agreement or understanding to use the 14-day period, computation of overtime pay on the workweek basis as provided in section 7(a) is not required so long as the employee receives overtime compensation at a rate not less than one and one-half times his regular rate of pay “for his employment in excess of 8 hours in any workday and in excess of 80 hours in such 14-day period.” Such compensation is required for all hours in such period in excess of eight in any workday or workdays therein which are worked by the employee, whether or not more than 80 hours are worked in the period. The first workday in the period, for purposes of this computation, begins at the same time as the 14-day period and ends 24 hours later. Each of the 13 consecutive 24-hour periods following constitutes an additional workday of the 14-day period. Overtime compensation at the prescribed time and one-half rate is also required for all hours worked in excess of 80 in the 14-day period, whether or not any daily overtime is worked during the first 80 hours. However, under the provisions of section 7(h) and 7(e)(5) of the Act, any payments at the premium rate for daily overtime hours within such period may be credited toward the overtime compensation due for overtime hours in excess of 80.
(e)
Use of 14-day period in lieu of workweek.
Where the 14-day period is used as authorized in section 7(j), such period is used in lieu of the workweek in computing the regular rate of pay of employees to whom it applies (
i.e.
, those of the hospital's or residential care establishment's employees with whom the employer has elected to enter into the necessary agreement or understanding as explained in paragraph (c) of this section). With this exception, the computation of the regular rate and the application of statutory exclusions therefrom is governed by the general principles set forth in this part 778.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 46 FR 7319, Jan. 23, 1981; 46 FR 33516, June 30, 1981]
§ 778.602
Special overtime provisions under section 7(b).
(a)
Daily and weekly overtime standards.
The general overtime pay requirements of the Act provide for such pay only when the number of hours worked exceeds the standard specified for the workweek; no overtime compensation on a daily basis is required. However, section 7 of the Act, in subsection (b),
provides certain partial exemptions from the general overtime provisions, each of which is conditioned upon the payment to the employee of overtime compensation at a rate not less than one and one-half times his regular rate of pay for his hours worked in the workweek in excess of daily, as well as weekly, standards specified in the subsection. Under these provisions, when an employee works in excess of both the daily and weekly maximum hours standards in any workweek for which such an exemption is claimed, he must be paid at such overtime rate for all hours worked in the workweek in excess of the applicable daily maximum or in excess of the applicable weekly maximum, whichever number of hours is greater. Thus, if his total hours of work in the workweek which are in excess of the daily maximum are 10, and his hours in excess of the weekly maximum are 8, overtime compensation is required for 10 hours, not 8.
(b)
Standards under section 7(b).
The partial exemptions provided by section 7(b) apply to an employee under the conditions specified in clause (1), (2), or (3) of the subsection “if such employee receives compensation for employment in excess of 12 hours in any workday, or for employment in excess of 56 hours in any workweek, as the case may be, at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate at which he is employed.” As an example, suppose an employee is employed under the other conditions specified for an exemption under section 7(b) at an hourly rate of $5.20 and works the following schedule:
Hours
M
T
W
T
F
S
S
Tot.
Worked
14
9
10
15
12
8
0
68
Number of overtime hours: Daily, 5 (hours over 12); weekly, 12 (hours over 56).
Since the weekly overtime hours are greater, the employee is entitled to pay for 12 hours at $7.80 an hour (1
1/2
× $5.20), a total of $93.60 for the overtime hours, and to pay at his regular rate for the remaining 56 hours (56 × $5.20) in the amonut of $291.20 or a total of $384.80 for the week. If the employee had not worked the 8 hours on Saturday, his total hours worked in the week would have been 60, of which five were daily overtime hours, and there would have been no weekly overtime hours under the section 7(b) standard. For such a schedule the employee would be entitled to 5 hours of overtime pay at time and one-half (5 × 1
1/2
× $5.20 = $39) plus the pay at his regular rate for the remaining 55 hours (55 × $5.20 = $286), making a total of $325 due him for the week.
[33 FR 986, Jan. 26, 1968, as amended at 34 FR 144, Jan. 4, 1969; 46 FR 7319, Jan. 23, 1981]
§ 778.603
Special overtime provisions for certain employees receiving remedial education under section 7(q).
Section 7(q) of the Act, enacted as part of the 1989 Amendments, provides an exemption from the overtime pay requirements for time spent by certain employees who are receiving remedial education. The exemption provided by section 7(q), as implemented by these regulations, allows any employer to require that an employee spend up to 10 hours in the aggregate in any workweek in remedial education without payment of overtime compensation provided that the employee lacks a high school diploma or educational attainment at the eighth-grade level; the remedial education is designed to provide reading and other basic skills at an eighth-grade level or below, or to fulfill the requirements for a high school diploma or General Educational Development (GED) certificate; and the remedial education does not include job-specific training. Employees must be compensated at their regular rate of pay for the time spent receiving such remedial education. The employer must maintain a record of the hours that an employee is engaged each workday and each workweek in receiving remedial education, and the compensation paid each pay period for the time so engaged, as described in 29 CFR 516.34. The remedial education must be conducted during discrete periods of time set aside for such a program, and, to the maximum extent practicable, away from the employee's normal work station. An employer has the burden to establish compliance with all applicable requirements of this special overtime provision as set forth in section 7(q) of the Act and in this section of the regulations. Section 7(q) is solely
an exemption from the overtime provisions of section 7(a) of the Act. It is not an exemption from the requirements of any other law that regulates employment practices, including the standards that are used to select individuals for employment. An employer creating a remedial education program pursuant to section 7(q) should be mindful not to violate other applicable requirements. See, for example, title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2000e
et seq.
; Executive Order 11246, as amended, 3 CFR part 339 (1964-1965 Compilation),
reprinted in
42 U.S.C. 2000e note; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 701
et seq.
; and the Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures published at 41 CFR part 60-3.
[56 FR 61101, Nov. 29, 1991]
Pt. 779

# PART 779—THE FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AS APPLIED TO RETAILERS OF GOODS OR SERVICES

# Subpart A—General

# Introductory
Sec.
779.0
Purpose of interpretative bulletin.
779.1
General scope of the Act.
779.2
Previous and new coverage.
779.3
Pay standards for employees subject to previous coverage of the Act.
779.4
Pay standards for newly covered employment.
779.5
Matters discussed in this part.
779.6
Matters discussed in other interpretative bulletins.

# Interpretations of the Law
779.7
Significance of official interpretations.
779.8
Basic support for interpretations.
779.9
Reliance on interpretations.
779.10
Interpretations made, continued, and superseded by this part.

# Some Basic Definitions
779.11
General statement.
779.12
Commerce.
779.13
Production.
779.14
Goods.
779.15
Sale and resale.
779.16
State.
779.17
Wage and wage payments to tipped employees.
779.18
Regular rate.
779.19
Employer, employee, and employ.
779.20
Person.
779.21
Enterprise.
779.22
Enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.
779.23
Establishment.
779.24
Retail or service establishment.

# Subpart B—Employment to Which the Act May Apply: Basic Principles and Individual Coverage

# General Principles
779.100
Basic coverage in general.
779.101
Guiding principles for applying coverage and exemption provisions.
779.102
Scope of this subpart.

# Employees Engaged in Commerce or in the Production of Goods for Commerce
779.103
Employees “engaged in commerce.”
779.104
Employees “engaged in the production of goods for commerce.”
779.105
Employees engaged in activities “closely related” and “directly essential” to the production of goods for commerce.
779.106
Employees employed by an independent employer.
779.107
Goods defined.
779.108
Goods produced for commerce.
779.109
Amount of activities which constitute engaging in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.
779.110
Employees in retailing whose activities may bring them under the Act.
779.111
Buyers and their assistants.
779.112
Office employees.
779.113
Warehouse and stock room employees.
779.114
Transportation employees.
779.115
Watchmen and guards.
779.116
Custodial and maintenance employees.
779.117
Salesmen and sales clerks.
779.118
Employees providing central services for multi-unit organizations.
779.119
Exempt occupations.

# Subpart C—Employment to Which the Act May Apply; Enterprise Coverage

# Enterprise; the Business Unit
779.200
Coverage expanded by 1961 and 1966 amendments.
779.201
The place of the term “enterprise” in the Act.
779.202
Basic concepts of definition.
779.203
Distinction between “enterprise,” “establishment,” and “employer.”
779.204
Common types of “enterprise.”

# Related Activities
779.205
Enterprise must consist of “related activities.”
779.206
What are “related activities.”
779.207
Related activities in retail operations.
779.208
Auxiliary activities which are “related activities.”
779.209
Vertical activities which are “related activities.”
779.210
Other activities which may be part of the enterprise.
779.211
Status of activities which are not “related.”

# Common Business Purpose
779.212
Enterprise must consist of related activities performed for a “common business purpose.”
779.213
What is a common business purpose.
779.214
“Business” purpose.

# Unified Operation or Common Control
779.215
General scope of terms.
779.216
Statutory construction of the terms.
779.217
“Unified operation” defined.
779.218
Methods to accomplish “unified operation.”
779.219
Unified operation may be achieved without common control or common ownership.
779.220
Unified operation may exist as to separately owned or controlled activities which are related.
779.221
“Common control” defined.
779.222
Ownership as factor.
779.223
Control where ownership vested in individual or single organization.
779.224
Common control in other cases.

# Leased Departments, Franchise and Other Business Arrangements
779.225
Leased departments.
779.226
Exception for an independently owned retail or service establishment under certain franchise and other arrangements.
779.227
Conditions which must be met for exception.
779.228
Types of arrangements contemplated by exception.
779.229
Other arrangements.
779.230
Franchise and other arrangements.
779.231
Franchise arrangements which do not create a larger enterprise.
779.232
Franchise or other arrangements which create a larger enterprise.
779.233
Independent contractors performing work “for” an enterprise.
779.234
Establishments whose only regular employees are the owner or members of his immediate family.
779.235
Other “enterprises.”

# Covered Enterprises
779.236
In general.
779.237
Enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.
779.238
Engagement in described activities determined on annual basis.
779.239
Meaning of “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.”

# Employees Handling, Selling, or Otherwise Working on Goods That Have Been Moved In or Produced for Commerce by Any Person
779.240
Employees “handling * * * or otherwise working on goods.”
779.241
Selling.
779.242
Goods that “have been moved in” commerce.
779.243
Goods that have been “produced for commerce by any person.”

# Covered Retail Enterprise
779.244
“Covered enterprises” of interest to retailers of goods or services.
779.245
Conditions for coverage of retail or service enterprises.

# Interstate Inflow Test Under Prior Act
779.246
Inflow test under section 3(s)(1) of the Act prior to 1966 amendments.
779.247
“Goods” defined.
779.248
Purchase or receive “goods for resale.”
779.249
Goods which move or have moved across State lines.
779.250
Goods that have not lost their out-of-State identity.
779.251
Goods that have lost their out-of-State identity.
779.252
Not in deliveries from the reselling establishment.
779.253
What is included in computing the total annual inflow volume.

# The Gasoline Service Establishment Enterprise
779.254
Summary of coverage and exemptions prior to and following the 1966 amendments.
779.255
Meaning of “gasoline service establishment.”
779.256
Conditions for enterprise coverage of gasoline service establishments.
779.257
Exemption applicable to gasoline service establishments under the prior Act.

# Annual Gross Volume of Sales Made or Business Done
779.258
Sales made or business done.
779.259
What is included in annual gross volume.
779.260
Trade-in allowances.

# Excise Taxes
779.261
Statutory provision.
779.262
Excise taxes at the retail level.
779.263
Excise taxes not at the retail level.
779.264
Excise taxes separately stated.

# Computing the Annual Volume
779.265
Basis for making computations.
779.266
Methods of computing annual volume of sales or business.
779.267
Fluctuations in annual gross volume affecting enterprise coverage and establishment exemptions.
779.268
Grace period of 1 month for computation.
779.269
Computations for a new business.

# Subpart D—Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments

# General Principles
779.300
Purpose of subpart.
779.301
Statutory provisions.

# “Establishment” Basis of Exemptions
779.302
Exemptions depend on character of establishment.
779.303
“Establishment” defined; distinguished from “enterprise” and “business.”
779.304
Illustrations of a single establishment.
779.305
Separate establishments on the same premises.
779.306
Leased departments not separate establishments.
779.307
Meaning and scope of “employed by” and “employee of.”
779.308
Employed within scope of exempt business.
779.309
Employed “in” but not “by.”
779.310
Employees of employers operating multi-unit businesses.
779.311
Employees working in more than one establishment of same employer.

# Statutory Meaning of Retail or Service Establishment
779.312
“Retail or service establishment”, defined in section 13(a)(2).
779.313
Requirements summarized.

# Making Sales of Goods and Services “Recognized As Retail”
779.314
“Goods” and “services” defined.
779.315
Traditional local retail or service establishments.
779.316
Establishments outside “retail concept” not within statutory definition; lack first requirement.
779.317
[Reserved]
779.318
Characteristics and examples of retail or service establishments.
779.319
A retail or service establishment must be open to general public.
779.320
[Reserved]
779.321
Inapplicability of “retail concept” to some types of sales or services of an eligible establishment.

# “Recognized” As Retail “In the Particular Industry”
779.322
Second requirement for qualifying as a “retail or service establishment.”
779.323
Particular industry.
779.324
Recognition “in.”
779.325
Functions of the Secretary and the courts.
779.326
Sources of information.
779.327
Wholesale sales.
779.328
Retail and wholesale distinguished.
779.329
Effect of type of customer and type of goods or services.

# Sales Not Made For Resale
779.330
Third requirement for qualifying as a “retail or service establishment.”
779.331
Meaning of sales “for resale.”
779.332
Resale of goods in an altered form or as parts or ingredients of other goods or services.
779.333
Goods sold for use as raw materials in other products.
779.334
Sales of services for resale.
779.335
Sales of building materials for residential or farm building construction.
779.336
Sales of building materials for commercial property construction.

# General Tests of Exemption Under Section 13(
a

# )(2)
779.337
Requirements of exemption summarized.
779.338
Effect of 1961 and 1966 amendments.

# Sales Made Within the State
779.339
More than 50 percent intrastate sales required.
779.340
Out-of-State customers.
779.341
Sales “made within the State” and “engagement in commerce” distinguished.

# Computing Annual Dollar Volume and Combination of Exemptions
779.342
Methods of computing annual volume of sales.
779.343
Combinations of exemptions.

# Engaging in Manufacturing and Processing Activities; Section 13(
a

# )(4)
779.345
Exemption provided in section 13(a)(4).
779.346
Requirements for exemption summarized.
779.347
Exemption limited to “recognized retail establishment”; factories not exempt.
779.348
Goods must be made at the establishment which sells them.
779.349
The 85-percent requirement.
779.350
The section 13(a)(4) exemption does not apply to service establishments.

# Engaging in Contract Telegraph Agency Operations; Section 13(
a

# )(11)
779.351
Exemption provided.
779.352
Requirements for exemption.

# Classification of Sales and Establishments in Certain Industries
779.353
Basis for classification.

# Lumber and Building Materials Dealers
779.354
Who may qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.
779.355
Classification of lumber and building materials sales.
779.356
Application of exemptions to employees.

# Coal Dealers
779.357
May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) establishments; classification of coal sales.

# Ice Manufacturers and Ice Dealers
779.358
May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.

# Liquefied-Petroleum-Gas and Fuel Oil Dealers
779.359
May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) establishments.
779.360
Classification of liquefied-petroleum-gas sales.
779.361
Classification of other fuel oil sales.

# Feed Dealers
779.362
May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.

# Monument Dealers
779.363
May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.

# Frozen-Food Locker Plants
779.364
May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.

# Automotive Tire Establishments
779.365
May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) or 13(a)(4) establishments.
779.366
Recapping or retreading tires for sale.

# Commercial Stationers
779.367
Commercial stationers may qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) establishments.
779.368
Printing and engraving establishments not recognized as retail.

# Funeral Homes
779.369
Funeral home establishments may qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) establishments.

# Cemeteries
779.370
Cemeteries may qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) establishments.

# Automobile, Truck and Farm Implement Sales and Services, and Trailer, Boat and Aircraft Sales
779.371
Some automobile, truck, and farm implement establishments may qualify for exemption under section 13(a)(2).
779.372
Nonmanufacturing establishments with certain exempt employees under section 13(b)(10).

# Other Establishments for Which Special Exceptions or Exemptions Are Provided
779.381
Establishments within special exceptions or exemptions.

# Hotels and Motels
779.382
May qualify as exempt 13(a)(2) establishments.
779.383
“Hotel” and “motel” exemptions under section 13(b)(8).

# Motion Picture Theaters
779.384
May qualify as exempt establishments.

# Seasonal Amusement or Recreational Establishments
779.385
May qualify as exempt establishments.

# Restaurants and Establishments Providing Food and Beverage Service
779.386
Restaurants may qualify as exempt 13(a) (2) establishments.
779.387
“Restaurant” exemption under section 13(b) (8).
779.388
Exemption provided for food or beverage service employees.

# Subpart E—Provisions Relating to Certain Employees of Retail or Service Establishments

# General Principles
779.400
Purpose of subpart.

# Executive, Administrative, and Professional Employees and Outside Salesmen
779.401
Statutory provision.
779.402
“Executive” and “administrative” employees defined.
779.403
Administrative and executive employees in covered enterprises employed in other than retail or service establishments.
779.404
Other section 13(a)(1) employees employed in covered enterprises.

# Students, Learners, and Handicapped Workers
779.405
Statutory provisions.
779.406
“Student-learners.”
779.407
Learners other than “student-learners.”
779.408
“Full-time students.”
779.409
Handicapped workers.

# Employees Compensated Principally by Commissions
779.410
Statutory provision.
779.411
Employee of a “retail or service establishment.”
779.412
Compensation requirements for overtime pay exemption under section 7(i).
779.413
Methods of compensation of retail store employees.
779.414
Types of employment in which this overtime pay exemption may apply.
779.415
Computing employee's compensation for the representative period.
779.416
What compensation “represents commissions.”
779.417
The “representative period” for testing employee's compensation.
779.418
Grace period for computing portion of compensation representing commissions.
779.419
Dependence of the section 7(i) overtime pay exemption upon the level of the employee's “regular rate” of pay.
779.420
Recordkeeping requirements.
779.421
Basic rate for computing overtime compensation of nonexempt employees receiving commissions.

# Subpart F—Other Provisions Which May Affect Retail Enterprises

# General
779.500
Purpose of subpart.

# Equal Pay Provisions
779.501
Statutory provisions.

# Child Labor Provisions
779.502
Statutory provisions; regulations in Part 1500 of this title.
779.503
The retailer and section 12(a).
779.504
The retailer and section 12(c).
779.505
“Oppressive child labor” defined.
779.506
Sixteen-year minimum.
779.507
Fourteen-year minimum.
779.508
Eighteen-year minimum.

# Driver or Driver's Helper Making Local Deliveries
779.509
Statutory provision.
779.510
Conditions that must be met for section 13(b) (11) exemption.
779.511
“Finding by Secretary.”

# Records to be Kept by Employers
779.512
The recordkeeping regulations.
779.513
Order and form of records.
779.514
Period for preserving records.
779.515
Regulations should be consulted.

# Authority:
Secs. 1-19, 52 Stat. 1060, as amended; 75 Stat. 65; Sec. 29(B), Pub. L. 93-259, 88 Stat. 55; 29 U.S.C. 201-219.

# Source:
35 FR 5856, Apr. 9, 1970, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Introductory
§ 779.0
Purpose of interpretative bulletin.
It is the purpose of this part to provide an official statement of the views of the Department of Labor with respect to the application and meaning of those provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act, hereinafter referred to as the Act, which govern rights and obligations of employees and employers in the various enterprises in which retail sales of goods or services are made. The application of the Act to employment in such enterprises was greatly broadened by amendments effective September 3, 1961. The Act's application was extended to employment in additional retail and service enterprises by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1966, effective February 1, 1967. Under the amended Act, there are many employees employed by retail or service establishments and in enterprises having such establishments engaged in the retail selling of goods or services who must be employed in compliance with its provisions. It is an objective of this part to make available in one place, for the guidance of those who may be concerned with the provisions of the law, the official interpretations of these provisions by which the Department of Labor will be guided in carrying out its responsibilities under the Act.
§ 779.1
General scope of the Act.
The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, is a Federal statute of general application which establishes minimum wage, maximum hours, overtime pay, equal pay, and child labor requirements that apply as provided in the Act. Employers and employees in
enterprises in which retail sales of goods or services are made need to know how the Act applies to employment in these enterprises so that they may understand their rights and obligations under the law. All employees whose employment has the relationship to interstate or foreign commerce which the Act specifies are subject to the prescribed labor standards unless specifically exempted from them. Employers having such employees are required to comply with the Act's provisions in this regard and with specified recordkeeping requirements contained in Part 516 of this chapter. The law authorizes the Department of Labor to investigate for compliance and, in the event of violations, to supervise the payment of unpaid minimum wages or unpaid overtime compensation owing to any employee. The law also provides for enforcement in the courts.
§ 779.2
Previous and new coverage.
Under the Act as amended in 1966, an employer may have some employees subject to its minimum wages, maximum hours, overtime pay, equal pay, or child labor provisions who would be covered by such provisions under the prior law even if the amendments had not been enacted, and other employees whose coverage under such provisions was provided for the first time by the 1966 amendments. As explained in subparts B and C such provisions of the amended Act may apply to an employee by reason of the activities in which he is individually engaged, or because he is employed in an enterprise whose activities satisfy the conditions prescribed in the law prior to the amendments. On the other hand, such provisions of the amended Act may apply to an employee solely because he is employed in an enterprise whose activities satisfy only the conditions provided in the Act as it was amended in 1966. Previously covered employment in retail and service enterprise is subject to different monetary standards than newly covered employment in such enterprises until February 1, 1971. On and after that date, every such employee subject to the minimum wage provisions will be entitled to not less than $1.60 an hour. However, beginning February 1, 1969, every such employee subject to the overtime provisions is entitled to overtime pay for all hours worked in excess of 40 in a workweek at a rate not less than one and one-half times his regular rate of pay. During the period for which different minimum wage provisions were made applicable, beginning with the effective date of the 1966 amendments on February 1, 1967, and ending on January 31, 1971, a lower minimum wage rate is authorized for employees in employment brought under the minimum wage provisions of the Act for the first time by the amendments than for those subject to the minimum wage provisions under the prior Act. Also, in the period beginning with the effective date of the amendments and ending on January 31, 1969, employees in employment brought under the overtime pay provisions for the first time by the amendments could be employed for a longer workweek without overtime pay, as specified in the Act. Accordingly, employers who do not wish to pay aIl covered employees for employment during such periods the minimum wages and overtime pay required for employment covered under the prior provisions will need to identify those employees who are covered under the prior provisions and those who are covered under the new provisions when wages are computed and paid under the Act.
§ 779.3
Pay standards for employees subject to previous coverage of the Act.
Before the 1966 amendments, the Act applied, as it still applies, to employees individually engaged in interstate or foreign commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce, and to employees in certain enterprises, including enterprises in which retail sales of goods or services are made. The tests by which coverage based on the employee's individual activities is determined were not changed by the 1966 amendments and are described in subpart B of this part. An employee in an enterprise whose activities satisfy the conditions prescribed in the law prior to the 1966 amendments (discussed in subpart C) is covered under the present Act. Any employee whose employment satisfies the tests by which individual or enterprise coverage is determined
under the Act prior to the 1966 amendments and who would not have come within some exemption in the law prior to the amendments is subject to the monetary provisions prescribed in the law for previously covered employees and is entitled to a minimum wage of at least $1.40 an hour beginning February 1, 1967, and not less than $1.60 an hour beginning February 1, 1968, unless expressly exempted by some provision of the amended Act. (In each instance where there is an increase in the minimum wage, the new minimum wage rate becomes effective 12:01 a.m., on the date indicated.) Such an employee is also entitled to overtime pay for hours worked in excess of 40 in any workweek at a rate not less than one and one-half times his regular rate of pay. (Minimum wage rates in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa are governed by special provisions of the Act. Information on these rates is available at any office of the Wage and Hour Division.)
§ 779.4
Pay standards for newly covered employment.
There are many employees of retailers as well as other employees who would not be subject to the minimum wage or overtime pay provisions of the Act as it was prior to the 1966 amendments, either because of their individual activities or because of the activities of the enterprise in which they are employed, but who are brought under the minimum wage or overtime provisions, or both, for the first time by the changed enterprise coverage provisions or changes in exemptions, or both, which were enacted as part of the amendments and made effective February 1, 1967. The following pay standards apply to this newly covered employment, unless a specific exemption has been retained or provided in the amendments; such employees must be paid not less than the minimum wages for hours worked and not less than one and one-half times their regular rates of pay for overtime, as shown in the following schedule:
Minimum wage
Beginning
$1.00 an hour
February 1, 1967.
$1.15 an hour
February 1, 1968.
$1.30 an hour
February 1, 1969.
$1.45 an hour
February 1, 1970.
$1.60 an hour
February 1, 1971 and thereafter.
In each instance where there is an increase in the minimum wage, the new minimum wage rate becomes effective 12:01 a.m., on the date indicated. (Minimum wage rates for newly covered employees in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and American Samoa are set by wage order under special industry committee procedures. Information on these rates and their effective dates may be obtained at any office of the Wage and Hour Division.)
Overtime pay
Beginning
After 44 hours in a workweek
Feb. 1, 1967.
After 42 hours in a workweek
Feb. 1, 1968.
After 40 hours in a workweek and thereafter
Feb. 1, 1969.
In each instance where a new overtime pay standard is applicable, it shall be effective as to any workweek beginning on or after the date indicated.
§ 779.5
Matters discussed in this part.
This part discusses generally the provisions of the Act which govern its application to employers and employees in enterprises and establishments that make retail sales of goods or services. It discusses in some detail those provisions of the Act which refer specifically to such employers and employees and such enterprises or establishments. The criteria for determining the employments in which these employers and employees may be subject to the law are discussed in subparts B and C of this part and the criteria for exclusion from its provisions under specific exemptions are discussed in subpart D of this part. Other provisions of special interest to retailers and their employees are discussed in subparts E and F of this part.
§ 779.6
Matters discussed in other interpretative bulletins.
Bulletins having general application to others subject to the law as well as to retailers and their employees have been issued on a number of subjects of general interest. These will be found in other parts of this chapter of the Code of Federal Regulations. Reference should be made to them for guidance
on matters which they discuss in detail and which this part does not undertake to do. They include part 776 of this chapter, discussing general coverage, including the employer-employee relationship under the Act; part 531 of this chapter, discussing methods of payment of wages; part 778 of this chapter, discussing computation and payment of overtime compensation; part 785 of this chapter, discussing the calculation of hours worked; and part 800 of this chapter, discussing equal pay for equal work.

# Interpretations of the Law
§ 779.7
Significance of official interpretations.
The regulations in this part contain the official interpretations of the Department of Labor with respect to the application under described circumstances of the provisions of law which they discuss. These interpretations indicate the construction of the law which the Secretary of Labor and the Administrator believe to be correct and which will guide them in the performance of their duties under the Act unless and until they are otherwise directed by authoritative decisions of the courts or conclude, upon reexamination of an interpretation, that it is incorrect.
§ 779.8
Basic support for interpretations.
The ultimate decisions on interpretations of the Act are made by the courts (
Mitchell
v.
Zachry,
362 U.S. 310;
Kirschbaum
v.
Walling,
316 U.S. 517). Court decisions supporting interpretations contained in this bulletin are cited where it is believed they may be helpful. On matters which have not been determined by the courts, it is necessary for the Secretary of Labor and the Administrator to reach conclusions as to the meaning and the application of provisions of the law in order to carry out their responsibilities of administration and enforcement (
Skidmore
v.
Swift,
323 U.S. 134). In order that these positions may be made known to persons who may be affected by them, official interpretations are issued by the Administrator on the advice of the Solicitor of Labor, as authorized by the Secretary (Reorg. Pl. 6 of 1950, 64 Stat. 1263; Gen. Ord. 45A, May 24, 1950; 15 FR 3290). As included in the regulations in this part, these interpretations are believed to express the intent of the law as reflected in its provisions as constructed by the courts and evidenced by its legislative history. References to pertinent legislative history are made in this part where it appears that they will contribute to a better understanding of the interpretations.
§ 779.9
Reliance on interpretations.
The interpretations of the law contained in this part are official interpretations which may be relied upon as provided in section 10 of the Portal-to-Portal Act of 1947. In addition, the Supreme Court has recognized that such interpretations of the Act “provide a practical guide to employers and employees as to how the office representing the public interest in its enforcement will seek to apply it” and “constitute a body of experience and informed judgment to which courts and litigants may properly resort for guidance.” Further, as stated by the Court: “Good administration of the Act and good judicial administration alike require that the standards of public enforcement and those for determining private rights shall be at variance only where justified by very good reasons.” (
Skidmore
v.
Swift,
323 U.S. 134.) Some of the interpretations in subpart D of this part relating to the scope of the exemption provided for retail or service establishments are interpretations of this exemption as it appeared in the original Act before amendment in 1949 and 1961, which have remained unchanged because they were consistent with the amendments. These interpretations may be said to have Congressional sanction because “When Congress amended the Act in 1949 it provided that pre-1949 rulings and interpretations by the Administrator should remain in effect unless inconsistent with the statute as amended. 63 Stat. 920.” (
Mitchell
v.
Kentucky Finance Co.,
359 U.S. 290.)
§ 779.10
Interpretations made, continued, and superseded by this part.
On and after publication of this part in the
Federal Register,
the interpretations contained therein shall be in effect and shall remain in effect until they are modified, rescinded, or withdrawn. This part supersedes and replaces the interpretations previously published in the
Federal Register
and Code of Federal Regulations as part 779 of this chapter. Prior opinions, rulings and interpretations and prior enforcement policies which are not inconsistent with the interpretations in this part or with the Fair Labor Standards Act as amended by the Fair Labor Standards Amendments of 1961 are continued in effect; all other opinions, rulings, interpretations, and enforcement policies on the subjects discussed in the interpretations in this part are rescinded and withdrawn. The interpretations in this part provide statements of general principles applicable to the subjects discussed and illustrations of the application of these principles to situations that frequently arise. They do not and cannot refer specifically to every problem which may be met by retailers in the application of the Act. The omission to discuss a particular problem in this part or in interpretations supplementing it should not be taken to indicate the adoption of any position by the Secretary of Labor or the Administrator with respect to such problem or to constitute an administrative interpretation or practice or enforcement policy. Questions on matters not fully covered by this part may be addressed to the Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210, or to any Regional or District Office of the Division.

# Some Basic Definitions
§ 779.11
General statement.
The meaning and application of the provisions of law discussed in this part depend in large degree on the definitions of terms used in these provisions. The Act itself defines some of these terms. Others have been defined and construed in decisions of the courts. In the following sections some of these basic definitions are set forth for ready reference in connection with the part's discussion of the various provisions in which they appear. Some of these definitions and their application are considered in detail in other interpretative bulletins. The application of the others is considered in the sections of this part where the particular provisions containing the defined terms are discussed.
§ 779.12
Commerce.
Commerce
as used in the Act includes interstate and foreign commerce. It is defined in section 3(b) of the Act to mean “trade, commerce, transportation, transmission or communication among the several States or between any State and any place outside thereof.” (For the definition of “State” see § 779.16.) The application of this definition and the kinds of activities which it includes are discussed at length in the interpretative bulletin on general coverage of the Act, part 776 of this chapter.
§ 779.13
Production.
To understand the meaning of “production” of goods for commerce as used in the Act it is necessary to refer to the definition in section 3(j) of the term “produced.” A detailed discussion of the application of the term as defined is contained in the interpretative bulletin on general coverage of the Act, part 776 of this chapter. Section 3(j) provides that “produced” as used in the Act “means produced, manufactured, mined, handled, or in any other manner worked on in any State; and for the purposes of this Act an employee shall be deemed to have been engaged in the production of goods if such employee was employed in producing, manufacturing, mining, handling, transporting, or in any other manner working on such goods, or in any closely related process or occupation directly essential to the production thereof, in any State.” (For the definition of “State,” see § 779.16.)
§ 779.14
Goods.
The definition in section 3(i) of the Act states that
goods,
as used in the Act, means “goods (including ships and marine equipment), wares, products, commodities, merchandise, or articles
or subjects of commerce of any character, or any part or ingredient thereof, but does not include goods after their delivery into the actual physical possession of the ultimate consumer thereof other than a producer, manufacturer, or processor thereof.” The interpretative bulletin on general coverage of the Act, part 776 of this chapter, contains a detailed discussion of the application of this definition and what is included in it.
§ 779.15
Sale and resale.
(a) Section 3(k) of the Act provides that “Sale” or “sell”, as used in the Act, “includes any sale, exchange, contract to sell, consignment for sale, shipment for sale, or other disposition.” Since “goods”, as defined, includes any part or ingredient of goods (see § 779.14), a “resale” of goods includes their sale in a different form than when first purchased or sold, such as the sale of goods of which they have become a component part (
Arnold
v.
Kanowsky,
361 U.S. 388). The Act, in section 3(n), provides one exception to this rule by declaring that “resale”, as used in the Act, “shall not include the sale of goods to be used in residential or farm building construction, repair, or maintenance:
Provided,
That the sale is recognized as a bona fide retail sale in the industry.” A resale of goods is not confined to resale of the goods as such, but under section 3(k) may include an “other disposition” of the goods in which they are disposed of in a transaction of a different kind; thus the sale by a restaurant to an airline of prepared meals to be served in flight to passengers whose tickets entitle them to a “complimentary” meal is a sale of goods “for resale”. (
Mitchell
v.
Sherry Corine Corp.,
264 F 2d 831 (C.A. 4), cert. denied 360 U.S. 934.)
(b) In construing section 3(s)(1) of the Act as it was prior to the 1966 amendments it should be noted that section 3(n) of the prior Act defined “resale” by declaring that this term, “except as used in subsection (s)(1), shall not include the sale of goods to be used in residential or farm building construction, repair, or maintenance:
Provided,
That the sale is recognized as a bona fide retail sale in the industry.” Thus, although section 3(n) of the prior Act also provided the one exception to the meaning of “resale”, it made clear that the exception was inapplicable in determining under section 3(s)(1) of the prior Act, “if such enterprise purchases or receives goods for resale that move or have moved across State lines (not in deliveries from the reselling establishment) which amount in total volume to $250,000 or more”. The application of the inflow test under section 3(s) (1) of the prior Act is discussed fully in subpart C of this part.
§ 779.16
State.
As used in the Act,
State
means “any State of the United States or the District of Columbia or any Territory or possession of the United States” (Act, section 3(c)). The application of this definition in determining questions of coverage under the Act's definition of “commerce” and “produced” (see §§ 779.12, 779.13) is discussed in the interpretative bulletin on general coverage, part 776 of this chapter. This definition is also important in determining whether goods “for resale” purchased or received by an enterprise move or have moved across State lines within the meaning of former section 3(s)(1) of the Act (prior to the 1966 amendments) and whether sales of goods or services are “made within the State” within the meaning of the retail or service establishment exemption in section 13(a)(2), as discussed in subpart D of this part.
§ 779.17
Wage and wage payments to tipped employees.
Section 3(m) of the Act provides that as used in the Act, “wage” paid to any employee:
includes the reasonable cost, as determined by the Secretary of Labor, to the employer of furnishing such employee with board, lodging, or other facilities, if such board, lodging or other facilities are customarily furnished by such employer to his employees:
Provided,
That the cost of board, lodging, or other facilities shall not be included as a part of the wage paid to any employee to the extent it is excluded therefrom under the terms of a bona fide collective-bargaining agreement applicable to the particular employee:
Provided further,
That the Secretary is authorized to determine the fair value of such board, lodging, or other facilities for defined classes of employees and in defined
areas, based on average cost to the employer or to groups of employers similarly situated, or average value to groups of employees, or other appropriate measures of fair value. Such evaluations, where applicable and pertinent, shall be used in lieu of actual measure of cost in determining the wage paid to any employee. In determining the wage of a tipped employee, the amount paid such employee by his employer shall be deemed to be increased on account of tips by an amount determined by the employer, but not by an amount in excess of 50 per centum of the applicable minimum wage rate, except that in the case of an employee who (either himself or acting through his representative) shows to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the actual amount of tips received by him was less than the amount determined by the employer as the amount by which the wage paid him was deemed to be increased under this sentence, the amount paid such employee by his employer shall be deemed to have been increased by such lesser amount.
As explained in part 531 of this chapter, section 3(m) of the Act governs the payment of wages required by the Act, including payment in other than cash and in tips. Part 531 of this chapter contains the regulations under which the reasonable cost or fair value of such facilities furnished may be computed for inclusion as part of wages required by the Act. Section 3(m) provides a method for determining the wage of a “tipped employee” and this term as defined in section 3(t) of the Act “means any employee engaged in an occupation in which he customarily and regularly receives more than $20 a month in tips”. Regulations under which wage credits are permitted on account of tips paid to “tipped employees” are also contained in part 531 of this chapter.
§ 779.18
Regular rate.
As explained in the interpretative bulletin on overtime compensation, part 778 of this chapter, employees subject to the overtime pay provisions of the Act must generally receive for their overtime work in any workweek as provided in the Act not less than one and one-half times their regular rates of pay. Section 7(e) of the Act defines “regular rate” in the following language:
(e) As used in this section the
regular rate
at which an employee is employed shall be deemed to include all remuneration for employment paid to, or on behalf of, the employee, but shall not be deemed to include:
(1) Sums paid as gifts; payments in the nature of gifts made at Christmas time or on other special occasions, as a reward for service, the amounts of which are not measured by or dependent on hours worked, production, or efficiency;
(2) Payments made for occasional periods when no work is performed due to vacation, holiday, illness, failure of the employer to provide sufficient work, or other similar cause; reasonable payments for traveling expenses or other expenses, incurred by an employee in the furtherance of his employer's interests and properly reimbursable by the employer; and other similar payments to an employee which are not made as compensation for his hours of employment;
(3) Sums paid in recognition of services performed during a given period if either, (a) both the fact that payment is to be made and the amount of the payment are determined at the sole discretion of the employer at or near the end of the period and not pursuant to any prior contract, agreement, or promise causing the employee to expect such payments regularly; or (b) the payments are made pursuant to a bona fide profit-sharing plan or trust or bona fide thrift or savings plan, meeting the requirements of the Secretary of Labor set forth in appropriate regulation which he shall issue, having due regard among other relevant factors, to the extent to which the amounts paid to the employee are determined without regard to hours of work, production, or efficiency; or (c) the payments are talent fees (as such talent fees are defined and delimited by regulations of the Secretary) paid to performers, including announcers, on radio and television programs;
(4) Contributions irrevocably made by an employer to a trustee or third person pursuant to a bona fide plan for providing old age, retirement, life, accident, or health insurance or similar benefits for employees;
(5) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid for certain hours worked by the employee in any day or workweek because such hours are hours worked in excess of eight in a day or in excess of the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under subsection (a) or in excess of the employee's normal working hours or regular working hours, as the case may be;
(6) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid for work by the employee on Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, or regular days of rest, or on the sixth or seventh day of the workweek, where such premium rate is not less than one and one-half times the rate established in good faith for like work performed in nonovertime hours on other days; or
(7) Extra compensation provided by a premium rate paid to the employee, in pursuance of an applicable employment contract or collective-bargaining agreement, for work outside of the hours established in good faith by the contract or agreement as the basic, normal, or regular workday (not exceeding 8 hours) or workweek (not exceeding the maximum workweek applicable to such employee under subsection (a), where such premium rate is not less than one and one-half times the rate established in good faith by the contract or agreement for like work performed during such workday or workweek.
This definition, which is discussed at length in part 778 of this chapter, also governs the computation of “regular rate” for purposes of the special overtime exemption of certain commission employees of retail or service establishments which is contained in section 7(i) of the Act and is discussed in subpart E of this part.
§ 779.19
Employer, employee, and employ.
The Act's major provisions impose certain requirements and prohibitions on every “employer” subject to their terms. The employment by an “employer” of an “employee” is, to the extent specified in the Act, made subject to minimum wage and overtime pay requirements and to prohibitions against the employment of oppressive child labor. The Act provides its own definitions of “employer,” “employee”, and “employ”, under which “economic reality” rather than “technical concepts” determines whether there is employment subject to its terms (
Goldberg
v.
Whitaker House Cooperative,
366 U.S. 28;
United States
v.
Silk,
331 U.S. 704;
Rutherford Food Corp.
v.
McComb,
331 U.S. 722). An “employer”, as defined in section 3(d) of the Act, “includes any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee but shall not include the United States or any State or political subdivision of a State (except with respect to employees of a State or a political subdivision thereof, employed (a) in a hospital, institution, or school referred to in the last sentence of subsection (r) of this section, or (b) in the operation of a railway or carrier referred to in such sentence), or any labor organization (other than when acting as an employer), or anyone acting in the capacity of officer or agent of such labor organization”. An “employee”, as defined in section 3(e) of the Act, “includes any individual employed by an employer” (except that the term is further qualified for purposes of counting man-days of employment by an employer in agriculture). “Employ”, as used in the Act, is defined in section 3(g) to include “to suffer or permit to work”. It should be noted, as explained in the interpretative bulletin on general coverage, part 776 of this chapter, that in appropriate circumstances two or more employers may be jointly responsible for compliance with the statutory requirements applicable to employment of a particular employee. It should also be noted that “employer”, “enterprise”, and “establishment” are not synonymous terms, as used in the Act. An employer may have an enterprise with more than one establishment, or he may have more than one enterprise, in which he employs employees within the meaning of the Act. Also, there may be different employers who employ employees in a particular establishment or enterprise.
§ 779.20
Person.
As used in the Act (including the definition of “enterprise” set forth in § 779.21), “person” is defined as meaning “an individual, partnership, association, corporation, business trust, legal representative, or any organized group of persons.” (Act, section 3(a).)
§ 779.21
Enterprise.
(a) Section 3(r) of the Act provides, in pertinent part that “enterprise” as used in the Act:
means the related activities performed (either through unified operation or common control) by any person or persons for a common business purpose, and includes all such activities whether performed in one or more establishments or by one or more corporate or other organizational units including departments of an establishment operated through leasing arrangements, but shall not include the related activities performed for such enterprise by an independent contractor:
Provided,
That, within the meaning of this subsection, a retail or service establishment which is under independent ownership shall not be deemed to be so operated or controlled as to be other than a separate and
distinct enterprise by reason of any arrangement, which includes, but is not necessarily limited to, an agreement, (a) that it will sell, or sell only, certain goods specified by a particular manufacturer, distributor, or advertiser, or (b) that it will join with other such establishments in the same industry for the purpose of the collective purchasing, or (c) that it will have the exclusive right to sell the goods or use the brand name of a manufacturer, distributor, or advertiser within a specified area, or by reason of the fact that it occupies premises leased to it by a person who also leases premises to other retail or service establishments * * *
The scope and application of this definitional language is discussed in subpart C of this part.
(b) The 1966 amendments added two clauses to the above language of the definition to make it clear that “the activities performed by any person or persons” will be regarded as performed for a business purpose if they are performed:
(1) In connection with the operation of a hospital, an institution primarily engaged in the care of the sick, the aged, the mentally ill or defective who reside on the premises of such institution, a school for mentally or physically handicapped or gifted children, an elementary or secondary school, or an institution of higher education (regardless of whether or not such hospital, institution, or school is public or private or operated for profit or not for profit); or
(2) In connection with the operation of a street, suburban, or interurban electric railway, or local trolley or motorbus carrier, if the rates and services of such railway or carrier are subject to regulation by a State or local agency (regardless of whether or not such railway or carrier is public or private or operated for profit or not for profit).
A discussion of the scope and application of this added language is contained in part 776 of this chapter.
§ 779.22
Enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.
The portions of the former and present definitions of “enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” (contained in section 3(s) of the Act prior to the 1966 amendments and as amended in 1966) which are important to a determination of the application of provisions of the Act to employees employed by retailers generally and by certain retail or service establishments are as follows:
Previous coverage (prior to the 1966 amendments):
(s) Enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce means any of the following in the activities of which employees are so engaged, including employees handling, selling, or otherwise working on goods that have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person:
(1) Any such enterprise which has one or more retail or service establishments if the annual gross volume of sales of such enterprise is not less than $1 million, exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated and if such enterprise purchases or receives goods for resale that move or have moved across State lines (not in deliveries from the reselling establishment) which amount in total annual volume to $250,000 or more;
(5) Any gasoline service establishment if the annual gross volume of sales of such establishment is not less than $250,000, exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated:
Provided,
That an establishment shall not be considered to be an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, or a part of an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, and the sales of such establishment shall not be included for the purpose of determining the annual gross volume of sales of any enterprise for the purpose of this subsection, if the only employees of such establishment are the owner thereof or persons standing in the relationship of parent, spouse, or child of such owner.
New coverage (beginning with the 1966 amendments):
(s)
Enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce
means an enterprise which has employees engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, including employees handling, selling, or otherwise working on goods that have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person, and which:
(1) During the period February 1, 1967, through January 31, 1969, is an enterprise whose annual gross volume of sales made or business done is not less than $500,000 (exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated) or is a gasoline service establishment whose annual gross volume of sales is not less than $250,000 (exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated), and beginning February 1,
1969, is an enterprise whose annual gross volume of sales made or business done is not less than $250,000 (exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated);
(4) Is engaged in the operation of a hospital, an institution primarily engaged in the care of the sick, the aged, the mentally ill or defective who reside on the premises of such institution, a school for mentally or physically handicapped or gifted children, an elementary or secondary school, or an institution of higher education (regardless of whether or not such hospital, institution, or school is public or private or operated for profit or not for profit).
Any establishment which has as its only regular employees the owner thereof or the parent, spouse, child, or other member of the immediate family of such owner shall not be considered to be an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce or a part of such an enterprise, and the sales of such establishment shall not be included for the purpose of determining the annual gross volume of sales of any enterprise for the purpose of this subsection.
§ 779.23
Establishment.
As used in the Act, the term
establishment,
which is not specially defined therein, refers to a “distinct physical place of business” rather than to “an entire business or enterprise” which may include several separate places of business. This is consistent with the meaning of the term as it is normally used in business and in government, is judicially settled, and has been recognized in the Congress in the course of enactment of amendatory legislation (
Phillips
v.
Walling,
324 U.S. 490;
Mitchell
v. Bekins Van
Storage Co., 352 U.S. 1027; 95 Cong. Rec. 12505, 12579, 14877; H. Rept. No. 1453, 81st Cong., 1st Sess., p. 25). As appears more fully elsewhere in this part, this is the meaning of the term as used in sections 3(r), 3(s), 6(d), 7(i), 13(a), 13(b), and 14 of the Act.
§ 779.24
Retail or service establishment.
In the 1949 amendments to the Act, the term “retail or service establishment”, which was not previously defined in the law, was given a special definition for purposes of the Act. The legislative history of the 1961 and the 1966 amendments to the Act, which use the same term in a number of provisions relating to coverage and exemptions, indicates that no different meaning was intended by the term “retail or service establishment” as used in the new provisions from that already established by the Act's definition. On the contrary, the existing definition was reenacted in section 13(a)(2) of the Act as amended in 1961 and 1966 as follows: “A ‘retail or service establishment’ shall mean an establishment 75 per centum of whose annual dollar volume of sales of goods or services (or of both) is not for resale and is recognized as retail sales or services in the particular industry”. The application of this definition, which has had much judicial construction since its original enactment, is considered at length in subpart D of this part. As is apparent from the quoted language, not every establishment which engages in retail selling of goods or services will constitute a “retail or service establishment” within the meaning of the Act.

# Subpart B—Employment to Which the Act May Apply: Basic Principles and Individual Coverage

# General Principles
§ 779.100
Basic coverage in general.
Except as otherwise provided in specific exemptions, the minimum wage, maximum hours, overtime pay, equal pay, and child labor provisions of the Act have applied and continue to apply subsequent to the 1966 amendments to employees who are individually engaged in interstate commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce as these terms are defined in the Act and to employees in certain enterprises described in the amended section 3(s) which were covered under section 3(s) of the Act prior to the amendments. Through the broadening of the definition of a covered enterprise the Act's coverage was extended to additional employees because of their employment in certain enterprises beginning February 1, 1967, and in certain other enterprises beginning February 1, 1969. Such covered enterprises are described in section 3(s) as enterprises engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce and further described in
sections 3(s) (1) through (4) of the amended Act. A detailed discussion of the coverage of employees in those enterprises covered under the prior and amended Act of interest to the retail industry is contained in subpart C of this part. The employer must comply with the minimum wage and overtime requirements of the Act with respect to all employees who are covered either because they are individually engaged in interstate or foreign commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce, or because of their employment in an enterprise covered under the prior or amended enterprise definition of the Act, except those who may be denied one or both of these benefits by virtue of some specific exemption provision of the Act. Of special interest to the retailer in a covered enterprise is the exemption from the minimum wage and overtime provisions for certain small retail or service establishments of such enterprise. This exemption is applicable under the conditions and subject to exceptions stated in section 13(a) (2) of the Act to any retail or service establishment which has an annual dollar volume of sales of less than $250,000 (exclusive of certain excise taxes) even if the establishment is a part of an enterprise that is covered by the Act. This exemption and other exemptions of particular interest to retailers and their employees are discussed in subparts D and E of this part. The child labor provisions as they apply to retail or service businesses are discussed in subpart F of this part.
§ 779.101
Guiding principles for applying coverage and exemption provisions.
It is clear that Congress intended the Fair Labor Standards Act to be broad in its scope. “Breadth of coverage is vital to its mission.” (
Powell
v.
U.S. Cartridge Co.,
339 U.S. 497.) An employer who claims an exemption under the Act has the burden of showing that it applies. (
Walling
v.
General Industries Co.,
330 U.S. 545;
Mitchell
v.
Kentucky Finance Co.,
359 U.S. 290;
Fleming
v.
Hawkeye Pearl Button Co.,
113 F. 2d 52.) Conditions specified in the language of the Act are “explicit prerequisites to exemption.” (
Arnold
v.
Kanowsky,
361 U.S. 388.) “The details with which the exemptions in this Act have been made preclude their enlargement by implication.” (
Addison
v.
Holly Hill,
322 U.S. 60;
Maneja
v.
Waialua,
349 U.S. 254.) Exemptions provided in the Act “are to be narrowly construed against the employer seeking to assert them” and their application limited to those who come plainly and unmistakably within their terms and spirit; this restricted or narrow construction of the exemptions is necessary to carry out the broad objectives for which the Act was passed. (
Phillips
v.
Walling,
324 U.S. 490;
Mitchell
v.
Kentucky Finance Co.,
supra;
Arnold
v.
Kanowsky,
supra;
Calaf
v.
Gonzalez,
127 F. 2d 934;
Bowie
v.
Gonzalez,
117 F. 2d 11;
Mitchell
v.
Stinson,
217 F. 2d 210;
Fleming
v.
Hawkeye Pearl Button Co.,
113 F. 2d 52.)
§ 779.102
Scope of this subpart.
The Act has applied since 1938 and continues to apply to all employees, not specifically exempted, who are engaged: (a) In interstate or foreign commerce or (b) in the production of goods for such commerce, which is defined to include any closely related process or occupation directly essential to such production. (See §§ 779.12-779.16 for definitions governing the scope of this coverage.) Prior to the 1961 amendments a retailer was not generally concerned with the coverage provisions as they applied to his individual employees because retail or service establishments ordinarily were exempt. However, in some cases such coverage was applicable as where employees were employed in central offices of warehouses of retail chain store systems and, therefore, were not exempt. (See § 779.118.) Some exemptions for retail or service establishments were narrowed as a result of the 1961 amendments and further revised or eliminated by the 1966 amendments effective February 1, 1967. Therefore, discussion of the individual coverage provisions of the Act is pertinent and this subpart will discuss briefly the principles of such coverage with particular reference to employment in the retail or service trades. A more comprehensive discussion with respect to employees engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce may be found in part 776 of this chapter, the general coverage bulletin.

# Employees Engaged in Commerce or in the Production of Goods for Commerce
§ 779.103
Employees “engaged in commerce.”
Employees are “engaged in commerce” within the meaning of the Act when they are performing work involving or related to the movement of persons or things (whether tangibles or intangibles, and including information and intelligence) among the several States or between any State and any place outside thereof. (The statutory definition of commerce is contained in section 3(b) of the Act and is set forth in § 779.12.) The courts have made it clear that this includes every employee employed in the channels of such commerce or in activities so closely related to this commerce, as to be considered a part of it as a practical matter. (Court cases are cited in the discussion of this term in §§ 776.9-776.13 of this chapter). Typically, but not exclusively, employees engaged in interstate or foreign commerce include employees in distributing industries, such as wholesaling or retailing, who sell, handle or otherwise work on goods moving in interstate commerce as well as workers who order, receive, pack, ship, or keep records of such goods; clerical and other workers who regularly use the mails, telephone or telegraph for interstate communication; and employees who regularly travel across State lines while working.
§ 779.104
Employees “engaged in the production of goods for commerce.”
The activities constituting “production” within the meaning of the phrase “engaged in * * * the production of goods for commerce” are defined in section 3(j) of the Act. (The statutory definition is set forth in § 779.13.) The handling or otherwise working on goods intended for shipment out of the State, directly or indirectly, in engagement in the “production” of goods for commerce. Thus, employees in retail stores who sell, pack, or otherwise work on goods which are to be shipped or delivered outside of the State are engaged in the production of goods for commerce. Typically, but not exclusively, employees engaged in the production of goods for interstate or foreign commerce, include those who work in manufacturing, processing and distributing establishments, including wholesale or retail establishments, that produce goods for interstate or foreign commerce. This includes everyone, including office, management, sales and shipping personnel, and maintenance, custodial and protective employees, whether they are employed by the producer or an intermediary. Employees may be covered even if their employer does not ship his goods directly in such commerce. The goods may leave the State through another firm. The workers may produce goods which become a part or ingredient of goods shipped in interstate or foreign commerce by another firm. Also covered are workers who are engaged in a closely related process or occupation directly essential to such production. (See § 779.105.)
§ 779.105
Employees engaged in activities “closely related” and “directly essential” to the production of goods for commerce.
Some employees are covered because their work, although not actually a part of such production, is “closely related” and “directly essential” to it. This group of employees includes bookkeepers, stenographers, clerks, accountants and auditors and other office and white collar workers, and employees doing payroll, timekeeping and time study work for the producer of goods; employees in the personnel, labor relations, advertising, promotion, and public relations activities of the producing enterprise; work instructors for the producer; employees maintaining, servicing, repairing or improving the buildings, machinery, equipment, vehicles or other facilities used in the production of goods for commerce, and such custodial and protective employees as watchmen, guards, firemen, patrolmen, caretakers, stockroom workers, and warehousemen; and transportation workers bringing supplies, materials, or equipment to the producer's premises, removing waste materials therefrom, or transporting materials or other goods, or performing such other transportation activities, as the needs
of production may require. These examples are illustrative, rather than exhaustive, of the group of employees of a producer who are “engaged in the production of goods for commerce” by reason of performing activities closely related and directly essential to such production.
§ 779.106
Employees employed by an independent employer.
Where the work of an employee would be closely related and directly essential to the production of goods for commerce if he were employed by a producer of the goods, the mere fact that the employee is employed by an independent employer will not justify a different answer. (See §§ 776.17(c) and 776.19 of this chapter.)
§ 779.107
Goods defined.
The term
goods
is defined in section 3(i) of the Act and has a well established meaning under the Act since it has been contained in the statute from the date of its enactment in 1938. A comprehensive statement of the meaning of the term “goods” is contained in part 776 of this chapter, which also cites the court cases in which the term was construed. The statutory definition of “goods” is set forth in § 779.14. It will be observed that the term “goods” includes any part or ingredient of the goods. Also that “goods” as defined in the Act are not limited to commercial goods, or articles of trade, or, indeed, to tangible property, but include “articles or subjects of commerce of any character.” Thus telegraphic messages have been held to be “goods” within the meaning of the Act (
Western Union Tel. Co.
v.
Lenroot,
323 U.S. 490). Some of the “articles or subjects of commerce” which fall within the definition of “goods” include written materials such as newspapers, magazines, brochures, pamphlets, bulletins, and announcements; written reports, fiscal and other statements and accounts, correspondence, and other documents; advertising, motion pictures, newspaper and radio copy; art work and manuscripts for publication; sample books, letterheads, envelopes, shipping tags, labels, checkbooks, blankbooks, book covers, advertising circulars, and wrappers and other packaging materials.
§ 779.108
Goods produced for commerce.
Goods are “produced for commerce” if they are “produced, manufactured, mined, handled or in any other manner worked on” in any State for sale, trade, transportation, transmission, shipment or delivery, to any place outside thereof. Goods are produced for commerce where the producer intends, hopes, expects, or has reason to believe that the goods or any unsegregated part of them will move (in the same or in an altered form or as a part or ingredient of other goods) in interstate or foreign commerce. If such movement of the goods in commerce can reasonably be anticipated by the producer when the goods are produced, it makes no difference whether he himself or the person to whom the goods are transferred puts the goods in interstate or foreign commerce. The fact that goods do move in interstate or foreign commerce is strong evidence that the producer intended, hoped, expected, or had reason to believe that they would so move. Goods produced to serve the movement of interstate commerce within the same State are also produced for commerce within the meaning of the Act, as explained in part 776 of this chapter.
§ 779.109
Amount of activities which constitute engaging in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.
The Act makes no distinction as to the percentage, volume, or amount of activities of either the employee or the employer which constitute engaging in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce. However, an employee whose in-commerce or production activities are isolated, sporadic, or occasional and involve only insubstantial amounts of goods will not be considered “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” by virtue of that fact alone. The law is settled that every employee whose activities in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, even though small in amount are regular and recurring, is considered “engaged
in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce”.
§ 779.110
Employees in retailing whose activities may bring them under the Act.
The discussion in §§ 779.103 to 779.109 included general reference to types of employees in the retail or service field whose individual activities constitute engagement in interstate or foreign commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce within the meaning of the Act. There are many classes of employees customarily employed by retail or service establishments or enterprises whose individual activities ordinarily constitute engagement in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce within the meaning of the Act. The groups of employees discussed in the following §§ 779.111 to 779.118, are illustrative only. There are other employees whose activities may be covered; also there are other activities performed by the groups discussed which would result in individual coverage under the Act.
§ 779.111
Buyers and their assistants.
Buyers and their assistants, employed by retail businesses, as a regular part of their duties, generally travel across State lines, or use the mails, telegraph, or telephone for interstate communication to order goods; or they regularly send or receive, across State lines, written reports, messages or other documents. These activities of such employees constitute engagement “in commerce” within the meaning of the Act.
§ 779.112
Office employees.
Similarly office employees of retail businesses who regularly and recurrently check records of and make payments for goods shipped to their employer from outside of the State, or regularly and recurrently keep records of or otherwise work on the accounts of their employer's out-of-State customers, or who regularly and recurrently prepare or mail letters, checks, reports or other documents to out-of-State points, are engaged both in commerce and in the production of goods for commerce within the meaning of the Act. Likewise, timekeepers who regularly and recurrently prepare and maintain payrolls for and pay employees who are engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce are themselves engaged in covered activities.
§ 779.113
Warehouse and stock room employees.
Warehouse and stock room employees of retail businesses who regularly and recurrently engage in the loading or unloading of goods moving in commerce, or who regularly and recurrently handle, pack or otherwise work on goods that are destined to out-of-State points are engaged in covered activities.
§ 779.114
Transportation employees.
Transportation employees of retail businesses, such as truck drivers or truck drivers' helpers, who regularly and recurrently cross State lines to make deliveries or to pick up goods for their employer; or who regularly and recurrently pick up at rail heads, air, bus or other such terminals goods originating out of State, or deliver to such terminals goods destined to points out of State; and dispatchers who route, plan or otherwise control such out-of-State deliveries and pick ups, are engaged in interstate commerce within the meaning of the Act.
§ 779.115
Watchmen and guards.
Watchmen or guards employed by retail businesses who protect the warehouses, workshops, or store premises where goods moving in interstate or foreign commerce are kept or where goods are produced for such commerce, are covered under the Act.
§ 779.116
Custodial and maintenance employees.
Custodial and maintenance employees who perform maintenance and custodial work on the machinery, equipment, or premises where goods regularly are produced for commerce or from which goods are regularly shipped in interstate commerce are engaged in covered activities.
§ 779.117
Salesmen and sales clerks.
A salesman or a sales clerk who regularly and recurrently takes orders for,
or sells, or selects merchandise for delivery to points outside the State or which are to be shipped or delivered to a customer from a point outside the State, i.e. drop shipments; or who wraps, packs, addresses or otherwise prepares goods for out-of-State shipments is performing covered activities.
§ 779.118
Employees providing central services for multi-unit organizations.
Employees providing central services for a multiunit organization may be engaged both “in commerce” and “in the production of goods for commerce” within the meaning of the Act. For example, employees engaged in work relating to the coordinated purchasing, warehousing and distribution (and in the administrative and clerical work relating to such activities) for various retail units of a chain are covered under the Act. (See
Phillips Co.
v.
Walling,
324 U.S. 490;
Walling
v.
Jacksonville Paper Co.,
317 U.S. 564, affirming, 128 F. 2d 935 (CA-5);
Mitchell
v.
C.
P. Stores,
286 F. 2d 109 (CA-5);
Mitchell
v.
E. G. Shinner
Co.,
Inc., 221 F. 2d 260 (CA-7);
Donovan
v.
Shell Oil Co.,
168 F. 2d 776 (CA-8).) In addition, employees who regularly and recurrently correspond and maintain records of activities of out-of-State stores and such employees as traveling auditors, inventory men, window display men, etc., who regularly travel from State to State in the performance of their duties are covered under the Act. (See
Mitchell
v.
Kroger Co.,
248 F. 2d 935 (CA-8).)
§ 779.119
Exempt occupations.
Of course, it should be noted that although employees may be engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce within the meaning of the Act, they may be exempt from the Act's minimum wage or overtime provisions (or both). For a complete list of such exemptions the Act should be consulted. Those exemptions, however, which are of particular interest to employers and employees in the retail field are discussed in subparts D, E, and F of this part.

# Subpart C—Employment to Which the Act May Apply; Enterprise Coverage

# Enterprise; the Business Unit
§ 779.200
Coverage expanded by 1961 and 1966 amendments.
The 1961 amendments for the first time since the enactment of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 provided that all employees in a particular business unit are covered by the Act. Prior to the 1961 amendments each employee's coverage depended on whether that employee's activities were in commerce or constituted the production of goods for commerce. All employees employed in an “enterprise” described in section 3(s)(1) through (5) of the Act as it was amended in 1961 and section 3(s)(1) through (4) of the Act as amended in 1966 are also covered. Thus, it is necessary to consider the meaning of the term “enterprise” as used in the Act.
§ 779.201
The place of the term “enterprise” in the Act.
The term “enterprise” is defined in section 3(r) of the Act and, wherever used in the Act, is governed by this definition. (§ 779.21(a) provides that portion of the definition of “enterprise” which is pertinent with respect to retail and service enterprises.) The term is a key in determining the applicability of the Act to these businesses. The “enterprise” is the unit for determining whether the conditions of section 3(s)(1) through (5) of the prior Act and section 3(s)(1) through (4) of the amended Act, including, where applicable, the requisite dollar volume are met. The “enterprise” is also the unit for determining which employees not individually covered by the Act are entitled to the minimum wage, overtime, and equal pay benefits, and to the child labor protection, under sections 6, 7, and 12 of the Act. In general, if the “enterprise” comes within any of the categories described in section 3(s)(1) through (5) of the prior Act or section 3(s)(1) through (4) of the amended Act, all employees employed in the “enterprise” are covered by the Act and, regardless of their duties, are entitled to
the Act's benefits unless a specific exemption applies.
§ 779.202
Basic concepts of definition.
Under the definition, the “enterprise” consists of “the related activities performed * * * for a common business purpose.” All of the activities comprising the enterprise must be “related.” Activities serving a single business purpose may be related, although different, but other activities which are not related are not included in the enterprise. The definition makes clear that the enterprise includes all such related activities which are performed through “unified operation” or “common control.” This is true even if they are performed by more than one person, or in more than one establishment, or by more than one corporate or other organizational unit. Specifically included, as a part of the enterprise, are departments of an establishment operated through leasing arrangements. On the other hand, the definition excludes from the “enterprise” activities only performed “for” the enterprise rather than as a part of it by an independent contractor even if they are related to the activities of the enterprise. Also, it makes clear that a truly independent retail or service establishment does not become a part of a larger enterprise merely because it enters into certain types of franchise or collective purchasing arrangements or because it has a common landlord with other such retail establishments.
§ 779.203
Distinction between “enterprise,” “establishment,” and “employer.”
The coverage, exemption and other provisions of the Act depend, in part, on the scope of the terms
employer, establishment,
or
enterprise.
As explained more fully in part 776 of this chapter, these terms are not synonymous. The term
employer
has been defined in the Act since its inception and has a well established meaning. As defined in section 3(d), it includes, with certain stated exceptions, any person acting directly or indirectly in the interest of an employer in relation to an employee. (See § 779.19.) The term
establishment
means a
distinct physical place of business
rather than
an entire business or enterprise.
(See § 779.23.) The term
enterprise
was not used in the Act prior to the 1961 amendments, but the careful definition and the legislative history of the 1961 and 1966 amendments provide guidance as to its meaning and application. As defined in the Act, the term
enterprise
is roughly descriptive of a business rather than of an establishment or of an employer although on occasion the three may coincide. The enterprise may consist of a single establishment (see § 779.204(a)) which may be operated by one or more employers; or it may be composed of a number of establishments which may be operated by one or more employers (see § 779.204(b)). The enterprise is not necessarily coextensive with the entire business activities of an employer; a single employer may operate more than one enterprise (see § 779.204(c)). The Act treats as separate enterprises different businesses which are unrelated to each other even if they are operated by the same employer.
§ 779.204
Common types of “enterprise.”
(a)
The single establishment business.
In the simplest type of organization—the entire business ordinarily is one enterprise. The entire business activity of the single owner-employer may be performed in one establishment, as in the typical independently owned and controlled retail store. In that case the establishment and the enterprise are one and the same. All of the activities of the store are “related” and are performed for a single business purpose and there is both unified operation and common control. The entire business is the unit for applying the statutory tests. If the coverage tests are met, all of the employees employed by the establishment are employed in the enterprise and will be entitled to the benefits of the Act unless otherwise exempt.
(b)
The multiunit business.
In many cases, as in the typical chain of retail stores, one company conducts its single business in a number of establishments. All of the activities ordinarily are related and performed for one business purpose, the single company which owns the chain also controls the entire business, and the entire business
is a single enterprise. The dollar volume of the entire business from all of its establishments is added together to determine whether the requisite dollar volume tests are met. If the coverage tests are met, all of the employees employed in the business will be entitled to the benefits of the Act unless otherwise exempt.
(c)
Complex business organizations.
In complex retail and service organizations, questions may arise as to whether certain activities are a part of a particular enterprise. In some cases one employer may operate several separate enterprises; in others, several employers may conduct their business activities in such a manner that they are part of a single enterprise. The answer, in each case, as to whether or not the “enterprise” includes certain activities will depend upon whether the particular activities are “related” to the business purpose of such enterprise and whether they are performed with its other activities through “unified operation” or “common control,” or whether, on the other hand, they are performed for a separate and distinct business purpose. As the Senate Report states,
related activities conducted by separate business entities will be considered a part of the same enterprise where they are joined either through unified operation or common control into a unified business system or economic unit to serve a common business purpose.
(S. Rept. 145, 87th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 41; see also H. Rept. 1366, 89th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 9.) §§ 779.205 through 779.211 discuss the terms of the definition and may aid in making these determinations.

# Related Activities
§ 779.205
Enterprise must consist of “related activities.”
The enterprise must consist of certain “related activities” performed for a common business purpose; activities which are not “related” are not a part of the enterprise even if performed by the same employer. Moreover, even if activities are “related” they may be excluded from the enterprise if they are performed only “for” the enterprise and not as a part of it by an independent contractor. This is discussed separately in § 779.206.
§ 779.206
What are “related activities.”
(a) The Senate Report on the 1961 amendments states as follows, with respect to the meaning of related activities:
Within the meaning of this term, activities are “related” when they are the same or similar, such as those of the individual retail or service stores in a chain, or departments of an establishment operated through leasing arrangements. They are also “related” when they are auxiliary and service activities such as central office and warehousing activities and bookkeeping, auditing, purchasing, advertising and other services. Likewise, activities are “related” when they are part of a vertical structure such as the manufacturing, warehousing, and retailing of a particular product or products under unified operation or common control for a common business purpose. (Senate Report No. 145, 87th Cong., 1st Sess., Page 41.)
Thus, activities will be regarded as “related” when they are the same or similar or when they are auxiliary or service activities such as warehousing, bookkeeping, purchasing, advertising, including, generally, all activities which are necessary to the operation and maintenance of the particular business. So also, all activities which are performed as a part of the unified business operation will be “related,” including, in appropriate cases, the manufacturing, warehousing, and distribution of its goods, the repair and maintenance of its equipment, machinery and its premises, and all other activities which are performed for the common business purpose of the enterprise. The Senate Report on the 1966 amendments makes it plain that related, even if somewhat different, business activities can frequently be part of the same enterprise, and that activities having a reasonable connection with the major purpose of an enterprise would be considered related. (Senate Report No. 1487, 89th Cong., 2d Sess., Page 7.) A more comprehensive discussion of “related activities” will be found in part 776 of this chapter.
(b) Generally, the answer to the question whether particular activities are “related” or not, will depend in each case upon whether the activities serve a business purpose common to all the activities of the enterprise, or whether they serve a separate and unrelated business purpose. For example, where a
company operates retail or service establishments, and also engages in a separate and unrelated construction business, the construction activities will not be “related” and will constitute a separate enterprise if they are conducted independently and apart from the retail operations. Where, however, the retail and construction activities are conducted for a common business purpose, they may be “related,” and if they are performed through unified operation or common control, they will be a part of a single enterprise. Thus, a retail store enterprise may engage in construction activities as an additional outlet for building materials which it sells, or otherwise to serve its retail operations. It may act as its own contractor in constructing or reconstructing its own stores and related facilities. In such a case, the construction activities will be “related” activities. Other examples may also be cited. The answer in each case will necessarily depend upon all the facts.
§ 779.207
Related activities in retail operations.
In the case of an enterprise which has one or more retail or service establishments, all of the activities which are performed for the furtherance of the common business purpose of operating the retail or service establishments are “related activities.” It is not material that the enterprise sells different goods or provides different services, or that it operates separate retail or service establishments. As stated in the definition, the enterprise includes all related activities whether performed “in one or more establishments.” Since the activities performed by one retail or service establishment are the “same or similar” to the activities performed by another, they are, as such, “related activities.” (See Senate Report No. 145, 87th Cong. 1st Sess. p. 41.) For example, in operations of a single retailing business a drug store may sell a large variety of different products, and a grocery store may sell clothing and furniture and other goods. Clearly all of these activities are “related.” Similarly it is clear that all activities of a department store are “related activities,” even if the store sells a great variety of different types of goods and services and even if, as in some cases, the departmentalized business is conducted in more than one location, as where the department selling garden supplies or electrical appliances is located on separate premises. Whether on the same premises or at separate locations, the activities involved in retail selling of goods or services, of any type, are related activities and they will be considered one enterprise where they are performed, through unified operation or common control, for a common business purpose.
§ 779.208
Auxiliary activities which are “related activities.”
As stated in Senate Report No. 145, 87th Congress, 1st Session, cited in § 779.206, auxiliary and service activities, such as central office and warehousing activities and bookkeeping, auditing, purchasing, advertising and other similar services, also are “related activities.” When such activities are performed through unified operation or common control, for a common business purpose, they will be included in the enterprise. The following are some additional examples of auxiliary activities which are “related activities” and which may be included in the enterprise:
(a) Credit rating and collection services;
(b) Promotional activities including advertising, sign painting, display services, stamp redemptions, and prize contests;
(c) Maintenance and repair services of plant machinery and equipment including painting, decorating, and similar services;
(d) Store or plant engineering, site location and related survey activities;
(e) Detective, guard, watchmen, and other protective services;
(f) Delivery services;
(g) The operation of employee or customer parking lots;
(h) The recruitment, hiring and training activities, and other managerial services;
(i) Recreational and health facilities for customers or employees including eating and drinking facilities (note that employees primarily engaged in certain food service activities in retail
establishments may be exempt from the overtime provisions under section 13(b)(18) of the Act if the specific conditions are met; see § 779.388);
(j) The operation of employee benefit and insurance plans; and
(k) Repair and alteration services on goods for sale or sold to customers.
§ 779.209
Vertical activities which are “related activities.”
(a) The Senate Report also states (see § 779.206 that activities are “related” when they are “part of a vertical structure such as the manufacturing, warehousing, and retailing of a particular product or products.” Where such activities are performed through unified operation or common control for a common business purpose they will be regarded as a part of the enterprise.
(b) Whether activities are vertically “related” activities and part of a single enterprise, or whether they constitute separate businesses are separate enterprises, depends upon the facts in each case. In all of these cases of so-called “vertical operations,” the determination whether the activities are “related,” depends upon the extent to which the various business activities, such as a wholesaling and retailing or manufacturing and retailing, are interrelated and interdependent and are performed to serve a business objective common to all. The mere fact that they are under common ownership is not, by itself, sufficient to bring them within the same enterprise. Thus, where a manufacturing business is carried on separately from and wholly independently of a retail business, with neither serving the business purpose of the other, they are separate businesses even if they are under common ownership. However, where the manufacturing operations are performed in substantial part for the purpose of distributing the goods through the retail stores, or the retail outlet serves to carry out a business purpose of the manufacturing plant, retailing and manufacturing will be “related” activities and performed for a “common business purpose,” and they will be a single enterprise if they are performed through unified operations or common control.
(c) In these cases of “vertical operations” a practical judgment will be required to determine whether the activities are maintained and operated as separate and distinct businesses with different objectives or whether they, in fact, constitute a single integrated business enterprise. The answer necessarily will depend upon all the facts in each case.
§ 779.210
Other activities which may be part of the enterprise.
(a) An enterprise may perform certain activities that appear entirely foreign to its principal business but which may be a part of the enterprise because of the manner in which they are performed. In some cases these activities may be a very minor and incidental part of its business operations. For example a retail store may accept payments of utility bills, provide a notarial service, sell stamps, bus and theater tickets, or travellers' checks, etc. These and other activities may be entirely different from the enterprise's principal business but they may be performed on the same premises and by the same employees or otherwise under such circumstances as to be a part of the enterprise.
(b) Sometimes such activities are performed as an adjunct to the principal business to create good will or to attract customers. In other cases, the businessman may engage in them primarily for the additional revenue. Some such foreign activities may be conducted in a more elaborate manner, as where the enterprise operates a bus stop or a post office substation as an adjunct to a principal business such as a hotel or a retail store. Where in such a case the activities are performed in a physically separate “establishment” (see §§ 779.303-779.308) from the other business activities of the enterprise and are functionally operated as a separate business, separately controlled, with separate employees, separate records, and a distinct business objective of its own, they may constitute a separate enterprise. Where, however, such activities are intermingled with the other activities of the enterprise and have a reasonable connection to the same business purpose they will be a part of the enterprise.
§ 779.211
Status of activities which are not “related.”
Activities which are not related even if performed by the same employer are not included as a part of the enterprise. The receipts from the unrelated activities will not be counted toward the annual dollar volume of sales or business under section 3(s) and the employees performing such unrelated activities will not be covered merely because they work for the same employer. Common ownership standing alone does not bring unrelated activities within the scope of the same enterprise. If, for example, one individual owns or controls a bank, a filing station, and a factory, the mere fact of common ownership will not make them one enterprise. However, if it appears that there is a reasonable relationship of all the activities to a single business purpose a different conclusion might be warranted. Activities which are not “related” will be treated separately for purposes of the tests contained in section 3(s)(1) through (5) of the prior Act and section 3(s)(1) through (4) of the amended Act. For example, in the case where a single company operates retail grocery stores and also engages in an unrelated business of constructing homes, one “enterprise” for purposes of section 3(s)(1) of both the prior and the amended Act will consist of the retail grocery stores and any activities related to them, and home construction activities will constitute a separate enterprise. The latter will not be included in determining whether the retail business enterprise meets the conditions of section 3(s)(1), and the construction employees will not be covered merely because the retail business is covered. The construction business will be considered separately under section 3(s)(4) of the poor Act and section 3(s)(3) of the amended Act.

# Common Business Purpose
§ 779.212
Enterprise must consist of related activities performed for a “common business purpose.”
The related activities described in section 3(r) as included in the statutory enterprise are those performed for a “common business purpose.” (See the comprehensive discussion in 29 CFR part 776.) The term “common business purpose” as used in the definition does not have a narrow concept and is not intended to be limited to a single business establishment or a single type of business. As pointed out above, retailing, wholesaling and manufacturing may, under certain circumstances be engaged in for a “common business purpose.” (See § 779.209.) An example was also cited where retailing and construction were performed for a common business purpose. (See § 779.206.) On the other hand, it is clear that even a single individual or corporation may perform activities for different business purposes. (See § 779.211.) Thus the reports of the House of Representatives cite, as an example of this, the case of a single company which owns several retail apparel stores and is also engaged in the lumbering business. It concludes that these activities are not part of a single enterprise. (H. Rept. 75, 87th Cong.,1st Sess., p. 7 and H. Rept. 1366, 89th Cong. 2d Sess., p. 9.)
§ 779.213
What is a common business purpose.
Generally, the term “common business purpose” will encompass activities whether performed by one person or by more than one person, or corporation, or other business organization, which are directed to the same business objective or to similar objectives in which the group has an interest. The scope of the term “enterprise” encompasses a single business entity as well as a unified business system which performs related activities for a common business purpose. What is a “common business purpose” in any particular case involves a practical judgment based on the facts in the light of the statutory provisions and the legislative intent. The answer ordinarily will be readily apparent from the facts. The facts may show that the activities are related to a single business objective or that they are so operated or controlled as to form a part of a unified business system which is directed to a single business objective. In such cases, it will follow that they are performed for a common business purpose. Where, however, the facts show that the activities are not performed as a part of
such enterprise but for an entirely separate and unrelated business, they will be considered performed for a different business purpose and will not be a part of that enterprise. The application of these principles is considered in more detail in part 776 of this chapter.
§ 779.214
“Business” purpose.
The activities described in section 3(r) are included in an enterprise only when they are performed for a “business” purpose. Activities of eleemosynary, religious, or educational organization may be performed for a business purpose. Thus, where such organizations engage in ordinary commercial activities, such as operating a printing and publishing plant, the business activities will be treated under the Act the same as when they are performed by the ordinary business enterprise. (See
Mitchell
v.
Pilgrims Holiness Church Corp.,
210 F. 2d 879 (CA-7); cert. den. 347 U.S. 1013.) However, the nonprofit educational, religious, and eleemosynary activities will not be included in the enterprise unless they are of the types which the last sentence of section 3(r), as amended in 1966, declares shall be deemed to be performed for a business purpose. Such activities were not regarded as performed for a business purpose under the prior Act and are not so considered under the Act as it was amended in 1966 except for those activities listed in the last sentence of amended section 3(r). (See § 779.21.)

# Unified Operation or Common Control
§ 779.215
General scope of terms.
(a) Under the definition related activities performed for a common business purpose will be a part of the enterprise when they are performed either through “unified operation” or “common control.” It should be noted that these conditions are stated in the alternative. Thus if it is established that the described activities are performed through “common control,” it is unnecessary to show that they are also performed through “unified operation,” although frequently both conditions may exist.
(b) Under the definition the terms “unified operation” and “common control” refer to the performance of the “related activities.” They do not refer to the ownership of the activities. Although ownership may be a significant factor in determining control (see § 779.222), the related activities will be a part of the enterprise even if they are not under common ownership, so long as they are performed for a common business purpose through unified operation or common control. Further, under the definition the terms “unified operation” and “common control” refer to the performance only of the particular related activities and not to other activities which may be performed by the various persons, corporations, or other business organizations, comprising the enterprise. Thus where two or more individual or business organizations perform certain of their activities through unified operation or common control, these activities will be part of a single enterprise, assuming of course they are related activities performed for a common business purpose. Finally, the definition in section 3(r) makes clear that the described activities may be performed through unified operation or common control “in one or more establishments or by one or more corporate or other organizational units.” The Senate Report on the 1966 amendments makes the following comment with respect to this:
Also, the operations through substantial ownership or control of a number of firms engaged in similar types of business activities constitute, in the committee's view, related activities performed through unified operation or common control within the meaning of the definition of enterprise. The fact the firms are independently incorporated or physically separate or under the immediate direction of local management, as in
Wirtz
v.
Hardin,
16 Wage Hour Cases 722 (N.D. Ala.), is not determinative of this question. (Sen. Rept. No. 1487, 89th Congress, 2nd session, page 7.)
But where, as in the case of a retail store owned by a partnership and another store owned by one of the partners providing similar goods or services, it appears that the activities of the separate stores have no functional interdependence and that they are separately conducted to serve the business purpose of the partnership on the one hand and the business purpose of the
individual on the other hand, the requirement of performance “through common control” of “related activities” for a “common business purpose” may not be sufficiently met.
§ 779.216
Statutory construction of the terms.
The terms “unified operation” and “common control” do not have a fixed legal or technical meaning. As used in the definition, these and other terms must be given an interpretation consistent with the Congressional intention to be ascertained from the context in which they are used, the legislation of which they form a part, and the legislative history. In extending coverage of the Act on an “enterprise” basis, the Congress intended, by the 1961 and 1966 amendments to cover, among others, business organizations and chain store systems which may perform their related activities through complex business arrangements or business structures, whether they perform their activities for a common business purpose through unified operation or through the retention or exercise of control. For these reasons, the definition of the term “enterprise” is stated in broad general terms. This legislative intent is evidenced both by the statements in the Committee Reports and by the definition itself, particularly the broad references to the inclusion in the “enterprise” of “all such activities” whether performed “in one or more establishments” or “by one or more corporate or other organizational units.” When the Act was amended in 1966 the Congress further broadened coverage by redefining an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce in section 3(s). (See § 779.22.) Where the Congress intended to exclude certain arrangements or activities from the “enterprise” it did so by specific provision under the prior and amended Act.
§ 779.217
“Unified operation” defined.
Webster defines the word “unify” to mean “to cause to be one; to make into a unit; to unite.” The pertinent definition of “operation” is a method or way of operating, working or functioning. Since the term “unified operation” has reference to the method of performing the related activities, it means combining, uniting, or organizing their performance so that they are in effect a single business unit or an organized business system which is an economic unit directed to the accomplishment of a common business purpose. The term “unified operation” thus includes a business which may consist of separate segments but which is conducted or operated as a unit or as a single business for a common business purpose.
§ 779.218
Methods to accomplish “unified operation.”
There are many instances where several establishments, persons, corporations, or other business organizations, join together to perform some or all of their activities as a unified business or business system. They may accomplish such unification through agreements, franchises, grants, leases, or other arrangements which have the effect of aligning or integrating the activities of one company with the activities of others so that they constitute a single business or unified business system. Whether in any particular case the activities are performed through “unified operation” and have the effect of creating a single enterprise, will depend upon all the facts, including the manner in which the activities are performed, the agreements and arrangements which govern their performance, and the other relationships between the parties, considered in the light of the statutory provision and the legislative intent. (cf
Wirtz
v.
Wornom's Pharmacy
(E.D. Va.), 18 WH Cases 289, 365; 57 Labor Cases 32,006, 32,030.)
§ 779.219
Unified operation may be achieved without common control or common ownership.
The performance of related activities through “unified operation” to serve a common business purpose may be achieved without common control and without common ownership. In particular cases ownership or control of the related activities may be factors to be considered, along with all facts and circumstances, in determining whether the activities are performed through “unified operation.” It is clear from the definition that if the described activities are performed through unified
operation they will be part of the enterprise whether they are performed by one company or by more than one corporate or other organizational unit. The term “unified operation” has reference particularly to enterprises composed of a number of separate companies as is clear in the quotation from the Senate Report in § 779.215. Where the related activities are performed by a single company, or under other single ownership, they will ordinarily be performed through “common control,” and the question of whether they are also performed through unified operation will not need to be decided. (
Wirtz
v.
Barnes Grocer Co.,
398 F. 2d 718 (C.A. 8).)
§ 779.220
Unified operation may exist as to separately owned or controlled activities which are related.
Whether there is unified operation of related activities will thus be of concern primarily in those cases where the related activities are separately owned or controlled but where, through arrangement, agreement or otherwise, they are so performed as to constitute a unified business system organized for a common business purpose. For example, a group of separately incorporated, separately owned companies, may agree to conduct their activities in such manner as to be for all intents and purposes a single business system except for the fact that the ownership and control of the individual segments of the business are retained, in part or in whole, by the individual companies comprising the unified business system. The various units may operate under a single trade name; construct their establishment to appear identical; use identical equipment; sell generally the same goods or provide the same type of services, and, in some cases, at uniform standardized prices; and in other respects appear to the persons utilizing their services or purchasing their goods as being the same business. They also may arrange for group purchasing and warehousing; for advertising as a single business; and for standardization of their records, as well as their credit, employment, and other business policies and practices. In such circumstances the activities may well be performed through “unified operation” sufficient to consider all of the related activities performed by the group of units as constituting one enterprise, despite the separate ownership of the various segments and despite the fact that the individual units or segments may retain control as to some or all of their own activities. That this is in accord with the congressional intent is plain, since where the Congress intended that such arrangements shall not bring a group of certain individual retail or service establishments into a single enterprise, provision to accomplish such exception was specifically included. (See § 779.226, discussing the proviso in section 3(r) with respect to certain franchise and other specified arrangements entered into between independently owned retail or service establishments and other businesses.)
§ 779.221
“Common control” defined.
Under the definition the “enterprise” includes all related activities performed through “common control” for a common business purpose. The word “control” may be defined as the act of fact of controlling; power or authority to control; directing or restraining domination. “Control” thus includes the power or authority to control. In relation to the performance of the described activities, the “control,” referred to in the definition in section 3(r) includes the power to direct, restrict, regulate, govern, or administer the performance of the activities. “Common” control includes the sharing of control and it is not limited to sole control or complete control by one person or corporation. “Common” control therefore exists where the performance of the described activities are controlled by one person or by a number of persons, corporations, or other organizational units acting together. This is clearly supported by the definition which specifically includes in the “enterprise” all such activities whether performed by “one or more corporate or other organizational units.” The meaning of “common control” is discussed comprehensively in part 776 of this chapter.
§ 779.222
Ownership as factor.
As pointed out in § 779.215 “unified operation” and “common control” do not refer to the ownership of the described activities but only to their performance. It is clear, however, that ownership may be an important factor in determining whether the activities are performed through “unified operation or common control.” Thus common control may exist where there is common ownership. Where the right to control, one of the prerogatives of ownership, exists, there may be sufficient “control” to meet the requirements of the statute. Ownership, or sufficient ownership to exercise control, will be regarded as sufficient to meet the requirement of “common control.” Where there is such ownership, it is immaterial that some segments of the related activities may operate on a semiautonomous basis, superficially free of actual control, so long as the power to exercise control exists through such ownership. (See
Wirtz
v.
Barnes Grocer Co.,
398 F. 2d 718 (C.A. 8).) For example, a parent corporation may operate a chain of retail or service establishments which, for business reasons, may be divided into several geographic units. These units may have certain autonomy as to purchasing, marketing, labor relations, and other matters. They may be separately incorporated, and each unit may maintain its own records, including records of its profits or losses. All the units together, in such a case, will constitute a single enterprise with the parent corporation. They would constitute a single business organization under the “common control” of the parent corporation so long as they are related activities performed for a common business purpose. The common ownership in such cases provides the power to exercise the “control” referred to in the definition. It is clear from the Act and the legislative history that the Congress did not intend that such a chain organization should escape the effects of the law with respect to any segment of its business merely by separately incorporating or otherwise dividing the related activities performed for a common business purpose.
§ 779.223
Control where ownership vested in individual or single organization.
Ownership, sufficient to exercise “control,” of course, exists where total ownership is vested in a single person, family unit, partnership, corporation, or other single business organization. Ownership sufficient to exercise “control” exist also where there is more than 50 percent ownership of voting stock. (See
West
v.
Wal-Mart,
264 F. Supp. 168 (W.D. Ark.).) But “control” may exist with much more limited ownership, and, in certain cases exists in the absence of any ownership. The mere ownership of stock in a corporation does not by itself establish the existence of the “control” referred to in the definition. The question whether the ownership in a particular case includes the right to exercise the requisite “control” will necessarily depend upon all the facts in the light of the statutory provisions.
§ 779.224
Common control in other cases.
(a) As stated in § 779.215 “common control” may exist with or without ownership. The actual control of the performance of the related activities is sufficient to establish the “control” referred to in the definition. In some cases an owner may actually relinquish his control to another, or by agreement or other arrangement, he may so restrict his right to exercise control as to abandon the control or to share the control of his business activities with other persons or corporations. In such a case, the activities may be performed under “common control.” In other cases, the power to control may be reserved through agreement or arrangement between the parties so as to vest the control of the activities of one business in the hands of another.
(b) Activities are considered to be performed under “common control” even if, because of the particular methods of operation, the power to control is only seldom used, as where the business has been in operation for a long time without change in methods of operation and practically no actual direction is necessary; also common control may exist where the control, although rarely visibly exercised, is evidenced
by the fact that mere suggestions are adopted readily by the business being controlled.
(c) In the retail industry, particularly, there are many instances where, for business reasons, related activities performed by separate companies are so unified or controlled as to constitute a single enterprise. A common example, specifically named in the definition, is the leased department. This and other examples are discussed in §§ 779.225 through 779.235.

# Leased Departments, Franchise and Other Business Arrangements
§ 779.225
Leased departments.
(a) As stated in section 3(r) of the enterprise includes “departments of an establishment operated through leasing arrangements.” This statutory provision is based on the fact that ordinarily the activities of such leased departments are related to the activities of the establishment in which they are located, and they are performed for a common business purpose either through “unified operation” or “common control.” A general discussion will be found in part 776 of this chapter.
(b) In the ordinary case, a retail or service establishment may control many of the operations of a leased department therein and unify its operation with its own. Thus, they may operate under a common trade name: The host establishment may determine, or have the power to determine, the leased department's space location, the type of merchandise it will sell, its pricing policy, its hours of operation and some or all of its hiring, firing and other personnel policies; advertising, adjustment and credit operations, may be unified, and insurance, taxes, and other matters may be included as a part of the total operations of the establishment. Some or all of these and other functions, which are the normal prerogatives of an independent businessman, may be controlled or unified with the store's other activities in such a way as to constitute a single enterprise under the Act.
(c) Since the definition specifically includes in the “enterprise,” for the purpose of this Act, “departments of an establishment operated through leasing arrangements,” any such department will be considered a part of the host establishment's enterprise in the absence of special facts and circumstances warranting a different conclusion.
(d) Whether, in a particular case, the relationship is such as to constitute the lessee's operation to be a separate establishment of a different enterprise rather than a “leased department” of the host establishment as described in the definition, will depend upon all the facts including the agreements and arrangements between the parties as well as the manner in which the operations are conducted. If, for example, the facts show that the lessee occupies a physically separate space with (or even without) a separate entrance, and operates under a separate name, with his own separate employees and records, and in other respects conducts his business independently of the lessor's, the lessee may be operating a separate establishment or place of business of his own and the relationship of the parties may be only that of landlord and tenant. In such a case, the lessee's operation will not be regarded as a “leased department” and will not be included in the same enterprise with the lessor.
(e) The employees of a leased department would not be covered on an enterprise basis if such leased department is located in an establishment which is not itself a covered enterprise or part of a covered enterprise. Likewise, the applicability of exemptions for certain retail or service establishments from the Act's minimum wage or overtime pay provisions, or both, to employees of a leased department would depend upon the character of the establishment in which the leased department is located. Other sections of this subpart discuss the coverage of leased retail and service departments in more detail while subpart D of this part explains how exemptions for certain retail and service establishments apply to leased department employees.
§ 779.226
Exception for an independently owned retail or service establishment under certain franchise and other arrangements.
While certain franchise and other arrangements may operate to bring the
one to whom the franchise is granted into another enterprise (see § 779.232), section 3(r) contains a specific exception for certain arrangements entered into by a retail or service establishment which is under independent ownership. The specific exception in section 3(r) reads as follows:
Provided,
That, within the meaning of this subsection, a retail or service establishment which is under independent ownership shall not be deemed to be so operated or controlled as to be other than a separate and distinct enterprise by reason of any arrangement, which includes, but is not necessarily limited to, an agreement, (1) that it will sell, or sell only, certain goods specified by a particular manufacturer, distributor, or advertiser, (2) that it will join with other such establishments in the same industry for the purpose of collective purchasing, or (3) that it will have the exclusive right to sell the goods or use the brand name of a manufacturer, distributor, or advertiser within a specified area, or by reason of the fact that it occupies premises leased to it by a person who also leases premises to other retail or service establishments.
§ 779.227
Conditions which must be met for exception.
This exception, in accordance with its specific terms, will apply to exclude an establishment from enterprise coverage only if the following conditions are met:
(a) The establishment must be a “retail or service establishment” as this term is defined in section 13(a)(2) of the Act (see discussion of this term in §§ 779.312 and 779.313); and
(b) The retail or service establishment must not be an “enterprise” which is large enough to come within the scope of section 3(s) of the Act; and
(c) The retail or service establishment must be under independent ownership.
§ 779.228
Types of arrangements contemplated by exception.
If the retail or service establishment meets the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of § 779.227, it may enter into the following arrangements without becoming a part of the larger enterprise, that is, without losing its status as a “separate and distinct enterprise” to which section 3(s) would not otherwise apply:
(a) Any arrangement, whether by agreement, franchise or otherwise, that it will sell, or sell only certain goods specified by a particular manufacturer, distributor, or advertiser.
(b) Any such arrangement that it will have the exclusive right to sell the goods or use the brand name of a manufacturer, distributor, or advertiser within a specified area.
(c) Any such arrangement by which it will join with other similar retail or service establishments in the same industry for the purpose of collective purchasing. Where an agreement for “collective purchasing” is involved, further requirements are imposed, namely, that all of the other establishments joining in the agreement must be retail or service establishments under independent ownership, and that all of the establishments joining in the collective purchasing arrangement must be “in the same industry.” This has reference to such arrangements by a group of grocery stores, or by some other trade group in the retail industry.
(d) Any arrangement whereby the establishment's premises are leased from a person who also leases premises to other retail or service establishments. In connection with this rental arrangement, the Senate Report cites as an example the retail establishment which rents its premises from a shopping center operator (S. Rept. 145, 87th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 41). It is clear that this exception was not intended to apply to the usual leased department in an establishment, which is specifically included within the larger enterprise under the definition of section 3(r). (See discussion under § 779.225.)
§ 779.229
Other arrangements.
With respect to those arrangements specifically described in the proviso contained in the definition, an independently owned retail or service establishment will not be considered to be other than a separate and distinct enterprise, if other arrangements the establishment makes do not have the effect of bringing the establishment within a larger enterprise. Whether or not other arrangements have such an effect will necessarily depend upon all the facts. The Senate Report makes
the following observations with respect to this:
Thus the mere fact that a group of independently owned and operated stores join together to combine their purchasing activities or to run combined advertising will not for these reasons mean that their activities are performed through unified operation or common control and they will not for these reasons be considered a part of the same “enterprise.” This is also the case in food retailing because of the great extent to which local independent food store operators have joined together in many phases of their business. While maintaining their stores as independently owned units, they have affiliated together not just for the purchasing of merchandise, but also for providing numerous other services such as (1) central warehousing; (2) advertising; (3) sales promotions; (4) managerial advice; (5) store engineering; (6) accounting systems; (7) site locations; and (8) hospitalization and life insurance protection. (S. Rept. 145, 87th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 42.)
The report continues with the following observations:
Whether such arrangements bring the establishment within the franchisor's, lessor's, or grantor's “enterprise” is a question to be determined on all the facts. The facts may show that the arrangements reserve the necessary right of control in the grantor or unify the operations among the separate “franchised” establishments so as to create an economic unity of related activities for a common business purpose. In that case, the “franchised” establishment will be considered a part of the same “enterprise.” For example, whether a franchise, lease, or other contractual arrangement between a distributor and a retail dealer has the effect of bringing the dealer's establishments within the enterprise of the distributor will depend upon the terms of the agreements and the related facts concerning the relationship between the parties.
There may be a number of different types of arrangements established in such cases. The key in each case may be found in the answer to the question, “Who receives the profits, suffers the losses, sets the wages and working conditions of employees, or otherwise manages the business in those respects which are the common attributes of an independent businessman operating a business for profit?”
For instance, a bona fide independent automobile dealer will not be considered a part of the enterprise of the automobile manufacturer or of the distributor. Likewise, the same result will also obtain with respect to the independent components of a shopping center.
In all of these cases if it is found on the basis of all the facts and circumstances that the arrangements are so restrictive as to products, prices, profits, or management as to deny the “franchised” establishment the essential prerogatives of the ordinary independent businessman, the establishment, the dealer, or concessionaire will be considered an integral part of the related activities of the enterprise which grants the franchise, right, or concession. (S. Rept. 145, 87th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 42.)
Thus, there may be a number of different types of arrangements established in such cases, and the determination as to whether the arrangements create a larger “enterprise” will necessarily depend on all the facts. Some arrangements which do not create a larger enterprise and some which do are discussed in §§ 779.230 through 779.235.
§ 779.230
Franchise and other arrangements.
(a) There are many different and complex arrangements by which businesses may join to perform their activities for a common purpose. A general discussion will be found in part 776 of this chapter. The quotation in § 779.229 from the Senate Report shows that Congress recognized that some franchise, lease, or other arrangements have the effect of creating a larger enterprise and whether they do or not depends on the facts. The facts may show that the arrangements are so restrictive as to deprive the individual establishment of those prerogatives which are the essential attributes of an independent business. (Compare
Wirtz
v.
Lunsford,
404 F. 2d, 693 (C.A. 6).) An establishment through such arrangements may transfer sufficient “control” so that it becomes in effect a unit in a unified chain operation. In such cases the result of the arrangement will be to create a larger enterprise composed of the various segments, including the establishment which relinquishes its control.
(b) The term “franchise” is not susceptible of precise definition. The extent to which a businessman relinquishes the control of his business or the extent to which a franchise results in the performance of the activities through unified operation or common control depends upon the terms of the
contract and the other relationships between the parties. Ultimately the determination of the precise scope of such arrangements which result in creating larger enterprises rests with the courts.
§ 779.231
Franchise arrangements which do not create a larger enterprise.
(a) While it is clear that in every franchise a businessman surrenders some rights, it equally is clear that every franchise does not create a larger enterprise. In the ordinary case a franchise may involve no more than an agreement to sell the particular product of the one granting the franchise. It may also prohibit the sale of a competing product. Such arrangements, standing alone, do not deprive the individual businessman of his “control” so as to bring him into a larger enterprise with the one granting the franchise.
(b) The portion of the Senate Report quoted in the § 779.229 cites a “bona fide independent automobile dealer” as an example of such a franchise arrangement. (It is recognized that salesmen, mechanics, and partsmen primarily engaged in selling or servicing automobiles, trucks, trailers, farm implements, or aircraft, employed by nonmanufacturing establishments primarily engaged in the business of selling such vehicles to ultimate purchasers are specifically exempt from the overtime pay provisions under section 13(b)(10) of the Act. Section 779.372 discusses the exemption provided by section 13(b)(10) and its application whether or not the establishment meets the Act's definition of a retail or service establishment. The automobile dealer is used here only as an example of the type of franchise arrangement which, within the intent of the Congress, does not result in creating a larger enterprise.) The methods of operation of the independent automobile dealer are widely known. While he operates under a franchise to sell a particular make of automobile and also may be required to stock certain parts and to maintain specified service facilities, it is clear that he retains the control of the management of his business in those respects which characterize an independent businessman. He determines the prices for which he sells his merchandise. Even if prices are suggested by the manufacturer, it is well known that the dealer exercises wide discretion in this respect, free of control by the manufacturer or distributor. Also the automobile dealer retains control with respect to the management of his business, the determination of his employment practices, the operation of his various departments, and his business policies. The type of business in which he is engaged leaves him wide latitude for the exercise of his judgment and for decisions with respect to important aspects of his business upon which its success or failure depends. On the basis of these considerations, it is evident why the independent automobile dealer was cited as an example of the type of franchise which does not create a larger enterprise encompassing the dealer, the manufacturer or the distributor. Similar facts will lead to the same conclusion in other such arrangements.
§ 779.232
Franchise or other arrangements which create a larger enterprise.
(a) In other instances, franchise arrangements do result in bringing a dealer's business into a larger enterprise with the one granting the franchise. Where the franchise arrangement results in vesting control over the operations of the dealer's business in the one granting the franchise, the result is to place the dealer in a larger enterprise with the one granting the franchise. Where there are multiple units to which such franchises have been granted, the several dealers are considered to be subject to the common control of the one granting the franchise and all would be included in the same larger enterprise.
(b) It is not possible to lay down specific rules to determine whether a franchise or other agreement is such that a single enterprise results because all the facts and circumstances must be examined in the light of the definition of the term “enterprise” as discussed above in this subpart. However, the following example illustrates a franchising company and independently owned retail establishments which would constitute a single enterprise:
(1) The franchisor had developed a system of retail food store operations, built up a large volume of buying power, formulated rules and regulations for the successful operation of stores together constituting a system which for many years proved in practice to be of commercial value to the separate stores; and
(2) The franchisor desired to extend its business through the operation of associated franchise stores, by responsible persons in various localities to act as limited agents, and to be parts of the system, to the end that the advantages of and the profits from the business could be enjoyed by those so associated as well as by the franchisor; and
(3) The stores were operated under the franchise as part of the general system and connected with the home office of the franchisor from which general administrative jurisdiction was exercised over all franchised stores, wherever located; and
(4) The stores operated under the franchise agreement were always subject to the general administrative jurisdiction of the franchisor and agreed to comply with it; and
(5) The stores operated under the franchise agreed to install appliances, fixtures, signs, etc. according to plans and specifications provided by the franchisor and to purchase their merchandise through the franchisor except to the extent that the latter may authorize local purchase of certain items; and
(6) The stores operated under the franchise agreed to participate in special promotions, sales and advertising as directed by the franchisor, to attend meetings of franchise store operators and to pay a fee to the franchisor at the rate of one-half of 1 percent of total gross sales each month for the privileges to them and the advantages and profits derived from operating a local unit of the franchisor's system; and
(7) The franchisor under the franchise agreement had the right to place on a prohibited list any merchandise which it considered undesirable for sale in a franchise store, and the stores operated pursuant to the franchise agreed to immediately discontinue sale of any such blacklisted merchandise.
(c) It is clear from the facts and circumstances surrounding this franchise arrangement described in paragraph (b) of this section that the operators of the franchised establishments are denied the essential prerogatives of the ordinary independent businessman because of restrictions as to products, prices, profits and management. The last paragraph of the Senate Report quoted in § 779.229 makes clear that in such cases the franchised establishment, dealer, or concessionaire will be considered an integral part of the related activities of the enterprise which grants the franchise, right, or concession.
§ 779.233
Independent contractors performing work “for” an enterprise.
(a) The definition in section 3(r) specifically provides that the “enterprise” shall not include “the related activities performed for such enterprise by an independent contractor.” This exclusion will apply where the related activities are performed “for” the enterprise and if such activities are performed by “an independent contractor.” This provision is discussed generally in part 776 of this chapter.
(b) The Senate Report in referring to this exception states as follows:
It does not include the related activities performed for such an enterprise by an independent contractor, such as an independent accounting firm or sign service or advertising company, * * * (S. Rept. No. 145, 87th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 40).
The term “independent contractor” as used in section 3(r) has reference to an independent business which performs services for other businesses as an established part of its own business activities. The term “independent contractor” as used in 3(r) thus has reference to an independent business which is a separate “enterprise,” and which deals in the ordinary course of its own business operations, at arms length, with the enterprises for which it performs services.
(c) There are many instances in industry where one business performs activities for separate businesses without becoming a part of a larger enterprise. In addition to the examples cited in the Report they may include such services
as repairs, window cleaning, transportation, warehousing, collection services, and many others. The essential test in each case will be whether such services are performed “for” the enterprise by an independent, separate enterprise, or whether the related activities are performed for a common purpose through unified operation or common control. In the latter case the activities will be considered performed “by” the enterprise, rather than “for” the enterprise, and will be a part of the enterprise. The distinction in the ordinary case will be readily apparent from the facts. In those cases where questions arise a determination must be made on the basis of all the facts in the light of the statute and the legislative history.
§ 779.234
Establishments whose only regular employees are the owner or members of his immediate family.
Section 3(s) provides that any “establishment which has as its only regular employees the owner thereof or the parent, spouse, child, or other member of the immediate family of such owner” shall not be considered to be an “enterprise” as described in section 3(r) or a part of any other enterprise. Further the sales of such establishment are not included for the purpose of determining the annual gross volume of sales of any enterprise for the purpose of section 3(s). The term “other member of the immediate family of such owner” is considered to include relationships such as brother, sister, grandchildren, grandparents, and in-laws but not distant relatives from separate households. The 1966 amendments extended the exception to include family operated establishments which only employ persons other than members of the immediate family infrequently, irregularly, and sporadically. (See general discussion in part 776 of this chapter.)
§ 779.235
Other “enterprises.”
No attempt has been made in the discussion of the term “enterprise,” to consider every possible situation which may, within the meaning of section 3(r), constitute an “enterprise” under the Act. The discussion is designed to explain and illustrate the application of the term in some cases; in others, the discussion may serve as a guide in applying the criteria of the definition to the particular fact situation. A more complete discussion is contained in part 776 of this chapter.

# Covered Enterprises
§ 779.236
In general.
Sections 779.201 through 779.235 discuss the various criteria for determining what business unit or units constitute an “enterprise” within the meaning of the Act. Sections 779.237 through 779.245 discuss the criteria for determining what constitutes a “covered enterprise” under the Act with respect to the conditions for coverage of those enterprises in which retail sale of goods or services are made. As explained in §§ 779.2 through 779.4, previously covered employment in retail and service enterprises will be subject to different monetary standards than newly covered employment in such enterprises until February 1, 1971. For this reason the enterprise coverage provisions of both the prior and the amended Act are discussed in the following sections of this subpart.
§ 779.237
Enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.
Under section 3(s) the “enterprise” to be covered must be an “enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.” This is defined in section 3(s) as follows:
Enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce means an enterprise which has employees engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, including employees handling, selling or otherwise working on goods that have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person * * *.
In order for an enterprise to come within the coverage of the Act, it must, therefore, be established that the enterprise has some employees who are:
(a) Engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, including
(b) Employees handling, selling or otherwise working on goods that have
been moved in or produced for commerce by any person.
The legislative history of the 1966 amendments does not indicate a difference between the meaning of the above wording and the wording used in the prior Act. (See § 779.22.) For a complete discussion of the employees who come within the quoted language see subpart B of the Interpretative Bulletin on general coverage, part 776 of this chapter.
§ 779.238
Engagement in described activities determined on annual basis.
As set forth in the preceding section an enterprise to be a “covered enterprise” must have at least some employees engaged in certain described activities. This requirement will be determined on an annual basis in order to give full effect to the intent of Congress. Thus, it is not necessary that the enterprise have two or more employees engaged in the named activities every week. An enterprise described in section 3(s)(1) or (5) of the prior Act or in section 3(s)(1) of the Act as it was amended in 1966 will be considered to have employees engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, including the handling, selling or otherwise working on goods that have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person, if during the annual period which it uses in calculating its annual sales for purposes of the other conditions of these sections, it regularly and recurrently has at least two or more employees engaged in such activities. On the other hand, it is plain that an enterprise that has employees engaged in such activities only in isolated or sporadic occasions, will not meet this condition.
§ 779.239
Meaning of “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.”
The term “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce,” as used in section 3(s) of the Act in reference to employees who are so engaged is the same as the term which has been used in the Act for many years. The statutory definitions of these terms are set forth in §§ 779.12 through 779.16. The interpretative bulletin on general coverage part 776 of this chapter) contains the Division's interpretations as to which employees are “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.” These interpretations are equally applicable under section 3(s) in determining which employees are “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” within the meaning of this section. A brief discussion of the guiding principles of retail or service establishments are “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” is set forth in subpart B of this part.

# Employees Handling, Selling, or Otherwise Working on Goods That Have Been Moved in or Produced for Commerce by Any Person
§ 779.240
Employees “handling * * * or otherwise working on goods.”
(a)
“Goods” upon which the described activities are performed.
Employees will be considered to be handling, selling, or otherwise working on goods within the meaning of section 3(s) if they engage in the described activities on “goods” which “have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person.” They may be handling or working on such goods which the enterprise does not sell. The term “goods” is defined in section 3(i) of the Act. The definition is explained in § 779.107 and discussed comprehensively in part 776 of this chapter. As defined in section 3(i) of the Act, the term includes any part or ingredient of “goods” and, in general, includes “articles or subjects of commerce of any character.” Thus the term “goods,” as used in section 3(s), includes all goods which have been moved in or produced for commerce, such as stock-in-trade, or raw materials that have been moved in or produced for commerce.
(b)
“Handling * * * or otherwise working on goods.”
The term “handling * * * or otherwise working on goods” used in section 3(s) is substantially the same as the term used since 1938 in section 3(j) of the Act. Both terms will therefore be considered to have essentially the same meaning. (See part 776 of this chapter, the interpretative bulletin on the general coverage of the Act.) Thus, the activities encompassed in the term
“handling or in any other manner working on goods” in section 3(s) are the same as the activities, encompassed in the similar term in section 3(j), by which goods are “produced” within the meaning of the Act. In general, the term “handling * * * or otherwise working on goods” includes employees who sort, screen, grade, store, pack, label, address, transport, deliver, print, type, or otherwise handle or work on the goods. The same will be true of employees who handle or work on “any part of ingredient of the goods” referred to in the discussion of the term “goods” in § 779.107. An employee will be considered engaged in “handling * * * or otherwise working on goods,” within the meaning of section 3(s), only if he performs the described activities on goods that “have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person.” This requirement is discussed in §§ 779.242 and 779.243.
§ 779.241
Selling.
The statutory definition of the term “sale” or “sell” is quoted in § 779.15. As long as the employee in any way participates in the sale of the goods he will be considered to be “selling” the goods, whether he physically handles them or not. Thus, if the employee performs any work that, in a practical sense is an essential part of consummating the “sale” of the particular goods, he will be considered to be “selling” the goods. “Selling” goods, under section 3(s) has reference only to goods which “have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person,” as discussed in §§ 779.242 and 779.243.
§ 779.242
Goods that “have been moved in” commerce.
For the purpose of section 3(s), goods will be considered to “have been moved * * * in commerce” when they have moved across State lines before they are handled, sold, or otherwise worked on by the employees. It is immaterial in such a case that the goods may have “come to rest” within the meaning of the term “in commerce” as interpreted in other respects, before they are handled, sold, or otherwise worked on by the employees in the enterprise. Such movement in commerce may take place before they have reached the enterprise, or within the enterprise, such as from a warehouse of the enterprise in one State to a retail store of the same enterprise located in another State. Thus, employees will be considered to be “handling, selling, or otherwise working on goods that have been moved in * * * commerce” where they are engaged in the described activities on “goods” that have moved across State lines at any time in the course of business, such as from the manufacturer to the distributor, or to the “enterprise,” or from one establishment to another within the “enterprise.” See the general discussion in part 776 of this chapter.
§ 779.243
Goods that have been “produced for commerce by any person.”
An employee will be considered to be handling, selling, or otherwise working on goods that have been “produced for commerce by any person” within the meaning of section 3(s), if he is performing the described activities with respect to goods which have been “produced for commerce” within the meaning of the Act. The term “produced” is defined in section 3(j) of the Act and, as explained above, has a well-established meaning under the existing law. (See § 779.104 and part 776 of this chapter.) The word as it is used in the context of the phrase “goods * * * produced for commerce by any person” in section 3(s) has the same meaning as in 3(j). Therefore, where goods are considered “produced for commerce” within the meaning of section 3(j) of the Act they also will be considered “produced for commerce” within the meaning of section 3(s). A discussion of when goods are produced for commerce within the meaning of section 3(j) is contained in § 779.108. Of course, within the meaning of section 3(s), the goods will be considered “produced for commerce” when they are so produced “by any person.”

# Covered Retail Enterprise
§ 779.244
“Covered enterprises” of interest to retailers of goods or services.
Retailers of goods or services are primarily concerned with the enterprises described in sections 3(s)(1) and 3(s)(5)
of the prior Act and section 3(s)(1) of the Act as amended in 1966. Although section 3(s)(1) of the prior Act (under the 1961 amendments) had exclusive application to the retail and service industry, section 3(s)(1) of the Act as amended in 1966 may apply to any enterprise. This part is concerned only with retail or service establishments and enterprises. Enterprises described in clauses (2), (3), and (4) of section 3(s) are discussed herein only with respect to the application to them of provisions relating to retail or service establishments. Coverage of such enterprises and the application of section 3(s)(1) of the amended Act to enterprises generally are discussed in part 776 of this chapter. The statutory definitions of enterprises of interest to retailers under the prior Act and the Act as amended in 1966 are quoted in § 779.22.
§ 779.245
Conditions for coverage of retail or service enterprises.
(a) Retail or service enterprises may be covered under section 3(s)(1) of the prior Act or section 3(s)(1) of the amended Act although the latter is not limited to retail or service enterprises. A retail or service enterprise will be a covered enterprise under section 3(s)(1) of the amended Act if both the following conditions are met:
(1) The enterprise is “an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce.” This requirement, which is discussed in §§ 779.237 through 779.243, applies to all covered enterprises under the provisions of both the prior and the amended Act; and,
(2) During the period February 1, 1967, through January 31, 1969, the enterprise has an annual gross volume of sales made or business done, exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated, of at least $500,000; or on and after February 1, 1969, the enterprise has an annual gross volume of sales made or business done of at least $250,000, exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated.
(b) A retail or service enterprise will be covered under section 3(s)(1) of the Act prior to the amendments if all four of the following conditions are met:
(1) The enterprise is “an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” as explained above in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and,
(2) The enterprise has one or more “retail or service establishments” (the statutory definition of the term “retail or service establishment” is contained in § 779.24 and discussed in subpart D of this part) and,
(3) The enterprise has an annual gross volume of sales of $1 million or more, exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated and,
(4) The enterprise “purchases or receives goods for resale that move or have moved across State lines (not in deliveries from the reselling establishment) which amount in total annual volume to $250,000 or more.” (This requirement is discussed in §§ 779.246 through 779.253.)
(c) Sections 779.258 through 779.260 discuss the meaning of “annual gross volume of sales made or business done” and §§ 779.261 through 779.264 discuss what excise taxes may be excluded from the annual gross volume. Sections 779.265 through 779.269 discuss the method of computing the annual gross volume where it is necessary to determine monetary obligations to employees under the Act.

# Interstate Inflow Test Under Prior Act
§ 779.246
Inflow test under section 3(s)(1) of the Act prior to 1966 amendments.
To come within the scope of section 3(s)(1) of the prior Act, the enterprise, in addition to the other conditions, must purchase or receive goods for resale that move or have moved across State lines (not in deliveries from the reselling establishment) which amount in total annual volume to $250,000 or more. To meet this condition, it must be shown that (a) the enterprise purchases or receives goods for resale (§ 779.248), (b) that such goods move or have moved across State lines (§ 779.249), and (c) that such purchases and receipts amount in total annual volume to $250,000 or more (§ 779.253). Enterprises which do not meet this test may be covered under section 3(s)(1) of
the present Act, which contains no interstate inflow requirement.
§ 779.247
“Goods” defined.
The term “goods” as used in section 3(s) of the prior and amended Act is defined in section 3(i) of the Act. The statutory definition is quoted in § 779.14, and is discussed in detail in part 776 of this chapter.
§ 779.248
Purchase or receive “goods for resale.”
(a) Goods will be considered purchased or received “for resale” for purposes of the inflow test contained in section 3(s)(1) of the prior Act if they are purchased or received with the intention of being resold. This includes goods, such as stock in trade which is purchased or received by the enterprise for resale in the ordinary course of business. It does not include machinery, equipment, supplies, and other goods which the enterprise purchases to use in conducting its business. This is true even if such capital goods or other equipment, which the enterprise originally purchased for use in conducting its business, are at some later date actually resold. The distinction is to be found in whether the goods are purchased or received by the enterprise with the intention of reselling them in the same form or after further processing or manufacturing, or whether they are purchased with the intent of being consumed or used by the enterprise itself in the performance of its activities.
(b) Goods, such as raw materials or ingredients, are considered purchased or received by the enterprise “for resale,” even if such goods are purchased or received for the purpose of being processed or used as parts or ingredients in the manufacture of other goods which the enterprise intends to sell. For example, where the enterprise purchases flour for use in baking bread or pastries for sale, the goods will be considered to have been purchased “for resale.” It is immaterial whether the goods will be resold by the enterprise at retail or at wholesale.
§ 779.249
Goods which move or have moved across State lines.
In order to be included in the annual dollar volume for purposes of this test, the goods which the enterprise purchases or receives for resale must be goods that “move or have moved across the State lines.” Goods which have not moved across State lines before they are resold by the enterprise will not be included. The movement to which the phrase “move or have moved” has reference is that movement which the goods follow in their journey to the enterprise or within the enterprise to the establishment which sells the goods. Thus, if goods have moved across State lines at some stage in the flow of trade before they are actually sold by the enterprise, they will be considered to have moved across State lines. It is not material that the goods may have “come to rest” at some time before they are purchased or received and sold by the enterprise; nor is it material that some time may have elapsed between the time the goods have moved across State lines and the time they are purchased or received and sold by the enterprise. It is sufficient if at any time such goods have moved across State lines in the ordinary course of trade before resale by the enterprise. Much of the goods purchased by retailers are produced from a local intrastate supplier. In many instances these goods may have been stored at the supplier's establishment for some time. However, as long as the particular goods purchased have moved across State lines at some stage in the flow of trade to the retailer, they would have to be included in determining whether or not the enterprise has purchased or received for resale such out-of-State goods amounting to $250,000.
§ 779.250
Goods that have not lost their out-of-State identity.
Goods which are purchased or received by the enterprise from within the State will be considered goods which “have moved across State lines” if they have previously been moved across State lines and have not lost their identity as out-of-State goods before they are purchased or received by the enterprise. Also goods which have been assembled within the State after
they were moved across State lines but before they are purchased or received by the enterprise will still be regarded as goods which “have moved across State lines.” Such goods are still identifiable as goods brought into the State. This is also true in certain cases where goods are processed to some extent without losing their identity as out-of-State goods. For example, out-of-State furniture or television sets which are put together within the State, or milk from outside the State which is pasteurized and bottled within the State, before being purchased or received by the enterprise, are goods which “have moved across State lines.” They have already moved across State lines and they retain their out-of-State identity, despite the assembly or processing within the State.
§ 779.251
Goods that have lost their out-of-State identity.
(a) Goods which are purchased or received by the enterprise within the State will not be considered goods which have “moved across State lines” if the goods, although they came from outside the State, had been processed or manufactured so as to have lost their identity as out-of-State goods before they are purchased or received by the enterprise. This assumes, of course, that the goods so manufactured or processed do not move across State lines before they are sold by the enterprise. Thus where an enterprise buys bread baked within the State which does not move across State lines before it is resold by the enterprise, the bread is not “goods, which have moved across State lines” even if the flour and other ingredients came from outside the State. The same conclusion will follow, under the same circumstances, where clothing is manufactured from out-of-State fabrics.
(b) In those cases where goods are composed in part of goods which have, and in part of goods which have not, moved across State lines, the entire product will be considered as goods which have moved across State lines, if, as a practical matter, it substantially consists of goods which are identifiable as out-of-State goods. Whether goods have been so changed as to have lost their out-of-State identity is question which will depend upon all the facts in a particular case.
§ 779.252
Not in deliveries from the reselling establishment.
Goods which move across State lines only in the course of deliveries from the reselling establishment of the enterprise are not included as goods which “move or have moved across State lines.” Thus, goods delivered by the enterprise to its customers outside of the State are not, for that reason, considered goods which “move or have moved across State lines.” The purpose of the provision excepting “deliveries from the reselling establishment” is to limit the test to goods which flow into the enterprise and to exclude those goods which only cross State lines when they flow out of the enterprise as an incident of the sale of such goods by the enterprise. In other words, this is an inflow test and not an outflow test.
§ 779.253
What is included in computing the total annual inflow volume.
The goods which the establishment purchases or receives for resale that move or have moved across State lines must “amount in total annual volume to $250,000 or more.” It will be noted that taxes are not excluded in measuring this annual dollar volume. Thus, the total cost to the enterprise of such goods will be included in calculating the $250,000. This will include all taxes and other charges which the enterprise must pay for such goods. Generally, all charges will be included in the invoice of the goods. But whether included in the invoice or not, the total amount which the enterprise is required to pay for such goods, including charges for transportation, insurance, delivery, storage and any other will be included in computing the $250,000. The dollar volume of the goods purchased or received by the enterprise is the “annual” volume. The method of calculating the annual dollar volume is explained in § 779.266.

# The Gasoline Service Establishment Enterprise
§ 779.254
Summary of coverage and exemptions prior to and following the 1966 amendments.
The ordinary gasoline service establishment is a covered enterprise under the Act if it has an annual gross volume of sales made or business done of not less than $250,000 a year, exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated, and meets the other tests of section 3(s)(5) of the prior Act and section 3(s)(1) of the amended Act. Beginning February 1, 1969, enterprise coverage extends to any gasoline service establishment in an enterprise which has an annual gross volume in such amount, even if the establishment's annual gross volume is less. However, a gasoline service establishment with gross sales of less than $250,000, exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated, may qualify for the minimum wage and overtime pay exemption provided in section 13(a)(2) of the Act if it meets the requirements of that section. Section 779.313 summarizes the requirements. An overtime pay exemption, which was repealed by the 1966 amendments, existed until February 1, 1967, for employees of ordinary gasoline service establishments under the prior Act. Thus, nonexempt employees of a covered gasoline service establishment enterprise are subject to the minimum wage standards for previously covered employment and the overtime pay requirements for newly covered employment as listed below:
Minimum wage:
Beginning
$1.40 an hour
February 1, 1967.
$1.60 an hour
February 1, 1968 and thereafter.
Overtime pay after:
44 hours in a workweek
February 1, 1967.
42 hours in a workweek
February 1, 1968.
40 hours in a workweek
February 1, 1969 and thereafter.
The particular considerations affecting coverage and exemptions are discussed in subsequent sections. The statutory language contained in section 3(s)(5) of the prior Act and 3(s)(1) of the amended Act may be found in § 779.22.
§ 779.255
Meaning of “gasoline service establishment.”
(a) A gasoline service station or establishment is one which is typically a physically separate place of business engaged primarily (“primarily” meaning 50 percent or more) in selling gasoline and lubricating oils to the general public at the station or establishment. It may also sell other merchandise or perform minor repair work as an incidental part of the business. (See S. Rept. 145, 87th Cong., first session, p. 32.) No difference in application of the terms “gasoline service establishment” and “gasoline service station” was intended by Congress (see Senate Report cited above) and both carry the same meaning.
(b) Under section 3(s)(5) of the prior Act and until February 1, 1969, under section 3(s)(1) of the amended Act, the covered enterprise is always a single establishment—a gasoline service establishment, even though such establishment may be a part of some larger enterprise for purposes of other provisions of the “enterprise” coverage of the new amendments. As noted above this term refers to what is commonly known as a gasoline service station, a separate “establishment.” What constitutes a separate establishment is discussed in §§ 779.303 through 779.306. While receipts from incidental sales and services are included and counted in determining the establishment's annual gross volume of sales for purposes of enterprise coverage, the establishment's primary source of receipts must be from the sale of gasoline and lubricating oils. (See Senate Report cited above.) An establishment which derives the greater part of its income from the sales of goods other than gasoline or lubricating oils will not be considered a “gasoline service establishment.” The mere fact that an establishment has a gasoline pump as an incidental part of other business activities in which it is principally engaged does not constitute it “a gasoline service establishment” within the meaning and for the purposes of these sections.
§ 779.256
Conditions for enterprise coverage of gasoline service establishments.
(a) The requirement that the enterprise must be “an enterprise engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” is discussed in §§ 779.237 through 779.243. Those sections explain which employees are engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce, including employees handling, selling, or otherwise working on goods that have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person. In connection with the discussion in those sections as it concerns employees of gasoline service establishments, it should be noted that as a general rule such employees normally are “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” within the meaning of the Act. For example, gasoline filling station employees servicing motor vehicles used in interstate transportation or in the production of goods for commerce have always been regarded as being “engaged in commerce or in the production of goods for commerce” within the meaning of the Act. Such employees will also be considered as engaged in handling, selling or otherwise working on goods that have been moved in or produced for commerce by any person, if the gasoline or lubricating oils or the other goods with respect to which they perform the described activities have come from outside the State in which the establishment is located.
(b) For periods before February 1, 1969, a gasoline service establishment was within the scope of the enterprise coverage provisions of the Act only if its annual gross volume of sales was not less than $250,000, exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated. Until such date, a gasoline service establishment which did not have such an annual gross volume of sales was not a covered enterprise, and enterprise coverage did not extend to it by virtue of the fact that it is an establishment of an enterprise which meets coverage tests of section 3(s). In determining whether the establishment has the requisite annual gross volume of sales the receipts from all sales of the establishment are included without limitation to the receipts from sales of gasoline and lubricating oil. In computing the annual gross volume of sales the gross receipts from all types of sales during a 12-month period are included. These gross receipts are measured by the price paid by the purchaser of the goods or services sold by the establishment (Sen. Rept. 1487, 89th Cong. second session p. 7). Thus, where the establishment sells gasoline for an oil company on commission, annual gross volume is based on the retail sale price and not on the smaller amount retained or received as commissions. A further discussion of what sales are included in the annual gross volume is contained in §§ 779.258 through 779.260.
(c) In computing the annual gross volume of sales, excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated are not counted. A discussion of the excise taxes which may be excluded under this provision is contained in §§ 779.261 through 779.264. Whether the particular taxes are “excise taxes at the retail level” depends upon the facts in each case. If the taxes are “excise taxes at the retail level” they will be excludable only if they are “separately stated.” Where a gasoline station posts a sign on or alongside the gasoline pumps indicating that a certain amount per gallon is for a specific excise tax, this will meet the requirement of being “separately stated”. The method of calculating annual gross volume of sales is explained in greater detail in §§ 779.265 through 779.269.
§ 779.257
Exemption applicable to gasoline service establishments under the prior Act.
Section 13(b)(8) of the prior Act (before the 1966 amendments) contained an exemption from the overtime pay requirements for “any employee of a gasoline service station”. This exemption was applicable prior to February 1, 1967, without regard to the annual gross volume of sales of the gasoline service station by which the employee was employed. The removal of this exemption by the 1966 amendments brought non-exempt employees of covered gasoline service stations within the purview of the overtime requirements of the Act for the first time.

# Annual Gross Volume of Sales Made or Business Done
§ 779.258
Sales made or business done.
The Senate Report on the 1966 amendments reaffirmed the intent to measure the “dollar volume of sales or business” including “the gross receipts or gross business” to determine whether an enterprise is covered. This concept was first expressed in the Senate Report on the 1961 amendment (S. Rept. No. 145, 87th Congress, first session, p. 38). The phrase “business done” added by the 1966 amendments to section 3(s) merely reflects with more clarity the economic test of business size expressed in the prior Act in terms of “annual gross volume of sales” and conforms the language of the Act with the Congressional view expressed in the legislative history of the 1961 amendments. Thus, the annual gross volume of an enterprise must include any business activity in which it engages which can be measured on a dollar basis irrespective of whether the enterprise is tested under the prior or amended Act. The Senate Report on the 1966 amendments states:
The intent to measure the “dollar volume of sales or business” including the “gross receipts or gross business” in determining coverage of such an enterprise was expressed in the Senate report above cited at page 38. The addition of the term “business done” to the statutory language should make this intent abundantly plain for the future and remove any possible reason for misapprehension. The annual gross volume of sales made or business done by an enterprise, within the meaning of section 3(s), will thus continue to include both the gross dollar volume of the sales (as defined in sec. 3(k)) which it makes, as measured by the price paid by the purchaser for the property or service sold to him (exclusive of any excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated), and the gross dollar volume of any other business activity in which the enterprise engages which can be similarly measured on a dollar basis. This would include, for example, such activity by an enterprise as making loans or renting or leasing property of any kind. (S. Rept. No. 1487, 89th Congress, second session, pp. 7-8.)
§ 779.259
What is included in annual gross volume.
(a) The annual gross volume of sales made or business done of an enterprise consists of its gross receipts from all types of sales made and business done during a 12-month period. The gross volume of sales made or business done means the gross dollar volume (not limited to income) derived from all sales and business transactions including, for example, gross receipts from service, credit, or other similar charges. Credits for goods returned or exchanged and rebates and discounts, and the like, are not ordinarly included in the annual gross volume of sales or business. The gross volume of sales or business includes the receipts from sales made or business done by the retail or service establishments of the enterprise as well as the sales made or business done by any other establishments of the enterprise, exclusive of the internal transactions between them. Gross volume is measured by the price paid by the purchaser for the property or service sold to him, as stated in the Senate Committee Report (§ 779.258). It is not measured by profit on goods sold or commissions on sales made for others. The dollar value of sales or business of the entire enterprise in all establishments is added together to determine whether the applicable dollar test is met. The fact that one or more of the retail or service establishments of the enterprise may have less than $250,000 in annual dollar volume and may meet the other requirements for exemption from the pay provisions of the Act under section 13(a)(2), does not exclude the dollar volume of sales or business of that establishment from the annual gross volume of the enterprise. However, the dollar volume of an establishment derived from transactions with other establishments in the same enterprise does not ordinarily constitute part of the annual gross volume of the enterprise as a whole. The computation of the annual gross volume of sales or business of the enterprise is made “exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated”. The taxes which may be excluded are discussed in §§ 779.261 through 779.264. The methods of calculating the annual gross volume of sales of an enterprise are set forth in §§ 779.265 through 779.269.
(b) In the ordinary case the functions of a leased department are controlled
or unified in such a way that it is included in the establishment and therefore in the enterprise in which it is located, as discussed in § 779.225. The applicability of enterprise coverage and certain exemptions to such a leased department depends upon the enterprise coverage and the exemption status of the establishment in which the leased department is located. The annual gross volume of such a leased department is included in the annual gross volume of the establishment in which it is located as well as in the annual gross volume of the enterprise of which such establishment is a part.
(c) Likewise, where franchise or other arrangements result in the creation of a larger enterprise by means of operational restrictions so that the establishment, dealer, or concessionaire is an integral part of the related activities of the enterprise which grants the franchise, right, or concession, as discussed in §§ 779.229 and 779.232, it will follow that the annual gross volume of sales made or business done of such an enterprise includes the dollar volume of sales or business of each related establishment dealer, or concessionaire.
§ 779.260
Trade-in allowances.
Where merchandise is taken in trade when a sale is made, the annual gross volume of sales or business will include the gross amount of the sale before deduction of the allowance on such trade-in merchandise. This is so even though an overallowance or excessive value is allowed on the trade-in merchandise. In turn, when the trade-in merchandise is sold the amount of the sale will be included in the annual gross volume.

# Excise Taxes
§ 779.261
Statutory provision.
Sections 3(s)(1) and 13(a)(2) of the amended Act as well as sections 3(s)(1), 3(s)(2), 3(s)(5), and 13(a)(2)(iv) of the prior Act provide for the exclusion of “excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated” in computing the gross annual volume of sales or business or the annual dollar volume of sales for purposes of certain of the provisions contained in those sections. The Senate Committee report states as follows with respect to this provision:
* * * in determining whether the enterprise or establishment, as the case may be, has the requisite annual dollar volume of sales, excise taxes will not be counted if they are taxes that are collected at the retail level and are separately identified in the price charged the customer for the goods or services at the time of the sale. Excise taxes which are levied at the manufacturer's, wholesaler's, or other distributive level will not be excluded in calculating the dollar volume of sales nor will excise taxes be excluded in cases where the customer is charged a single price for the merchandise or services and the taxes are not separately identified when the sale is made. (S. Rept., 145, 87th Cong., first session, p. 39.)
In applying the above rules to determine annual gross volume of sales or business under section 3(s) or annual dollar volume of sales for purposes of the $250,000 test under section 13(a)(2), excise taxes which (a) are levied at the retail level and (b) are separately stated and identified in the charge to the customer at the time of sale need not be included in the calculation of the gross or dollar volume of sales. Excise taxes which are levied at the manufacturer's, wholesaler's or other distributive level will not, ordinarily, be excluded in calculating the volume of sales, nor will excise taxes, even if levied at the retail level, be excluded in cases where the customer is charged a single price for the merchandise or services and the taxes are not separately identified when the sale is made. Excise taxes will be excludable whether they are levied by the Federal, State, or local government provided that the tax is “levied at the retail level” and “separately stated”.
§ 779.262
Excise taxes at the retail level.
(a) Federal excise taxes are imposed at the retail level on highway vehicle fuels other than gasoline under the provisions of 26 U.S.C. 4041. Such excise taxes are levied at the retail level on any liquid fuel sold for use, or used in a diesel-powered highway vehicle. A similar tax is imposed on the sale of such special motor fuels as benzene and liquefied petroleum gas when used as a motor fuel. To the extent that these taxes are separately stated to the customer, they may be excluded from gross volume of sales. The extent to
which State taxes are levied at the retail level, and thus excludable when separately stated, depends, of course, upon the law of the State concerned. However, as a general rule, State, county, and municipal sales taxes are levied at the retail level, and to the extent that they are separately stated, may be excluded. All State excise taxes on gasoline are, for purposes of section 3(s), taxes levied at the retail level, which, if separately stated, may be excluded.
(b) The circumstances surrounding the levying and collection of the Federal excise taxes on gasoline, tires, and inner tubes reflect that, although they are listed under the title of “Manufacturers Excise Taxes,” they are, in practical operation, taxes “at the retail level.” Federal excise taxes on gasoline, tires, and inner tubes, when “separately stated,” may therefore be excluded in computing the annual gross volume of an enterprise for the purpose of determining coverage under section 3(s)(1) of the Act and section 13(a)(2) for purposes of applying the $250,000 test for determining the retail and service establishment exemption of an establishment in a covered enterprise.
§ 779.263
Excise taxes not at the retail level.
There are also a wide variety of taxes levied at the manufacturer's or distributor's level and not at the retail level. It should be noted, however, that the circumstances surrounding the levying and collection of taxes must be carefully considered. The facts concerning the levying and collection of Federal excise taxes on alcoholic beverages and tobacco reflect that such taxes are upon the manufacture of these products and that they are neither levied nor collected at the retail level and thus are not excludable. However, in some cases the circumstances may reflect that despite the fact that such taxes may be levied upon the manufacturer or distributor, nevertheless they may be, in practical operation, taxes at the retail level and may be so regarded for the purpose of this provision.
§ 779.264
Excise taxes separately stated.
A tax is separately stated where it clearly appears that it has been added to the sales price as a separate, identifiable amount, even though there was no invoice or sales slip. In the absence of a sales slip or invoice, the amount of the tax may either be separately stated orally at the time of sale, or visually by means of a poster or other sign reasonable designed to inform the purchaser that the amount of the tax, either as a stated sum per unit or measured by the gross amount of the sale, or as a percentage of the price, is included in the sales price. A sign on a gasoline pump indicating in cents per gallon the amount of State and Federal highway fuel excise taxes is an example of “separately stated” taxes.

# Computing The Annual Volume
§ 779.265
Basis for making computations.
The annual gross dollar volume of sales made or business done of an enterprise or establishment consists of the gross receipts from all of its sales or its volume of business done during a 12-month period. Where a computation of the annual gross volume is necessary to determine monetary obligations to employees under the Act whether in an enterprise which has one or more retail or service establishments, or in any establishment in such enterprise, or in any gasoline service establishment, it must be based on the most recent prior experience which it is practicable to use. This was recognized in the Congress when the legislation was under consideration. (S. Rept. No. 145, 87th Cong., first session, p. 38 discusses in detail the calculation of the annual gross volume.) When gross receipts of an enterprise show that the annual dollar volume of sales made or business done meets the statutory tests for coverage and nonexemption, the employer must comply with the Act's monetary provisions from that time on or until such time as the tests are not met. (See § 779.266.)
§ 779.266
Methods of computing annual volume of sales or business.
(a) No computations of annual gross dollar volume are necessary to determine coverage or exemption in those enterprises in which the gross receipts regularly derived each year from the business are known by the employers to be substantially in excess or substantially under the minimum dollar volume specified in the applicable provision of the Act. Also, where the enterprise or establishment, during the portion of its current income tax year up to the end of the current payroll period, has already had a gross volume of sales or business in excess of the dollar amount specified in the statute, it is plain that its annual dollar volume currently is in excess of the statutory amount, and that the Act applies accordingly. The computation described in paragraph (b) of this section, therefore need not be made. Nor is it required where the enterprise or establishment has not yet in such current year exceeded the statutory amount in its gross volume of sales or business, if it has had, in the most recently ended year used by it for income tax purposes, a gross volume of sales made and business done in excess of the amount specified in the Act. In such event, the enterprise or establishment will be deemed to have an annual gross volume in excess of the statutory amount unless the employer establishes, through use of the method set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, an annual gross volume of sales made or business done which is less than the amount specified in the Act. The method described in paragraph (b) of this section shall be used, as intended by the Congress (see S. Rept. 145, 87th Cong. first session, p. 38), for computation of annual dollar volume in all cases when such a computation becomes necessary in order to determine the applicability of provisions of the Act.
(b) In order to determine, when there may be doubt, whether an enterprise or establishment has an annual gross volume of sales made or business done in excess of the amount specified in the statute, and analysis will be made at the beginning of each quarter-year so that the employer will know whether or not the dollar volume tests have been met for the purpose of complying with the law in the workweeks ending in the current quarter-year. The total of the gross receipts from all its sales or business during a 12-month period which immediately precedes the quarter-year being tested will be the basis for analysis. When it is necessary to make a determination for enterprises or establishments which are operated on a calendar year basis for income tax or sales or other accounting purposes the quarter-year periods tested will coincide with the calendar quarters (January 1-March 31; April 1-June 30; July 1-September 30; October 1-December 31). On the other hand, where enterprises or establishments are operated on a fiscal year basis, which consists of an annual period different from the calendar year, the four quarters of the fiscal period will be used in lieu of calendar quarters in computing the annual volume. Once either basis has been adopted it must be used in making subsequent calculations. The sales records maintained as a result of the accounting procedures used for tax or other business purposes may be utilized in computing the annual dollar volume provided the same accounting procedure is used consistently and that such procedure accurately reflects the annual volume of sales or business.
§ 779.267
Fluctuations in annual gross volume affecting enterprise coverage and establishment exemptions.
It is possible that the analysis performed at the beginning of each quarter to determine the applicability of the monetary provisions of the Act may reveal changes in the annual gross volume or other determinative factors which result in the enterprise or establishment meeting or ceasing to meet one or more of the tests for enterprise coverage or establishment exemption. Thus, enterprise coverage may result where the annual volume increases from an amount under to an amount over $250,000. Also, an enterprise having an annual gross volume of more than $1 million and meeting the requirements for a covered retail enterprise under the prior Act on the basis of previous sales analyses may fall below $1 million when the annual gross
volume is computed at the beginning of the quarter being tested and as a result qualify only as a newly covered enterprise for the current quarter under the amended Act. Similarly, an enterprise previously subject to new coverage pay standards, having an annual gross volume of more than $250,000 but less than $1 million on the basis of previous sales analyses, may increase its annual gross volume to $1 million or more when recomputed at the beginning of the quarter being tested. It will thus become for the current quarter an enterprise in which employees are subject to the pay standards for employment covered under the Act prior to the amendments, provided that it meets the other conditions as discussed in § 779.245.
§ 779.268
Grace period of 1 month for computation.
Where it is not practicable to compute the annual gross volume of sales or business under paragraph (b) of § 779.266 in time to determine obligations under the Act for the current quarter, an enterprise or establishment may use a 1-month grace period. If this 1-month grace period is used, the computations made under this section will determine its obligations under the Act for the 3-month period commencing 1 month after the end of the preceding calendar or fiscal quarter. Once adopted the same basis must be used for each successive 3-month period.
§ 779.269
Computations for a new business.
When a new business is commenced the employer will necessarily be unable for a time to determine its annual dollar volume on the basis of a full 12-month period as described above. In many cases it is readily apparent that the enterprise or establishment will or will not have the requisite annual dollar volume specified in the Act. For example, where the new business consists of a large department store, or a supermarket, it may be clear from the outset that the business will meet the annual dollar volume tests so as to be subject to the requirements of the Act. In other cases, where doubt exists, the gross receipts of the new business during the first quarter year in which it has been in operation will be taken as representative of its annual dollar volume, in applying the annual volume tests of sections 3(s) and 13(a)(2), for purposes of determining its obligations under the Act in workweeks falling in the following quarter year period. Similarly, for purposes of determining its obligations under the Act in workweeks falling within ensuing quarter year periods, the gross receipts of the new business for the completed quarter year periods will be taken as representative of its annual dollar volume in applying the annual volume tests of the Act. After the new business has been in operation for a full calendar or fiscal year, the analysis can be made by the method described in paragraph (b) of § 779.266 with use of the grace period described in § 779.268, if necessary.

# Subpart D—Exemptions for Certain Retail or Service Establishments

# General Principles
§ 779.300
Purpose of subpart.
Subpart C of this part has discussed the various criteria for determining coverage under the Act of employers and employees in enterprises and establishments that make retail sales of goods and services. This subpart deals primarily with the exemptions from the Act's minimum wage and overtime provisions found in section 13(a) (2), (4), (11), and 13(b)(18) for employees of retail or service establishments. Also discussed are some exemptions for special categories of establishments engaged in retailing goods or services, which do not require for exemption that the particular establishment be a retail or service establishment as defined in the Act. If all the requirements set forth in any of these exemptions are met, to the extent provided therein the employer is relieved from complying with the minimum wage and/or overtime provisions of the Act even though his employees are engaged in interstate or foreign commerce or in the production of goods for such commerce or employed in covered enterprises.
§ 779.301
Statutory provisions.
(a) Section 13(a) (2), (4), (11), and section 13(b)(18) of the Act, as amended, grant exemption from the minimum
wage provisions of section 6 and the maximum hours provisions of section 7 as follows:
(1) Section 13(a)(2) exempts from minimum wages and overtime pay:
Any employee employed by any retail or service establishment (except an establishment or employee engaged in laundering, cleaning, or repairing clothing or fabrics or an establishment engaged in the operation of a hospital, institution, or school described in section 3(s)(4), if more than 50 per centum of such establishment's annual dollar volume of sales of goods or services is made within the State in which the establishment is located, and such establishment is not in an enterprise described in section 3(s) or such establishment has an annual dollar volume of sales which is less than $250,000 (exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated). A “retail or service establishment” shall mean an establishment 75 per centum of whose annual dollar volume of sales of goods or services (or of both) is not for resale and is recognized as retail sales or services in the particular industry.
(2) Section 13(a)(4) exempts from minimum wages and overtime pay:
Any employee employed by an establishment which qualifies as an exempt retail establishment under clause (2) of this sub-section and is recognized as a retail establishment in the particular industry notwithstanding that such establishment makes or processes at the retail establishment the goods that it sells:
Provided,
That more than 85 per centum of such establishment's annual dollar volume of sales of goods so made or processed is made within the State in which the establishment is located.
(3) Section 13(a)(11) exempts from minimum wages and overtime pay:
Any employee or proprietor in a retail or service establishment which qualifies as an exempt retail or service establishment under clause (2) of this subsection with respect to whom the provisions of sections 6 and 7 would not otherwise apply, engaged in handling telegraphic messages for the public under an agency or contract arrangement with a telegraph company where the telegraph message revenue of such agency does not exceed $500 a month.
(4) Section 13(b)(18) exempts from overtime pay only:
Any employee of a retail or service establishment who is employed primarily in connection with the preparation or offering of food or beverages for human consumption, either on the premises, or by such services as catering, banquet, box lunch, or curb or counter service, to the public, to employees, or to members or guests of members of clubs.
(b) Sections 13(a)(2), (4), (13), (19), and (20) of the prior Act granted exemptions from both the minimum wage provisions of section 6 and the maximum hours provisions of section 7 as follows:
(1) Section 13(a)(2) exempted:
Any employee employed by any retail or service establishment, more than 50 per centum of which establishment's annual dollar volume of sales of goods or services is made within the state in which the establishment is located, if such establishment—
(i) Is not in an enterprise described in section 3(s), or
(ii) Is in such an enterprise and is a hotel, motel or restaurant, or motion picture theater; or is an amusement or recreational establishment that operates on a seasonal basis, or
(iii) Is in such an enterprise and is a hospital, or an institution which is primarily engaged in the care of the sick, the aged, the mentally ill or defective, residing on the premises of such institution, or a school for physically or mentally handicapped or gifted children, or
(iv) Is in such an enterprise and has an annual dollar volume of sales (exclusive of excise taxes at the retail level which are separately stated) which is less than $250,000.
A “retail or service establishment” shall mean an establishment 75 per centum of whose annual dollar volume of sales of goods or services (or both) is not for resale and is recognized as retail sales or services in the particular industry.
(2) Section 13(a)(4) provided the same exemption as it now does.
(3) Section 13(a)(13) provided the same exemption as section 13(a)(11) of the present Act.
(4) Section 13(a)(19) exempted:
Any employee of a retail or service establishment which is primarily engaged in the business of selling automobiles, trucks, or farm implements.
(5) Section 13(a)(20) exempted those employees who are now exempt from the overtime provisions only under section 13(b)(18) of the present Act.
(c) Employees who were exempt from the minimum wage and overtime pay requirements under a provision of the prior Act set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, but are no longer exempt from one or both of such requirements under the present Act must be paid minimum wages or overtime pay, as
the case may be, in accordance with the pay standards provided for newly covered employment, in any workweek when they perform work within the individual or enterprise coverage of the Act.

# “Establishment” Basis of Exemptions
§ 779.302
Exemptions depend on character of establishment.
Some exemptions depend on the character of the establishment by which an employee is employed. These include the “retail or service establishment” exemptions in sections 13(a) (2), (4), and (11) and the exemptions available to the establishments of the character specified in sections 13(a) (3), (9), and 13(b)(8) (first part). Therefore, if the establishment meets the tests enumerated in these sections, employees “employed by” that establishment are generally exempt from sections 6 and 7. (See §§ 779.307 to 779.309 discussing “employed by.”) Other exemptions establish two criteria, the character of the establishment and the nature of the conditions of the employment of the particular employee. Such exemptions are set forth in section 13(b)(8) (second part), and section 13(b)(18) and (19). To determine whether the exemptions of these sections apply it is necessary to determine both that the establishment meets the enumerated tests and that the employee is engaged in the enumerated activities or employed under the conditions specified. Thus, under section 13(b)(18) some of the employees of a given employer may be exempt from the overtime pay requirements (but not the minimum wage) of the Act, while others may not.
§ 779.303
“Establishment” defined; distinguished from “enterprise” and “business.”
As previously stated in § 779.23, the term
establishment
as used in the Act means a distinct physical place of business. The “enterprise,” by reason of the definition contained in section 3(r) of the Act and the tests enumerated in section 3(s) of the Act, may be composed of a single establishment. The term “establishment,” however, is not synonymous with the words “business” or “enterprise” when those terms are used to describe multiunit operations. In such a multiunit operation some of the establishments may qualify for exemption, others may not. For example, a manufacturer may operate a plant for production of its goods, a separate warehouse for storage and distribution, and several stores from which its products are sold. Each such physically separate place of business is a separate establishment. In the case of chain store systems, branch stores, groups of independent stores organized to carry on business in a manner similar to chain store systems, and retail outlets operated by manufacturing or distributing concerns, each separate place of business ordinarily is a separate establishment.
§ 779.304
Illustrations of a single establishment.
(a) The unit store ordinarily will constitute the establishment contemplated by the exemptions. The mere fact that a store is departmentalized will not alter the rule. For example, the typical large department store carries a wide variety of lines which ordinarily are segregated or departmentalized not only as to location within the store, but also as to operation and records. Where such departments are operated as integral parts of a unit, the departmentalized unit taken as a whole ordinarily will be considered to be the establishment contemplated by the exemptions, even if there is diversity of ownership of some of the departments, such as leased departments.
(b) Some stores, such as bakery or tailor shops, may produce goods in a back room and sell them in the adjoining front room. In such cases if there is unity of ownership and if the back room and the front room are operated by the employer as a single store, the entire premises ordinarily will be considered to be a single establishment for purposes of the tests of the exemption, notwithstanding the fact that the two functions of making and selling the goods, are separated by a partition or a wall. (See H. Mgrs. St., 1949, p. 27.)
§ 779.305
Separate establishments on the same premises.
Although, as stated in the preceding section, two or more departments of a
business may constitute a single establishment, two or more physically separated portions of a business though located on the same premises, and even under the same roof in some circumstances may constitute more than one establishment for purposes of exemptions. In order to effect such a result physical separation is a prerequisite. In addition, the physically separated portions of the business also must be engaged in operations which are functionally separated from each other. Since there is no such functional separation between activities of selling goods or services at retail, the Act recognizes that food service activities of such retail or service establishments as drugstores, department stores, and bowling alleys are not performed by a separate establishment which “is” a “restaurant” so as to qualify for the overtime exemption provided in section 13(b)(8) and accordingly provides a separate overtime exemption in section 13(b)(18) for employees employed by any “retail or service establishments” in such activities in order to equalize the application of the Act between restaurant establishments and retail or service establishments of other kinds which frequently compete with them for customers and labor. (See Sen. Rept. 1487, 89th Cong. first session, p. 32.) For retailing and other functionally unrelated activities performed on the same premises to be considered as performed in separate establishments, a distinct physical place of business engaged in each category of activities must be identifiable. The retail portion of the business must be distinct and separate from and unrelated to that portion of the business devoted to other activities. For example, a firm may engage in selling groceries at retail and at the same place of business be engaged in an unrelated activity, such as the incubation of chicks for sale to growers. The retail grocery portion of the business could be considered as a separate establishment for purposes of the exemption, if it is physically segregated from the hatchery and has separate employees and separate records. In other words, the retail portion of an establishment would be considered a separate establishment from the unrelated portion for the purpose of the exemption if (a) It is physically separated from the other activities; and (b) it is functionally operated as a separate unit having separate records, and separate bookkeeping; and (c) there is no interchange of employees between the units. The requirement that there be no interchange of employees between the units does not mean that an employee of one unit may not occasionally, when circumstances require it, render some help in the other units or that one employee of one unit may not be transferred to work in the other unit. The requirement has reference to the indiscriminate use of the employee in both units without regard to the segregated functions of such units.
§ 779.306
Leased departments not separate establishments.
It does not follow from the principles discussed in § 779.305 that leased departments engaged in the retail sale of goods or services in a departmentalized store are separate establishments. To the contrary, it is only in rare instances that such leased departments would be separate establishments for purposes of the exemptions. For example, take a situation where the departmentalized retail store, having leased departments, controls the space location, determines the type of goods that may be sold, determines the pricing policy, bills the customers, passes on customers' credit, receives payments due, handles complaints, determines the personnel policies, and performs other functions as well. In such situations the leased department is an integral part of the retail store and considered to be such by the customers. It is clear that such departments are not separate establishments but rather a part of the retail store establishment and will be considered as such for purposes of the exemptions. The same result may follow in the case of leased departments engaged in the retail sale of goods or services in a departmentalized store where all or most of the departments are leased or otherwise individually owned, but which operate under one common trade name and hold themselves out to the public as one integrated business unit.
§ 779.307
Meaning and scope of “employed by” and “employee of.”
Section 13(a)(2) as originally enacted in 1938 exempted any employee “engaged in” any retail or service establishment. The 1949 amendments to that section, however, as contained in section 13(a)(2) and (4) exempted any employee “employed by” any establishment described in those exemptions. The 1961 and 1966 amendments retained the “employed by” language of these exemptions. Thus, where it is found that any of those exemptions apply to an establishment owned or operated by the employer the employees “employed by” that establishment of the employer are exempt from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Act without regard to whether such employees perform their activities inside or outside the establishment. Thus, such employees as collectors, repair and service men, outside salesmen, merchandise buyers, consumer survey and promotion workers, and delivery men actually employed by an exempt retail or service establishment are exempt from the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the Act although they may perform the work of the establishment away from the premises. As used in section 13 of the Act, the phrases “employee of” and “employed by” are synonymous.
§ 779.308
Employed within scope of exempt business.
In order to meet the requirement of actual employment “by” the establishment, an employee, whether performing his duties inside or outside the establishment, must be employed by his employer in the work of the exempt establishment itself in activities within the scope of its exempt business. (See
Davis
v.
Goodman Lumber Co.,
133 F. 2d 52 (CA-4) (holding section 13(a)(2) exemption inapplicable to employees working in manufacturing phase of employer's retail establishment);
Wessling
v.
Carroll Gas Co.,
266 F. Supp. 795 (N.D. Iowa);
Oliveira
v.
Basteiro,
18 WH Cases 668 (S.D. Texas). See also,
Northwest Airlines
v.
Jackson,
185 F. 2d 74 (CA-8);
Walling
v.
Connecticut Co.,
154 F. 2d 522 (CA-2) certiorari denied, 329 U.S. 667; and
Wabash Radio Corp.
v.
Walling,
162 F. 2d 391 (CA-6).)
§ 779.309
Employed “in” but not “by.”
Since the exemptions by their terms apply to the employees “employed by” the exempt establishment, it follows that those exemptions will not extend to other employees who, although actually working in the establishment and even though employed by the same person who is the employer of all under section 3(d) of the Act, are not “employed by” the exempt establishment. Thus, traveling auditors, manufacturers' demonstrators, display-window arrangers, sales instructors, etc., who are not “employed by” an exempt establishment in which they work will not be exempt merely because they happen to be working in such an exempt establishment, whether or not they work for the same employer. (
Mitchell
v.
Kroger Co.,
248 F. 2d 935 (CA-8).) For example, if the manufacturer sends one of his employees to demonstrate to the public in a customer's exempt retail establishment the products which he has manufactured, the employee will not be considered exempt under section 13(a)(2) since he is not employed by the retail establishment but by the manufacturer. The same would be true of an employee of the central offices of a chain-store organization who performs work for the central organization on the premises of an exempt retail outlet of the chain (
Mitchell
v.
Kroger Co.,
supra.)
§ 779.310
Employees of employers operating multi-unit businesses.
(a) Where the employer's business operations are conducted in more than one establishment, as in the various units of a chain-store system or where branch establishments are operated in conjunction with a main store, the employer is entitled to exemption under section 13(a)(2) or (4) for those of his employees in such business operations, and those only, who are “employed by” an establishment which qualifies for exemption under the statutory tests. For example, the central office or central warehouse of a chain-store operation even though located on the same premises as one of the chain's retail stores would be considered a separate establishment for purposes of the exemption, if it is physically separated
from the area in which the retail operations are carried on and has separate employees and records. (
Goldberg
v.
Sunshine Department Stores,
15 W.H. Cases 169 (CA-5)
Mitchell
v.
Miller Drugs, Inc.,
255 F. 2d 574 (CA-1);
Walling
v.
Goldblatt Bros.,
152 F. 2d 475 (CA-7).)
