means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Capital stock
4510
(2) Additional paid-in capital
4520
(3) Treasury stock
4530
(4) Other capital
4540
(5) Retained earnings
4550
Note: For nonprofit organizations, owners' equity is shown in subaccounts of 4540 and 4550. All references regarding account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (47 CFR part 32).
Public switched network
means any common carrier switched network, whether by wire or radio, including local exchange carriers, interexchange carriers, and mobile telecommunications service providers, that use the North American Numbering Plan in connection with the provision of switched services.
RE Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
Retail broadband service
means any technology identified by the Administrator as having the capacity to provide transmission facilities that enable the subscriber to receive a minimum level of service equal to at least a downstream transmission capacity of 25 megabits per second (Mbps) and an upstream transmission capacity of 3 Mbps. The agency may change the minimum transmission capacity by way of notice in the
Federal Register.
The minimum transmission capacity may be higher than 25 Mbps downstream and 3 Mbps upstream but cannot be lower.
Rural area
means any area of the United States, its territories and insular possessions (including any area within the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau) not included within the boundaries of any incorporated or unincorporated city, village or borough having a population exceeding 5,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census). If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data. For purposes of the “rural area” definition, the character of an area is determined as of a time the initial loan for the system is made.
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture, successor to the Rural Electrification Administration.
RUS cost-of-money loan
means a loan made under section 305(d)(2) of the RE Act bearing an interest rate as determined under § 1735.31(c).
Specialized telecommunications service
means any telephone service other than telephone exchange service, exchange access, or mobile telecommunications service.
Subscriber
means the same as access line.
Survivor
means (1) the successor corporation formed by the consolidation of one or more borrowers, (2) the corporation remaining after completion of a merger involving one or more borrowers, and (3) a corporation assuming all or a portion of an RUS loan in connection with an acquisition.
Telecommunications
means the transmission or reception of voice, data, sounds, signals, pictures, writings, or signs of all kinds, by wire, fiber, radio, light, or other visual or electromagnetic means.
Telephone exchange service
means: (1) Service provided primarily to fixed locations within a telephone exchange, or within a connected system of telephone exchanges within the same exchange area operated to furnish to subscribers intercommunicating service of the character ordinarily furnished by a single exchange, and which is covered by the exchange service charge; or
(2) Comparable service provided through a system of switches, transmission equipment, or other facilities (or combination thereof) by which a subscriber can originate and terminate a telecommunications service.
Telephone service
means any communication service for the transmission or reception of voice, data, sounds, signals, pictures, writing, or signs of all kinds by wire, fiber, radio, light, or other visual or electromagnetic means and includes all telephone lines, facilities and systems to render such service. It does not mean:
(1) Message telegram service;
(2) Community antenna television system services or facilities other than those intended exclusively for educational purposes; or
(3) Radio broadcasting services or facilities within the meaning of section 3(o) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
Times Interest Earned Ratio
(TIER) means the ratio of a borrower's net income (after taxes) plus interest expense, all divided by interest expense. For the purpose of this calculation, all amounts will be annual figures and interest expense will include only interest on debt with a maturity greater than one year.
Total assets
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Current assets
1100s through 1300s.
(2) Noncurrent Assets
1400s through 1500s.
(3) Total telecommunications plant
2001 through 2007.
(4) Less: Accumulated depreciation
3100 through 3300s.
(5) Less: Accumulated amortization
3400 through 3600s.
Note: All references regarding account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (47 CFR part 32).
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989; 54 FR 16194, Apr. 21, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26596, June 10, 1991; 58 FR 66253, Dec. 20, 1993; 62 FR 46869, Sept. 5, 1997; 65 FR 42619, July 11, 2000; 65 FR 54402, Sept. 8, 2000; 80 FR 9861, Feb. 24, 2015; 84 FR 59920, Nov. 7, 2019; 86 FR 50608, Sept. 10, 2021; 87 FR 38642, June 29, 2022]
§ 1735.3
Availability of forms.
Single copies of RUS forms and publications cited in this part are available from Program Support Regulatory Analysis, Rural Utilities Service, STOP 1522, 1400 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20250-1522. These RUS forms and publications may be reproduced. The terms “RUS form”, “RUS standard form”, and “RUS specification” have the same meanings as the terms “REA form” “REA standard form”, and “REA specification”, respectively, unless otherwise indicated.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 66441, Dec. 27, 1994; 62 FR 46870, Sept. 5, 1997]
§§ 1735.4-1735.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Loan Purposes and Basic Policies

# Source:
54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1735.10
General.
(a) Loans made or guaranteed by the Administrator of RUS will be made in conformance with the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (RE Act), as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
), and 7 CFR chapter XVII. RUS provides borrowers with specialized and technical accounting, engineering, and other managerial assistance in the construction and operation of their facilities when necessary to aid in the development of rural telephone service and to protect loan security. The Rural Utilities Service (RUS) makes loans to:
(1) Furnish and improve telephone service in rural areas; and
(2) To finance facilities and equipment which expand, improve or provide:
(i) 911 access;
(ii) Integrated interoperable emergency communications, including
multiuse networks that provide critical transportation-related information services in addition to emergency communications services;
(iii) Homeland security communications;
(iv) Transportation safety communications; or
(v) Location technologies used outside an urbanized area.
(b) RUS will not make hardship loans or RUS cost-of-money loans for any wireline local exchange service or similar fixed-station voice service that, in RUS' opinion, is inconsistent with the borrower achieving the requirements stated in the State's telecommunication modernization plan within the time frame stated in the plan (see 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B), unless RUS has determined that achieving the requirements as stated in such plan is not technically or economically feasible.
(c) A borrower receiving a loan to provide mobile telecommunications services or special telecommunications services shall be considered to be participating in the state telecommunications plan (TMP) with respect to the particular loan so long as the loan funds are not used in a manner that, in RUS' opinion, is inconsistent with the borrower achieving the goals set forth in the plan, except that a borrower must comply with any portion of a TMP made applicable to the borrower by a state commission with jurisdiction.
(d) RUS will not deny or reduce a loan or an advance of loan funds based on a borrower's level of general funds.
(e) The Administrator may use consultants funded by the borrower for financial, legal, engineering, and other technical advice in connection with the review of a borrower's loan application.
(f) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(2) of this section, rural areas means any area that is not located within a city, town, or incorporated area that has a population of greater than 20,000 inhabitants or within an urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants. For the purpose of the definition of rural area,
(1) The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census). If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data; and
(2) An urbanized area means a densely populated territory as defined in the most recent decennial Census.
[58 FR 66253, Dec. 20, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 17464, Apr. 13, 1994; 65 FR 42619, July 11, 2000; 65 FR 54403, Sept. 8, 2000; 76 FR 56093, Sept. 12, 2011; 80 FR 9861, Feb. 24, 2015; 84 FR 59921, Nov. 7, 2019; 86 FR 50608, Sept. 10, 2021]
§ 1735.11
Area coverage.
Borrowers must make adequate telephone service available to the widest practical number of rural subscribers during the life of the loan. Both the nature of the service area and the cost per subscriber must be fully considered. The borrower must seek to provide service to all interested potential subscribers in the service area. Borrowers are not required to extend service in situations where the costs would be exorbitant. The loan contract shall contain appropriate provisions to effect this requirement. See 7 CFR 1737.11(a), Preapplication Determinations: Area to be Served.
§ 1735.12
Nonduplication.
(a) A loan will not be made unless the Administrator determines that no duplication of lines, facilities, or systems already providing reasonably adequate services shall result from such a loan.
(b) Existing borrowers that apply to upgrade existing facilities in their existing service area are exempt from the non-duplication requirement in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) RUS shall consider the following criteria for any wireline local exchange service or similar fixed-station voice service provided by a local exchange carrier (LEC) in determining whether such service is reasonably adequate:
(1) The LEC is providing area coverage as described in § 1735.11.
(2) The LEC makes available custom calling features (at a minimum, call waiting, call forwarding, abbreviated dialing, and three-way calling).
(3) The LEC is able to provide E911 service to all subscribers, when requested by the government entity responsible for this service.
(4) The LEC is able to offer local service with blocked toll access to those subscribers who request it.
(5) The LEC's network is capable of providing retail broadband service as defined in § 1735.2 to any subscriber location.
(6) There is an absence of frequent service interruptions.
(7) The LEC is interconnected with the public switched network.
(8) No Federal or State regulatory commission having jurisdiction has determined that the quality, availability, or reliability of the service provided is inadequate.
(9) Services are provided at reasonably affordable rates.
(10) Any other criteria the Administrator determines to be applicable to the particular case.
(d) RUS shall consider the following criteria for any of mobile telecommunications service in determining whether such service is reasonably adequate:
(1) The extent to which area coverage is being provided as described in 7 CFR 1735.11.
(2) Clear and reliable call transmission is provided with sufficient channel availability.
(3) The mobile telecommunications service signal strength is at least −85dBm (decibels expressed in miliwatts).
(4) The mobile telecommunications service is interconnected with the public switched network.
(5) Mobile 911 service is available to all subscribers, when requested by the local government entity responsible for this service.
(6) No Federal or State regulatory commission having jurisdiction has determined that the quality, availability, or reliability of the service provided is inadequate.
(7) Mobile telecommunications service is not provided at rates which render the service unaffordable to a significant number of rural persons.
(8) Any other criteria the Administrator determines to be applicable to the particular case.
(e) RUS does not consider mobile telecommunications service a duplication of existing wireline local exchange service or similar fixed-station voice service. RUS may finance mobile telecommunications systems designed to provide eligible services in rural areas under the Rural Electrification Act even though the services provided by the system may incidentally overlap services of existing mobile telecommunications providers.
(f) RUS shall consider the following criteria for any provider of a specialized telecommunications service in determining whether such service is reasonably adequate:
(1) The provider of a specialized telecommunications service is providing area coverage as described in § 1735.11.
(2) An adequate signal strength is provided throughout the largest practical portion of the service area.
(3) There is an absence of frequent service interruptions.
(4) The quality and variety of service provided is comparable to that provided in nonrural areas.
(5) The service provided complies with industry standards.
(6) No Federal, State, or local regulatory commission having jurisdiction has determined that the quality, availability, or reliability of the service provided is inadequate.
(7) Services are provided at reasonably affordable rates.
(8) Any other criteria the Administrator determines to be applicable to the particular case.
(g) RUS shall consider the following criteria for loans made for the purposes described in § 1735.10(a)(2):
(1) In making a preliminary assessment and a credit decision, the RUS will take into consideration the extent to which the emergency communications capability or emergency communications benefits already exist in the affected area and the need expressed by the proposed user of the emergency communications technology.
(2) The RUS will not consider an application to finance an upgrade of 911 capabilities or other emergency communications capability by different providers serving the same geographic area to be automatically duplicative. For example, RUS will generally not
consider an application from two competing wireless carriers to upgrade their E911 capabilities in overlapping geographic territories to be duplicative, however the carrier's competitive situation will be a relevant consideration in evaluating the ability of a service provider to repay their loan.
(3) Duplication considerations will be reviewed on the basis of the emergency communications benefit; the Agency encourages applicants to fully embrace interoperability to maximize the impact of RUS financed investments. In the case of dual or multi-use technologies, the extent to which the proposed non-emergency communications benefits are available from other providers within the proposed service area will be considered in determining loan feasibility.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 65 FR 42619, July 11, 2000; 65 FR 54403, Sept. 8, 2000; 76 FR 56093, Sept. 12, 2011; 86 FR 50608, Sept. 10, 2021]
§ 1735.13
Location of facilities and service for nonrural subscribers.
(a) When it is determined by the Administrator to be necessary in order to furnish or improve telephone service in rural areas, loans may be made for the improvement, expansion, construction, acquisition, and operation of telephone lines, facilities, or systems without regard to their geographical location.
(b) To the greatest extent practical, loans are limited to providing telephone facilities that serve subscribers in rural areas. In order to furnish and improve service to rural subscribers it may at times be necessary to provide loan funds to finance telephone facilities which (1) will also serve nonrural subscribers, or (2) are located in nonrural areas. Loans may be approved to finance such facilities if the Administrator determines, on a case-by-case basis, that (i) the primary purpose of the loan is to provide service to rural areas and (ii) the financing of facilities for nonrural subscribers is necessary and incidental to furnishing or improving telephone service in rural areas.
(c) Loan funds may be approved for facilities to serve nonrural subscribers only if (1) the principal purpose of the loan is to furnish and improve rural service and (2) the use of loan funds to serve nonrural subscribers is necessary and incidental to the principal purpose of the loan. The following are examples of purposes for which such loans may be made (such loans are not limited to these examples):
(1) In the case of construction of a new system, if the loan would not be economically feasible and self-liquidating unless the nonrural as well as the rural portions of the telephone service area are included in the proposed system, the loan may include funds for both portions.
(2) Where the acquisition of an existing system located in and serving a nonrural area is necessary to serve as the nucleus of an expanded system to furnish area coverage service in rural areas, the loan may include funds to finance the acquisition.
(3) When a system is being converted to modern service for rural subscribers, the loan may include funds for the conversion of the nonrural facilities, if the rural service will be improved as a result of such nonrural improvements and it is impractical to finance and serve the nonrural and rural areas separately.
(4) A loan may include funds to serve nonrural subscribers located in community centers frequently called by the rural subscribers if the construction to serve such nonrural subscribers will be incidental to, and contribute substantially to, the provision of adequate service for the rural subscribers.
(d) RUS may also approve financing for facilities to serve nonrural areas if, at the time financing was first approved by RUS:
(1) The nonrural area had a population of 1,500 or less when first financed by RUS and that financing was approved prior to November 1, 1993; or
(2) The nonrural area had a population of 5,000 or less when first financed by RUS and that financing was approved on or after November 1, 1993.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66253, Dec. 20, 1993]
§ 1735.14
Borrower eligibility.
(a) RUS makes loans to:
(1) Entities providing, or who may hereafter provide, telephone service in rural areas;
(2) Public bodies providing telephone service in rural areas as of October 28, 1949; and
(3) Cooperative, nonprofit, limited dividend or mutual associations.
(4) For purposes of § 1735.10(a)(2):
(i) Any entity eligible to borrow from the RUS;
(ii) State or local governments;
(iii) Indian Tribes (as defined in § 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b); or
(iv) An emergency communications equipment provider that in the sole discretion of RUS offers adequate security for a loan where the State or local government that has jurisdiction over the proposed project is prohibited by law from acquiring debt.
(b) RUS does not make loans to individuals.
(c) RUS gives preference to those borrowers (including initial loan applicants) already providing telephone service in rural areas, and to cooperative, nonprofit, limited dividend, or mutual associations. To be eligible for a loan, a borrower:
(1) Must have sufficient authority to carryout the purposes of the RE Act; and
(2) Must be incorporated or a limited liability company.
[58 FR 66253, Dec. 20, 1993, as amended at 64 FR 50429, Sept. 17, 1999; 65 FR 42619, July 11, 2000; 76 FR 56094, Sept. 13, 2011]
§ 1735.15
Civil rights.
Borrowers are required to comply with certain regulations on nondiscrimination and equal employment opportunity. See RUS Bulletin 320-19 and RUS Bulletin 320-15, respectively.
§ 1735.16
Minimum loan amount.
Recognizing plant costs, the borrower's cost of system design, and RUS's administrative costs, RUS will not consider applications for loans of less than $50,000.
§ 1735.17
Facilities financed.
(a) RUS makes hardship and guaranteed loans to finance the improvement, expansion, construction, acquisition, and operation of systems or facilities (including station apparatus owned by the borrower, headquarters facilities, and vehicles not used primarily in construction) to furnish and improve telephone service in rural areas, except as noted under paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) RUS makes RUS cost-of-money to finance the improvement, expansion, construction, and acquisition of systems or facilities (excluding station apparatus owned by the borrower, headquarters facilities, and vehicles not used primarily in construction) to furnish and improve telephone service in rural areas, except as noted under paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) RUS will not make any type of loan to finance the following items:
(1) Station apparatus (including PBX and key systems) not owned by the borrower and any associated inside wiring;
(2) Certain duplicative facilities, see § 1735.12;
(3) Facilities to provide service other than 1-party; and
(4) System designs or facilities to provide service that cannot withstand or are not designed to minimize damage caused by storms and other natural catastrophes, including, but not limited to hurricanes, floods, tornadoes, mudslides, lightning, windstorms, hail, fire, and smoke, unless an alternate design or facility for modern telecommunications is more economically or technically feasible. Economic and technical feasibility will be determined using total long range economic costs and risk analysis.
(d) Generally, RUS will not make a loan to another entity to provide the same telecommunications service in an area served by an incumbent RUS telecommunications borrower providing such service. RUS may, however, consider an application for a loan to provide the same type of service being provided by an incumbent RUS borrower if the Administrator determines that the incumbent borrower is unable to meet its obligations to the government, including the obligation to provide service set forth in its loan documents and to repay its loans.
(e) If an unadvanced loan, or portion thereof, is rescinded, a new loan shall
not be made for the same purposes as in the rescinded loan, except as provided in § 1735.47.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66253, Dec. 20, 1993; 62 FR 46870, Sept. 5, 1997; 65 FR 42619, July 11, 2000; 84 FR 59921, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1735.18
Additional equity.
If determined by the Administrator to be necessary for loan security, a borrower applying for an initial loan shall increase its net worth as a percentage of assets to the highest level recorded, not to exceed 40 percent, at the end of any calendar quarter in the period beginning 2 years prior to the receipt by RUS of the borrower's loan application form (RUS Form 490). This restoration to the higher level of net worth shall take place before RUS will determine the feasibility of the proposed loan.
§ 1735.19
Mergers and consolidations.
RUS does not make loans for the sole purpose of merging or consolidating telephone organizations. After a merger or consolidation, RUS will consider making loans to the telephone system to finance the improvement or extension of telephone service in rural areas. See RUS Bulletins 320-4, 321-2, 325-1, and 326-1.
§ 1735.20
Acquisitions.
(a) RUS finances the acquisition by a borrower of another system, lines, or facilities only when the acquisition is necessary and incidental to furnishing or improving rural telephone service. See 7 CFR 1735.13.
(b) RUS determines the amount it will lend for each acquisition. If the acquisition price exceeds this amount, the borrower shall provide the remainder.
(c) For additional policies on acquisitions, see subpart F through J of this part.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66253, Dec. 20, 1993]
§ 1735.21
Refinancing loans.
(a) Any new direct or guaranteed loan authority provided under the RE Act may be used to refinance an outstanding obligation of the applicant on another loan made under Titles II and VI of the RE Act, or on a non-RUS loan if that loan would have been for eligible telecommunications purposes under the RE Act provided that:
(1) The applicant is current with its payments on the RUS loan(s) to be refinanced; and
(2) The amortization period for that portion of the loan request that will be needed for refinancing will not exceed the remaining amortization period for the loan(s) to be refinanced. If multiple notes are being refinanced, an average remaining amortization period will be calculated based on the weighted dollar average of the notes being refinanced.
(b) The amount that can be refinanced will be included in the funding opportunity announcement that will open a funding window based on the funds authorized for any given fiscal year.
[86 FR 50608, Sept. 10, 2021]
§ 1735.22
Loan security.
(a) RUS makes loans only if, in the judgment of the Administrator, the security therefor is reasonably adequate and the loan will be repaid within the time agreed. See 7 CFR 1735.18 and 7 CFR 1735.51.
(b) RUS generally requires that borrowers provide it with a first lien on all of the borrower's property. See 7 CFR 1735.46.
(c) The RUS will consider Government-imposed fees related to emergency communications (including State or local 911 fees) which are pledged to the repayment of a loan as security.
(d) In the case of loans that include the financing of telephone facilities that do not constitute self-contained operating systems or units (such as lines switched by other systems), the borrower shall, in addition to the mortgage lien on all of the borrower's telephone facilities, furnish adequate assurance, in the form of contractual or other security arrangements, that continuous and efficient telephone service will be rendered.
(e) The borrower shall provide RUS with a satisfactory Area Coverage Survey. See 7 CFR 1737.30 and 1737.31.
(f) RUS makes loans only if the borrower's entire system, including the facilities to be constructed with the proceeds of the loan, is economically feasible, as determined by RUS.
(g) For purposes of determining compliance with TIER requirements, unless a borrower whose existing mortgage contains TIER maintenance requirements notifies RUS in writing differently, RUS will apply the requirements described in paragraph (h) of this section to the borrower regardless of the provisions of the borrower's existing mortgage.
(h) For Loans approved after December 22, 2008, the borrower shall be required to maintain a TIER, at the end of the Forecast Period, at least equal to the projected TIER determined by the feasibility study prepared in connection with the loan, which shall be at least 1.0 and not greater than 1.5.
(i) Nothing in this section shall affect any rights of supplemental lenders under the RUS mortgage, or other creditors of the borrower, to limit a borrower's TIER requirement to a level above that established in paragraph (h) of this section.
(j) A borrower will not be required to raise its TIER as a condition for receiving a loan. Additional financial, investment, and managerial controls appear in the loan contract and mortgage required by RUS.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26597, June 10, 1991; 58 FR 66254, Dec. 20, 1993; 62 FR 46870, Sept. 5, 1997; 63 FR 45678, Aug. 27, 1998; 73 FR 65726, Nov. 5, 2008; 76 FR 56094, Sept. 13, 2011; 86 FR 50608, Sept. 10, 2021]
§ 1735.23
Public notice.
(a) For applications which request funding in which the applicant will provide retail broadband service, the Agency's mapping tool will include the following information from each application, and be displayed for the public:
(1) The identity of the applicant;
(2) A description of the project that can deliver retail broadband service;
(3) A map of the areas to be served, the proposed funded service area (PFSA), including identification of the associated census blocks;
(4) The amount and type of funding requested;
(5) The status of the application; and
(6) The estimated number and proportion of households and businesses in the proposed funded service area without fixed retail broadband service, whether terrestrial or wireless, excluding mobile and satellite service.
(b) For funding requests outside an area where the applicant receives Federal universal service support, the public notice filing referenced under paragraph (a) of this section will accept public notice responses from existing service providers with respect to retail broadband service already being provided in the PFSA for 45 calendar days on the Agency's web page. Existing service providers are requested to submit the following information through the Agency's mapping tool:
(1) The number of residential and business customers within the PFSA currently purchasing broadband at the minimum threshold, the rates of data transmission being offered, and the cost of each level of broadband service charged by the existing service provider;
(2) The number of residential and business customers within the applicant's service area receiving voice and video services and the associated rates for these other services;
(3) A map showing where the existing service provider's services coincide with the applicant's service area using the Agency's mapping tool; and
(4) Test results for the service area in question for a minimum of at least the prior three months demonstrating that the asserted level of broadband is being provided. The test results shall be for different times of the day.
(c) The Agency may contact service providers that respond under paragraph (b) of this section to validate their submission, and so responding service providers should be prepared to:
(1) Provide additional information supporting that the area in question has sufficient access to broadband service;
(2) Have a technician on site during the field validation by RUS staff;
(3) Run on site tests with RUS personnel being present, if requested; and
(4) Provide copies of any test results that have been conducted in the last
six months and validate the information submitted in the public notice response months.
(d) If no broadband service provider submits information pursuant to a pending application or if the existing provider does not provide the information requested under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, RUS will consider the extent of broadband service using any other data available through reasonable efforts, including utilizing the National Telecommunications and Information Administration's National Broadband Availability Map and the Federal Communications Commission broadband availability map. That may include the agency conducting field validations so as to locate facilities in the application service area and determine, to the extent possible, if those facilities can provide the minimum threshold of broadband. Notwithstanding, conclusive evidence as to the existence of the level of broadband will be taken only through the public notice process. As a result, the Agency highly recommends that existing service providers in a PFSA submit public notice response to ensure that their service is considered in the determination of eligibility on an application.
(e) The Agency will notify respondents who are existing service providers whether their public notice response was accepted or not and allow for an opportunity to respond.
(f) The information submitted by an existing service provider under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section will be treated as proprietary and confidential and not subject to disclosure, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 950cc(b)(3).
(g) For all applications that are approved, the following information will be made available to the public:
(1) The information provided in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Each annual report required under § 1735.24 will be redacted to protect any proprietary information; and
(3) Such other information as the Administrator of the RUS deems sufficient to allow the public to understand the assistance provided.
[86 FR 50608, Sept. 10, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 36217, June 2, 2023]
§ 1735.24
Additional reporting requirements.
(a) Entities receiving financial assistance from RUS that are used for retail broadband must submit annual reports for 3 years after project completion. The reports must include the following information:
(1) The purpose of the financing, including new equipment and capacity enhancements that support high-speed broadband access for educational institutions, health care providers, and public safety service providers (including the estimated number of end users who are currently using or forecasted to use the new or upgraded infrastructure); and
(2) The progress towards fulfilling the objectives for which the assistance was made, including:
(i) The number of service points that will receive new broadband service, existing network improvements, and facility upgrades resulting from the federal assistance;
(ii) The speed of the broadband services;
(iii) The average price of the most subscribed tier of retail broadband service in each PFSA;
(iv) The number of new subscribers generated from the project; and
(v) Complete, reliable, and precise geolocation information that indicates the location of new broadband service that is being provided or upgraded within the service territory supported by the grant, loan, or loan guarantee.
(b) A notice will be published on the Agency's website that will include each annual broadband improvement report, redacted as appropriate to protect any proprietary information in the report.
[86 FR 50609, Sept. 10, 2021]
§§ 1735.25-1735.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Types of Loans
§ 1735.30
Hardship loans.
(a) RUS makes hardship loans under section 305(d)(1) of the RE Act. These loans bear interest at a rate of 5 percent per year. To qualify for a hardship loan on or after November 1, 1993, a borrower must meet each of the following requirements:
(1) The average number of proposed subscribers per mile of line in the service area of the borrower is not more than 4;
(2) The borrower has a projected TIER (including the proposed loan or loans) of at least 1.0, but not greater than 3.0, as determined by the feasibility study prepared in connection with the loan, see 7 CFR part 1737, subpart H; and
(3) The Administrator has approved and the borrower is participating in a telecommunications modernization plan for the state, see 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B.
(b)(1) Hardship loan funds shall not be used to finance facilities located in any exchange of the borrower that has:
(i) More than 1,000 existing subscribers; and
(ii) An average number of proposed subscribers per mile of line greater than 17.
(2) Those facilities may, however, be financed with a RUS cost-of-money loans or a guaranteed loan if the borrower is eligible for such financing.
(c) The Administrator may waive the TIER requirement in paragraph (a)(2) of this section in any case in which the Administrator determines, and sets forth the reasons therefor in writing, that the requirement would prevent emergency restoration of the telephone system of the borrower or result in severe hardship to the borrower.
(d) In order to fairly and equitably approve hardship loans to ensure that borrowers most in need receive hardship financing first, RUS will prioritize for approval all applications qualifying for hardship loans. The criteria in this paragraph will be used by the Administrator to rank, from high to low, applications that have been determined to qualify for hardship financing. Subject to the availability of funds, applications receiving the highest number of points will be selected for loan approval each fiscal year quarter (the application with the most points will be approved first, the second highest next, etc.) The following ranking methodology and loan approval conditions apply:
(1)
Ranking criteria.
Borrowers will receive points based on each of the following criteria applicable to the proposed loan:
(i)
Forecasted Average Number of Subscribers Per Mile of Line (Density).
The number of points assigned to a borrower will be the value 4 less the value of the borrower's forecasted density as determined by the Feasibility Study prepared in connection with the loan (i.e., if a borrower's forecasted system density is 2.75, the borrower would receive 4 less 2.75 points, or 1.25 points).
(ii)
Forecasted TIER.
The number of points assigned to a borrower will be the value 3 less the value of the borrower's forecasted TIER as determined by the Feasibility Study prepared in connection with the loan (i.e., if a borrower's forecasted TIER is 1.75, the borrower would receive 3 less 1.75 points, or 1.25 points).
(iii)
Unserved Territories.
Borrowers will receive points for loan funds included in the application to provide telephone service in areas previously unserved because it was considered cost prohibitive (for example, high costs resulting from the terrain, remoteness, or system design). In particular, borrowers will receive one tenth of a point, up to a maximum of 2 points, for each subscriber added (in connection with the loan) that currently resides in an unserved area.
(iv)
Plant Modernization.
Borrowers will receive 1 point for loan funds included in the application for at least one of the following basic plant modernizations or system improvements:
(A) Providing digital switching capabilities where those capabilities did not previously exist; and/or
(B) Upgrading to equal access; and/or
(C) Conversion of service to 1-party making an entire exchange all 1-party service.
(v)
Distance Learning and Medical Link Facilities.
Borrowers will receive 2 points for loan funds included in the application for the purpose of providing distance learning or medical link transmission facilities. If loan funds are included for both distance learning and medical link transmission facilities, borrowers will receive 3 points. (See 7 CFR part 1734 for definitions of distance learning and medical link.)
(vi)
Time Factor.
If a borrower's application has been ranked but cannot be
approved due to the lack of funds available for loans in that quarter, the borrower will receive .25 points for each quarter in which its loan is pending but not approved.
(2)
Ranking and approval of loans.
Eligible loan applications (satisfying the requirements of 7 CFR 1737.21) will be ranked during the quarter in which the application is received. If an application is received in which insufficient time remains in that quarter to process and rank the application, it will be ranked in the next quarter. At the beginning of the quarter and as soon as practical, RUS will approve all eligible hardship loans ranked in the previous quarter to the extent loan funds are available, beginning with the borrowers that received the highest number of points and working downwards. Any qualified application that is not approved due to the lack of funds will be carried forward to the next quarter and ranked with all other eligible hardship loan applications in that quarter. Upon completion of the ranking and approval of loans, all borrowers will be informed in writing of the status of their loan applications.
(e)
Optimal use of funds.
RUS retains the right to limit the size of hardship loans made to individual borrowers in order to more equitably distribute the amount of hardship funds appropriated among the greatest number of qualified borrowers. Generally, no more than 10 percent of the funds appropriated in any fiscal year may be loaned to a single borrower. In addition, RUS retains the right to approve loans to borrowers that are ranked lower in the priority system, or without regard to when the application was received and ranked, if it is necessary to:
(1) Expedite restoration of service outages due to natural disasters; or
(2) Maximize the use of all available hardship funds appropriated for loans in that fiscal year.
(f) On request of any borrower who is eligible for a hardship loan for which funds are not available, the borrower shall be considered to have applied for a RUS cost-of-money loans under sections 305 of the RE Act.
(g) Hardship loans may be made simultaneously with a RUS cost-of-money loans or guaranteed loans.
[58 FR 66254, Dec. 20, 1993, as amended at 82 FR 55939, Nov. 27, 2017; 84 FR 59921, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1735.31
RUS cost-of-money.
(a) RUS makes cost-of-money loans, under section 305(d)(2) of the RE Act. To qualify for cost-of-money loans, a borrower must meet each of the following requirements:
(1) The average number of proposed subscribers per mile of line in the service area of the borrower is not more than 15, or the borrower has a projected TIER (including the proposed loans) of at least 1.0, but not greater than 5.0, as determined by the feasibility study prepared in connection with the loans, see 7 CFR part 1737, subpart H; and
(2) The Administrator has approved and the borrower is participating in a telecommunications modernization plan for the state, see 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B.
(b) To determine the RUS cost-of-money, the total loan amount will be multiplied by the ratio of RUS cost-of-money funds appropriated for the fiscal year to the sum of RUS cost-of-money funds appropriated for the fiscal year in which the loan is approved. If during the fiscal year the amount of funds appropriated changes, the ratio will be adjusted accordingly and applied only to those loans approved afterwards.
(c) The RUS cost-of-money loan shall bear interest as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Each advance of funds included in RUS cost-of-money loans shall bear interest at a rate (the “Cost of Money Interest Rate”) equal to the current cost of money to the Federal Government for loans of a similar maturity. The Cost of Money Rate is determined when the funds are advanced to the borrower but cannot exceed 7 percent per year.
(2) RUS shall use the Federal Treasury Statistical Release (the “Statistical Release”) issued by the United States Treasury to determine the interest rate for each advance of RUS cost-of-money loan funds. Generally, the Statistical Release is issued each Monday to cover the preceding week.
RUS shall determine the Cost of Money Interest Rate as follows:
(i) Each advance shall bear the interest rate stated in the applicable Statistical Release for Treasury constant maturities with a maturity similar to that of the advance.
(ii) RUS shall determine the interest rate for an advance bearing a maturity other than those stated in the applicable Statistical Release by straight-line interpolation between the next higher and next lower stated maturities.
(iii) The first Statistical Release published after the date of an advance shall apply to that advance.
(iv) If the interest rate determined under paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (c)(2)(ii) of this section is higher than 7 percent, then the advance shall bear interest at the rate of 7 percent per year.
(v) Advances with maturities greater than 30 years shall bear interest at the rate stated in the applicable Statistical Release for 30-year maturities.
(vi) RUS may use an alternative method to determine the Cost of Money Interest Rate if the Treasury ceases to issue the Statistical Release or changes its format or frequency of issue so that it is no longer appropriate for use in the manner described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. In this eventuality, RUS shall immediately notify all borrowers with unadvanced RUS cost-of-money loan funds. RUS may, with the borrower's consent, determine the Cost of Money Interest Rate on a case-by-case basis for subsequent advances of RUS cost-of-money loan funds but may also decide, in its discretion, that it is unable to continue advancing funds until an alternative method is in effect.
(vii) Refer to § 1735.43(a) for additional information on maturities of RUS loans.
(viii) RUS shall provide borrowers with prompt written confirmation of the Cost of Money Interest Rate borne by each advance of funds included in a RUS cost-of-money loan.
(d) Generally, no more than 10 percent of lending authority from appropriations in any fiscal year for RUS cost-of-money loans may be loaned to a single borrower. RUS will publish by notice in the
Federal Register
the dollar limit that may be loaned to a single borrower in that particular fiscal year based on approved RUS lending authority.
(e) On request of any borrower who is eligible for RUS cost-of-money loans for which funds are not available, the borrower shall be considered to have applied for a loan guarantee under section 306 of the RE Act.
(f) RUS cost-of-money loans may be made simultaneously with hardship loans or guaranteed loans.
[58 FR 66255, Dec. 20, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 46870, Sept. 5, 1997; 84 FR 59921, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1735.32
Guaranteed loans.
(a)
General.
Loan guarantees under this section will be considered for only those borrowers specifically requesting a guarantee. Borrowers may also specify that the loan to be guaranteed shall be made by the Federal Financing Bank (FFB). RUS provides loan guarantees pursuant to section 306 of the RE Act. Guaranteed loans may be made simultaneously with hardship loans or RUS cost-of-money loans. No fees or charges are assessed for any guarantee of a loan provided by RUS. In view of the Government's guarantee, RUS generally obtains a first lien on all assets of the borrower (see § 1735.46).
(b)
Requirements.
To qualify for a guaranteed loan, a borrower must have a projected TIER (including the proposed loan or loans) of at least 1.2 as determined by the feasibility study prepared in connection with the loan. In addition, a borrower must meet all requirements set forth in the regulations applicable to a loan made by RUS with the exception that it is not required to participate in a state telecommunications modernization plan and is not subject to a subscriber per mile eligibility requirement, as provided in § 1735.31(a).
(c)
Net worth requirements.
RUS generally requires that borrowers seeking guaranteed loans have a net worth in excess of 20 percent of assets. RUS will, however, consider loan guarantees for borrowers with a net worth less than 20 percent.
(d)
Full amount guaranteed.
Loans are guaranteed in the full amount of principal and interest. Because of the Government's full faith and credit 100 percent guarantee of these loans, only RUS obtains a mortgage on the borrower's assets.
(e)
Federal Register notice.
After RUS has reviewed an application and determined that it shall consider guaranteeing a loan for the proposed project and if the borrower has not specified that the loan be made from the FFB, RUS shall publish a notice in the
Federal Register.
The Notice will include a description of the proposed project, the estimated total cost, the estimated amount of the guaranteed loan, a statement that the Federal Financing Bank (FFB) has a standing loan commitment agreement with RUS, and the name and address of the borrower to which financing proposals may be submitted.
(f)
Qualified lenders.
RUS considers loan guarantees on a case by case basis for loans made by the FFB and any other legally organized lending agency or by a combination of lenders that the Administrator determines to be qualified to make, hold and service the loan. “Legally organized lending agency” and “lender” include commercial banks, trust companies, mortgage banking firms, insurance companies, and any other institutional investor authorized by law to loan money. The borrower is responsible for evaluating all proposals received from lenders other than FFB. The borrower furnishes RUS with a report on the evaluations and its choice of proposals. However, at the request of the borrower, the guaranteed loan shall be made by the FFB.
(g)
Interest rate.
Guaranteed loans shall bear interest at the rate agreed upon by the borrower and lender. Guaranteed FFB loans shall be at a rate of interest that is not more than the rate of interest applicable to other similar loans then being made or purchased by FFB.
(h)
Condition of guarantee.
RUS will not guarantee a loan if the income from the loan or the income from obligations issued by the holder of the loan, when the obligations are created by the loan, is excluded from gross income for the purpose of chapter I of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
(i)
Contract of guarantee.
If RUS is satisfied with the engineering and economic feasibility of the project and approves the borrower's choice of proposal, subject to the submission of satisfactory financing documents and to the satisfaction of other pertinent terms and conditions, RUS will prepare a contract of guarantee to be executed by the borrower, the lender, and RUS within a specified time. The lender, or its representative, shall have the right to examine the borrower's application and supporting data submitted to RUS in support of its request for financial assistance.
(j)
Loan servicing.
The contract of guarantee will require that arrangements satisfactory to RUS be made to service the loan. Required servicing by the lender will include:
(1) Determining that all prerequisites to each advance of loan funds by the lender under the terms of the contract of guarantee, all financing documents, and all related security instruments have been fulfilled. Such determinations may be met by obtaining RUS approval of each advance.
(2) Billing and collecting loan payments from the borrower.
(3) Notifying the Administrator promptly of any default in the payment of principal and interest on the loan and submitting a report, as soon as possible thereafter, setting forth its views as to the reasons for the default, how long it expects the borrower will be in default, and what corrective actions the borrower states it is taking to achieve a current debt service position.
(4) Notifying the Administrator of any known violations or defaults by the borrower under the lending agreement, contract of guarantee, or related security instruments, or conditions of which the lender is aware which might lead to nonpayment, violation, or other default.
(k)
Payments under the contract of guarantee.
Upon receipt of the notification required in § 1735.32(j)(3) of this section, RUS will pay the lender the amount in default with interest to the date of payment. When RUS has made
a payment under a contract of guarantee, it will establish in its accounts the amount of the payment as due and payable from the borrower, with interest at the rate of interest specified in the lending agreement. RUS will work with the borrower and the lender in an effort to eliminate the borrower's default as soon as possible. RUS may also proceed with other remedies available under its security instruments.
(l)
Pledging of contract of guarantee.
Subject to applicable law, RUS will consider, on a case by case basis, permitting pledging of the contract of guarantee in order to facilitate the obtaining of funds by the lending agency to make the guaranteed loan.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989; 54 FR 16194, Apr. 21, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26597, June 10, 1991; 58 FR 66255, Dec. 20, 1993; 62 FR 46870, Sept. 5, 1997; 84 FR 59921, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1735.33
Variable interest rate loans.
After June 10, 1991, and prior to November 1, 1993, RUS made certain variable rate loans at interest rates less than 5 percent but not less than 2 percent. For those borrowers that received variable rate loans, this section describes the method by which interest rates are adjusted. The interest rate used in determining feasibility is the rate charged to the borrower until the end of the Forecast Period for that loan. At the end of the Forecast Period, the interest rate for the loan may be annually adjusted by the Administrator upward to a rate not greater than 5 percent, or downward to a rate not less than the rate determined in the feasibility study on which the loan was based, based on the borrower's ability to pay debt service and maintain a minimum TIER of 1.0. Downward and upward adjustments will be rounded down to the nearest one-half or whole percent. To make this adjustment, projections set forth in the loan feasibility study will be revised annually by RUS (beginning within four months after the end of the Forecast Period) to reflect updated revenue and expense factors based on the borrower's current operating condition. Any such adjustment will be effective on July 1 of the year in which the adjustment was determined. If the Administrator determines that the borrower is capable of meeting the minimum TIER requirements of § 1735.22(f) at a loan interest rate of 5 percent on a loan made as described in this section, then the loan interest rate shall be fixed, for the remainder of the loan repayment period, at the standard interest rate of 5 percent.
[62 FR 46870, Sept. 5, 1997]
§§ 1735.34-1735.39
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Terms of Loans

# Source:
54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1735.40
General.
Terms and conditions of loans are set forth in a mortgage, note, and loan contract. Provisions of the mortgage and loan contract are implemented by provisions in RUS Bulletins and Regulations. Forms of the mortgage, note, and loan contract can be obtained from RUS.
§ 1735.41
Notes.
Loans are represented by one or more notes. Interest accrues only on funds advanced. There are no loan commitment fees or charges. See RUS Bulletin 320-12 for additional information. This CFR part supersedes those portions of RUS Bulletin 320-12 “Loan Payments and Statements” with which it is in conflict.
§ 1735.42
[Reserved]
§ 1735.43
Payments on loans.
(a) Except as described in this paragraph (a), RUS loans approved after October 6, 1997 must be repaid with interest within a period that, rounded to the nearest whole year, equals the expected composite economic life of the facilities to be financed, as calculated by RUS; expected composite economic life means the depreciated life plus three years. The expected composite economic life shall be based on the depreciation rates for the facilities financed by the loan. In states where the borrower must obtain state regulatory commission approval of depreciation rates, the depreciation rates used shall
be the rates currently approved by the state commission or rates for which the borrower has received state commission approval. In cases where a state regulatory commission does not approve depreciation rates, the expected composite economic life shall be based on the most recent median depreciation rates published by RUS for all borrowers (see 7 CFR 1737.70). Borrowers may request a repayment period that is longer or shorter than the expected composite economic life of the facilities financed. If the Administrator determines that a repayment period based on the expected composite economic life of the facilities financed is likely to cause the borrower to experience hardship, the Administrator may agree to approve a period longer than requested. A shorter period may be approved as long as the Administrator determines that the loan remains feasible.
(b) Borrowers that have demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Administrator an inability to maintain the funded reserve or net plant to secured debt ratio requirements, if any, contained in their mortgage, may elect to replace notes with an original maturity that exceeded the composite economic life of the facilities financed with notes bearing a shorter maturity approximating the expected composite economic life of the facilities financed, if this will result in a shorter maturity for the loan. The principal balance of the notes (hereinafter in this section called the “refunding notes”) issued to refund and substitute for the original notes would be the unpaid principal balance of the original notes. The refunding notes would mature at a date no later than the remaining economic life of the facilities financed by the loan, plus three years, as determined by the original feasibility study prepared in connection with the loan. Interest on the original note must continue to be paid through the closing date. All other payment terms, including the rate of interest on the refunding notes, would remain unchanged. Disposition of funds in the funded reserve will be determined by RUS at the closing date. RUS will notify the borrower in writing of the amendment of loan payment requirements and the terms and conditions thereof.
(c) A borrower qualifying under paragraph (b) of this section shall not be required to pay a prepayment premium on such portion of the payments under its new notes as exceeds the payments required under the notes being replaced.
(d) To apply for refunding notes, borrowers must send to the Area Office the following:
(1) A certified copy of a board resolution requesting an amendment of loan payment requirements and that certain notes be replaced;
(2) If applicable, evidence of approval by the regulatory body with jurisdiction over the telecommunications service provided by the borrower to issue refunding notes; and
(3) Such other documents as may be required by the RUS.
(e) Principal and interest will be repaid in accordance with the terms of the notes. Generally, interest is payable each month as it accrues. Principal payments on each note generally are scheduled to begin 2 years after the date of the note. After this deferral period, interest and principal payments on all funds advanced during this 2-year period are scheduled in equal monthly installments. Principal payments on funds advanced 2 years or more after the date of the note will begin with the first billing after the advance. The interest and principal payments on each of these advances will be scheduled in equal monthly installments. This CFR part supersedes those portions of RUS Bulletin 320-12, “Loan Payments and Statements” with which it is in conflict.
[56 FR 26598, June 10, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 46871, Sept. 5, 1997; 84 FR 59921, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1735.44
Prepayment premiums.
The loan documents normally provide that RUS insured loans may be repaid in full at any time without prepayment premiums. Depending upon the lender, there may be prepayment premiums on loans guaranteed by RUS. See RUS Bulletin 320-12 for additional information. This CFR part supersedes those portions of RUS Bulletin 320-12,
“Loan Payments and Statements,” with which it is in conflict.
[84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1735.45
Extension of payments.
RUS may extend the time of payment of principal or interest on a loan. Under section 12 of the Rural Electrification Act, as amended, this extension may be up to 5 years after such payment is due. Under section 236 of the Disaster Relief Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-606) payment may be deferred by the Secretary of Agriculture as long as necessary in disaster situations so long as the final maturity date is not later than 40 years after the date of the loan. See RUS Bulletin 320-2 for additional information.
§ 1735.46
Loan security documents.
(a) Loans are to be repaid according to their terms. RUS generally obtains a first lien on all assets of the borrower. This lien shall be in the form of a mortgage by the borrower to the Government or a deed of trust made by and between the borrower and a trustee, satisfactory to the Administrator, together with such security agreements, financing statements, or other security documents as RUS may deem necessary in a particular case. Where a borrower is unable by reason of pre-existing encumbrances, or otherwise, to furnish a first mortgage lien on its entire system the Administrator may, if he determines such security to be reasonably adequate and the form and nature thereof otherwise appropriate, accept other forms of security. See RUS Bulletins 320-4, 320-22, 321-2, 322-2, 323-1, and 326-1 for details. See 7 CFR part 1744, subpart B for information on lien accommodations and subordinations.
(b) Loan security documents of borrowers with loans approved after October 6, 1997 will provide limits on allowable cash distributions in any calendar year as follows:
(1) No more than 25 percent of the prior calendar year's net earnings or margins if the borrower's net worth is at least 1 percent of its total assets after the distribution is made;
(2) No more than 50 percent of the prior calendar year's net earnings or margins if the borrower's net worth is at least 20 percent of its total assets after the distribution is made;
(3) No more than 75 percent of the prior calendar year's net earnings or margins if the borrower's net worth is at least 30 percent of its total assets after the distribution is made; or
(4) No limit on distributions if the borrower's net worth is at least 40 percent of its total assets after the distribution is made.
(c) Borrowers that have not received a loan after October 6, 1997 may request the Administrator to apply these requirements to them. Borrowers may request in writing that RUS substitute the new requirements described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section. Upon request by the borrower, the provisions of the borrower's loan documents restricting cash distributions or investments shall not be enforced to the extent that such provisions are inconsistent with this section.
(d) Rural development investments meeting the criteria set forth in 7 CFR part 1744, subpart D, will not be counted against a borrower's allowable cash distributions in any calendar year (7 U.S.C. 926).
(e) References to a borrower's mortgage in this section include deeds of trust and any other loan document applying the same requirements to a borrower.
(f) This section does not limit the rights of any parties to the mortgage other than RUS.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 29537, June 8, 1994; 62 FR 46871, Sept. 5, 1997; 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1735.47
Rescissions of loans.
(a) Rescission of a loan may be requested by a borrower at any time. To rescind a loan, the borrower must demonstrate to RUS that:
(1) The purposes of the loan being rescinded have been completed;
(2) Sufficient funds are available from sources other than RUS or FFB to complete the purposes of the loan being rescinded; or
(3) The purposes of the loan are no longer required to extend or improve telephone service in rural areas.
(b) Borrowers submitting loan applications containing purposes previously covered by a loan that has been rescinded shall include in the application an explanation, satisfactory to RUS, of the change of conditions since the rescission that re-establishes the need for those purposes.
(c) RUS shall not initiate the rescission of a loan unless all of the purposes for which telephone loans have been made to the borrower under the Act have been accomplished with funds provided under the Act.
[56 FR 26598, June 10, 1991, as amended at 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§§ 1735.48-1735.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Basic Requirements For Loan Approval

# Source:
54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1735.50
Administrative findings.
The RE Act requires that the Administrator make certain findings to approve a telephone loan or loan guarantee. The borrower shall provide the evidence determined by the Administrator to be necessary to make these findings. Details on the information required to support these findings are included in 7 CFR part 1737.
§ 1735.51
Required findings.
(a)
Feasibility of and security for the Loan.
The borrower shall provide RUS with satisfactory evidence to enable the Administrator to determine that the security for the loan is reasonably adequate and the loan will be repaid on time. This finding is based on the following factors:
(1) Self-liquidation of the loan within the loan amortization period; this requires that there be sufficient revenues from the borrower's system, in excess of operating expenditures (including maintenance and replacement), to repay the loan with interest.
(2) Reasonable assurance of achieving the telephone market projections upon which the loan is based.
(3) Economic feasibility (based on projected revenues, expenses, net income, maximum debt service, and rate of return on investment) for the proposed system using local service rate schedules appropriate for the area served.
(4) Impact of the proposed loan and construction on the ratio of the borrower's secured debt to assets.
(5) Projected growth in the borrower's equity.
(6) Satisfactory experience and reputation of the system's principal owners and manager.
(7) A first lien on the borrower's total system or other adequate security.
(8) Fair market value of the borrower's assets as represented in its financial reports to RUS.
(9) Appropriate financial and managerial controls included in the loan documents.
(10) Other factors determined to be relevant by RUS.
(b)
Area coverage.
The borrower shall provide RUS with satisfactory evidence to enable the Administrator to determine that adequate telephone service will be made available to the widest practical number of rural users during the life of the loan.
(c)
Nonduplication or certificate requirement.
The borrower shall provide RUS with satisfactory evidence to enable the Administrator to determine that no duplication of telephone service shall result from a particular loan.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26598, June 10, 1991; 86 FR 50609, Sept. 10, 2021]
§ 1735.52
Findings required for particular loan purposes.
Whenever a borrower proposes to use loan funds for the improvement, expansion, construction, or acquisition of telephone facilities within or for nonrural areas, the borrower shall provide RUS with satisfactory evidence to enable the Administrator to determine that such funds shall be necessary and incidental to furnishing or improving telephone service in rural areas.
[54 FR 13351, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 86 FR 50609, Sept. 10, 2021]
§§ 1735.53-1735.59
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Mortgage Controls on Acquisitions and Mergers

# Source:
54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1735.60
Specific provisions.
(a) The standard form of RUS mortgage contains certain provisions concerning mergers and acquisitions:
(1) Article II, section 4(a) requires the borrower to obtain the written approval of the majority noteholders before taking any action to reorganize, or to consolidate with or merge into any other corporation.
(2) Article II, section 4(b), if made applicable, provides certain exceptions to the requirements of section 4(a).
(b) Similar provisions are contained in other forms of documents executed by borrowers that have not entered into the standard form of mortgage.
(c) Mortgages and loan contracts may contain other provisions concerning mergers and acquisitions.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 62 FR 46871, Sept. 5, 1997]
§ 1735.61
Approval criteria.
(a) If a borrower is required by the terms of its mortgage or loan contract to obtain RUS approval of a merger or acquisition, the borrower shall request RUS approval and shall provide RUS with such data as RUS may request.
(b) If loan funds are requested, the borrower shall comply with subpart G of this part. If no additional loan funds are involved, the borrower shall comply with subpart H of this part.
(c) In considering whether to approve the request, RUS will take into account, among other matters:
(1) Whether the operation, management, and the economic and loan-repayment feasibility characteristics of the proposed system are satisfactory;
(2) Whether the merger or acquisition may result in any relinquishment, impairment, or waiver of a right or power of the Government;
(3) Whether the proposed merger or acquisition is in the best interests of the Government as note holder; and
(4) Whether the proposed purchase price and terms of an acquisition are reasonable, regardless of the source of funds used to pay for the purchase. RUS will consider the purchase price unreasonable if, in RUS's opinion, it will endanger financial feasibility.
§ 1735.62
Approval of acquisitions and mergers.
(a) If a proposal is unsatisfactory to RUS, then RUS shall inform the borrower in writing of those features it considers objectionable and, as appropriate, recommend corrective action.
(b) If a proposal is satisfactory to RUS, then RUS shall inform the borrower in writing of its approval and any conditions of such approval. Among the conditions of approval are the following:
(1) RUS shall require a compensating benefit in return for any relinquishment, impairment, or waiver of its rights or powers.
(2) If the survivor is an affiliate of another company, RUS shall require any investments in, advances to, accounts receivable from, and accounts payable to the affiliated company contrary to mortgage provisions shall be eliminated in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.
(3) RUS requires that the borrower agree not to extend credit to, perform services for, or receive services from any affiliated company unless specifically authorized in writing by the Administrator or pursuant to contracts satisfactory in form and substance to the Administrator.
(4) RUS may require the borrower to execute additional mortgages, loan agreements, and associated documentation.
§§ 1735.63-1735.69
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Acquisitions Involving Loan Funds

# Source:
54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1735.70
Use of loan funds.
(a) See 7 CFR part 1735 and 1737 for RUS's general loan policies and requirements.
(b) RUS will finance an acquisition by a borrower only when the acquisition is necessary and incidental to furnishing or improving rural telephone service and the service area is eligible for RUS assistance.
(c) RUS does not make loans for the sole purpose of merging or consolidating telephone organizations. After a merger or consolidation, RUS will consider making loans to the telephone system to finance the improvement or extension of telephone service in rural areas.
(d) Generally, RUS will not make a loan for the acquisition of an existing borrower unless, in addition to all other requirements, such acquisition will improve the likelihood of repayment of an outstanding RUS loan and all outstanding balances of the previous RUS loans are paid in full.
(e) In determining the amount it will lend for each acquisition, RUS shall place a valuation on all telephone facilities that are to be acquired with loan funds. RUS may consider fair market value, the original cost less depreciation of the facilities, income generating potential, any improvement in the financial strength of the borrower as a result of the acquisition, and any other factors deemed relevant by RUS to determine the reasonableness of the acquisition price and the amount of loan funds RUS will provide for an acquisition. RUS shall not consider the acquisition price reasonable or approve a loan if, in the Administrator's opinion, the acquisition price will endanger financial feasibility. If the acquisition price exceeds the amount RUS will lend, the borrower provides the remainder.
(f) When a borrower intends to request RUS loan funds for an acquisition, it shall present a proposal in writing to the Area Office as soon as possible. The borrower must either obtain RUS approval prior to making any binding commitments with the seller or make the commitments subject to RUS's approval. Failure to comply with these requirements will disqualify the borrower from obtaining an RUS loan for the acquisition unless the Administrator determines there were extenuating circumstances.
§ 1735.71
Nonrural areas.
Loan funds may be approved for the acquisition and improvement of facilities to serve nonrural subscribers only if the principal purpose of the loan is to furnish and improve rural service and only if the use of loan funds to serve nonrural subscribers is necessary and incidental to the principal purpose of the loan. For example, when the acquisition of an existing system located in and serving a nonrural area is necessary to serve as the nucleus of an expanded system to furnish area coverage service in rural areas, the loan may include funds to finance the acquisition. Approval for the use of loan funds in these circumstances shall be made only on a case by case basis by the Administrator.
§ 1735.72
Acquisition agreements.
When borrowers are seeking RUS financing, acquisition agreements between the borrower and the seller must be in form and substance satisfactory to RUS and shall be expressly conditioned on approval of the agreement by RUS and on obtaining an RUS loan. Normally, the acquisition agreement will not be approved by RUS until the loan has been approved.
§ 1735.73
Loan design.
When loan funds are requested for an acquisition, details of the proposed acquisition shall be included in the Loan Design. See 7 CFR part 1737.
§ 1735.74
Submission of data.
(a) RUS will not approve any acquisition, other than of toll facilities (see subpart J of this part), financed in whole or in part with loan funds until the borrower submits the following data to the GFR:
(1) For any nonborrowers involved, their most recent balance sheets, operating statements, detail of plant accounts, reports to the state commission, and audits, if available.
(2) Completed RUS Form 507, “Report on Telephone Acquisition,” which provides system data, including the type
of purchase and purchase price, a system description, and data by exchange. See § 1735.3 for information on obtaining copies of this form.
(3) A map (such as a road map) showing county lines, the boundaries of the proposed acquisition and the borrower's existing service territory, and the names of other telephone companies serving adjoining areas.
(4) A brief statement of the plans for incorporating the acquired facilities into the borrower's existing system.
(5) The number of subscribers currently receiving service in the area to be acquired and the number of new subscribers that will be served over the next 5 years as a result of the acquisition.
(6) The proposed purchase price.
(7) Two copies of any options, bills of sale, or deeds, and four copies of any acquisition agreements. All of these documents are subject to RUS approval. If the acquisition agreement is approved by RUS, two copies of it shall be returned to the borrower.
(8) An appraisal by the borrower's consulting engineer or other qualified person of the physical plant to be acquired. The appraisal shall include the following:
(i) Inspection of each central office, noting the age and condition of the switch and associated equipment, and the extent and quality of maintenance of the equipment and premises.
(ii) Inspection of the outside plant, noting the general age and condition of cable and wire, poles and related hardware, pedestals, and subscriber drops. Any joint use or ownership shall be explained.
(iii) Inspection of miscellaneous items such as commercial office facilities, vehicles, furniture, tools and work equipment, and materials and supplies in stock, noting age and condition.
(iv) Inspection of all buildings and other structures (such as radio towers), noting age and condition.
(v) Detailed description of all real estate including the present market value that local real estate dealers, bankers, insurance agents, etc., place on the property.
(vi) Any widely accepted method, approved by RUS, may be used to estimate the condition of the facilities in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (a)(8)(iv) of this section. The “percent condition” method is recommended, but is not required.
(9) Copies of deeds to real estate to be acquired, with an explanation of the proposed use of the land.
(10) Copies of leases to be acquired.
(11) Copies of any existing mortgages with parties other than RUS, indentures, deeds of trust, or other security documents or financing agreements relating to the property to be acquired and any contracts or other rights or obligations to be assumed as part of the acquisition.
(12) A list of all counties in which the proposed system will have facilities.
(13) If the borrower is a cooperative-type organization, a description of its plans for taking subscribers in as members, membership fees, equity payments required because of the acquisition, and extent of membership support.
(14) A certification, signed by the president of the borrower, that the borrower is participating in the State's telecommunications modernization plan (for information concerning the plan, see 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B). This certification is not required if the borrower is seeking a guaranteed loan.
(15) Any other data deemed necessary by the Administrator for an evaluation of the acquisition.
(b) For stock acquisitions, the borrower shall submit the following in addition to the items listed in (a) of this section:
(1) A list of all stockholders of the company to be acquired and the number of shares each owns.
(2) Guarantees and indemnifications to be obtained from the sellers of the stock.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0084)
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990; 58 FR 66256, Dec. 20, 1993]
§ 1735.75
Interim financing.
(a) A borrower may submit a written request for RUS approval of interim financing if it is necessary to close an acquisition before the loan to finance the acquisition is approved. Loan funds
shall not be used to reimburse acquisition costs unless RUS has granted approval of interim financing prior to the closing of the acquisition.
(b) RUS will approve interim financing of acquisitions only in cases where loan funds cannot be made available in time for the closing.
(c) RUS will not approve interim financing unless the following information is acceptable:
(1) A written request for approval of interim financing, including a brief description of the acquisition, an explanation of the urgency of proceeding with the acquisition, and the source of funds to be used.
(2) A completed RUS Form 490, “Application for Telephone Loan or Loan Guarantee.” See 7 CFR part 1737.
(3) The portions of the Loan Design that cover the proposed acquisition, including cost estimates and information on any investments in nonrural areas. See 7 CFR 1737.
(4) The information required in § 1735.74 (a)(1) through (a)(8), (a)(14) and (b)(1).
(5) Any other data deemed necessary by the Administrator to approve the interim financing of the acquisition.
(d) Furthermore, RUS will not approve interim financing if, in RUS's judgment, the proposed acquisition will not qualify for RUS financing or the proposed interim financing presents unacceptable loan security risks to RUS.
(e) Because RUS approval of interim financing is not a commitment to make a loan, RUS will not approve interim financing unless the borrower is prepared to assume responsibility for financing all obligations incurred.
(f) If the borrower plans to proceed with the closing after receiving RUS approval of interim financing, it must first receive preliminary approval from RUS. See § 1735.90
(g) See 7 CFR part 1737 for regulations on interim financing for construction.
(h) See 7 CFR part 1744, subpart B for conditions under which RUS will provide shared first lien and/or a lien accommodation for non-RUS lenders.
§ 1735.76
Acquisition of affiliates.
A borrower shall not use RUS loan funds to acquire any stock or any telephone plant of an affiliate.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 62 FR 46871, Sept. 5, 1997]
§ 1735.77
Release of loan funds, requisitions, advances.
(a) RUS will not approve the advance of loan funds until the borrower has fulfilled all loan contract provisions to the extent deemed necessary by RUS.
(b) The first advance of loan funds pursuant to the loan contract normally shall provide funds needed for the acquisition. Unless the borrower has received approval of interim financing, it must submit the requisition in time for the advance to be made by the closing date.
(c) After the borrower has closed the acquisition, it shall furnish RUS all documents necessary to demonstrate to RUS's satisfaction that the transaction has been closed.
(d) Advances for improvements or expansion of the acquired facilities will not be approved until RUS has determined that the transaction has been closed and the borrower has obtained satisfactory title to the acquired facilities.
(e) See 7 CFR part 1737 (or RUS Bulletin 320-4) for additional requirements for releases of loan funds and 7 CFR part 1744, subpart C for additional requirements for requisitions and advances.
§§ 1735.78-1735.79
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Acquisitions or Mergers Not Involving Additional Loan Funds

# Source:
54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990
§ 1735.80
Submission of data.
When a borrower is not requesting loan funds for an acquisition or merger, the borrower shall first notify RUS and submit for review by RUS the documents and information listed in (a)
through (l) of this section required by RUS.
(a) For any nonborrowers involved, their most recent balance sheets, operating statements, detail of plant accounts, reports to the state commission, and audits, if available.
(b) Completed RUS Form 507, “Report on Telephone Acquisition.”
(c) A map (such as a road map) showing county lines, the boundaries of the proposed acquisition and the borrower's existing service territory, and the names of other telephone companies serving adjoining areas.
(d) A brief statement of the plans for incorporating the acquired facilities into the borrower's existing system.
(e) The number of subscribers currently receiving service in the areas involved in the acquisition or merger and the number of new subscribers that will be served over the next 5 years as a result of the acquisition or merger.
(f) Copies of deeds of real estate to be acquired, with an explanation of the proposed use of the land.
(g) Copies of security documents of any other lenders involved and any contracts or other rights of obligations to be assumed by the survivor.
(h) A list of all counties in which the proposed system will have facilities.
(i) If Article II, section 4(b) of the standard mortgage has not been made applicable, plans for operating the unified system.
(j) In the case of a merger, the proposed articles of merger that are to be used.
(k) In the case of an acquisition, the proposed purchase price, plus two copies of any options, bills of sale, or deeds, and two copies of any acquisition agreements. All of these documents are subject to RUS approval. If the acquisition agreement is approved by RUS, two copies of it shall be returned to the borrower.
(l) Any other data deemed necessary by the Administrator for an evaluation of the acquisition or merger.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0084)
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990]
§§ 1735.81-1735.89
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Requirements for All Acquisitions and Mergers

# Source:
54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1735.90
Preliminary approvals.
(a) In cases where the borrower's schedule for completion of the proposed action leaves insufficient time for RUS to prepare and process the required documentation, including new mortgages and replacement notes, the borrower may request RUS to give preliminary approval to the acquisition or merger. However, the borrower may not obtain additional loan funds until the documentation is completed to RUS's satisfaction.
(b) Consideration of preliminary approvals generally will not be practicable in cases in which compensating benefits are required.
(c) RUS will not give preliminary approval when the lien of the mortgage on after-acquired property may be affected.
(d) Before RUS will grant preliminary approval, the borrower shall submit:
(1) Merger or acquisition documents required by state law;
(2) Acquisition agreements covering the transaction;
(3) Any required franchises, licenses, and permits;
(4) All required regulatory body approvals;
(5) All required corporate actions;
(6) Leases, contracts, and evidence of titles to be assigned to the purchaser; and
(7) The latest audited financial statements for any nonborrowers involved.
(e) If the information in (d) of this section is acceptable to RUS, the borrower may proceed with the closing.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0084)
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.]
§ 1735.91
Location of facilities.
Telephone facilities to be acquired must be located so that they can be efficiently operated by the borrower and provide adequate security for the RUS loan.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.]
§ 1735.92
Accounting considerations.
(a) Proper accounting shall be applied to all acquisitions and mergers, as required by the regulatory commission having jurisdiction, or in the absence of such a commission, as required by RUS based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or other accounting conventions as deemed necessary by RUS.
(b) If RUS determines that the plant accounts are not properly depreciated, the borrower should adjust its depreciation rates. Depending upon the characteristics of the case, commission jurisdiction and requirements, and similar factors, one of the following actions shall be taken:
(1) In states where commission approval of depreciation rates is required, a covenant shall be included in the loan contract that requires the borrower to:
(i) Have the consulting engineer make an original cost less depreciation inventory and appraisal of retained plant as part of the final inventory, and
(ii) Request commission approval of adjustments to its records on the basis of this inventory.
(2) In states where commission approval is not required, informal discussions between RUS and the borrower may be undertaken to reach satisfactory voluntary adjustments. If this does not resolve the situation to RUS's satisfaction, a covenant similar to that in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall be included in the loan contract and the borrower shall agree to submit evidence satisfactory to the Administrator that it has adjusted its records on the basis of the inventory.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.]
§ 1735.93
Notes.
Substitute notes may be required in the case of an acquisition or merger, regardless of the source of funds.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.]
§ 1735.94
Final approval and closing procedure.
(a) Legal documents relating to the acquisition or merger, including copies of required franchises, commission orders, permits, licenses, leases, title evidence, corporate proceedings, and contracts to be assigned to the purchaser shall be forwarded to the Area Office prior to closing.
(b) The Administrator will not give final approval to any acquisition or merger until all RUS requirements relating to the transactions are satisfied.
(c) Following the Administrator's final approval of the proposal, the Area Office shall inform the borrower in writing of the necessary legal and other actions required for the advance of loan funds to finance the acquisition, including the submission, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, of (1) all information and documents necessary to demonstrate that the transaction has been completed, and (2) all loan contracts, notes, mortgages, and related documents and materials required by RUS.
(d) Deeds reflecting the change in ownership, executed bills of sale, and opinions of counsel shall be forwarded to the Area Office following closing.
(e) RUS will not advance loan funds to furnish or improve service in the acquired or merged areas until the Administrator has given final approval and the transaction has been closed. RUS may, however, advance funds if it determines that loan security will not be jeopardized.
(f) At the discretion of RUS, a GFR may be present at the closing to assist the borrower and protect the interests of RUS. Under certain circumstances the closing may take place prior to RUS granting final approval for the
transaction and the execution of amended loan security documents.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.]
§ 1735.95
Unadvanced loan funds.
(a) The unadvanced loan funds of a borrower that will not be a survivor of an acquisition or merger shall be advanced only to the survivor and only under the following circumstances.
(1) If the funds are to be used for purposes approved in prior loans, the funds shall be advanced after the effective date of the proposed action only when all loan contract prerequisites have been met and documents have been submitted in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator.
(2) If the funds are to be used for new purposes, then in addition to the requirements in (a)(1) of this section, RUS must also approve the change in purpose.
(b) No loan or other money in the construction fund shall be used to finance facilities outside areas to be served by projects approved by RUS.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.]
§§ 1735.96-1735.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Toll Line Acquisitions

# Source:
54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990.]
§ 1735.100
Use of loan funds.
An acquisition of toll line facilities financed with loan funds must be necessary and incidental, as determined by the Administrator, to furnishing or improving telephone service in rural areas. The borrower shall submit to RUS the acquisition agreement, the original cost less depreciation of the facilities, any concurrences with the connecting companies involved, and a detailed inventory of the facilities to be purchased. The borrower must submit to RUS evidence, satisfactory to the Administrator, of the borrower's ownership of the toll line facilities before loan funds for improvement of those facilities will be advanced.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990]
§ 1735.101
With nonloan funds.
When an acquisition is limited to toll line facilities and loan funds are not involved, RUS approval of the acquisition is not required. The borrower, however, shall submit to RUS for its approval all concurrences with the connecting companies involved and any other proof of ownership of the toll facilities required by RUS.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990]
Pt. 1737

# PART 1737—PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO INSURED AND GUARANTEED TELECOMMUNICATIONS LOANS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1737.1
General statement.
1737.2
Definitions.
1737.3
Availability of RUS forms.
1737.4-1737.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Preapplication Stage
1737.10
Initial contact.
1737.11
Preapplication determinations.
1737.12-1737.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—The Loan Application
1737.20
[Reserved]
1737.21
The completed loan application.
1737.22
Supplementary information.
1737.23-1737.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Preloan Studies—Area Coverage Survey and Loan Design
1737.30
General.
1737.31
Area Coverage Survey (ACS).
1737.32
Loan Design (LD).
1737.33-1737.39
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Interim Financing of Construction of Telephone Facilities
1737.40
General.
1737.41
Procedure for obtaining approval.
1737.42
Procedure for construction.
1737.43-1737.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Review of Application Procedures
1737.50
Review of completed loan application.
1737.51
Approval of loan design.
1737.52-1737.59
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Project Cost Estimation Procedures
1737.60
Telephone loan budget.
1737.61
Cost allocation for rural and nonrural areas.
1737.62-1737.69
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Feasibility Determination Procedures
1737.70
Description of feasibility study.
1737.71
Interest rate to be considered for the purpose of assessing feasibility for loans.
1737.72-1737.79
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Characteristics Letter
1737.80
Description of characteristics letter.
1737.81-1737.89
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Final Loan Approval Procedures
1737.90
Loan approval requirements.
1737.91
Approval.
1737.92
Loan documents.
1737.93-1737.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart K—Release of Funds Procedure
1737.100
Prerequisites to the release and advance of funds.
1737.101
Amounts spent for preloan activities.
1737.102-1737.109
[Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
1921
et seq.,
and 6941
et seq.

# Source:
54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1737.1
General statement.
(a) This part prescribes policies, procedures and responsibilities relating to applications for RUS loans to finance the improvement and extension of telephone service in rural areas. Requirements for both initial and subsequent loans are discussed, with differences pointed out.
(b) This part sets forth the policies, procedures, and requirements of RUS during the period from the receipt of a completed loan application until the advance of funds. This part sets forth the factors RUS considers in determining the characteristics of a loan, such as the amount of the loan, and conditions to the advance of funds. Involved in this determination are:
A loan budget, feasibility study, characteristics letter, loan recommendation, and release of funds. This CFR part supersedes all RUS Bulletins that are in conflict with it.
(c) See 7 CFR part 1735 on general loan policies, 7 CFR part 1737 for details on submitting a loan application, and 7 CFR part 1744 on the advance of funds.
§ 1737.2
Definitions.
As used in this part:
Access line
means a transmission path between user terminal equipment and a switching center that is used for local exchange service. For multiparty service, the number of access lines equals the number of lines/paths terminating on the mainframe of the switching center.
Acquisition
means the purchase of another telephone system, lines, or facilities whether by acquiring telephone plant in service or majority stock interest of one or more organizations.
Administrator
means the Administrator of RUS.
Area Coverage
means the provision of adequate telephone service to the widest practical number of rural users during the life of the loan.
Advance of funds
means the transferring of funds by RUS to the borrower's construction fund.
Borrower
means any organization which has an outstanding loan made or guaranteed by RUS, on which is seeking such financing.
Characteristics letter
means the letter informing the borrower of the characteristics of the proposed loan before the loan is recommended.
Feasibility study
means the pro forma financial analysis performed by RUS to determine the economic feasibility of a loan.
Forecast period
means the time period beginning on the date (base date) of the borrower's balance sheet used in preparing the feasibility study and ending on a date equal to the base date plus
the number of years estimated in the feasibility study for the completion of the project. Feasibility projections are usually for 5 years, see § 1737.70(a). For example, the forecast period for a loan based on a December 31, 1990 balance sheet and having a 5-year estimated project completion time is the period from December 31, 1990 to December 31, 1995.
Guaranteed loan
means a loan guaranteed by RUS under section 306 of the RE Act bearing interest at a rate agreed to by the borrower and the lender.
Hardship loan
means a loan made by RUS under section 305(d)(1) of the RE Act bearing interest at a rate of 5 percent per year.
Initial loan
means the first loan made to a borrower.
Interim construction
means the purchase of equipment or the conduct of construction under an RUS-approved plan of interim financing.
Interim financing
means funding for a project which RUS has acknowledged will be included in a loan, should said loan be approved, but for which RUS loan funds have not yet been made available.
Loan
means any loan made or guaranteed by RUS.
Project
means the improvements and telephone facilities financed by a particular RUS loan.
RE Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
Release of funds
means determination by RUS that a borrower has complied with all of the conditions prerequisite to the advances as set forth in the loan contract to the extent deemed necessary by RUS for approval of the use of loan funds and any required equity or other nonloan funds.
Reserves
means loan or nonloan funds that have not been encumbered. Funds are encumbered when they have been set aside for by RUS for a particular loan purpose.
Rural area
means any area of the United States, its territories and possessions (including any area within the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau) not included within the boundaries of any incorporated or unincorporated city, village or borough having a population exceeding 5,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). The population figure is obtained from the most recent decennial Census of the United States. If the applicable population figure cannot be obtained from the most recent decennial Census, RD will determine the applicable population figure based on available population data. For purposes of the “rural area” definition, the character of an area is determined as of a time the initial loan for the system is made.
RUS cost-of-money loan
means a loan made under section 305(d)(2) of the RE Act bearing an interest rate as determined under 7 CFR 1735.31(c).
Special project
means facilities involving investment in excess of $100,000 for any single subscriber.
Subscriber
means the same as access line.
Subsequent Loan
means any loan to a borrower which has already received a loan.
Telephone service
means any communication service for the transmission or reception of voice, data, sounds, signals, pictures, writing, or signs of all kinds by wire, fiber, radio, light, or other visual or electromagnetic means and includes all telephone lines, facilities and systems to render such service. It does not mean:
(1) Message telegram service;
(2) Community antenna television system services or facilities other than those intended exclusively for educational purposes; or
(3) Radio broadcasting services or facilities within the meaning of section 3(o) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended.
Times Interest Earned Ratio
(TIER) means the ratio of a borrower's net income (after taxes) plus interest expense, all divided by interest expense. For the purpose of this calculation, all
amounts will be annual figures and interest expense will include only interest on debt with a maturity greater than one year.
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26598, June 10, 1991; 58 FR 66256, Dec. 20, 1993; 80 FR 9861, Feb. 24, 2015; 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019; 87 FR 38642, June 29, 2022]
§ 1737.3
Availability of RUS forms.
Single copies of RUS forms and publications cited in this part are available from Administrative Services Division, Rural Utilities Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. These RUS forms and publications may be reproduced. The terms “RUS form”, “RUS standard form”, and “RUS specification” have the same meanings as the terms “REA form” “REA standard form”, and “REA specification”, respectively, unless otherwise indicated.
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 66441, Dec. 27, 1994]
§§ 1737.4-1737.9
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Preapplication Stage
§ 1737.10
Initial contact.
Initial loan applicants seeking assistance should write the Rural Utilities Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. A field representative will be assigned by RUS to visit the applicant and discuss its financial needs and eligibility. Existing borrowers initiate the contact directly with their assigned field representative. Borrowers consult with RUS field representatives and headquarters staff, as necessary.
§ 1737.11
Preapplication determinations.
Before submitting an application to RUS, the borrower should consider the following:
(a)
Area to be served.
The proposed service area should neither include subscribers already receiving adequate service from another telephone system nor leave out unserved pockets of potential subscribers who have indicated an interest in service and are located between the proposed system and neighboring systems. See 7 CFR 1735.11 on Area Coverage and 7 CFR 1735.12 on Nonduplication. In establishing service area boundaries, borrowers should consider the location of adjoining systems, natural boundaries such as rivers and mountains, and economic and cultural features such as trading and community centers.
(b)
Number of subscribers.
The borrower must estimate the number of subscribers that will request service from the proposed system.
(c)
Acquisitions.
A borrower considering an acquisition should refer to 7 CFR 1735.20 and RUS Bulletins 320-4, 321-2, 325-1, and 326-1.
(d)
Mergers and consolidations.
A borrower considering a merger or consolidation should refer to 7 CFR 1735.19.
(e)
Refinancing.
Restrictions on the use of loan funds for refinancing are contained in 7 CFR 1735.21.
(f)
Service for nonrural subscribers.
In some situations, RUS loan funds may be used to finance facilities to serve nonrural subscribers. See 7 CFR 1735.13.
(g)
Loan amount.
The initial loan request is based on the borrower's best estimate of financing needs. RUS requires detailed studies by the borrower to complete the application and the initial estimate is subject to revision.
(h)
Loans for a portion of a system.
If it is impractical to finance facilities to provide adequate service throughout the borrower's entire telephone service area, RUS will consider a loan application to finance improvements to a portion of a borrower's system.
(i)
Telecommunications modernization plan.
A borrower applying for hardship or concurrent RUS cost-of-money loans should refer to 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B.
[54 FR 14626, Apr. 12, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66256, Dec. 20, 1993; 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§§ 1737.12-1737.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—The Loan Application
§ 1737.20
[Reserved]
§ 1737.21
The completed loan application.
(a) The completed loan application consists of four parts:
(1) A completed RUS Form 490.
(2) A market survey called the Area Coverage Survey (ACS).
(3) The plan and associated costs for the proposed construction, called the Loan Design (LD).
(4) Various supplementary information specified in 7 CFR 1737.22.
(b) The RUS field representative assists the borrower in assembling this information. Certain information is required from initial loan applicants but usually not from borrowers seeking subsequent loans. Borrowers are to submit all information in paragraph (a) of this section to their RUS field representatives, who will review and then forward the packages to RUS headquarters.
(c) RUS will make a determination of completeness of the application package and will notify the borrower of this determination within 10 working days of receipt of the information at RUS headquarters. If the application package is not complete, RUS will notify the borrower of what information is needed in order to complete the application package. If the information required to complete the application package is not received by RUS within 90 working days from the date the borrower was notified of the information needed, RUS may return the application package to the borrower. Returned applications are without prejudice and borrowers may resubmit the completed application.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0079)
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26598, June 10, 1991]
§ 1737.22
Supplementary information.
RUS requires additional information in support of the loan application form. The information listed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section must be submitted as part of the loan application as specified in 7 CFR 1737.21.
(a) The following must be submitted by all initial loan applicants. Borrowers seeking subsequent loans must submit any changes in these items since they were last submitted.
(1) Name of attorney and manager, and certified copies of board resolutions selecting them.
(2) Certified copy of articles of incorporation showing evidence of filing with the Secretary of State and in county records.
(3) Certified copies of bylaws and board minutes showing their adoption.
(4) Certified sample stock certificates.
(5) Amounts of common and preferred stock issued and outstanding.
(6) Names, addresses, business affiliations, and stockholdings of the manager, officers, directors, and other principal stockholders (those owning at least 20 percent of borrower's voting stock).
(7) Certified copies of real estate deeds showing all recording information.
(8) Service agreements, such as for management or system maintenance.
(9) Certified copies of existing leases, except those for vehicles, furniture and office equipment, and computer equipment.
(10) Certified copies of existing franchises.
(11) Information on any franchises required as a result of the proposed loan project.
(12) Federal Communications Commission (FCC) authorizations.
(13) For toll, operator office, traffic, and EAS agreements, the names of all parties to the agreement, the type of agreement, and the effective and termination dates of the agreement and annexes, and the exchanges involved.
(14) Copies of rate schedules. (A copy of the tariff must be available for review by the RUS field representative.)
(15) Executed copy of RUS Form 291, “Certification of Nonsegregated Facilities”.
(16) A sketch or map showing the existing and proposed service areas.
(17) Executed assurance that the borrower will comply with the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisitions Policies Act of 1970, as amended (see 49 CFR 24.4).
(18) A certification (which is included on RUS Form 490, “Application for Telephone Loan or Guarantee”) that the borrower has been informed of the collection options listed below that the Federal government may use to collect delinquent debt. RUS and other government agencies are authorized to
take any or all of the following actions in the event that a borrower's loan payments become delinquent or the borrower defaults (OMB Circular A-129 defines “delinquency” for direct or guaranteed loans as debt more than 31 days past due on a scheduled payment):
(i) Report the borrower's delinquent account to a credit bureau.
(ii) Assess additional interest and penalty charges for the period of time that payment is not made.
(iii) Assess charges to cover additional administrative costs incurred by the Government to service the borrower's account.
(iv) Offset amounts owed to the borrower under other Federal programs.
(v) Refer the borrower's debt to the Internal Revenue Service for offset against any amount owed to the borrower as an income tax refund.
(vi) Refer the borrower's account to a private collection agency to collect the amount due.
(vii) Refer the borrower's account to the Department of Justice for litigation in the courts.
(19)(i) A certification, signed by the president of the borrower, that the borrower is participating in the State's telecommunications modernization plan (for additional information concerning the plan, see 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B). This certification is not required if the borrower is seeking a guaranteed loan.
(ii) All of the actions in paragraph (a)(18) of this section can and will be used to recover any debts owed when it is determined to be in the interest of the Government to do so. The notification and the required form of certification in paragraph (a)(18) of this section are included on RUS Form 490, Application for Telephone Loan or Guarantee.
(b) The following must be submitted by borrowers seeking subsequent loans:
(1) Certified financial statements for the last 3 years.
(2) Toll settlement statements and related data.
(3) Present exchange rates and any pending changes.
(4) Environmental review documentation in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(5) A “Certification Regarding Lobbying” for loans, or a “Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance” for loan guarantees, and when required, an executed Standard Form LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,” (see section 319, Public Law 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352)).
(6) Executed copy of Form AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions.”
(7) Borrower's determination of loan maturity, including information noted in § 1735.43(a) of this chapter as required.
(8) Approved depreciation rates for items under regulatory authority jurisdiction.
(9) A statement that the borrower is or is not delinquent on any Federal debt, such as income tax obligations or a loan or loan guarantee from another Federal agency. If delinquent, the reasons for the delinquency must be explained and RUS will take such explanation into consideration in deciding whether to approve the loan. RUS Form 490, “Application for Telephone Loan or Guarantee,” contains a section for providing the required statement and any appropriate explanation.
(10) Any other supporting data required by the Administrator.
(c) For borrowers requesting funds for construction or refinancing, in addition to the information included in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the following must be submitted:
(1) Copies of all bonds, notes, mortgages, and contracts covering outstanding indebtedness proposed to be refinanced.
(2) For each note or bond, the name of the creditor, original amount of debt and amount as of last year-end, purpose of debt, dates incurred and due, interest rates, and repayment terms.
(3) Justification for refinancing and evidence that the underlying loan to be refinanced would have been eligible for RUS financing under the RE Act.
(d) Loan requests whose sole purpose is to refinance loans under Titles II and VI of the RE Act must submit the following:
(1) Certified financial statements for the last 3 years.
(2) Five-year financial projections consisting of Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Cash Flow Statement.
(3) A “Certification Regarding Lobbying” for loans, or a “Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance” for loan guarantees, and when required, an executed Standard Form LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,” (see section 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352)).
(4) Executed copy of Form AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions.”
(5) Borrower's determination of loan maturity.
(6) A statement that the borrower is or is not delinquent on any Federal debt, such as income tax obligations or a loan or loan guarantee from another Federal agency. If delinquent, the reasons for the delinquency must be explained and RUS will take such explanation into consideration in deciding whether to approve the loan. RUS Form 490, “Application for Telephone Loan or Guarantee,” contains a section for providing the required statement and any appropriate explanation.
(7) Any other supporting data required by the Administrator.
(e) Borrowers requesting loan funds for acquisitions should refer to RUS bulletins 320-4, 321-2, 325-1, and 326-1 for requirements.
(f) For all applications that request funding for retail broadband as defined in 7 CFR 1735.2, the application must include all information required for the public notice as stated in 7 CFR 1735.23(a).
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0079)
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26599, June 10, 1991, 58 FR 66256, Dec. 20, 1993; 79 FR 76003, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 11027, Mar. 2, 2016; 86 FR 50609, Sept. 10, 2021]
§§ 1737.23-1737.29
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Preloan Studies—Area Coverage Survey and Loan Design
§ 1737.30
General.
In support of a loan application, the borrower shall prepare and submit to RUS: (a) A market forecast to determine service requirements (the Area Coverage Survey) and (b) engineering studies to determine the system design that provides service most efficiently (the Loan Design). The RUS field representative confers with the borrower and its engineer to schedule the completion and submission of these studies.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0079)
§ 1737.31
Area Coverage Survey (ACS).
(a) The Area Coverage Survey (ACS) is a market forecast of service requirements of subscribers in a proposed service area.
(b) The objective of the ACS is to determine the location, number and telephone service requirements of subscribers in a service area. RUS will use the ACS to appraise the proposed plan for area coverage and to determine the largest practical number of rural subscribers which can be served on an economically feasible basis. Preparation of the ACS requires:
(1) A field survey of the service area to locate and identify on maps all business and residential establishments, whether currently served or not. The location and identification of future establishments are also recorded on the maps.
(2) A forecast of the number of telephone subscribers, in the entire service area, by exchange, grade and class of service, projected for the end of the 5-year study period.
(c) The results of the survey and forecast shall be:
(1) Shown on maps (maps for those service areas previously financed by RUS do not have to be included in the ACS provided that the borrower's records contain sufficient information as to subscriber development to enable
cost estimates for the proposed facilities to be prepared);
(2) Tabulated on RUS Form 569 “Area Coverage Survey Report,” or its equivalent; and
(3) Supported by a narrative (see § 1737.32(f)(1)(ii)) containing information on the bases for the service requirement forecasts in each exchange.
(d) Guidelines on preparing an ACS are provided in RUS Telecommunications Engineering and Construction Manual section 205.
(e) The RUS field representative reviews and approves the borrower's ACS. The borrower should make sure this is done before proceeding with the Loan Design in order to prevent unnecessary expense should the ACS not be approved. The borrower's engineer must use the RUS-approved ACS in preparing the Loan Design.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0079)
§ 1737.32
Loan Design (LD).
(a) A loan application requires supporting data collectively called a “Loan Design.” The LD contains a forecast of service requirements and a narrative with supporting exhibits. Most of the items included in the LD are similar for all loan applications. However, as noted below, there are certain additional requirements for initial loans and for any exchange areas not previously financed by RUS, and other additional requirements for subsequent loans for areas previously financed by RUS. The LD must conform to the borrower's state telecommunications modernization plan unless the borrower is seeking a guaranteed loan (for additional information concerning the plan, see 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B).
(b) Because of the importance and complexity of the engineering studies necessary for the LD, it should be prepared by a competent experienced telecommunications engineer. While the LD is subject to RUS approval, the borrower's selection of an engineer to perform preloan work is not. Note: The borrower's selection of an engineer to perform postloan work
is
subject to RUS approval. This should be considered when selecting a preloan engineer, if the same individual or company is to perform both services. See 7 CFR 1753.17.
(c) An LD for initial loans or for any exchange areas not previously financed by RUS requires an Outside Plant Design that provides:
(1) The most economical and practical design for a telephone system that meets immediate service demands; and
(2) The basis for orderly expansion of the system to serve the widest practical number of rural establishments.
(d) The LD for a subsequent loan (which only includes areas previously financed by RUS) does not require a detailed Outside Plant Design. The detailed Outside Plant Design for these subsequent loans may be completed for RUS review and approval after loan approval, but before staking is started and plans and specifications are prepared. By scheduling preparation of the outside plant design closer to preparation for construction, the need for redesign resulting from changing conditions and its attendant costs are reduced.
(e) Guidelines on preparing an LD are provided in RUS Telecommunications Engineering and Construction Manual section 205.
(f) The LD shall include a narrative, several exhibits, and a certification, as explained below:
(1)
Narrative.
This section discusses the following topics, as appropriate.
(i)
General.
The purposes and amount of the proposed construction and both immediate and long range plans must be covered. The source and amount of any nonloan funds to be used for this construction must be discussed.
(ii)
Subscriber data.
The basis for the subscriber forecast, including any unusual factors expected to influence growth, must be discussed. Reasons for growth projections which vary from historic trends must be explained.
(iii)
Proposed construction.
All proposed construction must be described fully. Reference to the BER must be made here.
(iv)
Service area.
For subsequent loans only, proposed construction which is not within the boundaries of prior loan projects must be discussed. New areas
to be served (even if from existing exchanges) must be shown on maps submitted with the proposal.
(v)
Toll and EAS.
Proposed new toll or extended area service (EAS) facilities, including any changes from the existing trunking arrangements, must be described fully. Minutes of meetings and correspondence with connecting companies, and connecting company concurrences, if any, must be included.
(vi)
Radio telephone service.
Proposed radio telephone service must be discussed. Results of studies demonstrating demand and/or need most be included as an exhibit.
(vii)
Special projects.
Facilities involving investment in excess of $100,000 for any single subscriber must be discussed fully. Contractual arrangements with the subscriber, including a termination agreement providing for (A) the full recovery by the borrower of its capital costs of the facilities no later than the maturity date of the note representing the loan, (B) the immediate repayment of all remaining capital costs, if terminated, and (C) repayment to RUS of the outstanding amount of the special note shall be submitted. Usually a separate short-term note is prepared for loans to finance Special Projects.
(viii)
Investment in nonrural areas.
(A) For initial loans, or loans for areas not previously financed by RUS, the borrower must fully discuss proposed improvements or expansions in an exchange serving a community over 5,000 population. The name of the community, the number of existing and projected new subscribers by grades of service within the community, detailed cost estimates of the facilities involved, and information sufficient to establish the necessity for the use of loan funds must be provided.
(B) For subsequent loans, the borrower must fully discuss as specified in paragraph (f)(1)(viii)(A) of this section proposed improvements or expansions in an exchange serving a community over 5,000 population which had a population of more than 5,000 at the time the facilities to serve the community were first financed by RUS. The population determination is based on the corporate limits or boundaries of unincorporated areas in existence at the time the facilities to serve the community were first financed by RUS.
(C) For subsequent loans, the borrower shall state whether the population of a community, which is currently more than 5,000, was considered rural at the time RUS first financed the facilities to serve the community. Detailed cost estimates are not required if the population was considered rural at the time RUS first financed facilities to serve the community, see 7 CFR 1735.13(d).
(ix)
Prior loan project.
For subsequent loans only, the reason for and amount of additional loan funds needed to complete construction in progress which was part of a prior loan project in central office areas not included in the current LD must be discussed fully.
(x)
Route miles.
Route miles of outside plant in central office areas not shown on RUS Form 495 must be provided.
(xi)
Future plans.
Where the loan application is to finance part of a system-wide upgrading plan, plans for those remaining exchanges not included in the current loan proposal must be discussed.
(2)
Exhibits.
(i) An RUS Form 569, “Area Coverage Survey Report,” or its equivalent shall be included for the total system and for each exchange in which system improvements or additions are proposed.
(ii) An RUS Form 495, “Construction Cost Estimates,” or its equivalent shall be prepared for each exchange in which system improvements or additions are proposed. An explanation of the method used in developing these cost estimates must be included.
(iii) RUS Form 494, “Loan Design Summary,” or its equivalent shall be prepared for each loan. This must show all expected 5-year construction costs, loan and nonloan.
(iv) A schematic trunking diagram shall be included showing the number and type, length, ownership and makeup of existing and proposed toll and EAS trunks, plus transmission and traffic data for each trunk group.
(v) Detailed outside plant design maps must be submitted for all central office areas of initial loan applicants and for areas not previously served by existing borrowers or financed by RUS.
These design maps must be in sufficient detail to substantiate the construction cost estimates.
(vi) For subsequent loans only, if a change in system boundaries is proposed, a map must be furnished showing present and proposed boundaries, and existing establishments and subscribers in the new areas.
(vii) Any other special exhibits needed to support particular items in the loan proposal must be included.
(3)
Certification.
The following certification shall be signed by a principal of the engineering firm and the borrower:
We, the undersigned, certify that the data in this Loan Design are correct to the best of our knowledge and belief and reasonably reflect the cost to serve the subscribers as proposed on the Forms 569, “Area Coverage Survey Report,” which are integral parts hereof, and that this Loan Design adheres to RUS engineering and construction standards and practices.
(g) The RUS field representative shall review and make a recommendation on each LD.
(1) After completion of the LD, the borrower arranges a meeting with its engineer and RUS's field representative to review:
(i) Design and cost estimates.
(ii) Reserves available from prior loans, if any, or internally generated funds which may be applied against the requirements of the current application.
(2) One copy of RUS Form 567, “Checklist for Review of Loan Design,” completed and signed by the borrower's engineer must be attached to the LD submitted to the RUS field representative.
(3) The RUS field representative recommends acceptance of the LD as the basis for RUS financing.
(4) Three copies of the final LD with the RUS field representative's recommendation are then sent to the relevant Area Office in RUS. A fourth copy is retained by the RUS field representative.
(5) A transmittal letter from the borrower must accompany the LDs, requesting that the application previously submitted be amended so as to be consistent with the approved LD.
(6) Final approval of the LD is given by the relevant Area Office in RUS. To be approved, the LD must be cost effective, include appropriate technology, and provide area coverage.
(7) Upon receipt of the LD and any other required information, RUS makes a preliminary analysis of the loan proposal. Before final consideration of the loan, RUS reviews the results of its preliminary analysis with the borrower.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0079)
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989; 54 FR 16194, Apr. 21, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66256, Dec. 20, 1993]
§§ 1737.33-1737.39
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Interim Financing of Construction of Telephone Facilities
§ 1737.40
General.
(a) Under special circumstances a borrower may request that RUS approve interim financing for interim construction. This subpart describes the circumstances in which RUS will consider approving interim financing of construction, the information to be submitted to RUS to support the borrower's request, RUS's requirements relating to interim construction, and related matters.
(b) For a borrower to preserve the option of obtaining loan funds for reimbursement of interim financing, it must obtain prior RUS approval of its interim financing plan and follow the procedures in 7 CFR 1737.41 and 7 CFR 1737.42.
(c) RUS will approve interim financing only for projects which must be performed immediately.
(d) RUS approval of interim financing is not a commitment that RUS will make loan funds available.
(e) Equal employment opportunity requirements apply to interim construction. See RUS Bulletin 320-15.
§ 1737.41
Procedure for obtaining approval.
(a) The borrower shall submit to the RUS Area Office a written request for approval of interim financing. This request shall include:
(1) A description of the construction proposed under interim financing.
(2) An explanation of the urgency of proceeding with the proposed construction.
(3) An estimate of the cost.
(4) The source of funds to be used for interim financing.
(b) RUS will not approve interim financing until it has reviewed and found acceptable:
(1) All of the information required under § 1737.21; or
(2) The following documents:
(i) The loan application (RUS Form 490) clearly marked “in support of interim financing request.”
(ii) The Loan Design (LD), or the portion thereof that covers the proposed construction if the completed LD is not available. See 7 CFR 1737.32.
(iii) Evidence that the borrower has complied with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970.
(iv) A statement that the borrower is or is not delinquent on any Federal debt, such as income tax obligations or a loan guarantee from another Federal agency. If delinquent, the reasons for the delinquency must be explained and RUS will take such explanation into consideration in deciding whether to approve the interim financing, see 7 CFR 1737.22(b)(9).
(v) A “Certification Regarding Lobbying” for loans, or a “Statement for Loan Guarantees and Loan Insurance” for loan guarantees, and when required, an executed Standard Form LLL, “Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,” (see section 319, Pub. L. 101-121 (31 U.S.C. 1352)).
(vi) Executed copy of Form AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions.”
(vii) Any other supporting data required by the Administrator.
(c) RUS will not approve a borrower's request for approval of interim financing if, in RUS's judgment:
(1) The proposed interim financing does not comply with the requirements of this subpart.
(2) The proposed interim construction will not qualify for RUS financing.
(3) The proposed interim financing presents unacceptable loan security risks to RUS, or otherwise is not in the best interests of RUS.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0079)
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26599, June 10, 1991; 59 FR 54381, Oct. 31, 1994; 79 FR 76003, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 11027, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1737.42
Procedure for construction.
(a) If RUS approves the interim financing, interim construction shall be conducted in accordance with 7 CFR part 1753, 7 CFR part 1788, RUS Bulletin 320-15, and RUS Bulletins 381-1, 381-2, 381-4, 381-7, 381-8, 381-9, 381-10, 381-11, 381-13, 382-1, 382-2, 382-3, 383-1, 383-4, 384-1, 384-2, 384-3, 385-1, 385-2, 385-3, 385-4, 385-5, 385-6, 387-1, 387-2, 387-3, 387-4, and 387-5) except for the following:
(1) All sellers and contractors invited to bid must be informed that funds from sources other than RUS will be used to pay for construction.
(2) Contracts involving the interim construction must contain a provision, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, stating that RUS is not committed to lend or advance funds to finance the project.
(3) Contracts will not be approved by RUS until the borrower demonstrates to RUS's satisfaction that funds from sources other than RUS will be available when needed to pay invoices submitted in accordance with contract payment terms.
(4) The borrower shall not begin interim construction until all necessary licenses, permits, and other governmental approvals have been obtained.
(b) After RUS loan funds are released, the borrower can obtain reimbursement for interim financing by submitting a Financial Requirement Statement. See 7 CFR part 1744, subpart C (or RUS Bulletin 327-1).
(1) The first advance of loan funds to a borrower that has received interim financing approval generally will be limited to funds to repay any interim financing indebtedness and such additional amounts as RUS deems necessary. RUS will make no further advances of loan funds until the borrower
has submitted evidence, in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrator, that (i) any indebtedness created by the interim financing and any liens associated therewith have been fully discharged of record and (ii) the borrower has satisfied all other conditions on the advance of additional loan funds.
(2) If the source of funds for interim financing is the borrower's internally generated funds, the borrower may request reimbursement of those funds along with advances for other purposes on the first Financial Requirement Statement.
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989; 54 FR 16194, Apr. 21, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990]
§§ 1737.43-1737.49
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Review of Application Procedures
§ 1737.50
Review of completed loan application.
(a) The completed loan application consists of:
(1) A completed RUS Form 490, “Application for Telephone Loan or Loan Guarantee;”
(2) A completed certification Form AD-1047, “Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters—Primary Covered Transactions;”
(3) A market survey called the Area Coverage Survey (ACS);
(4) The plan and associated costs for the proposed construction, called the Loan Design (LD);
(5) Evidence that the borrower is participating in a telecommunications modernization plan in the state where the proposed construction will occur, unless the borrower is seeking a guaranteed loan; and
(6) Various supplementary information.
See 7 CFR part 1737 for additional information.
(b) RUS shall review the completed loan application, particularly noting subscriber data, grades of service, extended area service (EAS), connecting company commitments, commercial facilities, system and exchange boundaries, and proposed acquisitions. RUS shall review the LD to determine that the system design is acceptable to RUS, that the design is technically correct, that the cost estimates are reasonable, and that the design provides for area coverage service. RUS shall also review the population and incorporation status of all communities served or to be served by the borrower to determine if any nonrural areas are served and if municipal franchises are required. Any RUS lending for nonrural areas must be in accordance with 7 CFR part 1735. RUS shall also check the “List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement of Nonprocurement Programs”, compiled, maintained and distributed by General Services Administration, to determine whether the borrower is debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded (see 2 CFR 180.430).
(c) RUS will notify the borrower if RUS recommends major changes in subscriber projections, design, cost estimates, or other significant matters. RUS will not continue loan processing until RUS and the borrower agree on all major changes.
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989; 54 FR 16194, Apr. 21, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66256, Dec. 20, 1993; 79 FR 76003, Dec. 19, 2014]
§ 1737.51
Approval of loan design.
RUS shall notify the borrower when the preloan data concerning the system design and costs and subscriber projections have been approved. If found acceptable, RUS will approve the LD with any required changes. A copy of the approved LD, with any significant changes, as determined by RUS, will be returned to the borrower.
§§ 1737.52-1737.59
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Project Cost Estimation Procedures
§ 1737.60
Telephone loan budget.
(a) RUS shall prepare a “Telephone Loan Budget” (RUS Form 493) showing all costs for the proposed project and the amount of loan and nonloan funds to be used. The budget shall show, as applicable, amounts for central offices, outside plant and station equipment,
right-of-way procurement, land, buildings, removal costs, special projects, engineering, vehicles and work equipment, office equipment, operating funds, refinancing with loan funds, debt retirement with nonloan funds, acquisitions, and contingencies. The amount of funds included in any loan shall be limited for certain items:
(1) Operating funds for working capital or current operating deficiencies shall be included only in cases of financial hardship as determined by the Administrator.
(2) Contingencies shall not exceed 3 percent of the total amount of loan funds to be used for construction, engineering, operating equipment and operating funds.
(b) RUS shall prepare the cost estimates based on the data in RUS Form 494, “Loan Design Summary,” and RUS Form 495, “Construction Cost Estimates,” or their equivalents, and other parts of the LD submitted by the borrower, and on other pertinent information. See subpart D of this part. The amounts included in the proposed budget shall be the estimated costs, less the value of materials and supplies on hand or acquired that can be used in the proposed construction. The cost estimates in the LD may be adjusted by RUS in consultation with the borrower. See § 1737.50(c).
(c) Generally, the new loan shall be reduced by any required equity funds and funds available in reserves no longer needed for prior loan purposes to determine the proposed loan requirement.
(d) When amounts are available in reserves no longer needed for prior loan purposes, RUS may, at its option, deny further advances of these funds if they will be used to finance projects in the proposed loan.
(e) The budget shall also show, if applicable, the reserves for each budget item as of the date of the latest RUS Form 481, “Financial Requirement Statement,” submitted by the borrower. To ensure that sufficient funds are included in the budget to finance all proposed construction, RUS includes in the budget any funds deposited by the borrower for approved interim financing.
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989, as amended at 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1737.61
Cost allocation for rural and nonrural areas.
(a) Pursuant to the requirements in 7 CFR part 1735, if loan funds are proposed for facilities to serve subscribers in nonrural areas, RUS shall allocate costs between rural and nonrural areas. This allocation will be used to determine whether the use of loan funds in nonrural areas is necessary and incidental to furnishing and improving telephone service in rural areas. Cost estimates shall be provided by the borrower in the LD. See subpart D of this part. RUS will use the following method to review the cost breakdowns and to determine their appropriateness:
(1) The costs of facilities associated directly with particular subscribers shall be allocated to those subscribers.
(2) The costs of facilities that serve both rural and nonrural subscribers shall be allocated based on the relative number of rural and nonrural subscribers receiving service from those facilities.
(3) When a borrower's exchange that includes a nonrural community will have an extended area of service (EAS) with other exchanges of the borrower, the breakdown of subscribers and funds in the allocation for rural and nonrural areas included in the proposed loan shall show the number of rural and nonrural subscribers and the costs to serve each group, as determined per paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, in the subject exchange and in all exchanges connected by EAS.
(b) If RUS determines that costs cannot be adequately allocated using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, RUS shall, on a case by case basis, allocate costs between the rural and nonrural subscribers using whatever methodology it deems reasonable. All allocations in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be documented.
§§ 1737.62-1737.69
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Feasibility Determination Procedures
§ 1737.70
Description of feasibility study.
(a) In connection with each loan RUS shall prepare a feasibility study that includes sections on consolidated loan estimates, operating statistics, projected telecommunications, plant, projected retirement computations, and projected revenue and expense estimates (including detailed estimates of depreciation and amortization expense, scheduled debt service payments, toll and access charge revenues, and local service revenues). Normally, projections will be for a 5-year period and used to determine the ability of the borrower to repay its loans in accordance with the terms thereof. RUS will not require borrowers to raise local service rates. Local service revenue projections will be based on the borrower's existing local service rates or regulatory body approved rates not yet in effect but to be implemented within the Forecast period. In the latter case, if a borrower is not required to obtain regulatory body approval for the implementation of such rates, RUS will require a resolution of the board of directors indicating when those rates will be in effect.
(b) RUS makes loans only to rural telephone systems that are financially feasible. RUS shall consider the factors discussed in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section in determining feasibility.
(c) The revenue and expense estimates for the feasibility study generally will be based on the borrower's operating experience provided that:
(1) Adjustments are made for any nonrecurring revenues and expenses that are not representative of the borrower's past operations and would thus make the borrower's experience data inappropriate for the forecast; and
(2) Adjustments are made for any special or new characteristics or other considerations deemed necessary by the Administrator.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Depreciation expense will be determined using depreciation rates appropriate to the normal operation of the borrower, based on:
(1) The borrowers regulatory body approved depreciation rates; and
(2) Where such rates as described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section do not exist for items which the borrower is seeking financing, the most recent median depreciation rates published by RUS for all borrowers. RUS will publish such depreciation rates annually in RUS's “Statistical Report, Rural Telephone Borrowers.”
(f) Projected scheduled debt service payments will generally be based on all of the borrower's outstanding and proposed loans from RUS and all other lenders as of the end of the feasibility Forecast period (i.e. for a 5-year Forecast period, the amount of debt outstanding in year 5).
(g) The financial and statistical data are derived from RUS Form 479, “Financial and Statistical Data for Telephone Borrowers,” or for initial loans, the data may be obtained from the borrower's financial statements and other reports, and from other information supplied with the completed loan applications (see 7 CFR 1737.21 and 1737.22).
(h) When, in RUS's opinion, the borrower's operating experience is not adequate or the borrower's current operations are not representative, the estimates in the feasibility study normally will be developed from state and regional standards based on the experience of RUS borrowers. These standards are included in the Borrower's Statistical Profile (BSP), which is revised annually by RUS. If the borrower's operating experience is not the basis for one or more per-subscriber estimates used in the feasibility study, the estimates generally may not vary from the standard by more than 20 percent to reflect the particular characteristics of the loan applicant. Any variation from the standard shall be documented.
(i) In cases where these per-subscriber standards do not represent a reasonable forecast of a particular borrower's operations (for example, when a variation greater than 20 percent is necessary), estimates based upon a special analysis of the borrower's projected operations shall be used. The
special analysis will accompany the feasibility study.
(j) When it is reasonably expected that a subscriber, classified as a special project, may discontinue service, a second feasibility study will be prepared, for comparison purposes, omitting revenues and expenses from this subscriber.
(k) RUS may obtain and review commercially available credit reports on applicants for a loan or loan guarantee to verify income, assets, and credit history, and to determine whether there are any outstanding delinquent Federal or other debts. Such reports will also be reviewed for parties that are or propose to be joint owners of a project with a borrower.
(l) If it is determined that loan feasibility cannot be proven as described in this section, the loan application will be returned to the borrower with an explanation. A borrower whose application has been returned will have 90 working days, from the date the application was returned, to revise and resubmit its application. If a revised application is not received by RUS within the 90-day period described above, the application will be canceled and a new application will need to be submitted if the borrower wishes further consideration.
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26599, June 10, 1991; 58 FR 66256, Dec. 20, 1993; 62 FR 46872, Sept. 5, 1997]
§ 1737.71
Interest rate to be considered for the purpose of assessing feasibility for loans.
(a) For purposes of determining the creditworthiness of a borrower for RUS cost-of-money, the Administrator shall assume that the loan, if made, would bear interest at the Treasury rate on the date of determination as described in paragraph (b) of this section. If the Treasury rate exceeds 7 percent, the interest rate used to determine eligibility for the RUS cost-of-money loan will be 7 percent.
(b) The 30-year Treasury rate will be used in all feasibility studies for loans with a final maturity of at least 30 years. A straight-line interpolation between other Treasury rates will be used to determine the rate used in feasibility studies for loans with final maturities of less than 30 years.
(c) The Treasury rate will be obtained each Tuesday, or as soon as possible thereafter, from the Federal Reserve. The rate for the current week, from the column labeled “This week” in the Federal Reserve statistical release, will be used from that Wednesday through the following Tuesday.
(d) As used in this section, the “date of determination” means the date of the feasibility study used in support of the loan recommendation.
[58 FR 66257, Dec. 20, 1993, as amended at 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§§ 1737.72-1737.79
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Characteristics Letter
§ 1737.80
Description of characteristics letter.
(a) After all of the studies and exhibits for the proposed loan have been prepared, but before the loan is recommended, RUS shall inform the borrower, in writing, of the characteristics of the proposed loan. The purpose of the characteristics letter is to inform the borrower and obtain its concurrence, before further consideration by RUS of the loan approval and the preparation of legal documents relating to the loan, in such matters as the amount of the proposed loan, its purposes, rate of interest, loan security requirements, and other prerequisites to the advance of loan funds. The letter, whether or not concurred in by the borrower, does not commit RUS to approve the loan on these or any other terms.
(b) The Forecast of Revenues and Expenses and a copy of RUS Form 493, “Telephone Loan Budget,” shall be enclosed with the characteristics letter. This copy of the budget shall be subject to change by RUS with the borrower's agreement.
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26600, June 10, 1991]
§§ 1737.81-1737.89
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Final Loan Approval Procedures
§ 1737.90
Loan approval requirements.
(a) In addition to requirements set forth in 7 CFR part 1735, 7 CFR part 1737 and other applicable parts of 7 CFR chapter XVII, the following are certain additional requirements that must be met before RUS will approve a loan:
(1) If the borrower had 100 or more employees as of the prior December 31, it must submit the current annual Employer Information Report EEO-1, Standard Form 100, as required by the Department of Labor; see 29 CFR 1602.7 through 1602.14.
(2) The borrower must be in compliance with regulations on nondiscrimination. See 7 CFR part 1790 (or RUS Bulletin 320-19).
(3) For subsequent loans, RUS must determine whether the borrower's accounting records are adequate. If the records are not adequate, as determined by RUS based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or other accounting conventions as deemed necessary by RUS, a provision will be included in the loan contract requiring the borrower to improve its records to an adequate level.
(4) The borrower must not have any receivables, loans, guarantees, investments, or other obligations that are contrary to the mortgage provisions or any RUS regulations including, but not limited to, 7 CFR part 1758 (or RUS Bulletins 320-4, 320-22, 321-2, 322-2, 323-1, or 326-1). If the borrower has any of these items, the loan contract shall contain a provision requiring that they be eliminated prior to the release of funds. See 7 CFR part 1744 for conditions under which RUS will provide a shared first lien and/or a lien accommodation for non-RUS lenders.
(5) RUS must make a determination on flood insurance requirements. In accordance with the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended by the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (the “Flood Insurance Act”), RUS shall not approve financial assistance for the acquisition, construction, repair or improvement of any building or any machinery, equipment, fixtures or furnishings contained or to be contained in any such building located in an area which has been identified by the Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (the “Director of FEMA”) pursuant to the Flood Insurance Act as an area having special flood hazards unless:
(i) Flood insurance has been made available, pursuant to the Flood Insurance Act, in the area in which the acquisition, construction, repair or improvement is proposed to occur; and
(ii) The borrower has obtained flood insurance coverage with respect to such building, machinery, equipment, fixtures or furnishings as may be required pursuant to the Flood Insurance Act.
Accordingly, a finding shall be made on whether loan funds will be used to finance buildings, machinery, fixtures or furnishings located in an identified special flood hazard area. If loan funds are to be used in such a special flood hazard area, a provision will be included in the loan contract restricting the release of funds until all the requirements of the Flood Insurance Act have been satisfied.
(6) All environmental review requirements must be met in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970. The Agency may obligate, but not disperse, funds under the program pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 950cc-1, before the completion of the otherwise required environmental, historical, or other types of reviews if the Secretary of Agriculture determines that subsequent site-specific review shall be adequate and easily accomplished for the location of towers, poles, or other broadband facilities in the service area of the awardee without compromising the project or the required reviews.
(b) [Reserved]
[54 FR 13356, Apr. 3, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26600, June 10, 1991; 81 FR 11027, Mar. 2, 2016; 86 FR 50610, Sept. 10, 2021]
§ 1737.91
Approval.
(a) A loan is approved when the Administrator, or whoever is delegated authority, signs the administrative findings and the letter to the borrower announcing the loan.
(b) If the loan is not approved, RUS shall notify the borrower, in writing, of the reasons.
§ 1737.92
Loan documents.
Following approval of the loan, RUS shall forward the necessary loan documents to the borrower for execution, delivery, recording, and filing, as directed by RUS. See 7 CFR part 1758 for details (or RUS Bulletins 320-4, 320-22, 321-2, 322-2, 323-1, or 326-1).
§§ 1737.93-1737.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart K—Release of Funds Procedure
§ 1737.100
Prerequisites to the release and advance of funds.
(a) Standard prerequisites to the advance of funds, generally applied to all loans, are set forth in Article II of the form of loan contract attached as appendix A to 7 CFR part 1758. Additional prerequisites may be added on a case by case basis to the loan contract.
(b) Before any loan funds can be advanced, RUS must approve a release of funds.
(c) RUS approves the release of funds only after it determines that all prerequisites to the advance of loan funds have been met or funds should be advanced even though certain loan contract prerequisites remain unsatisfied.
(d) Following release approval, loan funds and related nonloan funds may be advanced in accordance with 7 CFR part 1744.
(e) The borrower may be required to discharge indebtedness and/or to close acquisitions before advances are made for construction purposes. In such cases, the borrower shall submit evidence that these actions have been completed. If the evidence is satisfactory to RUS, RUS shall allow the remaining loan funds to be advanced in accordance with 7 CFR part 1744.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0085)
§ 1737.101
Amounts spent for preloan activities.
If the borrower desires to credit amounts spent for preloan activities against any equity or general funds required by the loan contract, it shall submit an itemized statement of such expenditures to the Area Office. These expenditures will be accounted for on RUS Form 503, “Release of Telephone Loan Funds,” if RUS determines that the amounts spent are reasonable based on normal industry practice and that the procedures set forth in 7 CFR part 1737, subpart D, have been complied with. Statements of preloan expenditures will be verified as to accuracy by loan fund audits.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0085)
§§ 1737.102-1737.109
[Reserved]
Pt. 1738

# PART 1738—RURAL BROADBAND LOANS, LOAN/GRANT COMBINATIONS, AND LOAN GUARANTEES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1738.1
Overview.
1738.2
Definitions.
1738.3
Funding parameters.
1738.4-1738.50
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements
1738.51
Eligible entities.
1738.52
Eligible projects.
1738.53
Eligible service area.
1738.54
Eligible service area exceptions for broadband facility upgrades.
1738.55
Broadband lending speed requirements.
1738.56
Eligible assistance purposes.
1738.57
Ineligible assistance purposes.
1738.58-1738.100
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Award Requirements
1738.101
Grant assistance.
1738.102
Payment assistance for loans.
1738.103
Substantially Underserved Trust Areas (SUTA).
1738.104
Technical assistance.
1738.105
Priorities for approving assistance.
1738.106
Public notice.
1738.107
Additional reporting requirements for Awardees.
1738.108
Environmental reviews.
1738.109
Civil rights procedures and requirements.
1738.110-1738.150
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Award Terms
1738.151
General.
1738.152
Interest rates.
1738.153
Terms and conditions.
1738.154
Security.
1738.155
Advance of funds.
1738.156
Buy American requirement.
1738.157-1738.200
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Application Review and Underwriting
1738.201
Application submission.
1738.202
Elements of a complete application.
1738.203
Notification of completeness.
1738.204
Evaluation for feasibility.
1738.205
Competitive analysis.
1738.206
Financial information.
1738.207
Network design.
1738.208
Award determinations.
1738.209-1738.250
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Closing, Servicing, and Reporting for Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Awards
1738.251
Offer and closing.
1738.252
Construction.
1738.253
Servicing of loan and loan/grant combinations.
1738.254
Accounting, reporting, and monitoring requirements.
1738.255
Default and deobligation.
1738.256-1738.300
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Loan Guarantee
1738.301
General.
1738.302
Fees.
1738.303-1738.349
[Reserved]
1738.350
OMB control number.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.

# Source:
85 FR 14398, Mar. 12, 2020, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1738.1
Overview.
(a) The Rural Broadband Program furnishes loans, loan/grant combinations, and loan guarantees for the costs of construction, improvement, or acquisition of facilities and equipment needed to provide service at the broadband lending speed in eligible rural areas. This part sets forth the general policies, eligibility requirements, types and terms of loans, loan/grant combinations and loan guarantees, and program requirements under 7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
(b) Additional information and application materials regarding the Rural Broadband Program can be found on the Rural Development website.
§ 1738.2
Definitions.
(a) The following definitions apply to this part:
Acquisition
means the purchase of assets by an eligible entity as defined in § 1738.51 to acquire facilities, equipment, operations, licenses, or majority stock interest of one or more organizations. Stock acquisitions must be arm's-length transactions.
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
Advance
means the transfer of loan or grant funds from the Agency to the Awardee.
Affiliate
or
affiliated company
of any specified person or entity means any other person or entity directly or indirectly controlling of, controlled by, under direct or indirect common control with, or related to, such specified entity, or which exists for the sole purpose of providing any service to one company or exclusively to companies which otherwise meet the definition of affiliate. For the purpose of this definition, “control” means the possession directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a company, whether such power is exercised through one or more intermediary companies, or alone, or in conjunction with or pursuant to an agreement with, one or more other companies, and whether such power is established through a majority or minority ownership voting of securities, common directors, officers, or stockholders, voting trust, or holding trusts (other than money exchanged) for property or services.
Agency
means the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
Applicant
means an entity requesting approval of assistance under this part.
Assistance
means a request for a loan, loan/grant combination, or loan guarantee.
Associated loan
means any loan that is granted in association with a grant. Every grant will have an associated loan.
Award
means a loan, loan/grant combination, or loan guarantee made under this part.
Award documents
means, as applicable, all associated loan agreements,
loan/grant combination agreements, or loan guarantee documents.
Award term
means the term of the loan as defined in the Award documents. The Award term shall be equal to the composite economic life of the facilities being financed with RUS loan or grant funding plus 3 years.
Awardee
means an entity that has applied for and been awarded assistance under this part.
Borrower
means an entity that has applied for and been awarded loan funding under this part.
Broadband grant
means a Community Connect, Broadband Initiatives Program, ReConnect Program, or Rural Broadband Program grant approved by the Agency.
Broadband lending speed
means the minimum bandwidth requirements, as published by the Agency in its latest notice in the
Federal Register
that Applicants must propose to deliver to every customer in the proposed funded service area in order for the Agency to approve a broadband Award. Broadband lending speeds will vary depending on the technology proposed and the term of the average composite economic life of the facilities. Initially, the broadband lending speed for terrestrial service, whether fixed or wireless, as well as mobile broadband serving ranches and farmland is 25 megabits per second (Mbps) downstream and 3 Mbps upstream, until further amended by notice. If a new broadband lending speed is published in the
Federal Register
while an application is pending, the pending application will be processed based on the broadband lending speed that was in effect when the application was submitted.
Broadband loan
means any loan approved under Title VI of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (RE Act).
Broadband service
means any technology identified by the Administrator as having the capacity to provide transmission facilities that enable the subscriber to receive a minimum level of service equal to at least a downstream transmission capacity of 25 Mbps and an upstream transmission capacity of 3 Mbps. The Agency will publish the minimum transmission capacity with respect to terrestrial service that will qualify as broadband service in a notice in the
Federal Register.
If a new minimum transmission capacity is published in the
Federal Register
while an application is pending, broadband service for the purpose of reviewing the application will be defined by the minimum transmission capacity that was required at the time the application was received by the Agency.
Build-out
means the construction, improvement, or acquisition of facilities and equipment, except for customer premises equipment (CPE).
Competitive analysis
means a study that identifies service providers and products in the service area that will compete with the Applicant's operations.
Composite economic life
means the weighted (by dollar amount of each class of facility in the requested assistance) average economic life as determined by the Agency of all classes of facilities financed by the award.
Current Ratio
(CR) means the current assets divided by the current liabilities.
Customer premises equipment
(CPE) means any network-related equipment used by a customer to connect to a service provider's network.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
(DSCR)
means
the ratio of the sum of the Awardee's total net income or margins, depreciation and amortization expense, and interest expense, minus an allowance for funds used during construction and amortized grant revenue, all divided by the sum of interest on funded debt, other interest, and principal payment on debt and capital leases.
Density
means the total population to be served by the project divided by the total number of square miles to be served by the project. If multiple service areas are proposed, the density calculation will be made on the combined areas as if they were a single area, and not the average densities.
Development costs
mean the pre-application costs associated with construction, design of the system, and other professional labor, as approved by the Agency. Further guidance on what constitutes approved development costs will be outlined in the Agency's application guide.
Economic life
means the estimated useful service life of an asset financed by the loan or grant, as determined by the Agency.
Feasibility study
means the pro forma financial analysis performed by the Agency, based on the financial projections prepared by the Applicant, to determine the financial feasibility of a loan or loan/grant combination request.
Financial feasibility
means the Applicant's ability to generate sufficient revenues to cover its expenses, sufficient cash flow to service its debts and obligations as they become due and meet the Net worth and minimum Times Interest Earned Ratio (TIER), CR, or DSCR requirements of § 1738.206(b)(2)(i) by the end of the forecast period. Financial feasibility of an application is based on a projection that spans the forecast period and the entire operation of the Applicant, not just the proposed project.
Fiscal year
refers to the Applicant or awardee's fiscal year, unless otherwise indicated.
Forecast period
means the time period used in the feasibility study to determine if an application is financially feasible.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
Grant documents
means the grant contract and security agreement between the Agency and the Awardee securing the grant.
Grantee
means an entity that has an outstanding broadband grant made by the Agency, with outstanding obligations under the Award documents.
Incumbent service provider
means a service provider that provides terrestrial broadband service to at least 5 percent of the households in the proposed funded service area at the time of application submission. Resellers are not considered incumbent service providers. If an Applicant proposes an acquisition, the Applicant will be considered a service provider for that area. The Agency will not consider mobile or satellite providers when determining the incumbent service providers in the area.
Indefeasible right to use
(IRU) means the long-term agreement of the rights to capacity, or a portion thereof specified in terms of a certain amount of bandwidth or number of fibers.
Interim financing
means funds used for eligible Award purposes after an Award offer has been extended to the Applicant by the Agency. Such funds may be eligible for reimbursement from Award funds if an Award is made.
Loan guarantee
means Federal assistance in the form of a guarantee of a loan, or a portion thereof, made by another lender.
Loan funds
means funds provided pursuant to a broadband loan made or guaranteed under this part by the Agency.
Market survey
means the collection of information on the supply, demand, usage, and rates for proposed services to be offered by an Applicant in support of the Applicant's financial projections.
Net worth
means the difference between an entity's total assets and total liabilities.
Project
means all work to be performed to bring broadband service to all premises in the proposed funded service area under the Application that is approved for assistance. This includes the construction, purchase and installation of equipment, and professional services including engineering and accountant/consultant fees. A project may be funded with Federal assistance or other funds.
Project completion
means that all Award funds for construction of the broadband system, excluding those funds for subscriber connections and CPE, have been advanced to the Awardee by RUS.
Proposed funded service area
means the geographic service territory within which the Applicant is proposing to offer service at the broadband lending speed.
RE Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
Reseller
means a company that purchases network services from service providers in bulk and resells them to commercial businesses and residential households. Resellers are not considered incumbent service providers.
Rural area(s)
means any area which is not located within:
(i) A city, town, or incorporated area that has a population of greater than 20,000 inhabitants; or
(ii) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants. For purposes of this definition, an urbanized area means a densely populated territory as defined in the latest decennial census of the U.S. Census Bureau; and
(iii) Which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I).
RUS Borrower
or
RUS Grantee
means any recipient of a loan or grant administered by the RUS Telecommunications Program that has a loan outstanding, or a grant which still has unadvanced funds available.
Security documents
means any mortgage, deed of trust, security agreement, financing statement, or other document which grants or perfects to the Agency a security interest in collateral given as security for the assistance under this part.
Service area
or
Service territory
means the geographic area within which a service provider offers broadband service.
Service provider
means an entity providing broadband service.
System of accounts
means the Agency's system of accounts for maintaining financial records as described in 7 CFR part 1770, subpart B.
TIER
means times interest earned ratio. TIER is the ratio of an Applicant's net income (after taxes) plus interest expense, all divided by interest expense and with all financial terms customarily-required by GAAP or by the Uniform System of Accounts (USOA).
Total project cost
means all eligible costs associated with the project that are laid out in the application budget schedule, including RUS loan and grant funding and non-RUS funds, as approved by the Agency.
(b) Accounting terms not otherwise defined in this part shall have the commonly-accepted meaning under GAAP and shall be recorded using the Agency's system of accounts.
[85 FR 14398, Mar. 12, 2020, as amended at 87 FR 38642, June 29, 2022]
§ 1738.3
Funding parameters.
(a) The amount of funds available for assistance, as well as the maximum and minimum Award amounts, will be published in the
Federal Register.
Applicants may apply for loans, loan/grant combinations, and loan guarantees.
(b) An Applicant that provides telecommunications or broadband service to at least 20 percent of the households in the United States is limited to an Award amount that is no more than 15 percent of the funds available to the Rural Broadband Program for the Federal fiscal year.
§§ 1738.4-1738.50
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements
§ 1738.51
Eligible entities.
(a) To be eligible for funding, an Applicant may be either a nonprofit or for-profit organization, and must take one of the following forms:
(1) Corporation;
(2) Limited liability company (LLC);
(3) Cooperative or mutual organization;
(4) Indian tribe or tribal organization as defined in 25 U.S.C. 5304; or
(5) State or local government, including any agency, subdivision, or instrumentality thereof.
(b) For loan guarantees, the underlying loan must be issued to an entity that meets the requirements in this part.
§ 1738.52
Eligible projects.
To be eligible for assistance under this part, the Applicant must:
(a) Agree to complete the build-out of the broadband system described in the application within 5 years from the day the Applicant is notified that funds are available. Under the terms of the Award documents, this 5-year period will commence from the date that the legal documents are cleared, and funds are made available to the Awardee. The application must demonstrate that all proposed construction can be completed within this 5-year period with the exception of CPE;
(b) Demonstrate an ability to provide service at the broadband lending speed
to all premises in the proposed funded service area; and
(c) Provide additional equity, if necessary, to ensure financial feasibility (see § 1738.204) as determined by the Administrator.
(d) For loan guarantees, the underlying loan must be issued on a project that meets all eligibility requirements required in this part.
§ 1738.53
Eligible service area.
(a) A service area may be eligible for assistance as follows:
(1) For loan and loan/grant combinations, the proposed funded service area is completely contained within a rural area. For loan guarantee applications, the proposed funded service area must be contained within an area with a population of 50,000 or less, as defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13);
(2) For loan/grant combinations, at least 90 percent of the households in the proposed service area must not have access to broadband service. For loans and loan guarantees, at least 50 percent of the households in the proposed service area must not have access to broadband service;
(3) No part of the proposed funded service area has three or more incumbent service providers; and
(4) No part of the proposed funded service area overlaps with the service area of current RUS borrowers or grantees with outstanding obligations. Notwithstanding, after October 1, 2020, the service areas of grantees that are providing service that is less than 10 Mbps downstream or less than 1 Mbps upstream will be considered unserved unless, at the time of the proposed application, the grantee has begun to construct broadband facilities that will meet the minimum acceptable level of service established in § 1738.55.
(b) Non-contiguous areas in the same application will be considered separate service areas and must be treated separately for the purpose of determining service area eligibility. If one or more non-contiguous areas within an application are is determined to be ineligible, the Agency may consider the remaining areas in the application for eligibility.
(c) When determining the eligibility of a proposed funded service area, the Agency will use the information submitted through the public notice response (see § 1738.106) as well as all available information collected through various means by the Agency, including but not limited to consultation with other Federal and State agencies and RUS' own site-specific assessment of the level of service in an area.
(d) Mobile and satellite services will not be considered in making the determination that households in the proposed service area do not have access to broadband service.
§ 1738.54
Eligible service area exceptions for broadband facility upgrades.
(a) Applicants upgrading existing broadband facilities in their existing service area are exempt from the requirement concerning the limit of incumbent service providers in § 1738.53(a)(3). Additionally, applicants for loans or loan guarantee funding that have received a broadband loan under Section 601 of the RE Act are exempt from the requirement concerning the number of households in § 1738.53(a)(2) without access to broadband service.
(b) Applicants submitting one application to upgrade existing broadband facilities and to expand service beyond their existing service area must segregate the upgrade and expansion into two service areas, even if the upgrade and expansion areas are contiguous. The expansion service area will not be subject to any exemptions.
(c) Applicants will be asked to remove areas determined to be ineligible from their proposed funded service area. The application will then be evaluated based on what remains if the resultant service territory is
de minimis
in change. Otherwise, the Applicant will be requested to provide additional information to the Agency relating to the ineligible areas, such as updated pro forma financials. If the Applicant fails to respond, the application may be returned.
§ 1738.55
Broadband lending speed requirements.
(a) Projects must meet the broadband build-out standards in paragraphs (a)(1)
through (5) of this section in order to be considered for assistance.
(1) Projects with an Award term of less than 5 years must provide service at the broadband lending speed;
(2) Projects with an Award term of 5 to 10 years must provide service at four times the broadband lending speed;
(3) Projects with an Award term of 11 to 15 years must provide service at six times the broadband lending speed;
(4) Projects with an Award term of 16 to 20 years must provide service at eight times the broadband lending speed; and
(5) Projects with an Award term over 20 years must provide service at ten times the broadband lending speed.
(b) If an Applicant demonstrates that it would be cost prohibitive to meet the broadband lending speed in paragraph (a) of this section in the proposed funded service area due to the unique characteristics of the service territory, the Administrator may agree to utilize substitute service standards. In such cases, Applicants must document in their application why the unique characteristics of such an area make it cost prohibitive to provide service at the broadband lending speed. Note that the proof of burden on Applicants will be extremely high.
§ 1738.56
Eligible assistance purposes.
Assistance under this part may be used to pay for any of the following expenses:
(a) To fund the construction, improvement, or acquisition of all facilities required to provide service at the broadband lending speed to rural areas, including facilities required for providing other services over the same facilities.
(b) To fund the cost of leasing facilities required to provide service at the broadband lending speed if such lease qualifies as a capital/finance lease under GAAP. Notwithstanding, assistance can only be used to fund the cost of the capital/finance lease for no more than the first three years of the lease period. If an IRU qualifies as a capital/finance lease, the entire cost of the lease will be amortized over the life of the lease and only the first 3 years of the amortized cost can be funded.
(c) To fund an acquisition, provided that:
(1) The acquisition is necessary for furnishing or improving service at the broadband lending speed;
(2) The acquired service area, if any, meets the eligibility requirements set forth in § 1738.53;
(3) The acquisition cost does not exceed 50 percent of the broadband assistance; and
(4) For the acquisition of another entity, the purchase provides the Applicant with a controlling majority interest in the entity acquired.
(d) To refinance an outstanding obligation of the Applicant on another telecommunications loan made under the RE Act or on a non-RUS loan if that loan would have been for an eligible purpose under the Rural Broadband Program provided that:
(1) No more than 50 percent of the broadband assistance amount is used to refinance a non-RUS loan;
(2) The Applicant is current with its payments on the RUS telecommunications loan(s) to be refinanced; and
(3) The amortization period for that portion of the broadband loan that will be needed for refinancing will not exceed the remaining amortization period for the loan(s) to be refinanced. If multiple notes are being refinanced, an average remaining amortization period will be calculated based on the weighted dollar average of the notes being refinanced.
(e) To fund development costs in an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the total Award amount excluding amounts requested to refinance outstanding telecommunications loans. Development costs may be reimbursed only if they are incurred prior to the date on which notification of a complete application is issued (see § 1738.203) and a loan contract is entered into with RUS. Entities that meet the requirements in § 1738.101(d) may request this funding be provided as a grant. Otherwise, the funding will be provided in the form of a loan.
§ 1738.57
Ineligible assistance purposes.
Assistance under this part must not be used for any of the following purposes:
(a) To fund operating expenses of the Applicant except for eligible development costs under § 1738.56(e).
(b) To fund any costs associated with the project incurred prior to the date on which notification of a complete application is issued (see § 1738.203), except for eligible development costs under § 1738.56(e).
(c) To fund the acquisition of the stock of an affiliate.
(d) To fund the purchase or acquisition of any facilities or equipment of an affiliate.
(e) To fund the purchase of CPE and the installation of associated inside wiring, unless the CPE will be owned by the Applicant throughout its economic life.
(f) To fund the purchase or lease of any vehicle unless it is used primarily in construction or system improvements.
(g) To fund the cost of systems or facilities that have not been designed and constructed in accordance with the Award contract and other applicable requirements.
(h) To fund broadband facilities leased under the terms of an operating lease, a short-term lease, or more than 3 years of a capital/finance lease.
(i) To fund merger or consolidation of entities.
(j) To fund non-capitalized labor in accordance with 2 CFR part 200 except for eligible development costs under § 1738.56(e).
(k) To provide grant funding, a subsidized loan or payment assistance to cover the costs to refinance an outstanding loan.
§§ 1738.58-1738.100
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Award Requirements
§ 1738.101
Grant assistance.
(a) To be eligible for grant funding, the Applicant must:
(1) Submit an application for an associated loan component under Title I, Title II, or Title VI of the RE Act; and
(2) Not be the recipient of any other broadband grant from RUS with unadvanced grant funds.
(b) The amount of grant funding on any project shall not exceed:
(1) 75 percent of the total project cost when the proposed funded service area has a density of fewer than 7 people per square mile;
(2) 50 percent of the total project cost when the proposed funded service area has a density of 7 or more and fewer than 12 people per square mile; and
(3) 25 percent of the total project cost with respect to an area with a density of 12 or more and 20 or fewer people per square mile.
(c) Subsequent density determinations, as well as density requirements for projects on tribal lands will be set by notice in the
Federal Register
.
(d) The Agency may provide additional grant funding of up to 75 percent of the development costs of projects requesting funding under Title VI that serve rural areas that:
(1) Lack access to broadband service with speeds of at least 10 Mbps downstream and 1 Mbps upstream; and
(2) Meet any one of the priorities set forth in § 1738.105(a)(3)(i).
§ 1738.102
Payment assistance for loans.
(a) Grant funding may also be used to provide assistance to Title VI Awardees in the form of subsidized loans at such rates as the Agency will issue from time to time by notice in the
Federal Register,
or in the form of a payment assistance loan, which shall require no interest and principal payments or require nominal periodic payments as determined by the Agency and published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) Subsidized loans shall only be available to projects which will serve rural areas lacking access to service with speeds of at least 10 Mbps downstream and 1 Mbps upstream and meets any one of the priorities set forth in § 1738.105(a)(3)(i).
(c) The Agency may determine, at its sole discretion, to provide a payment assistance loan which shall require no interest and principal payments or such nominal payments as the Secretary determines to be appropriate. Such loans will only be provided to projects which will serve rural areas lacking access to service of speeds of 10 Mbps downstream and 1 Mbps upstream and meets any two of the priorities set
forth in § 1738.105(a)(3)(i). When considering the authority to provide a payment assistance loan, the Agency will consider how such assistance will:
(1) Improve the Applicant's compliance with the commitments of the Agency's standard Award agreement, in addition to any additional requirements imposed by the Agency specific to the project;
(2) Promote the completion of the broadband project;
(3) Protect taxpayer resources; and
(4) Support the integrity of the Agency's broadband programs.
(d) The Agency and recipients of payment assistance loans must agree to specific milestones and objectives for the project which must be met, in addition to the other requirements of this part. Such terms may be amended by mutual agreement for good cause. Failure to meet the agreed upon terms, upon the Agency's determination that such failure was a direct result of the Awardee's own actions, may result in the Agency's request to the return of all, or any portion, of the grant funds used for the payment assistance loan.
(e) Additionally, Applicants with an associated loan under Title I and Title II of the RE Act and which are seeking any grant assistance under this part, are not eligible for a subsidized loan or payment assistance loans.
§ 1738.103
Substantially Underserved Trust Areas (SUTA).
Applicants seeking assistance may request consideration under the SUTA provisions in 7 U.S.C. 936f.
(a) If the Administrator determines that a community within “trust land” (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 3765) has a high need for the benefits of the Rural Broadband Program, he/she may designate the community as a “substantially underserved trust area” (as defined in section 306F of the RE Act).
(b) To receive consideration under SUTA, the Applicant must submit to the Agency a completed application that includes all of the information requested in 7 CFR part 1700, subpart D. In addition, the Applicant must notify the Agency in writing that it seeks consideration under SUTA and identify the discretionary authorities of 7 CFR part 1700, subpart D, it seeks to have applied to its application. Note, however, that the two years of historical audited financial statements and Net worth requirement for loan and loan/grant combination Applicants in § 1738.206(b)(2)(i) cannot be waived.
§ 1738.104
Technical assistance.
Projects which will serve communities that meet, at least, three of the priorities as identified in § 1738.105(a)(3)(i) may request technical assistance and training from the Agency to:
(a) Prepare reports and surveys necessary to request grants, loans, and loan guarantees for broadband deployment;
(b) Improve management, including financial management, relating to the proposed broadband deployment;
(c) Prepare applications for grants, loans, and loan guarantees; and
(d) Assist with other areas of need as identified by the Agency through a notice in the
Federal Register
.
§ 1738.105
Priorities for approving assistance.
(a) The Agency will compare and evaluate all applications for assistance and shall give priority to applications in the manner set out in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, which shall be scored as outlined in a notice published in the
Federal Register.
(Note that for applications containing multiple proposed funded service areas, the percentage will be calculated combining all proposed funded service areas.)
(1) Applicant's providing broadband service to rural areas that do not have access to service of at least 10 Mbps upstream and 1 Mbps downstream.
(2) Projects that provide the maximum level of broadband service to the greatest proportion of rural households.
(3) Projects that:
(i) Serve rural areas:
(A) With a population of less than 10,000 permanent residents;
(B) Are experiencing outmigration and have adopted a strategic community investment plan under section 379H(d) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 2008v)
that includes considerations for improving and expanding broadband service;
(C) With a high percentage of low-income families or persons (as defined in section 501(b) of the Housing Act of 1949 (42 U.S.C. 1471(b)));
(D) That are isolated from other significant population centers; or
(E) That provide rapid and expanded deployment of fixed and mobile broadband on cropland and ranchland within a service territory for use in various applications of precision agriculture; and
(ii) Were developed with the participation of, and will receive a substantial portion of the funding for the project from two or more stakeholders, including:
(A) State, local, and tribal governments;
(B) Nonprofit institutions; and
(C) Community anchor institutions, such public libraries, schools, institutions of higher education, health care facilities, private entities, philanthropic organizations and cooperatives.
(4) New construction projects requesting no refinancing.
(b) The Agency may assign special consideration priority points that will be issued in a notice in the
Federal Register
with respect to any funding opportunity.
(c) With respect to two or more applications that have the same priority, as outlined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the Agency shall give priority to the application that requests the least amount of grant funding as calculated based on the total amount of grant funds requested.
§ 1738.106
Public notice.
(a) The Agency will publish a public notice of each application requesting assistance under this part. The application must provide a summary of the information required for such public notice including all of the following information:
(1) The identity of the Applicant;
(2) A map of each proposed funded service area showing the rural area boundaries and the areas without broadband service using the Agency's mapping tool;
(3) The amount and type of support requested;
(4) The estimated number of households in each proposed funded service area without broadband service, excluding mobile and satellite service; and
(5) A description of all the types of services that the Applicant proposes to offer in each proposed funded service area.
(b) The public notice will remain available for 45 calendar days on the Agency's website, and will request existing service providers to submit to the Agency, within the same period, the following information:
(1) The number of residential and business customers within the Applicant's proposed funded service area that are currently offered, and that are purchasing, broadband service by the existing service provider, and the cost of each level of broadband service charged by the existing service provider;
(2) The number of residential and business customers within the Applicant's proposed funded service area that receive non-broadband services from the existing service provider, and the associated rates for these other services; and
(3) A map showing where the existing service provider's services coincide with the Applicant's proposed funded service area using the Agency's mapping tool.
(c) For purposes of 5 U.S.C. 552, information received from existing service providers under paragraph (b) of this section shall be exempt from disclosure.
(d) If an application is approved, an additional notice will be published on the Agency's website that will include the following information:
(1) The name of the entity receiving the financial assistance;
(2) The amount and type of assistance being received;
(3) The purpose of the assistance; and
(4) Each annual report submitted under § 1738.107, redacted as appropriate to protect any proprietary information in the report.
§ 1738.107
Additional reporting requirements for Awardees.
(a) Entities receiving assistance from the USDA to provide retail broadband service must submit annual reports for 3 years after project completion. The reports must include the following information:
(1) The purpose of the financing, including new equipment and capacity enhancements that support high-speed broadband access for educational institutions, health care providers, and public safety service providers (including the estimated number of end users who are currently using or forecasted to use the new or upgraded infrastructure); and
(2) The progress towards fulfilling the objectives for which the assistance was granted, including:
(i) The number of service points that will receive new broadband service, existing network service improvements, and facility upgrades resulting from the Federal assistance;
(ii) The speed of broadband services;
(iii) The average price of the most subscribed tier of broadband service in each proposed service area; and
(iv) The number of new subscribers generated from the project.
(b) Awardees must provide complete, reliable, and precise geolocation information that indicates the location of new broadband service that is being provided or upgraded within the service territory supported by the assistance no later than 30 days after the earlier of the date of:
(1) Completion of the project milestone established in the applicable assistance contract; or
(2) Project completion.
(c) Any other reporting requirements established by the Administrator by notice in the
Federal Register
before an application is submitted.
§ 1738.108
Environmental reviews.
(a) Federal agencies are required to analyze the potential environmental impacts, as required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and the National Historic Preservation Act (NHPA) for Applicant projects or proposals seeking funding. Please refer to 7 CFR part 1970 for all of Rural Development's environmental policies. All Applicants are required to provide environmental review documents, provide a description of program activities, and to submit all other required environmental documentation as requested in the application system or by the Agency after the application is submitted. It is the Applicant's responsibility to obtain all necessary Federal, tribal, State, and local governmental permits and approvals necessary for the proposed work to be conducted. Applicants are expected to design their projects so that they minimize the potential for adverse impacts to the environment. Applicants also will be required to cooperate with the granting agencies in identifying feasible measures to reduce or avoid any identified adverse environmental impacts of their proposed projects. The failure to do so may be grounds for not making an Award.
(b) The Agency may obligate, but not disperse, funds under Title VI of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, before the completion of the otherwise required environmental historical, or other types of reviews if the Secretary determines that subsequent site-specific review shall be adequate and easily accomplished for the location of towers, poles, or other broadband facilities in the service area of the awardee without compromising the project or the required reviews.
§ 1738.109
Civil rights procedures and requirements.
(a)
Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.
The agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscriminatory requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and 7 CFR part 15. In accordance with Federal civil rights law and USDA civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity (including gender expression), sexual orientation, disability, age, marital status, family/parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil
rights activity, in any program or activity conducted or funded by USDA (not all bases apply to all programs).
(b)
Civil rights compliance.
Recipients of Federal assistance under this part must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. In general, recipients should have available for the Agency racial and ethnic data showing the extent to which members of minority groups are beneficiaries of federally assisted programs. The Agency will conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR part 15. Awardees will be required to complete Form RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement,” for each Federal Award received.
(c)
Discrimination complaints.
Persons believing they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this section may file a complaint personally or by an authorized representative with USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250. A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated officials of USDA or the Agency.
§§ 1738.110-1738.150
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Award Terms
§ 1738.151
General.
Direct loans shall be in the form of a cost-of-money loan except as detailed in § 1738.152.
§ 1738.152
Interest rates.
(a) Direct cost-of-money loans shall bear interest at a rate equal to the cost of borrowing to the Department of Treasury for obligations of comparable maturity unless the project qualifies for a reduced interest rate as detailed in § 1738.102. The applicable interest rate will be set at the time of each advance.
(b) The interest rate for Applicants receiving payment assistance or Substantially Underserved Trust Areas (SUTA) consideration will be set at the time of the Award.
§ 1738.153
Terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions of the loan and loan/grant combinations are set forth in a mortgage, note, and loan contract. Samples of the mortgage, note, and loan contract can be found on the Agency's website.
(a) Unless requested to be shorter by the Applicant, loans must be repaid with interest within a period that, rounded to the nearest whole year, is equal to the expected composite economic life of the assets to be financed, as determined by the Agency based upon acceptable depreciation rates. Expected composite economic life means the weighted average economic life of all classes of facilities necessary to complete construction of the broadband facilities plus 3 years.
(b) Principal payments for each advance are amortized over the remaining term of the loan and are due monthly. Principal payments will be deferred until 3 years after the date of the first advance of loan funds. Interest begins accruing when the first advance of loan funding is made and interest payments are due monthly, with no deferral period.
(c) Awardees are required to carry fidelity bond coverage. Generally, this amount will be 15 percent of the loan or loan/grant combination Award amount, not to exceed $5 million. The Agency may reduce the percentage required if it determines that the amount is not commensurate with the risk involved.
§ 1738.154
Security.
(a) The broadband loan or loan/grant combination must be secured by the assets purchased with the loan or loan/grant combination funds, as well as all other assets of the Applicant and any other cosigner of the Award documents except as allowed under section 601(h)(2) of the RE Act. With respect to loan/grant combinations, all grant assets must also be covered by a security interest in favor of the Government for the average composite economic life of all project assets financed with assistance, regardless of whether the loan is paid off before the maturity date. Additionally, the sale of all such grant assets shall be governed by 2 CFR part
200, regardless of the entity type of the Awardee.
(b) The Agency must be given an exclusive first lien, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agency, on all of the Applicant's property and revenues and such additional security as the Agency may require. The Agency may share its first lien position with another lender on a
pari passu,
prorated basis if security arrangements are acceptable to the Agency.
(c) Unless otherwise designated by the Agency, all property purchased with loan and loan/grant combination funds must be owned by the Applicant.
(d) In the case of loan and loan/grant combinations that include financing of facilities that do not constitute self-contained operating systems, the Applicant shall furnish assurance, satisfactory to the Agency, that continuous and efficient service that meets the broadband build-out requirements as noted in § 1738.55 will be rendered.
(e) The Agency will require adequate financial, investment, operational, reporting, and managerial controls in the Award documents.
§ 1738.155
Advance of funds.
RUS loan and grant advances are made at the request of the Awardee according to the procedures stipulated in the Award documents. For loan and loan/grant combination Awards, all non-RUS funds must be expended first, followed by loan funds and then grant funds, except for RUS approved development costs. Grant funds for eligible development costs, if any, will be used only on the first advance request.
§ 1738.156
Buy American requirement.
Awardees shall use in connection with the expenditure of loan and grant funds only such unmanufactured articles, materials, and supplies, as have been mined or produced in the United States or in any eligible country, and only such manufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country, substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured, as the case may be, in the United States or in any eligible country. For purposes of this section, an “eligible country” is any country that applies with respect to the United States an agreement ensuring reciprocal access for United States products and services and United States suppliers to the markets of that country, as determined by the United States Trade Representative. The Buy American regulations may be found at, and any requests for waiver must be submitted pursuant to, 7 CFR part 1787.
§§ 1738.157-1739.200
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Application Review and Underwriting
§ 1738.201
Application submission.
(a) Loan and loan/grant combination applications must be submitted through the Agency's online application system.
(b) The Agency may publish additional application submission requirements in the
Federal Register
.
§ 1738.202
Elements of a complete application.
(a)
Online application system.
Loan and loan/grant combination applications must be submitted through RUS' online application system and include all information as required by that system and detailed in the Rural Broadband Program Application Guide (the Application Guide), available on the Agency's website, so that applications can be uniformly evaluated and compared.
(b)
SAM registration.
Prior to submitting an application, all Applicants requesting loan/grant combination funds must register in the System for Award Management (SAM) at
https://sam.gov/
and provide a Unique Entity Identifier as part of the application. SAM registration must be active with current data at all times, from the application review throughout the active Federal Award. To maintain the required registration in the SAM database, annual renewal is required with a review and update of all information. The Applicant must ensure that the information in the database is current, accurate, and complete.
(c)
Contents of the application.
A complete application will include the following information as requested in the
RUS online application system and Application Guide:
(1) General information on the Applicant and the project including:
(i) A description of the project that will be made public consistent with the requirements in this part; and
(ii) The estimated dollar amount of the funding request.
(2) An executive summary of the proposed project. The summary shall include, but not be limited to, a detailed description of the existing operations, discussion of key management, description of the workforce and a detailed description of the proposed project.
(3) A description of the proposed funded service area including the number of premises passed.
(4) Subscriber projections including the number of subscribers for broadband, video and voice services and any other service that may be offered. A description of the proposed service offerings and the associated pricing plan that the Applicant proposes to offer, and an explanation showing that the proposed service offerings are affordable.
(5) A map, utilizing the RUS mapping tool, of the proposed funded service areas identifying the areas lacking access to broadband service and the areas lacking access to service of speeds of at least 10 Mbps downstream and 1 Mbps upstream and any non-funded service areas of the Applicant
(6) A competitive analysis of the entire proposed service territory(ies) as required by § 1738.205.
(7) A network design which includes a description of the proposed technology used to deliver service at the required broadband lending speed (see § 1738.55) to all premises in the proposed funded service area, a network diagram, a build-out timeline and milestones for implementation of the project, and a capital investment schedule showing that the system can be built within 5 years from the date funds are made available to the Awardee. All of which must be certified by a professional engineer who is certified in at least one of the states where the project is to be constructed. The certification from the professional engineer must clearly state that the proposed network can deliver service at the required broadband lending speed (see § 1738.55) to all premises in the proposed funded service area.
(8) All environmental information as required by § 1738.108.
(9) Resumes of key management personnel, a description of the organization's readiness to manage a broadband services network, and an organizational chart showing all parent organizations and/or holding companies (including parents of parents, etc.) and all subsidiaries and affiliates.
(10) A legal opinion that addresses the Applicant's ability to enter into loan or loan/grant combination as requested in the application for financial assistance, to pledge security as required by the Agency, to describe all pending litigation matters, and such other requirements as are detailed in the Application Guide.
(11) A summary and itemized budgets of the infrastructure costs of the proposed project, including if applicable, the ratio of loans to grants, and any other sources of outside funding.
(12) A detailed description of working capital requirements and the sources of those funds.
(13) Complete copies of audited financial statements for the two years preceding the application submission as detailed in § 1738.206.
(14) The historical and projected financial information required in § 1738.206.
(15) Documentation proving that all required licenses and regulatory approvals for the proposed operation have been obtained, or the status of obtaining such licenses or approvals.
(16) If service is being proposed on tribal land, a certification from the proper tribal official that they are in support of the project and will allow construction to take place on tribal land. The certification must:
(i) Include a description of the land proposed for use as part of the proposed project;
(ii) Identify whether the land is owned, held in Trust, land held in fee simple by the Tribe, or land under a long-term lease by the Tribe;
(iii) If owned, identify the land owner; and
(iv) Provide a commitment in writing from the land owner authorizing the Applicant's use of that land for the proposed project.
(17) Scoring sheet, analyzing the scoring criteria set forth in this part and most recent funding opportunity announcement.
(18) Additional items that may be required by the Administrator through a notice in the
Federal Register
.
(d)
Material representations.
The application, including certifications and all forms submitted as part of the application, will be treated as material representations upon which RUS will rely in awarding loans and loan/grant combinations.
[85 FR 14398, Mar. 12, 2020, as amended at 89 FR 34957, May 1, 2024]
§ 1738.203
Notification of completeness.
If all proposed funded service areas in a loan or loan/grant combination application are eligible, the Agency will review the application for completeness. The completeness review will include an assessment of whether all required documents and information have been submitted and whether the information provided is of adequate quality to allow further analysis.
(a) If the application contains all documents and information required by this part and is sufficient, in form and substance acceptable to the Agency, the Agency will notify the Applicant, in writing, that the application is complete. A notification of completeness is not a commitment that assistance will be approved. By submitting an application, the Applicant acknowledges that no obligation to enter into an agreement exists until the actual Award documents have been executed.
(b) If the application is considered to be incomplete or inadequate, the Agency will notify the Applicant, in writing, with detailed information regarding the reasons the applications was found to be incomplete or inadequate.
§ 1738.204
Evaluation for feasibility.
After a loan or loan/grant combination Applicant is notified that the application is complete, the Agency will evaluate the application's financial and technical feasibility. Only applications that, as determined by the Agency, are technically and financially feasible will be considered for funding.
(a) The Agency will determine financial feasibility by evaluating the impact of the facilities financed with the proceeds of the loan and the associated debt, the Applicant's equity, competitive analysis, financial information—including the Applicant's ability to meet the Agency's Net worth and TIER, DSCR, or CR requirements in § 1738.206(b)(2)(i)—and other relevant information in the application.
(b) The Agency will determine technical feasibility by evaluating the Applicant's network design and other relevant information in the application.
§ 1738.205
Competitive analysis.
The Applicant must submit a competitive market analysis for each service area regardless of projected penetration rates. Each analysis must identify all existing service providers and all resellers in each service area regardless of the provider's market share, for each type of service the Applicant proposes to provide. The analysis must compare the rates, services, and the quality of that service being offered by competitors against those that will be offered by the Applicant. The analysis must also discuss strategies the Applicant will use to compete, as well as the impacts of the competitors on the projected penetration rates for the project.
§ 1738.206
Financial information.
(a) The Applicant must submit financial information acceptable to the Agency that demonstrates that the Applicant has the financial capacity to fulfill the loan or loan/grant combination requirements in this part and to successfully complete the proposed project.
(1) Applicants must provide complete copies of audited financial statements (opinion letter, balance sheet, income statement, statement of changes in financial position, and notes to the financial statement) for the two years preceding the application submission. For governmental entities financial statements must be accompanied with certifications identifying unrestricted cash that will be available on a yearly
basis to the Applicant. Subsidiary operations formed from existing utility providers may provide audited financial statements for the two previous years from the parent company, as long as the parent will be a cosigner of the loan or loan/grant documents, pledging its assets in accordance with § 1738.154(a), or will guarantee the debt.
(2) If the Applicant relies on services provided by a parent or affiliated operation, it must also provide complete copies of audited financial statements for those entities for the fiscal year preceding the application submission. If audited statements are not available, unaudited statements and tax returns for the previous year must be submitted.
(3) Applicants must provide detailed information for all outstanding obligations. Copies of existing notes, loan agreements, security agreement, or other legal documents covering loans, grants, leases, or other loan guarantees must be included in the application.
(4) Applicants must provide a detailed description of working capital requirements and the source of these funds, if internally generated funds are insufficient.
(b) Applicants must submit the following documents that demonstrate the proposed project's financial viability and ability to repay the requested loan.
(1) Customer projections for the 5-year forecast period that substantiate the projected revenues for each service that is to be provided. The projections must be provided on at least an annual basis and must be developed separately for each service area and must be clearly supported by evidence such as market surveys or current company take rates.
(2) Pro forma financial forecast, including a balance sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows. For non-regulated entities, the pro forma should be prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and the Agency's guidance on grant accounting found at
https://www.rd.usda.gov/files/AccountingGuidance10.pdf.
Regulated telecommunications providers may follow the USOA and RUS accounting standards for their pro forma, including accounting for grant-funded assets as a contribution, in accordance with 47 CFR 32.2, if the project assets will be treated as regulated plant. The pro forma should validate the sustainability of the project by including subscriber estimates related to all proposed service offerings; annual financial projections with balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements; supporting assumptions for a 5-year forecast period and a depreciation schedule for existing facilities and those funded with Federal assistance, and other funds. This pro forma should indicate the committed sources of capital funding and include a bridge year prior to the start of the forecast period. This bridge year is the year in which the application is submitted and serves as a buffer between the historical financial information and the forecast period. Including the bridge year, the pro forma statements span a 6-year period.
(i) The financial projections submitted by Applicants must demonstrate that their entire operation will be able to meet two of the following three ratio requirements: A minimum TIER, CR, or DSCR equal to 1.25 by the end of the 5-year forecast period. Additionally, the projections must demonstrate the Applicant's ability to maintain a Net worth of at least 20 percent throughout the forecast period. Demonstrating that the operation can achieve a projected Net worth of 20 percent and TIER, CR, or DSCR of 1.25 does not ensure that the Agency will approve the loan or loan/grant combination.
(ii) If the financial analysis suggests that the operation will not be able to achieve the Net worth requirement or two of the required TIER, CR, or DSCR in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the Agency will not approve the loan or loan/grant combination Award without additional capital, additional cash, additional security, and/or a change in the Award terms.
(c) Based on the financial evaluation, the Award documents will specify the Net worth and TIER, CR, or DSCR requirements in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section that must be met throughout the amortization period.
§ 1738.207
Network design.
(a) Applications for loan or loan/grant combinations must include a network design that demonstrates the project's technical feasibility. The network design must fully support the delivery of service to meet the broadband build-out requirements specified in § 1738.55, together with any other services to be provided. In measuring speed, the Agency will take into account industry and regulatory standards. The design must demonstrate that the project will be complete within the 5-year forecast period and must include the following items:
(1) A detailed description of the proposed technology that will be used to provide service at the broadband lending speed. This description must clearly demonstrate that all premises in the proposed funded service area will be able to receive service at the broadband lending speed;
(2) A detailed description of the existing network. This description should provide a synopsis of the current network infrastructure;
(3) A detailed description of the proposed network. This description should provide a synopsis of the proposed network infrastructure;
(4) A description of the approach and methodology for monitoring ongoing service delivery and service quality for the services being deployed;
(5) Estimated project costs detailing all facilities that are required to complete the project. These estimated costs must be broken down to indicate costs associated with each proposed service area and must specify how Agency and non-Agency funds will be used to complete the project;
(6) A construction build-out schedule of the proposed facilities by service area on an annual basis. The build-out schedule must include:
(i) A description of the workforce that will be required to complete the proposed construction;
(ii) A timeline demonstrating project completion within the forecast period; and
(iii) Detailed information showing that all premises within the proposed funded service area will be offered service at the broadband lending speed when the system is complete;
(7) A depreciation schedule for all facilities financed with loan and loan/grant combination funds;
(8) An environmental report prepared in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970; and
(9) Any other system requirements required by the Administrator through a notice published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) The network design must be prepared by a registered Professional Engineer with telecommunications experience who is certified in at least one of the states where a project is to be constructed or by qualified personnel on the Applicant's staff. If the network design is prepared by the Applicant's staff, the application must clearly demonstrate the staff's qualifications, experience, and ability to complete the network design. To be considered qualified, staff must have at least 3 years of experience in designing the type of broadband system proposed in the application.
§ 1738.208
Award determinations.
(a) If the loan or loan/grant combination application meets all statutory and regulatory requirements and the feasibility study demonstrates that the Net worth and TIER, CR, or DSCR requirements in § 1738.206(b)(2)(i) can be satisfied and the business plan is sustainable, the application will be submitted to the Agency's credit committees for consideration according to the priorities in § 1738.105. Such submission of an application to the Agency's credit committees does not guarantee that a loan or loan/grant combination will be approved. In making a loan and/or loan/grant combination Award determination, the Administrator shall consider the recommendations of the credit committees.
(b) The Applicant will be notified of the Agency's decision in writing. If the Agency does not approve the loan or loan/grant combination, a rejection letter will be sent to the Applicant, and the application will be returned with an explanation of the reasons for the rejection.
§§ 1738.209-1738.250
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Closing, Servicing, and Reporting for Loan and Loan/Grant Combination Awards
§ 1738.251
Offer and closing.
The Agency will notify the Applicant of the loan or loan/grant combination offer in writing, and the date by which the Applicant must accept the offer. If the Applicant accepts the terms of the offer, a loan or loan/grant combination contract, note, security agreement, and any other necessary documents will be executed by the Agency and sent to the Applicant. The Applicant must execute the Award documents and satisfy all conditions precedent to closing within the timeframe specified by the Agency. If the conditions are not met within this timeframe, the loan or loan/grant combination offer may be terminated, unless the Applicant requests and the Agency approves, an extension. The Agency may approve such a request if the Applicant has diligently sought to meet the conditions required for closing and has been unable to do so for reasons outside its control.
§ 1738.252
Construction.
(a) Construction paid for with loan or loan/grant combination funds must comply with 7 CFR parts 1787, 1788, and 1970, the RUS Broadband Construction Procedures located at
https://reconnect.usda.gov,
and any other guidance from the Agency.
(b) Once the Agency has extended a loan or loan/grant combination offer, the Applicant, at its own risk, may start construction that is included in the application on an interim financing basis. For this construction to be eligible for reimbursement with loan or loan/grant combination funds, all construction procedures contained in this part must be followed. Note, however, that the Agency's extension of a loan or loan/grant combination offer is not a guarantee that a loan or loan/grant combination will be made, unless and until a contract has been entered into between the Applicant and RUS.
(c) All Awardees must complete build-out within 5 years from the date that funds have been made available. Build-out is considered complete when the network design has been fully implemented, the service operations and management systems infrastructure is operational, and the awardee is ready to support the activation and commissioning of individual customers to the new system.
§ 1738.253
Servicing of loan and loan/grant combinations.
(a) Borrowers must make payments on the broadband loan as required in the note.
(b) Awardees must comply with all terms, conditions, affirmative covenants, and negative covenants contained in the Award documents.
(c) In the event of default of any required payment or other term or condition:
(1) The Agency may exercise the default remedies provided in the Award documents and any remedy permitted by law but is not required to do so.
(2) If the Agency chooses not to exercise its default remedies, it does not waive its right to do so in the future.
§ 1738.254
Accounting, reporting, and monitoring requirements.
(a) Awardees must adopt a system of accounts for maintaining financial records acceptable to the Agency, as described in 7 CFR part 1770, subpart B.
(b) Awardees will be required to prepare audits as follows:
(1) If the awardee is a for-profit entity, an electric or telecommunications cooperative, or any other entity not covered by the definition of “non-Federal entity” in 2 CFR 200.1, the awardee shall provide an independent audit report in accordance with 7 CFR part 1773 and the award agreement. The certified public accountant (CPA) conducting the annual audit is selected by the awardee and must be approved by RUS as set forth in 7 CFR 1773.5.
(2) If the awardee is a non-Federal entity, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, the awardee shall provide an audit in accordance with subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.
(c) Loan and loan/grant combination Awardees must submit to RUS 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar year quarter, balance sheets, income statements, statements of cash flow, rate package summaries, and the number of customers subscribing to broadband service from the Awardee utilizing RUS' online reporting system. These reports must be submitted throughout the loan amortization period.
(d) Loan and loan/grant combination Awardees must submit annually updated service area maps through the RUS mapping tool showing the areas where construction has been completed and premises are receiving service until the entire proposed funded service area can receive service at the broadband lending speed. At the end of the project, Awardees must submit a service area map indicating that all construction has been completed as proposed in the application. If parts of the proposed funded service area have not been constructed, RUS may require a portion of the Award to be rescinded and/or paid back.
(e) Loan and loan/grant combination Awardees must comply with all reasonable Agency requests to support ongoing monitoring efforts. The Awardee shall afford RUS, through its representatives, reasonable opportunity, at all times during business hours and upon prior notice, to have access to and the right to inspect the broadband system, and any other property encumbered by the mortgage or security agreement, and any or all books, records, accounts, invoices, contracts, leases, payrolls, timesheets, cancelled checks, statements, and other documents, electronic or paper of every kind belonging to or in the possession of the Awardee or in any way pertaining to its property or business, including its subsidiaries, if any, and to make copies or extracts therefore.
(f) Awardee records shall be retained and preserved in accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR part 1770, subpart A.
[85 FR 14398, Mar. 12, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 7561, Feb. 6, 2023]
§ 1738.255
Default and deobligation.
If a default under the loan or loan/grant combination documents occurs and such default has not been cured within the timeframes established in the Award documents, the Applicant acknowledges that the Agency may, depending on the seriousness of the default, take any of the following actions:
(a) To the greatest extent possible recover the maximum amount of grant and loan funds;
(b) De-obligate all funds that have not been advanced or demonstrate an insufficient level of performance or fraudulent spending; and
(c) Reallocate recovered funds to the extent possible.
§§ 1738.256-1738.300
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Loan Guarantee
§ 1738.301
General.
(a) To be eligible for a loan guarantee, the Applicant must submit an application that meets the requirements in this part along with the requirements as stated in 7 CFR part 4279, subparts A and B, as well as any additional requirements published in the
Federal Register
.
(b) The Agency may approve Rural Broadband Program loan guarantees in excess of $10 million but less than $25 million when the project meets one of the priorities in § 1738.105(a)(3)(i).
(c) The lender will service the loan in accordance with 7 CFR part 4287, subpart B.
(d) Any reference to priorities in 7 CFR part 4279 or 4287 shall have the meaning as stated in § 1738.105 and any reference to Administrator or Agency shall have the meaning as defined in § 1738.2.
§ 1738.302
Fees.
The Agency shall charge and collect from the lender fees in such amounts as to bring down the costs of subsidies for guaranteed loans, except that such fees shall not act as a bar to participation in the programs nor be inconsistent with current practices in the marketplace.
§§ 1738.303-1738.349
[Reserved]
§ 1738.350
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements in this part are approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0572-0154.
Pt. 1739

# PART 1739—BROADBAND GRANT PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Community Connect Grant Program
Sec.
1739.1
Purpose.
1739.2
Funding availability and application dates and submission.
1739.3
Definitions.
1739.4-1739.7
[Reserved]
1739.8
Buy American requirement.
1739.9
USDA Rural Development State Director notification.
1739.10
Eligible applicant.
1739.11
Eligible Community Connect Competitive Grant Project.
1739.12
Eligible grant purposes.
1739.13
Ineligible grant purposes
1739.14
Matching contributions.
1739.15
Completed application.
1739.16
Review of grant applications.
1739.17
Scoring of applications.
1739.18
Grant documents.
1739.19
Reporting and oversight requirements.
1739.20
Audit requirements.
1739.21
OMB control number.
Subpart B [Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.

# Source:
78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Community Connect Grant Program
§ 1739.1
Purpose.
(a) The provision of broadband service is vital to the economic development, education, health, and safety of rural Americans. The purpose of the Community Connect Grant Program is to provide financial assistance in the form of grants to eligible applicants that will provide, on a “community-oriented connectivity” basis, broadband service that fosters economic growth and delivers enhanced educational, health care, and public safety benefits. The Agency will give priority to rural areas that have the greatest need for broadband services, based on the criteria contained herein and in the RUS Community Connect Program application guide and/or the Community Connect Program website and in the funding opportunity announcement (FOA) posted on
www.Grants.gov.
(b) Grant authority will be used for the deployment of service to all premises in eligible rural areas at the Broadband Grant Speed on a “community-oriented connectivity” basis. In addition to providing service to all premises the “community-oriented connectivity” concept will stimulate practical, everyday uses and applications of broadband by cultivating the deployment of new broadband services that improve economic development and provide enhanced educational and health care opportunities in rural areas. Such an approach will also give rural communities the opportunity to benefit from the advanced technologies that are necessary to achieve these goals.
[78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018]
§ 1739.2
Funding availability and application dates and submission.
(a) The Agency will post a FOA on
www.Grants.gov
that will set forth the total amount of funding available; the maximum and minimum funding for each grant; funding priority; the application submission dates; and the appropriate addresses and agency contact information. The FOA will also outline and explain the procedures for submission of applications, including electronic submissions. The Agency may publish more than one FOA should additional funding become available. This information will also be made available in the RUS Community Connect Grant program application guide and on the RUS Community Connect Grant program website.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Agency may, in response to a surplus of qualified eligible applications which could not be funded from the previous fiscal year, decline to post a FOA for the following fiscal
year and fund said applications without further public notice.
[83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018]
§ 1739.3
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Agency
or
RUS
shall mean the Rural Utilities Service, which administers the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Rural Development Utilities Programs.
Broadband Grant Speed
means the minimum bandwidth described in the funding opportunity that an applicant must propose to deliver to every customer in the proposed funded service area in order for the Agency to approve a broadband grant. The Broadband Grant Speed may be different for fixed and mobile broadband services and from the minimum rate of data transmission required to determine the availability of broadband service when qualifying a service area.
Broadband service
means any terrestrial technology having the capacity to provide transmission facilities that enable subscribers of the service to originate and receive high-quality voice, data, graphics, and video at the minimum rate of data transmission described in the funding opportunity. Satellite and mobile services are not considered broadband service. The broadband service speed may be different from the broadband grant speed for the Community Connect program.
Community Center
means a building within the Proposed Funded Service Area that provides access to the public, or a section of a public building with at least two (2) Computer Access Points and wireless access, that is used for the purposes of providing free access to and/or instruction in the use of broadband Internet service, and is of the appropriate size to accommodate this purpose. The community center must be open and accessible to area residents before, during, and after normal working hours and on Saturdays or Sunday.
Computer Access Point
means a new computer terminal with access to service at the Broadband Grant Speed.
Critical Community Facilities
means an essential community facility as defined pursuant to section 306(a) of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act (7 U.S.C. 1926(a)).
Eligible applicant
shall have the meaning as set forth in § 1739.10.
Eligible grant purposes
shall have the meaning as set forth in § 1739.12.
Funding opportunity announcement (FOA)
means a publicly available document by which a Federal agency makes know its intentions to award discretionary grants or cooperative agreements, usually as a result of competition for funds. FOA announcements may be known as program announcements, notices of funding availability, solicitations, or other names depending on the agency and type of program. FOA announcements can be found at
www.Grants.gov
in the Search Grants tab and on the funding agency's or program's website.
Matching contribution
means the applicant's qualified contribution to the Project, as outlined in § 1739.14 of this part.
Project
means the delivery of service at the Broadband Grant Speed financed by the grant and Matching Contribution for the Proposed Funded Service Area.
Proposed Funded Service Area (PFSA)
means the contiguous geographic area within an eligible Rural Area or eligible Rural Areas, in which the applicant proposes to provide service at the Broadband Grant Speed.
Rural area
means any area, as confirmed by the most recent decennial Census of the United States (decennial Census), which is not located within:
(1) A city, town, or incorporated area that has a population of greater than 20,000 inhabitants; or
(2) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants, and which excludes certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I). For purposes of the definition of rural area, an urbanized area means a densely populated territory as defined in the most recent decennial Census.
[78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 9862, Feb. 24, 2015; 83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018; 85 FR 14408, Mar. 12, 2020; 87 FR 38642, June 29, 2022]
§§ 1739.4-1739.7
[Reserved]
§ 1739.8
Buy American requirement.
Awardees shall use in connection with the expenditure of grant funds only such unmanufactured articles, materials, and supplies, as have been mined or produced in the United States or in any eligible country, and only such manufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country, substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured, as the case may be, in the United States or in any eligible country. For purposes of this section, an “eligible country” is any country that applies with respect to the United States an agreement ensuring reciprocal access for United States products and services and United States suppliers to the markets of that country, as determined by the United States Trade Representative. The Buy American regulations may be found at, and any requests for waiver must be submitted pursuant to, 7 CFR part 1787.
[85 FR 14408, Mar. 12, 2020]
§ 1735.9
USDA Rural Development State Director notification.
Applicants shall complete a notification form which will be a public document that the RUS provides to USDA Rural Development State Directors and others in the state(s) of the PFSA. The notification shall include a brief project description and the location of the PFSA.
§ 1739.10
Eligible applicant.
To be eligible for a Community Connect competitive grant, the applicant must:
(a) Be legally organized as an incorporated organization, an Indian tribe or tribal organization, as defined in 25 U.S.C. 450b(e), a state or local unit of government, or other legal entity, including cooperatives or private corporations or limited liability companies organized on a for-profit or not-for-profit basis.
(b) Have the legal capacity and authority to own and operate the broadband facilities as proposed in its application, to enter into contracts and to otherwise comply with applicable federal statutes and regulations.
(c) Register in the System for Award Management (SAM) (formerly Central Contractor Registry (CCR)).
(1) At the time of application, whether applying electronically or by paper, each applicant must have a Unique Entity Identifier (UEI) and an active registration in SAM before submitting its application in accordance with 2 CFR part 25. Instructions for obtaining the UEI are available at
https://sam.gov/.
(2) The SAM registration must remain active, with current information, at all times during which an entity has an application under consideration by an agency or has an active Federal Award. To remain registered in the SAM database after the initial registration, the applicant is required to review and update, on an annual basis from the date of initial registration or subsequent updates, its information in the SAM database to ensure it is current, accurate and complete.
[78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 89 FR 34958, May 1, 2024]
§ 1739.11
Eligible Community Connect Competitive Grant Project.
To be eligible for a Community Connect competitive grant, the Project must:
(a) Serve a PFSA in which Broadband Service does not currently exist;
(b) Offer service at the Broadband Grant Speed to all residential and business customers within the PFSA ;
(c) Offer free service at the Broadband Grant Speed to all Critical Community Facilities located within the PFSA for at least 2 years starting from the time service becomes available to each Critical Community Facility;
(d) Provide a Community Center with at least two (2) Computer Access Points and wireless access at the Broadband Grant Speed, free of all charges to all users for at least 2 years; and
(e) Not overlap with the service areas of current RUS borrowers and grantees.
§ 1739.12
Eligible grant purposes.
Grant funds may be used to finance the following:
(a) The construction, acquisition, or leasing of facilities, including spectrum, land or buildings, used to deploy service at the Broadband Grant Speed to all residential and business customers located within the PFSA and all participating Critical Community Facilities, including funding for up to ten Computer Access Points to be used in the Community Center. Buildings constructed with grants funds must reside on property owned by the awardee. Leasing costs will only be covered through the advance of funds period included in the award documents;
(b) The improvement, expansion, construction, or acquisition of a Community Center and provision of Computer Access Points. Grant funds for the Community Center will be limited to ten percent of the requested grant amount. If a community center is constructed with grant funds, the center must reside on property owned by the awardee;
(c) The cost of providing the necessary bandwidth for service free of charge to the Critical Community Facilities for 2 years.
§ 1739.13
Ineligible grant purposes.
Operating expenses not specifically permitted in § 1739.12.
§ 1739.14
Matching contributions.
(a) At the time of closing of the award, the awardee must contribute or demonstrate available cash reserves in an account(s) of the awardee equal to at least 15% of the grant. Matching contributions must be used solely for the Project and shall not include any financial assistance from federal sources unless there is a federal statutory exception specifically authorizing the federal financial assistance to be considered as such. An applicant must provide evidence of its ability to comply with this requirement in its application.
(b) At the end of every calendar quarter, the award must submit a schedule to RUS that identifies how the match contribution was used to support the project until the total contribution is expended.
§ 1739.15
Completed application.
Applications should be prepared in conformance with the provisions of this part and all applicable regulations, including 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400. Applicants must also conform to the requirements of the FOA posted on
www.Grants.gov
, the RUS Community Connect Grant program application guide, and the Community Connect Grant program website. Applicants should refer to the FOA and the application guide for submission directions. The application guide contains instructions and forms, as well as other important information needed to prepare an application and is updated on an annual basis. Paper copies of the application guide can be requested by contacting the Loan Origination and Approval Division at 202-720-0800. Completed applications must include the following documentation, studies, reports and information, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agency:
(a)
An Application for Federal Assistance.
A completed Standard Form 424;
(b)
An executive summary of the Project.
A general project overview that addresses the following categories:
(1) A description of why the Project is needed;
(2) A description of the applicant;
(3) An explanation of the total Project costs;
(4) A general overview of the broadband telecommunications system to be developed, including the types of equipment, technologies, and facilities to be used;
(5) Documentation describing the procedures used to determine the unavailability of existing Broadband Service; and
(6) A list of the Critical Community Facilities that will take service from the Applicant at the Broadband Grant Speed, and evidence that any remaining Critical Community Facility located in the PFSA has rejected the offer;
(c)
Scoring Criteria Documentation.
A narrative, with documentation where necessary, addressing the elements listed in the scoring criteria of § 1739.17;
(d)
System design.
A system design of the Project that is economical and
practical, including a detailed description of the facilities to be funded, technical specifications, data rates, and costs. In addition, a network diagram detailing the proposed system must be provided. The system design must also comply with the environmental review requirements in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970 and as supplemented by 7 CFR 1738.108;
(e)
Service Area Demographics.
The following information about the PFSA:
(1) A map, submitted electronically through RUS' web-based Mapping Tool, which identifies the Rural Area boundaries of the PFSA; and
(2) The total population, number of households, and number of businesses located within the PFSA;
(f)
Scope of work.
A description of the scope of work, which at a minimum must include:
(1) The specific activities and services to be performed under the Project;
(2) Who will carry out the activities and services;
(3) A construction build-out schedule and project milestones, showing the time-frames for accomplishing the Project objectives and activities on a quarterly basis; and
(4) A budget for all capital and administrative expenditures reflecting the line item costs for Eligible Grant Purposes and other sources of funds necessary to complete the Project;
(g)
Community-oriented connectivity plan.
A community-oriented connectivity plan consisting of the following:
(1) A listing of all participating Critical Community Facilities to be connected. The applicant must also provide documentation that it has consulted with the appropriate agent of every Critical Community Facility in the PFSA, and must provide statements from each one as to its willingness to participate, or not to participate, in the proposed Project;
(2) A description of the services the applicant will make available to local residents and businesses; and
(3) A list of any other telecommunications provider (including interexchange carriers, cable television operators, enhanced service providers, wireless service providers and providers of satellite services) that is participating in the delivery of services and a description of the consultations and the anticipated role of such provider in the Project;
(h)
Financial information and sustainability.
A narrative description demonstrating the sustainability of the Project: from the commencement of construction to completion, and beyond the grant period; the sufficiency of resources; how and when the matching requirement is met; and the expertise necessary to undertake and complete the Project. The following financial information is required:
(1) If the applicant is an existing company, it must provide complete copies of audited financial statements, if available, for the two fiscal years preceding the application submission. If audited statements are unavailable, the applicant must submit unaudited financial statements for those fiscal years. Applications from start-up entities must, at minimum, provide an opening balance sheet dated within 30 days of the application submission date; and
(2) Annual financial projections in the form of balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements for a forecast period of five years, which prove the sustainability of the Project for that period and beyond. These projections must be inclusive of the applicant's existing operations and the Project, and must be supported by a detailed narrative that fully explains the methodology and assumptions used to develop the projections, including details on the number of subscribers projected to take the applicant's services. Applicants submitting multiple applications for funding must demonstrate that each Project is feasible and sustainable on its own, funds are available to cover each of the matching requirements and that all Projects for which funding is being requested are financially feasible as a whole;
(i)
Statement of experience.
A statement of experience which includes information on the owners' and principal employees' relevant work experience that would ensure the success of the Project. The applicant must also provide a written narrative demonstrating its capability and experience, if any, in
operating a broadband telecommunications system;
(j)
Legal authority.
Evidence of the applicant's legal authority and existence, and its ability to enter into a grant agreement with the RUS, and to perform the activities proposed under the grant application;
(k)
Additional funding.
Evidence that funding agreements have been attained, if the Project requires funding commitment(s) from sources other than the grant. An applicant submitting multiple applications for funding must demonstrate its financial wherewithal to support all applications, if accepted, and that it can simultaneously complete and operate all of the Projects under consideration. Additionally, commitments for outside funding must be explicit that they will be available if all applications are not funded;
(l)
Public notice.
The Agency will publish a public notice of each application requesting assistance under this part. The application must provide a summary of the information required for such public notice. The information required can be found in 7 CFR 1738.106.
(m)
Federal compliance.
Evidence of compliance with other federal statutes and regulations including, but not limited to the following:
(1) 7 CFR part 15, subpart A—Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs of the Department of Agriculture—Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;
(2) 2 CFR part 200, as adopted by USDA through 2 CFR part 400.
(3) 2 CFR part 417—Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension;
(4) 2 CFR part 418—New Restrictions on Lobbying;
(5) 2 CFR part 421—Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Financial Assistance);
(6) Certification regarding Architectural Barriers;
(7) Certification regarding Flood Hazard Precautions;
(8) Environmental review documentation prepared in accordance with 7 CFR part 1970 and as supplemented by 7 CFR 1738.108.
(9) A certification that grant funds will not be used to duplicate lines, facilities, or systems providing Broadband Service;
(10) Federal Obligation Certification on Delinquent Debt; and
(11) Assurance Regarding Felony Conviction or Tax Delinquent Status for Corporate Applicants.
[78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 76004, Dec. 19, 2014; 81 FR 11027, Mar. 2, 2016; 83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018; 85 FR 14409, Mar. 12, 2020]
§ 1739.16
Review of grant applications.
(a) All applications for grants must be delivered to the Agency at the address and by the date specified in the FOA, the Community Connect Grant program application guide and the Community Connect Grant program website (
see
§ 1739.2) to be eligible for funding. The Agency will review each application for conformance with the provisions of this part, and may contact the applicant for clarification of information in the application.
(b) Incomplete applications as of the deadline for submission will not be considered. If an application is determined to be incomplete, the applicant will be notified in writing and the application will be returned with no further action.
(c) If the Agency determines that the Project is technically or financially infeasible or unsustainable, the Agency will notify the applicant, in writing, and the application will be returned with no further action.
(d) Applications conforming with this part will be evaluated competitively by the Agency and will be ranked in accordance with § 1739.17. Applications will then be awarded generally in rank order until all grant funds are expended, subject to paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(e) In addition to scoring, the Agency may take geographic distribution into consideration when making final award determinations.
(f) An award may be made out of rank order if a higher ranked application would require an award that exceeded available funding or would consume a disproportionate amount of funds available relative to its ranking.
(g) The Agency reserves the right to offer an applicant a lower amount than proposed in the application.
[78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018]
§ 1739.17
Scoring of applications.
The ranking of the “community-oriented connectivity” benefits of the Project will be based on documentation in support of the need for services, benefits derived from the proposed services, characteristics of the PFSA, local community involvement in planning and implementation of the Project, and the level of experience of the management team. In ranking applications the Agency will consider the following criteria based on a scale of 100 possible points:
(a) An analysis of the challenges of the following criteria, laid out on a community-wide basis, and how the Project proposes to address these issues (up to 50 points):
(1) The economic characteristics;
(2) Educational challenges;
(3) Health care needs; and
(4) Public safety issues;
(b) The extent of the Project's planning, development, and support by local residents, institutions, and Critical Community Facilities. Documentation must include evidence of community-wide involvement, as exemplified by community meetings, public forums, and surveys. In addition, applicants should provide evidence of local residents' participation in the Project planning and development (up to 40 points).
(c) The level of experience and past success of operating broadband systems for the management team. (up to 10 points)
(d) In making a final selection among and between applications with comparable rankings and geographic distribution, the Administrator may take into consideration the characteristics of the PFSA. Only information provided in the application will be considered. Applicants should therefore specifically address each of the following criteria to differentiate their applications:
(1) Persistent poverty counties that will be served within the PFSA;
(2) Out-migration Communities that will be served within the PFSA;
(3) The rurality of the PFSA;
(4) The speed of service provided by the project;
(5) Substantially underserved trust areas that will be served within the PFSA;
(6) Community members with disabilities that will be served within the PFSA; and
(7) Any other additional factors that may be outlined in the FOA, the Community Connect Grant program application guide, and the Community Connect Grant program website.
[78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 83 FR 45033, Sept. 5, 2018]
§ 1739.18
Grant documents.
The terms and conditions of grants shall be set forth in grant documents prepared by the Agency. The documents shall require the applicant to own all equipment and facilities financed by the grant. Among other matters, the Agency may prescribe conditions to the advance of funds that address concerns regarding the Project feasibility and sustainability. The Agency may also prescribe terms and conditions applicable to the construction and operation of the Project and the delivery of service at the Broadband Grant Speed to eligible Rural Areas, as well as other terms and conditions applicable to the individual Project. Dividend distributions will not be allowed until all grant funds and matching contributions have been expended.
§ 1739.19
Reporting and oversight requirements.
(a) A project performance activity report will be required of all recipients on an annual basis until the Project is complete and the funds are expended by the applicant. The reporting period will start with the calendar year the award is made and continue for every calendar year through the term of the award. The report must be submitted by January 31 of the following year of the reporting period. Recipients are to submit an original and one copy of all project performance reports, including, but not limited to, the following:
(1) A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for that period;
(2) A description of any problems, delays, or adverse conditions which have occurred, or are anticipated, and which may affect the attainment of overall Project objectives, prevent the meeting of time schedules or objectives, or preclude the attainment of particular Project work elements during established time periods. This disclosure shall be accompanied by a statement of the action taken or planned to resolve the situation; and
(3) Objectives and timetable established for the next reporting period.
(b) A final project performance report must be provided by the recipient. It must provide an evaluation of the success of the Project in meeting the objectives of the program. The final report may serve as the last annual report.
(c) The Agency will monitor recipients, as it determines necessary, to assure that Projects are completed in accordance with the approved scope of work and that the grant is expended for Eligible Grant Purposes.
(d) Recipients shall diligently monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met, projected work within designated time periods is being accomplished, and other performance objectives are being achieved.
(e) The applicant must have the necessary processes and systems in place to comply with the reporting requirements for first-tier sub-awards and executive compensation under the Federal Funding Accountability and Transparency Act of 2006 in the event the applicant receives funding unless such applicant is exempt from such reporting requirements pursuant to 2 CFR 170.110(b). The reporting requirements under the Transparency Act pursuant to 2 CFR part 170 are as follows:
(1) First Tier Sub-Awards of $25,000 or more in non-Recovery Act funds (unless they are exempt under 2 CFR part 170) must be reported by the Recipient to
http://www.fsrs.gov
no later than the end of the month following the month the obligation was made.
(2) The Total Compensation of the Recipient's Executives (5 most highly compensated executives) must be reported by the Recipient (if the Recipient meets the criteria under 2 CFR part 170) to
http://www.sam.gov
by the end of the month following the month in which the award was made.
(3) The Total Compensation of the Subrecipient's Executives (5 most highly compensated executives) must be reported by the Subrecipient (if the Subrecipient meets the criteria under 2 CFR part 170) to the Recipient by the end of the month following the month in which the subaward was made.
(f) Entities that receive assistance from the Agency under this part to provide retail broadband service must submit annual reports for 3 years after project completion. The information required can be found in 7 CFR 1738.107(a) and (c).
[78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 85 FR 14409, Mar. 12, 2020]
§ 1739.20
Audit requirements.
A grant recipient shall provide the Agency with an audit for each year in which a portion of the financial assistance is expended, in accordance with the following:
(a) If the recipient is a for-profit entity, an electric or telecommunications cooperative, or any other entity not covered by the definition of “non-Federal entity” in 2 CFR 200.1, the recipient shall provide an independent audit report in accordance with 7 CFR part 1773 and the grant agreement. Please note that the first audit submitted to the Agency and all subsequent audits must be comparative audits as described in 7 CFR part 1773.
(b) If the recipient is a non-Federal entity, as defined in 2 CFR 200.1, the recipient shall provide an audit in accordance with subpart F of 2 CFR part 200.
[78 FR 25791, June 3, 2013, as amended at 79 FR 76004, Dec. 19, 2014; 88 FR 7561, Feb. 6, 2023]
§ 1739.21
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements in this part are approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0572-0127.
Subpart B [Reserved]
Pt. 1740

# PART 1740—RURAL ECONNECTIVITY PROGRAM

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1740.1
Overview.
1740.2
Definitions.
1740.3
Funding parameters.
1740.4
Certifications.
1740.5-1740.8
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements
1740.9
Eligible and ineligible entities.
1740.10
Eligible projects.
1740.11
Eligible and ineligible service areas.
1740.12
Eligible and ineligible cost purposes.
1740.13-1740.24
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Award Requirements
1740.25
Substantially Underserved Trust Areas (SUTA).
1740.26
Public notice.
1740.27
Environmental and related reviews.
1740.28
Civil rights procedures and requirements.
1740.29-1740.41
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Award Terms
1740.42
Interest rates.
1740.43
Terms and conditions.
1740.44
Security.
1740.45
Advance of funds.
1740.46
The Buy American preference and the Buy American requirement (Amended).
1740.47-1740.58
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Application Submission and Evaluation
1740.59
Application submission.
1740.60
Elements of a complete application.
1740.61
Evaluation for technical and financial feasibility.
1740.62
Evaluation of Awardee operations.
1740.63
Financial information.
1740.64
Network design.
1740.65-1740.76
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Closing, Servicing, and Reporting
1740.77
Offer and closing.
1740.78
Construction.
1740.79
Servicing of grants, loans and loan/grant combinations.
1740.80
Accounting, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
1740.81
Default and de-obligation.
1740.82-1740.93
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Other Information and Federal Requirements
1740.94
Confidentiality of Applicant information
1740.95
Compliance with applicable laws.
1740.96-1740.99
[Reserved]
1740.100
OMB control number.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1981(b)(4), 7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
7 U.S.C. 950aaa
et seq.,
and 7 U.S.C. 950cc.

# Source:
86 FR 11609, Feb. 26, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 1740.1
Overview.
(a) The Rural eConnectivity Program, hereinafter referred to as Program, provides funding in the form of loans, grants, and loan/grant combinations for the costs of construction, improvement, or acquisition of facilities and equipment needed to facilitate broadband deployment in rural areas. One of the essential goals of the Program is to expand broadband service to rural areas that do not have sufficient access to broadband. This part sets forth the general policies, eligibility requirements, types and terms of loans, grants, and loan/grant combinations and program requirements.
(b) Additional information and application materials regarding the Program can be found on the Rural Development website.
§ 1740.2
Definitions.
(a) The following definitions apply to this part:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service, or the Administrator's designee.
Agency
means the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
Applicant
means an entity requesting funding under this part.
Application
means the Applicant's request for federal funding, which may be approved in whole or in part by RUS.
Award documents
mean, as applicable, all associated grant agreements, loan agreements, or loan/grant agreements.
Award
means a grant, loan, or loan/grant combination made under this part.
Awardee
means a grantee, borrower, or borrower/grantee that has applied
and been awarded federal assistance under this part.
Broadband loan
means, for purposes of this regulation, a loan that has been approved or is currently under review by RUS after the beginning of Fiscal Year 2000 in the Telecommunications Infrastructure Program, Farm Bill Broadband Program, Broadband Initiatives Program or this Program.
Broadband loans
that were rescinded or defaulted on, or the terms and conditions of which were not met, are not included in this definition, so long as the entity under consideration for an award under this part has not previously defaulted on, or failed to meet the terms and conditions of, an RUS loan or had an RUS loan rescinded.
Broadband service
means any fixed terrestrial technology, including fixed wireless, having the capacity to transmit data to enable a subscriber to the service to originate and receive high quality voice, data, graphics and video.
CALEA
means the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act, 47 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
Composite economic life
means the weighted (by dollar amount of each class of facility) average economic life of all classes of facilities necessary to complete construction of the broadband facilities in the proposed funded service area.
Current ratio means
the current assets divided by the current liabilities.
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
(DSCR) means the ratio of the sum of the Awardee's total net income or margins, depreciation and amortization expense, and interest expense, minus an allowance for funds used during construction and amortized grant revenue, all divided by the sum of interest on funded debt, other interest and principal payment on debt and capital leases.
Economic life
means the estimated useful service life of an asset as determined by RUS.
Eligible service area
means any contiguous proposed funded service area where 90 percent of the households to be served do not have sufficient access to broadband service. For eligibility purposes, if an applicant is applying for multiple proposed funded service areas, each service area will be evaluated on a stand-alone basis.
Equity
means total assets minus total liabilities as reflected on the Applicant's balance sheet.
Fixed wireless service
means a wireless system between two fixed locations (
e.g.,
fixed transmitting tower to fixed customer premise equipment).
Forecast period
means the five-year period of projections in an application, which shall be used by RUS to determine financial and technical feasibility of the application.
GAAP
means accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Grant
means any federal assistance in the form of a grant made under this part.
Grant agreement
means the grant contract and security agreement between RUS and the Awardee securing the Grant awarded under this part, including any amendments thereto, available for review on the Agency's web page.
Indefeasible Right to Use (IRU)
means the long-term agreement of the rights to capacity, or a portion thereof specified in the terms of a certain amount of bandwidth or number of fibers.
Loan
means any federal assistance in the form of a loan made under this part.
Loan agreement
means the loan contract and security agreement between RUS and the Awardee securing the Loan, including all amendments thereto, available for review on the Agency's web page.
Loan/grant
means any federal assistance in the form of a loan/grant combination made under this part.
Loan/grant agreement
means the loan/grant contract and security agreement between RUS and the Awardee securing the loan/grant, including all amendments thereto, available for review on the Agency's web page.
Non-funded service area (NFSA)
means any area in which the applicant offers telecommunication/broadband service, or intends to offer telecommunication/broadband service, during the forecast period, but which is not part of its Proposed Funded Service Area.
Pre-application expenses
means any reasonable expenses, as determined by RUS, incurred after the release of a
Federal Register
notice opening an
application window to prepare an Application or to respond to RUS inquiries about the Application.
Premises
means households, farms, and businesses.
Project
means all of the work to be performed to bring broadband service to all premises in the proposed funded service area under the Application, including construction, the purchase and installation of equipment, and professional services including engineering and accountant/consultant fees, whether funded by federal assistance, matching, or other funds.
Proposed funded service area (PFSA)
means the area (whether all or part of an existing or new service area) where the applicant is requesting funds to provide broadband service. Multiple service areas will be treated as separate standalone service areas for the purpose of determining how much of the PFSA does not have sufficient access to broadband. Each service area must meet the minimum requirements for the appropriate funding category to be an eligible area.
RE Act
means the “Rural Electrification Act of 1936,” as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
Rural area
means any area that is not located within:
(i)(A) A city, town, or incorporated area that has a population of greater than 20,000 inhabitants; or
(B) An urbanized area contiguous and adjacent to a city or town that has a population of greater than 50,000 inhabitants as defined in the Agency mapping tool.
(ii) In determining a rural area, all areas shall exclude certain populations pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13)(H) and (I).
RUS Accounting Requirements
shall mean compliance with GAAP, acceptable to RUS, the system of accounting prescribed by RUS Bulletin 1770B-1 and the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, found at 2 CFR part 200. For all Awardees the term “grant recipient” in 2 CFR 200 shall also be read to encompass “loan recipient” and “loan/grant recipient”, such that 2 CFR 200 shall be applicable to all Awardees under this part.
Sufficient access to broadband
means a rural area in which households have
broadband service
at the minimum acceptable level of broadband, as set forth in the latest
Federal Register
notice announcing funding for the program. This definition will be used to determine the eligibility of a proposed service area and cannot be lower than 10 megabit per second (Mbps) downstream and 1 Mbps upstream. Mobile/Cellular and satellite services, which include systems that use satellite backbone facilities to connect to the internet, will not be considered in making the determination of sufficient access to broadband.
TIER
means times interest earned ratio. TIER is the ratio of an Applicant's net income (after taxes) plus interest expense, all divided by interest expense and with all financial terms defined by GAAP.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in the award documents, all financial terms not defined herein shall have the meaning as defined by GAAP.
[86 FR 11609, Feb. 26, 2021, as amended at 87 FR 38642, June 29, 2022; 88 FR 5726, Jan. 30, 2023]
§ 1740.3
Funding parameters.
(a) For the purposes of this part:
(1) Ninety (90) percent of the PFSA must not have sufficient access to broadband service;
(2) Applicants must propose to build a network that is capable of providing broadband service to every premises located in the PFSA at the time the application is submitted at a speed defined in the latest
Federal Register
notice announcing funding for the Program; and
(3) The Agency reserves the right to make funding offers or seek consultations to resolve partially overlapping applications. RUS may contact the applicant for additional information during the review process. If additional information is requested, the applicant will have up to 30 calendar days to submit the information. If such information is not timely submitted, RUS may reject the application.
(b) The amount and types of funds available for assistance, as well as the maximum and minimum award
amounts will be published in the
Federal Register.
Applicants may apply for grants, loans and loan/grant combinations.
§ 1740.4
Certifications.
The Applicant must certify to the following within the online application system:
(a) That it is authorized to submit the application on behalf of the eligible entity(ies) listed in the Application;
(b) That the Applicant has examined the Application;
(c) That all information in the Application, including certifications and forms submitted are, at the time furnished, true and correct in all material respects;
(d) That the entity requesting funding will comply with the terms, conditions, purposes, and federal requirements of the program;
(e) That a false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or claim on the Application is grounds for denial or termination of an award, and/or possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001 and civil violations of the False Claims Act (31 U.S.C. 3729
et seq.
);
(f) That the Applicant will comply with all applicable federal, tribal, state, and local laws, rules, regulations, ordinances, codes, orders, and programmatic rules and requirements relating to the project, and acknowledges that failure to do so may result in rejection or de-obligation of the award, as well as civil liability or criminal prosecution, if applicable, by the appropriate law enforcement authorities.
§§ 1740.5-1740.8
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Eligibility Requirements
§ 1740.9
Eligible and ineligible entities.
(a) To be eligible for funding, an Applicant may be either a nonprofit or for-profit organization, and must take one of the following forms:
(1) Corporation;
(2) Limited Liability Company and Limited Liability Partnership;
(3) Cooperative or mutual organization;
(4) States or local governments, including any agency, subdivision, instrumentality, or political subdivision thereof;
(5) A territory or possession of the United States; or
(6) An Indian tribe, as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
(b) Individuals and legal general partnerships that are formed with individuals are not eligible entities.
(c) Co-Applicants are not eligible entities. If two entities would like to partner with each other in delivering broadband to areas without sufficient access, then one entity must take the lead on submitting an application. Inter-company agreements can be used to account for revenues and expenses on the applicant's financial projections. However, based on the existing financial and security arrangements, the Agency may require that both, or other entities, be parties to the award documents, or guarantee the award.
§ 1740.10
Eligible projects.
To be eligible for funding assistance under the part, the Applicant must:
(a) Submit a complete application and provide all supporting documentation including unqualified, audited financial statements from the date the application is submitted as detailed in § 1740.63.
(b) Demonstrate that the project can be completely built out within five years from the date funds are first made available.
(c) Demonstrate that the project is technically feasible as detailed in § 1740.64.
(d) Demonstrate that all project costs can be fully funded or accounted for as detailed in § 1740.63.
(e) Submit documentation which enables RUS to determine that the project is financially feasible and sustainable as detailed in § 1740.61.
(f) Demonstrate that the following service requirements will be met:
(1) Facilities funded with grant funds will provide broadband service proposed in the application for the composite economic life of the facilities, as approved by RUS, or as provided in the Award Documents.
(2) Facilities funded with loan funds must provide broadband service through the amortization period of the loan.
[86 FR 11609, Feb. 26, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 5726, Jan. 30, 2023]
§ 1740.11
Eligible and ineligible service areas.
(a)
Eligible service areas.
(1) Applicants must propose to provide broadband service directly to all premises in the PFSA.
(2) If any part of the applicant's PFSA is ineligible, RUS, in its sole discretion, may request that an applicant modify its application, if RUS believes the modification is feasible. Otherwise, RUS will reject the application.
(b)
Ineligible service areas
—(1)
Overlapping service areas.
RUS will not fund more than one project that serves any one given geographic area. Invariably, however, applicants will propose service areas that overlap, varying from small
de minimis
areas of the territory, but which may be significant with respect to households involved, to larger areas of the service territory, but which may contain few households or businesses, if any. As a result, devising a procedure that will cover every overlap circumstance is not practicable. Nevertheless, it is the agency's intent to make as many eligible applications viable for consideration as possible. That may mean the agency may:
(i) Determine the overlap to be so insignificant that no agency action is necessary;
(ii) Request one or more applications to be revised to eliminate the overlapping territory;
(iii) Choose one application over another given the amount of assistance requested, the number of awards already chosen in the area or State, or the need for the project in the specific area due to other factors; or
(iv) Simply choose the project that scores higher or in the judgement of the agency is more financially feasible.
(2)
Prior funded service areas to include:
(i) RUS Broadband loans. Service areas of borrowers that have RUS Broadband loans, as defined in this part, are ineligible for all other applicants, and can be found on the Agency web page for the program. However, RUS Broadband Borrowers that have built out their service areas consistent with their application and award documents, but were not required to provide, and are currently not providing, sufficient access to broadband pursuant to this regulation are eligible to apply for funding for these service areas; provided that they have not defaulted on, and have materially complied with, in the sole discretion of RUS, their prior Broadband loan award requirements. Current RUS Broadband Borrowers that have received funding to provide sufficient access to broadband but have not yet built out their system are ineligible to apply for funding for these service areas.
(ii) RUS Community Connect Grants. Service areas that received grants under the RUS Community Connect Grant Program are eligible if they do not have sufficient access to broadband, except for those grants still under construction. Service areas still under construction can be found on the Agency's web page.
(iii) RUS BIP Grants. Service areas that received a 100 percent grant under the RUS Broadband Initiatives Program are eligible if they do not have sufficient access to broadband.
(c)
Service areas with other funding.
(1) Applicants are encouraged to work with the Governor's office for the states, and tribal governments for the tribal areas where they are proposing to provide broadband service and submit information detailing where state funding has been provided.
(2) Service areas that have received federal grant funds, or funds from the Federal Communications Commission, to provide broadband service will be restricted from funding, if such funding is principally to construct facilities throughout the service area that provide broadband service at the threshold level of service. If additional service areas are restricted from funding, these areas will be identified in the funding opportunity announcement that opens an application window.
§ 1740.12
Eligible and ineligible cost purposes.
Award and any matching funds must be used to pay only eligible costs incurred post award, except for approved
pre-application expenses. Eligible costs must be consistent with the cost principles identified in 2 CFR 200, Subpart E, Cost Principles. In addition, costs must be reasonable, allocable, and necessary to the project. Any application that proposes to use any portion of the award or matching funds for any ineligible costs may be rejected.
(a)
Eligible award costs.
Award funds under this part may be used to pay for the following costs:
(1) To fund the construction or improvement of facilities, including buildings and land, required to provide fixed terrestrial broadband service, including fixed wireless service, and any other facilities required for providing other services over the same facilities, such as equipment required to comply with CALEA;
(2) To fund reasonable preapplication expenses in an amount not to exceed five percent of the award. Preapplication expenses must be included in the first request for advance of award funds and will be funded with either grant or loan funds. If the funding category applied for has a grant component, then grant funds will be used for this purpose. If preapplication expenses are not included in the first request for advance of award funds, they will become an ineligible purpose; and
(3) To fund the acquisition of an existing system that does not currently provide sufficient access to broadband for upgrading that system to meet the requirements of this regulation. The cost of the acquisition is limited to 40 percent of the award amount requested. Acquisitions can be considered for 100 percent loans.
(b)
Ineligible award costs.
Award funds under this part may not be used for any of the following purposes:
(1) To fund operating expenses of the Awardee;
(2) To fund costs incurred prior to the date on which the application was submitted other than eligible preapplication expenses;
(3) To fund an acquisition of an affiliate, or the purchase or acquisition of any facilities or equipment of an affiliate. Note that if affiliated transactions are contemplated in the application, approval of the application does not constitute approval to enter into affiliated transactions, nor acceptance of the affiliated arrangements that conflict with the obligations under the award documents;
(4) To fund the acquisition of a system previously funded by RUS without prior written approval of RUS before an application is submitted;
(5) To fund the purchase or lease of any vehicle other than those used primarily in construction or system improvements;
(6) To fund broadband facilities leased under the terms of an operating lease or an indefeasible right of use (IRU) agreement;
(7) To fund the merger or consolidation of entities;
(8) To fund costs incurred in acquiring spectrum as part of a Federal Communication Commission (FCC) auction or in a secondary market acquisition. Spectrum that is part of a system acquisition may be considered;
(9) To fund facilities that provide mobile services;
(10) To fund facilities that provide satellite service including satellite backbone services;
(11) To fund the acquisition of a system that is providing sufficient access to broadband; or
(12) To refinance outstanding debt.
§§ 1740.13-1740.24
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Award Requirements
§ 1740.25
Substantially Underserved Trust Areas (SUTA).
Applicants seeking assistance may request consideration under the SUTA provisions in 7 U.S.C. 936f.
(a) If the Administrator determines that a community within “trust land” (as defined in 38 U.S.C. 3765) has a high need for the benefits of the Program, the Administrator may designate the community as a “substantially underserved trust area” (as defined in section 306F of the RE Act).
(b) To receive consideration under SUTA, the applicant must submit to the Agency a completed application that includes all information requested in 7 CFR part 1700, subpart D. In addition, the application must identify the
discretionary authorities within subpart D that it seeks to have applied to its application. Note, however, the following:
(1) Given the prohibition on funding operating expenses in the Program, requests for waiver of the equity requirements cannot be considered; and
(2) Due to the statutory requirements that established the Program, waiver of the nonduplication requirements cannot be considered.
§ 1740.26
Public notice.
(a) To ensure transparency for the Program, the Agency's mapping tool will include the following information from each application, and be displayed for the public:
(1) The identity of the applicant;
(2) The areas to be served, including identification of the associated census blocks;
(3) The type of funding requested;
(4) The status of the application; and
(5) The number of households without sufficient access to broadband.
(b) The Agency will publish a public notice of each application requesting assistance under this part in accordance with the requirements of 7 U.S.C. 950cc. All applicants must provide the following information, which will be posted publicly on RUS' fully searchable website, in addition to the status of the application:
(1) A description of the proposed broadband project;
(2) A map of the PFSA;
(3) The amount and type of support requested by the applicant;
(4) The estimated number and proportion of service points in the proposed service territory without fixed broadband service, whether terrestrial or wireless; and
(5) Any other information required of the applicant in a funding notice.
(c) The public notice referenced under paragraph (b) of this section will be published after application submission and will remain available for 45 calendar days on the Agency's web page. During this period, existing service providers are requested to submit the following information through the Agency's mapping tool:
(1) The number of residential and business customers within the applicant's service area currently purchasing sufficient access to broadband, the rates of data transmission being offered, and the cost of each level of broadband service charged by the existing service provider;
(2) The number of residential and business customers within the applicant's service area receiving voice and video services and the associated rates for these other services;
(3) A map showing where the existing service provider's services coincide with the applicant's service area using the Agency's Mapping Tool; and
(4) Test results for the service area in question for a minimum of at least the prior three months demonstrating that sufficient access to broadband is being provided. The test results shall be for different times of the day.
(d) The Agency may contact service providers that respond under paragraph (b) of this section to validate their submission, and so responding service providers should be prepared to:
(1) Provide additional information supporting that the area in question has sufficient access to broadband service;
(2) Have a technician on site during the field validation by RUS staff;
(3) Run on site tests with RUS personnel being present, if requested; and
(4) Provide copies of any test results that have been conducted in the last six months and validate the information submitted in the public notice response months.
(e) If no broadband service provider submits information pursuant to a pending application or if the existing provider does not provide the information requested under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, RUS will consider the number of providers and extent of broadband service using any other data available through reasonable efforts, including utilizing the National Telecommunications and Information Administration National Broadband Availability Map and FCC broadband availability map. That may include the agency conducting field validations so as to locate facilities in the PFSA and determine, to the extent possible, if those facilities can provide sufficient access to broadband. Notwithstanding, conclusive evidence as to
the existence of sufficient access to broadband will be taken only through the public notice process. As a result, the Agency highly recommends that existing service providers in a proposed funded service territory submit responses to the public notice to ensure that their service is considered in the determination of eligibility on an application.
(f) The Agency will notify respondents who are existing service providers whether their challenge was successful or not and allow for an opportunity to respond.
(g) The information submitted by an existing service provider under paragraph (c) of this section will be treated as proprietary and confidential and not subject to disclosure, pursuant to 7 U.S.C. 950cc(b)(3).
(h) For all applications that are approved, the following information will be made available to the public:
(1) The information provided in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Each annual report required under § 1740.80(g) will be redacted to protect any proprietary information; and
(3) Such other information as the Administrator of the RUS deems sufficient to allow the public to understand the assistance provided.
§ 1740.27
Environmental and related reviews.
(a) Federal Agencies are required to analyze the potential environmental impacts, as required by the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), for Applicant projects or proposals seeking funding. Please refer to 7 CFR part 1970 for all of Rural Development's environmental policies. All Applicants must follow the requirements in 7 CFR part 1970 and are required to complete an Environmental Questionnaire, to provide a description of program activities, and to submit all other required environmental documentation as requested in the application system or by the Agency after the application is submitted. It is the Applicant's responsibility to obtain all necessary federal, tribal, state, and local governmental permits and approvals necessary for the proposed work to be conducted.
(b) Applications will be reviewed to ensure that they contain sufficient information to allow Agency staff to conduct a NEPA analysis so that appropriate NEPA documentation can be submitted to the appropriate federal and state agencies, along with the recommendation that the proposal is in compliance with applicable environmental and historic preservation laws.
(c) Applicants proposing activities that cannot be covered by existing environmental compliance procedures will be informed whether NEPA requirements and other environmental requirements can otherwise be expeditiously met so that a project can proceed within the timeframes anticipated under the Program.
(d) If additional information is required after an application is accepted for funding, funds can be withheld by the agency under a special award condition requiring the Awardee to submit additional environmental compliance information sufficient for the Agency to assess any impacts that a project may have on the environment.
§ 1740.28
Civil rights procedures and requirements.
(a)
Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.
The agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscriminatory requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and 7 CFR part 15. In accordance with federal civil rights law and USDA civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity (including gender expression), sexual orientation, disability, age, marital status, family/parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity, in any program or activity conducted or funded by USDA (not all bases apply to all programs).
(b)
Civil rights compliance.
Recipients of federal assistance under this part must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. In
general, recipients should have available for the Agency, racial and ethnic data showing the extent to which members of minority groups are beneficiaries of federally assisted programs. The Agency will conduct compliance reviews in accordance with 7 CFR part 15. Awardees will be required to complete RD 400-4, “Assurance Agreement,” for each Federal Award received.
(c)
Discrimination complaints.
Persons believing they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this section may file a complaint personally or by an authorized representative with USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250. A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated officials of USDA or the Agency.
§§ 1740.29-1740.41
[Reserved]

# Subpart D—Award Terms
§ 1740.42
Interest rates.
Interest rates for the different funding options that will become available will be included in the
Federal Register
as part of the funding announcement opening a funding window.
(a) Direct cost-of-money loans shall bear interest at a rate equal to the cost of borrowing to the Department of Treasury for obligations of comparable maturity.
(b) The agency may offer 100 percent loans at a reduced interest rate, and in such cases, the applicable interest rate will be stated in the
Federal Register
or applicable funding opportunity notice.
§ 1740.43
Terms and conditions.
Terms and conditions of loans, grants, or loan/grant combinations are set forth in the non-negotiable standard loan, grant, or loan/grant agreements and the corresponding note, and/or mortgage, if applicable, which may be found on the Agency's web page.
(a) Unless the Applicant requests a shorter repayment period, loans must be repaid with interest within a period that, rounded to the nearest whole year, is equal to the expected Composite Economic Life of the project assets, as determined by RUS based upon acceptable depreciation rates, plus three years. Acceptable depreciation rates can be found in the Program Construction Procedures found on the Agency's web page.
(b) Interest begins accruing on the date of each loan advance. Any deferral period for loans will be set in the
Federal Register
notice opening a funding window.
(c) All proposed construction (including construction with matching and other funds) and all advance of funds must be completed no later than five years from the time funds are made available.
(d) No funds will be disbursed under this program until all other sources of funding have been obtained and any other pre-award conditions have been met. Failure to obtain one or more sources of funding committed to in the Application or to fulfill any other pre-award condition within 90 days of award announcement may result in withdrawal of the award. The RUS may modify this requirement in the
Federal Register
or applicable funding opportunity notice.
§ 1740.44
Security.
(a)
Loans and loan/grant combinations.
The loan portion of the award must be adequately secured, as determined by RUS.
(1) For Corporations and limited liability entities, the loan and loan/grant combinations must be secured by all assets of the Awardee.
(i) RUS must be given an exclusive first lien, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, on all assets of the Awardee, including all revenues.
(ii) RUS may share its first lien position with one or more lenders on a
pari passu
basis, except with respect to grant funds, if security arrangements are acceptable to RUS.
(iii) Applicants must submit a certification that their prior lender or lienholder on any Awardee assets has already agreed to sign the RUS' standard intercreditor agreement or co-mortgage found on the Agency's web page.
(iv) RUS will not share a lien position on assets with any related party or affiliate of the Awardee.
(2) For Tribal entities and municipalities, RUS will develop appropriate security arrangements.
(3) Unless otherwise approved by RUS in writing, all property and facilities purchased with award funds must be owned by the Awardee.
(b)
Grant security.
The grant portion of the award must also be adequately secured, as determined by RUS.
(1) The government must be provided an exclusive first lien on all grant funded assets during the service obligation of the grant, and thereafter any sale or disposition of grant assets must comply with the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, codified in 2 CFR part 200. Note that this part will apply to ALL grant funds of an Awardee, regardless of the entity status or type of organization.
(2) All Awardees must repay the grant if the project is sold or transferred without receiving written approval from RUS during the service obligation of the grant.
(c)
Substitution of Collateral and Irrevocable Letter of Credit
—(1)
Loans and combination loan and grant.
The Agency's standard loan/grant documents require that applicants pledge all assets and revenues of their operations as collateral. Applicants may propose other forms of collateral as long as the amount of the collateral is equal to the full amount of the loan. The collateral must be pledged to the Agency. Acceptable forms of substitute collateral are limited to following: Certificates of Deposit, with the Agency named as the beneficiary on the certificate, or Bonds with a AAA rating from an accredited rating agency. All other conditions of the standard loan documents will apply. A copy of the Substitution Documents can be found on the Agency's web page.
(2)
Grants.
For grant-only applications, applicants may request that standard grant security arrangements be replaced with an Irrevocable Letter of Credit (ILOC), to ensure that the project is completed. The ILOC must be for the full amount of funding requested and must remain in place until project completion. If an ILOC is offered as security, applicants will not be required to provide financial projections, meet any financial ratios requirements as part of the application process, or submit the maps for their NFSAs. Although the ILOC will replace security for the grant security arrangements, all other requirements of the standard grant agreement will remain the same. A copy of the ILOC award documents can be found on the Agency's web page.
§ 1740.45
Advance of funds.
RUS loan and grant advances are made at the request of the Awardee according to the procedures stipulated in the Award Documents. All non-RUS funds, to include matching funds and cash provided in lieu of RUS loan funds, must be expended first, followed by loan funds and then grant funds, except for RUS-approved pre-application expenses. RUS may modify this requirement in the
Federal Register
or applicable funding opportunity notice. Grant funds, if any, will be used for eligible preapplication expenses only on the first advance request. Applications that do not account for such advance procedures in the pro forma five-year forecast may be rejected.
§ 1740.46
The Buy American preference and the Buy American requirement (Amended).
The domestic content preference under this Program applies differently to two classes of awardees: those that are defined as Non-Federal Entities under 2 CFR 200.1 and those that are not.
(a)
Non-Federal Entity awardees.
Funding to Non-Federal Entities, defined pursuant to 2 CFR 200.1 as any State, local government, Indian Tribe, Institution of Higher Education, or nonprofit organization, shall be governed by the requirements of section 70914 of the Build America, Buy America Act (BABA) within the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA).
(b)
All other awardees.
Awardees shall use in connection with the expenditure of loan and grant funds only such unmanufactured articles, materials, and
supplies, as have been mined or produced in the United States or in any eligible country, and only such manufactured articles, materials, and supplies as have been manufactured in the United States or in any eligible country, substantially all from articles, materials, or supplies mined, produced, or manufactured, as the case may be, in the United States or in any eligible country. For purposes of this section, an “eligible country” is any country that applies with respect to the United States an agreement ensuring reciprocal access for United States products and services and United States suppliers to the markets of that country, as determined by the United States Trade Representative. The Buy American regulations may be found at, and any requests for waiver must be submitted pursuant to, 7 CFR part 1787.
[88 FR 5726, Jan. 30, 2023]
§§ 1740.47-1740.58
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Application Submission and Evaluation
§ 1740.59
Application submission.
(a) Applications must be submitted through the Agency's online application system.
(b) The Agency may publish additional application submission requirements in a notice in the
Federal Register
.
(c) Unless otherwise identified in the notice, applicants can only submit one application under any funding window.
§ 1740.60
Elements of a complete application.
(a)
Online application system.
All applications under this regulation must be submitted through the RUS Online Application System located on the Agency's web page. Additional information can be found in the Application Guide found on the Agency's web page.
(b)
System for Award Management (SAM
). Prior to submitting an application, the applicant must register in SAM and also obtain a unique entity identifier (UEI) as part of the registration process. Applicants can register and obtain the UEI at
https://www.sam.gov/content/home.
SAM registration must be active with current data at all times, from the application review throughout the active Federal award funding period. To maintain active SAM registration, the applicant must review and update the information in the SAM database annually from the date of initial registration or from the date of the last update or renewal. The applicant must ensure that the information in the database is current, accurate, and complete. The UEI of the applicant must be included in the application.
(c)
Contents of the application.
A complete application will include the following information as requested in the RUS Online Application System and application guide:
(1) General information on the applicant and the project including:
(i) A description of the project, that will be made public, consistent with the requirements herein; and
(ii) The estimated dollar amount of the funding request.
(2) An executive summary that includes, but is not be limited to, a detailed description of existing operations, discussion about key management, description of the workforce, description of interactions between any parent, affiliated or subsidiary operation, a detailed description of the proposed project, and the source of the matching and other funds;
(3) A description of the PFSA including the number of premises passed;
(4) Subscriber projections including the number of subscribers for broadband, video and voice services and any other service that may be offered. A description of the proposed service offerings and the associated pricing plan that the applicant proposes to offer;
(5) A map, utilizing the RUS mapping tool located on the Agency's web page, of the PFSAs identifying the areas without sufficient access to broadband and any NFSA of the applicant. If an applicant has multiple NFSAs, they can elect to submit each NFSA individually or they can submit them as a single file through the mapping tool;
(6) A description of the advertised prices of service offerings by competitors in the same area;
(7) A network design and all supporting information as detailed in § 1740.64.
(8) Resumes of key management personnel, a description of the organization's readiness to manage a broadband services network, and an organizational chart showing all parent organizations and/or holding companies (including parents of parents, etc.), and all subsidiaries and affiliates;
(9) A legal opinion that:
(i) Addresses the applicant's ability to enter into the award documents;
(ii) Describes all material pending litigation matters;
(iii) Addresses the applicant's ability to pledge security as required by the award documents; and
(iv) Addresses the applicant's ability to provide broadband service under state or tribal law.
(10) Summary and itemized budgets of the infrastructure costs of the proposed project, including if applicable, the ratio of loans to grants, and any other sources of outside funding. The summary must also detail the amount of matching and other funds and the source of these funds. If the matching and other funds are coming from a third party, a commitment letter and support that the funds are available must also be submitted. Matching and other funds must be deposited into the RUS Pledged Deposit Account at the closing of the award;
(11) A detailed description of working capital requirements and the sources of those funds;
(12) Unqualified, audited financial statements from the date the application is submitted as detailed in § 1740.63;
(13) The historical and projected financial information required in § 1740.63;
(14) All information and attachments required in the RUS Online application system;
(15) A scoring sheet, analyzing any scoring criteria set forth in the funding announcement opening the application window;
(16) A list of all the applicant's outstanding and contingent obligations as required in § 1740.63;
(17) All environmental information as required by § 1740.27;
(18) Certification from the applicant that agreements with, or obligations to, investors do not breach the obligations to the government under the standard Award Documents located on the Agency's web page, especially distribution requirements, and that any such agreements will be amended so that such obligations are made contingent to compliance with the Award Documents. Such certification should also specifically identify which, if any, provisions would need to be amended;
(19) If service is being proposed on or over Tribal Land, a Tribal Government Resolution of Consent from the Tribal Council of the Tribal Government with jurisdiction over the Tribal Lands at issue must be provided to show that they are in support of the project and will allow construction to take place on Tribal Land. The certification must:
(i) Include a description of the land proposed for use as part of the proposed project;
(ii) Identify whether the land is owned, held in Trust, land held in fee simple by the Tribe, or land under a long-term lease by the Tribe;
(iii) If owned, identify the landowner; and
(iv) Provide a commitment in writing from the landowner authorizing the applicant's use of that land for the proposed project; and
(20) Additional items that may be required by the Administrator through a notice in the
Federal Register
.
(d)
Material representations.
The application, including certifications, and all forms submitted as part of the application will be treated as material representations upon which RUS will rely in awarding grants and loans.
[86 FR 11609, Feb. 26, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 5726, Jan. 30, 2023]
§ 1740.61
Evaluation for technical and financial feasibility.
(a) A project is financially feasible when the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of RUS that it will be able to generate sufficient revenues to cover expenses; will have sufficient cash flow to service all debts and obligations as they come due; will have a positive ending cash balance as reflected on the cash flow statement for each year of the forecast period; and,
by the end of the forecast period, will meet at least two of the following requirements: A minimum TIER requirement of 1.2, a minimum DSCR requirement of 1.2, and a minimum current ratio of 1.2. In addition, applicants must demonstrate positive cash flow from operations at the end of the forecast period.
(b) For any funding option that includes grant funds, evaluation criteria for scoring the application will be included in the
Federal Register
notice that opens an application window. Grant applications submitted for a certain category will be ranked and awarded based only on those applications included in that category.
(c) The Agency will determine technical feasibility by evaluating the Applicant's network design and other relevant information in the application.
§ 1740.62
Evaluation of Awardee operations.
(a) RUS may send a team to the awardee's facilities to complete a Management Analysis Profile (MAP) of the entire operation. MAPs are used by RUS as a means of evaluating an Awardee's strengths and weaknesses and ensuring that awardees are prepared to fulfil the terms of the award. Once an applicant accepts an award offer, RUS may schedule a site visit as soon as possible.
(b) RUS reserves the right not to advance funds until the MAP has been completed. If the MAP identifies issues that can affect the operation and completion of the project, those issues must be addressed to the satisfaction of RUS before funds can be advanced. Funding may be rescinded if following a MAP, the agency determines that the awardee will be unable to meet the requirements of the award.
§ 1740.63
Financial information.
(a) The Applicant must submit financial information acceptable to the Agency that demonstrates that the Applicant has the financial capacity to fulfill the grant, loan, and loan/grant combination requirements in this part and to successfully complete the proposed project.
(1) Applicants subject to 2 CFR part 200 must submit an audited financial statement for the previous year from the date the application is submitted. If an application is submitted and the most recent year-end audit has not been completed, the applicant can use the previous audit that has been completed.
(2) Applicants not subject to 2 CFR part 200 must submit unqualified, comparative, audited financial statements for the previous year from the date the application is submitted. If an application is submitted and the most recent year-end audit has not been completed, the applicant can submit the previous unqualified audit that has been completed. If qualified audits containing a disclaimer or adverse opinion are submitted, the application will not be considered.
(i) An applicant can use the consolidated audit of a parent as long as the parent fully guarantees the loan, or in the case of a grant, guarantees that construction will be completed as approved in the application or will repay the grant to RUS.
(ii) If the applicant has more than one parent, then each parent's audits must be submitted, and each parent must fully guarantee the award.
(iii) For governmental entities, financial statements must be accompanied with certifications as to unrestricted cash that may be available on a yearly basis to the applicant.
(3) Applicants must provide detailed information for all outstanding and contingent obligations. Copies of existing notes, loan and security agreements, guarantees, any existing management or service agreements, and any other agreements with parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, including but not limited to debt instruments that use the applicant's assets, revenues or stock as collateral must be included in the application.
(4) Applicants must provide evidence of all funding, other than the RUS award, necessary to support the project, such as bank account statements, firm letters of commitment from equity participants, or outside loans, which must evidence the timely availability of funds. If outside loans are used to cover any matching requirement, they may only be secured
by assets other than those used for collateral under this regulation. Equity partners that are not specifically identified by name will not be considered in the financial analysis of the application. If the application states that other funds are required for the broadband project in addition to the Program funding requested, evidence must be included in the application identifying the source of funds and when the funds will be available. If the additional funding is not clearly identified, the application may not be considered for an award. If the applicant is providing non-telecommunication services and is proposing expansion to those services and states that additional funds are required to support sustainability of the overall operation of the applicant, then evidence must be submitted supporting the availability of these funds or the application may not be considered for funding.
(5) Historical financial statements for the last four years consisting of a balance sheet, income statement, and cash flow statement must be provided. If an entity has not been operating for four years, historical statements for the period of time the entity has been operating are acceptable.
(6) Pro Forma financial analysis prepared in conformity with GAAP and the Agency's guidance on grant accounting can be found at
https://www.rd.usda.gov/files/AccountingGuidance10.pdf.
The Pro Forma should validate the sustainability of the project by including subscriber estimates related to all proposed service offerings; annual financial projections with balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements; supporting assumptions for a five-year forecast period and a depreciation schedule for existing facilities, those facilities funded with federal assistance, matching funds, and other funds. This pro forma should indicate the committed sources of capital funding and include a bridge year prior to the start of the forecast period. This bridge year shall be used as a buffer between the historical financial information and the forecast period and is the year in which the application is submitted.
(i) The financial projections must demonstrate that by the end of the forecast period, the project will meet at least two of the requirements described in § 1740.61(a).
(ii) The financial projections must also demonstrate positive cash flow from operations at the end of the forecast period.
(iii) Based on the financial evaluation, additional conditions may be added to the Award documents to ensure financial feasibility and security on the award.
(b) Publicly traded companies that have a bond rating from Moody's, Standard and Poor's, or Fitch of Investment Grade at the time an application is submitted do not have to complete the pro forma financial projections. In addition, applicants with this classification that elect not to submit financial projections do not need to submit NFSAs.
[86 FR 11609, Feb. 26, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 5727, Jan. 30, 2023]
§ 1740.64
Network design.
(a) Only projects that RUS determines to be technically feasible will be eligible for an award.
(b) The network design must include a description of the proposed technology used to deliver the broadband service, demonstrating that all premises in the PFSA can be offered broadband service; a network diagram, identifying cable routes, wireless access points, and any other equipment required to operate the network; a buildout timeline and milestones for implementation of the project; and a capital investment schedule showing that the system can be built within five years. All of these items must be certified by a professional engineer who is certified in at least one of the states where there is or will be project construction. The certification from the professional engineer must clearly state that the proposed network can deliver the broadband service to all premises in the PFSA at the minimum required service level. In addition, a list of all required licenses and regulatory approvals needed for the proposed project and how much the applicant will rely on contractors or vendors to deploy the network facilities
must be submitted. Note that in preparing budget costs for equipment and materials, RUS' Buy American requirements apply, as referenced in § 1740.46.
§§ 1740.65-1740.76
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Closing, Servicing, and Reporting
§ 1740.77
Offer and closing.
Successful applicants will receive an offer letter and award documents from RUS following award notification. Applicants may view sample award documents on the Agency's web page.
§ 1740.78
Construction.
(a) All project assets must comply with 7 CFR part 1788 and 7 CFR part 1970, the Program Construction Procedures located on the Agency's web page, any successor regulations found on the agency's website, and any other guidance from the Agency.
(b) The build-out of the project must be completed within five years from the date funds are made available. Build-out is considered complete when the network design has been fully implemented, the service operations and management systems infrastructure is operational, and the awardee is ready to support the activation and commissioning of individual customers to the new system.
§ 1740.79
Servicing of grants, loans and loan/grant combinations.
(a) Awardees must make payments on the loan as required in the note and Award Documents.
(b) Awardees must comply with all terms, conditions, affirmative covenants, and negative covenants contained in the Award Documents.
(c) The sale or lease of any portion of the Awardee's facilities must be approved in writing by RUS prior to initiating the sale or lease.
§ 1740.80
Accounting, monitoring, and reporting requirements.
(a) Awardees must adopt a system of accounts for maintaining financial records acceptable to the Agency, as described in 7 CFR part 1770, subpart B.
(b) Awardees subject to 2 CFR part 200 must submit annual audited financial statements along with a report on compliance and on internal control over financial reporting, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F.
(c) Awardees not subject to 2 CFR part 200 must submit annual comparable audited financial statements along with a report on compliance and on internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the requirements of 7 CFR part 1773 using the RUS' online reporting system. The Certified Public Accountant (CPA) conducting the annual audit is selected by the borrower and must be satisfactory to RUS as set forth in 7 CFR 1773, subpart B, “RUS Audit Requirements.”
(d) Thirty (30) calendar days after the end of each calendar year quarter, Awardees must submit to RUS, balance sheets, income statements, statements of cash flow, rate package summaries, and the number of customers taking broadband service on a per community basis utilizing RUS' on-line reporting system. These reports must be submitted throughout the loan amortization period or for the economic life of the facilities funded with a grant.
(e) Awardees will be required to submit annually updated service area maps through the RUS mapping tool showing the areas where construction has been completed and premises are receiving service until the entire PFSA can receive the broadband service. At the end of the project, Awardees must submit a service area map indicating that all construction has been completed as proposed in the application. If parts of the PFSA have not been constructed, RUS may require a portion of the award to be rescinded or paid back.
(f) Awardees must comply with all reasonable Agency requests to support ongoing monitoring efforts. The Awardee shall afford RUS, through its representatives, reasonable opportunity, at all times during business hours and upon prior notice, to have access to and the right to inspect: The Broadband System, any other property encumbered by the Award Documents, any and all books, records, accounts, invoices, contracts, leases, payrolls, timesheets, cancelled checks, statements, and other documents (electronic or paper, of every kind) belonging to or in the possession of the
Awardee or in any way pertaining to its property or business, including its subsidiaries, if any, and to make copies or extracts thereof.
(g) Awardee records shall be retained and preserved in accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR part 1770, subpart A.
(h) Awardees receiving assistance under this part will be required to submit annual reports for three (3) years after the completion of construction. The reports must include the following information:
(1) Existing network service improvements and facility upgrades, as well as new equipment and capacity enhancements that support high-speed broadband access for educational institutions, health care providers, and public safety service providers;
(2) The estimated number of end users who are currently using or forecasted to use the new or upgraded infrastructure;
(3) The progress towards fulfilling the objectives for which the assistance was granted;
(4) The number and geospatial location of residences and businesses that will receive new broadband service;
(5) The speed and price of the Awardee's broadband service offerings; and
(6) The average price of broadband service in the Project's service area.
[86 FR 11609, Feb. 26, 2021, as amended at 88 FR 5727, Jan. 30, 2023]
§ 1740.81
Default and de-obligation.
RUS reserves the right to deobligate awards to Awardees under this part that demonstrate an insufficient level of performance, wasteful or fraudulent spending, or noncompliance with environmental and historic preservation requirements.
§§ 1740.82-1740.93
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Other Information and Federal Requirements
§ 1740.94
Confidentiality of Applicant information.
Applicants are encouraged to identify and label any confidential and proprietary information contained in their applications. The Agency will protect confidential and proprietary information from public disclosure to the fullest extent authorized by applicable law, including the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), the Trade Secrets Act, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1905), the Economic Espionage Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. 1831
et seq.
), and CALEA (47 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
). Applicants should be aware, however, that this program requires substantial transparency. For example, RUS is required to make publicly available on the internet a list of each entity that has applied for a loan or grant, a description of each application, the status of each application, the name of each entity receiving funds, and the purpose for which the entity is receiving the funds.
§ 1740.95
Compliance with applicable laws.
Any recipient of funds under this regulation shall be required to comply with all applicable federal, tribal and state laws, including but not limited to:
(a) The Architectural Barriers Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4151
et seq.
);
(b) The Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS) (Appendix A to 41 CFR subpart 101-19.6); and
(c) All applicable federal, tribal and state communications laws and regulations, including, for example, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, (47 U.S.C. 151
et seq.
) the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended (Pub. L. 104-104, 110 Stat. 56 (1996), and CALEA. For further information,
see http://www.fcc.gov.
§§ 1740.96-1740.99
[Reserved]
§ 1740.100
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements in this part are approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and assigned OMB control number 0572-0152.

# PART 1741—PRE-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR INSURED TELEPHONE LOANS [RESERVED]
Pt. 1744

# PART 1744—POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES COMMON TO GUARANTEED AND INSURED TELEPHONE LOANS
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Lien Accommodations and Subordination Policy
Sec.
1744.20
General.
1744.21
Definitions.
1744.22-1744.29
[Reserved]
1744.30
Automatic lien accommodations.
1744.31-1744.39
[Reserved]
1744.40
Act purposes.
1744.41-1744.49
[Reserved]
1744.50
Non-Act purposes.
1744.51-1744.54
[Reserved]
1744.55
Application procedures.
1744.56-1744.59
[Reserved]
Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 1744—Statement, Certification, and Agreement of Borrower's President of Board of Directors Regarding Refinancing and Refunding Notes Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30(c)
Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 1744—Certification of Independent Certified Public Accountant Regarding Notes To Be Issued Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30(c)
Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 1744—Statement, Certification, and Agreement of Borrower's President of Board of Directors Regarding Notes To Be Issued Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30(d)
Appendix D to Subpart B of Part 1744—Certification of Independent Certified Public Accountant Regarding Notes To Be Issued Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30
Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 1744—Statement, Certification, and Agreement of Borrower's President of Board of Directors Regarding Notes To Be Issued Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30(e)
Appendix F to Subpart B of Part 1744—Form of Supplemental Mortgage

# Subpart C—Advance and Disbursement of Funds
1744.60
General.
1744.61
[Reserved]
1744.62
Introduction.
1744.63
The telephone loan budget.
1744.64
Budget adjustment.
1744.65
The construction fund.
1744.66
The financial requirement statement (FRS).
1744.67
Temporary excess construction funds.
1744.68
Order and method of advances of telephone loan funds.
1744.69
[Reserved]
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Borrower Investments
1744.200
General statement.
1744.201
Definitions.
1744.202
Borrowers may make qualified investments without prior approval of the Administrator.
1744.203
Establishing amount of rural development investment.
1744.204
Rural development investments that do not meet the ratio requirements.
1744.205
Determinations and application of limitations described in § 1744.202.
1744.206
Effect of subsequent failure to maintain ratios.
1744.207
Investment not to jeopardize loan security.
1744.208
Rural development investments before November 28, 1990.
1744.209
Records.
1744.210
Effect of this subpart on RUS loan contract and mortgage.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
1921
et seq.,
and 6941
et seq.

# Source:
55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]

# Subpart B—Lien Accommodations and Subordination Policy

# Source:
51 FR 32430, Sept. 12, 1986, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1744.20
General.
(a) Recent changes in the telecommunications industry, including deregulation and technological developments, have caused Rural Utilities Service (RUS) borrowers and other organizations providing telecommunications services to consider undertaking projects that provide new telecommunications services and other telecommunications services not ordinarily financed by RUS. Although some of these services may not be eligible for financing under the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (RE Act), these services may nevertheless advance RE Act objectives where the borrower obtains financing from private lenders. The borrower's financial strength and the assurance of repayment of outstanding Government debt
may be improved as a result of providing such telecommunications services.
(b) To facilitate the financing of new services and other services not ordinarily financed by RUS, RUS is willing to consider accommodating the Government's lien on telecommunications borrowers' systems or accommodating or subordinating the Government's lien on after-acquired property of telecommunications borrowers. To expedite this process, requests for lien accommodations meeting the requirements of § 1744.30 will receive automatic approval from RUS.
(c) This subpart establishes RUS policy with respect to all requests for lien accommodations and subordinations for loans from private lenders. For borrowers that do not qualify for automatic lien accommodations in accordance with § 1744.30, RUS will consider lien accommodations for RE Act purposes under § 1744.40 and non-Act purposes under § 1744.50.
[66 FR 41758, Aug. 9, 2001]
§ 1744.21
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
Administrator
means the Administrator of RUS.
Advance
means transferring funds from RUS or a lender guaranteed by RUS to the borrower's construction fund.
After-acquired property
means property which is to be acquired by the borrower and which would be subject to the lien of the Government mortgage when acquired.
Amortization expense
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Amortization expense
6560.2
(2) Amortization expense—tangible
6563
(3) Amortization expense—intangible
6564
(4) Amortization expense—other
6565

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Asset
means a future economic benefit obtained or controlled by the borrower as a result of past transactions or events.
Automatic lien accommodation
means the approval, by RUS, of a request to share the Government's lien on a pari passu or pro-rata basis with a private lender in accordance with the provisions of § 1744.30.
Borrower
means any organization that has an outstanding telecommunications loan made or guaranteed by RUS, or that is seeking such financing. See 7 CFR part 1735.
Construction Fund
means the RUS Construction Fund Account into which all advances of loan funds are deposited pursuant to the provisions of the loan documents.
Debt Service Coverage (DSC) ratio
means the ratio of the sum of the borrower's net income, depreciation and amortization expense, and interest expense, all divided by the sum of all payments of principal and interest required to be paid by the borrower during the year on all its debt from any source with a maturity greater than 1 year and capital lease obligations.
Default
means any event or occurrence which, unless corrected, will, with the passage of time and the giving of proper notices, give rise to remedies under one or more of the loan documents.
Depreciation expense
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Depreciation expense
6560.1
(2) Depreciation expense—telecommunications plant in service
6561
(3) Depreciation expense—property held for future telecommunications use
6562

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Disbursement
means a transfer of money by the borrower out of the construction fund in accordance with the provisions of the fund.
Equity percentage
means the total equity or net worth of the borrower expressed as a percentage of the borrower's total assets.
FFB
means the Federal Financing Bank.
Financial Requirement Statement (FRS)
means RUS Form 481 (OMB—No. 0572—0023). (This RUS Form is available from
RUS, Program Development and Regulatory Analysis, Washington, DC 20250-1522).
Government mortgage
means any instrument to which the Government, acting through the Administrator, is a party and which creates a lien or security interest in the borrower's property in connection with a loan made or guaranteed by RUS whether the Government is the sole mortgagee or is a co-mortgagee with a private lender.
Hardship loan
means a loan made by RUS under section 305(d)(1) of the RE Act.
Interim construction
means the purchase of equipment or the conduct of construction under an RUS-approved plan of interim financing. See 7 CFR part 1737.
Interest expense
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Interest and related items
7500
(2) Interest on funded debt
7510
(3) Interest expense—capital leases
7520
(4) Amortization of debt issuance expense
7530
(5) Less Allowance for funds used during construction
7340/7300.4
(6) Other interest deductions
7540

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Interim financing
means funding for a project which RUS has acknowledged may be included in a loan, should said loan be approved, but for which RUS loan funds have not yet been made available.
Lien accommodation
means sharing the Government's lien on a pari passu or pro-rata basis with a private lender.
Loan
means any loan made or guaranteed by RUS.
Loan documents
means the loan contract, note and mortgage between the borrower and RUS and any associated document pertinent to a loan.
Loan funds
means the proceeds of a loan made or guaranteed by RUS.
Material and supplies
means any of the items properly recordable in the following account of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Material and Supplies
1220.1

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Net income/Net margins
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Local Network Services Revenues
5000 through 5069
(2) Network Access Services Revenues
5080 through 5084
(3) Long Distance Network Services Revenues
5100 through 5169
(4) Miscellaneous Revenues
5200 through 5270
(5) Nonregulated Revenues
5280
(6) Less Uncollectible Revenues
5200 through 5302
(7) Less Plant Specific Operations Expense
6110 through 6441
(8) Less Plant Nonspecific Operations Expense
6510 through 6565
(9) Less Customer Operations Expense
6610 through 6623
(10) Less Corporate Operations Expense
6710 through 6790
(11) Other Operating Income and Expense
7100 through 7160
(12) Less Operating Taxes
7200 through 7250/7200.5
(13) Nonoperating Income and Expense
7300 through 7370
(14) Less Nonoperating Taxes
7400 through 7450/7400.5
(15) Less Interest and Related Items
7500 through 7540
(16) Extraordinary Items
7600 through 7640/7600.4
(17) Jurisdictional Differences and Nonregulated Income Items
7910 through 7990

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Net plant
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Property, Plant and Equipment
2001 through 2007
(2) Less Depreciation and Amortization
3100 through 3600

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Notes
means evidence of indebtedness secured by or to be secured by the Government mortgage.
Pari Passu
means equably; ratably; without preference or precedence.
Plant
means any of the items properly recordable in the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Property, Plant and Equipment
2001 through 2007

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Private lender
means any lender other than the RUS or the lender of a loan guaranteed by RUS.
Private lender notes
means the notes evidencing a private loan.
Private loan
means any loan made by a private lender.
RE Act (Act)
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901
et. seq.
).
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, and includes its predecessor, the Rural Electrification Administration.
RUS cost-of-money loan
means a loan made under section 305(d)(2) of the RE Act.
Subordination
means allowing a private lender to have a lien on specific property which will have priority over the Government's lien on such property.
Tangible plant
means any of the items properly recordable in the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Telecommunications Plant in Service—General Support Assets
2110 through 2124
(2) Telecommunications Plant in Service—Central Office Assets
2210 through 2232
(3) Telecommunications Plant in Service—Information Origination/Termination Assets
2310 through 2362
(4) Telecommunications Plant in Service—Cable and Wire Facilities Assets
2410 through 2441
(5) Amortizable Tangible Assets
2680 through 2682
(6) Nonoperating Plant
2006

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Telecommunication services
means any service for the transmission, emission, or reception of signals, sounds, information, images, or intelligence of any nature by optical waveguide, wire, radio, or other electromagnetic systems and shall include all facilities used in providing such service as well as the development, manufacture, sale, and distribution of such facilities.
Times interest earned ratio (TIER)
means the ratio of the borrower's net income or net margins plus interest expense, divided by said interest expense.
Total assets
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Current Assets
1100s through 1300s
(2) Noncurrent Assets
1400s through 1500s
(3) Total telecommunications plant
2001 through 2007
(4) Less accumulated depreciation
3100 through 3300s
(5) Less accumulated amortization
3400 through 3600s

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Total equity or net worth
means the excess of a borrower's total assets over its total liabilities.
Total liabilities
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Current Liabilities
4010 through 4130.2
(2) Long-Term Debt
4210 through 4270.3
(3) Other Liabilities and Deferred Credits
4310 through 4370

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Total long-term debt
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account names
Number
(1) Long-Term Debt
4210 through 4270.3

# Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (7 CFR part 1770, subpart B).
Weighted-average life of the loans or notes
means the average life of the loans or notes based on the proportion of original loan principal paid during each year of the loans or notes. It shall be determined by calculating the sum of all loan or note principal payments expressed as a fraction of the original loan or note principal amount, times the number of years and fractions of years elapsed at the time of each payment since issuance of the loan or note. For example, given a $5 million loan, with a maturity of 5 years and equal principal payments of $1 million due on the anniversary date of the loan, the weighted-average life would be: (.2)(1 year) + (.2)(2 years) + (.2)(3 years) + (.2)(4 years) + (.2)(5 years) = .2 years + .4 years + .6 years + .8 years +
1.0 years = 3.0 years. If instead the loan had a balloon payment of $5 million at the end of 5 years, the weighted-average life would be: ($5 million/$5 million)(5 years) = 5 years.
Weighted-average remaining life of the loans or notes
means the remaining average life of the loans or notes based on the proportion of remaining loan or note principal expressed in years remaining to maturity of the loans or notes. It shall be determined by calculating the sum of the remaining principal payments of each loan or note expressed as a fraction of the total remaining loan or note amounts times the number of years and fraction of years remaining until maturity of the loan or note.
Weighted-average remaining useful life of the assets
means the estimated original average life of the assets to be acquired with the proceeds of the private lender notes expressed in years based on depreciation rates less the number of years those assets have been in service (or have been depreciated). It shall be determined by calculating the sum of each asset's remaining value expressed as a fraction of the total remaining value of the assets, times the estimated number of years and fraction of years remaining until the assets are fully depreciated.
Wholly-owned subsidiary
means a corporation owned 100 percent by the borrower.
[66 FR 41758, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§§ 1744.22-1744.29
[Reserved]
§ 1744.30
Automatic lien accommodations.
(a)
Purposes and requirements for approval.
Automatic lien accommodations are available only for refinancing and refunding of notes secured by the borrower's existing Government mortgage; financing assets, to be owned by the borrower, to provide telecommunications services; or financing assets, to be owned by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the borrower, to provide telecommunications services in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
(b)
Private lender responsibility.
The private lender is responsible for ensuring that its notes, for which an automatic lien accommodation has been approved as set forth in this section, are secured under the mortgage. The private lender is responsible for ensuring that the supplemental mortgage is a valid and binding instrument enforceable in accordance with its terms, and recorded and filed in accordance with applicable law. If the private lender determines that additional documents are required or that RUS must take additional actions to secure the notes under the mortgage, the private lender shall follow the procedures set forth in § 1744.40 or § 1744.50, as appropriate.
(c)
Refinancing and refunding.
The Administrator will automatically approve a borrower's execution of private lender notes and the securing of such notes on a pari passu or pro-rata basis with all other notes secured under the Government mortgage, when such private lender notes are issued for the purpose of refinancing or refunding any notes secured under the Government mortgage, provided that all of the following conditions are met:
(1) No default has occurred and is continuing under the Government mortgage;
(2) The borrower has delivered to the Administrator, at least 10 business days before the private lender notes are to be executed, a certification and agreement executed by the President of the borrower's Board of Directors, such certification and agreement to be substantially in the form set forth in Appendix A of this subpart, providing that:
(i) No default has occurred and is continuing under the Government mortgage;
(ii) The principal amount of such refinancing or refunding notes will not be greater than 112 percent of the then outstanding principal balance of the notes being refinanced or refunded;
(iii) The weighted-average life of the private loan evidenced by the private lender notes will not exceed the weighted-average remaining life of the notes being refinanced or refunded;
(iv) The private lender notes will provide for substantially level debt service or level principal amortization over a period not less than the original remaining years to maturity;
(v) Except as provided in the Government mortgage, the borrower has not agreed to any restrictions or limitations on future loans from RUS; and
(vi) If the private lender determines that a supplemental mortgage is necessary, the borrower will comply with those procedures contained in paragraph (h) of this section for the preparation, execution, and delivery of a supplemental mortgage and take such additional action as may be required to secure the notes under the Government mortgage.
(d)
Financing assets to be owned directly by a borrower.
The Administrator will automatically approve a borrower's execution of private lender notes and the securing of such notes on a pari passu or pro-rata basis with all other notes secured under the Government mortgage, when such private lender notes are issued for the purpose of financing the purchase or construction of plant and material and supplies to provide telecommunication services and when such assets are to be owned and the telecommunications services are to be offered by the borrower, provided that all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The borrower has achieved a TIER of not less than 1.5 and a DSC of not less than 1.25 for each of the borrower's two fiscal years immediately preceding the issuance of the private lender notes;
(2) The ratio of the borrower's net plant to its total long-term debt at the end of any calendar month ending not more than 90 days prior to execution of the private lender notes is not less than 1.2, on a pro-forma basis, after taking into account the effect of the private lender notes and additional plant on the total long-term debt of the borrower;
(3) The borrower's equity percentage, as of the most recent fiscal year-end, was not less than 25 percent;
(4) No default has occurred and is continuing under the Government mortgage;
(5) The borrower has delivered to the Administrator, at least 10 business days before the private lender notes are to be executed, a certification by an independent certified public accountant that the borrower has met each of the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(3) of this section, such certification to be substantially in the form in appendix B of this subpart; and
(6) The borrower has delivered to the Administrator, at least 10 business days before the private lender notes are to be executed, a certification and agreement executed by the President of the borrower's Board of Directors, such certification and agreement to be substantially in the form in appendix C of this subpart: provided, that:
(i) The borrower has met each of the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(4) of this section;
(ii) The proceeds of the private lender notes are to be used for the construction or purchase of the plant and materials and supplies to provide telecommunications services in accordance with this section and such construction or purchase is expected to be completed not later than 4 years after execution of such notes;
(iii) The weighted-average life of the private loan evidenced by the private lender notes does not exceed the weighted-average remaining useful life of the assets being financed;
(iv) The private lender notes will provide for substantially level debt service or level principal amortization over a period not less than the original remaining years to maturity;
(v) All of the assets financed by the private loans will be purchased or otherwise procured in bona fide arm's length transactions;
(vi) The financing agreement with the private lender will provide that the private lender shall cease the advance of funds upon receipt of written notification from RUS that the borrower is in default under the RUS loan documents;
(vii) Except as provided in the Government mortgage, the borrower has not agreed to any restrictions or limitations on future loans from RUS; and
(viii) If the private lender determines that a supplemental mortgage is necessary, the borrower will comply with those procedures set forth in paragraph (h) of this section for the preparation,
execution, and delivery of a supplemental mortgage and take such additional action as may be required to secure the notes under the Government mortgage.
(e)
Financing assets to be owned by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the borrower.
The Administrator will automatically approve a borrower's execution of private lender notes and the securing of such notes on a pari passu or pro-rata basis with all other notes secured under the Government mortgage, when such private lender notes are issued for the purpose of financing the purchase or construction of tangible plant and material and supplies to provide telecommunication services and when such services are to be offered and the associated tangible assets are to be owned by a wholly-owned subsidiary of the borrower, provided that all of the following conditions are met:
(1) The borrower has achieved a TIER of not less than 2.5 and a DSC of not less than 1.5 for each of the borrower's two fiscal years immediately preceding the issuance of the private lender notes;
(2) The ratio of the borrower's net plant to its total long-term debt at the end of any calendar month ending not more than 90 days prior to execution of the private lender notes is not less than 1.6, on a pro-forma basis, after taking into account the effect of the private lender notes and additional plant on the total long-term debt of the borrower;
(3) The borrower's equity percentage, as of the most recent fiscal year-end, was not less than 45 percent;
(4) No default has occurred and is continuing under the Government mortgage;
(5) The borrower has delivered to the Administrator, at least 10 business days before the private lender notes are to be executed, a certification by an independent certified public accountant that the borrower has met each of the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(3) of this section, such certification to be substantially in the form in appendix D of this subpart; and
(6) The borrower has delivered to the Administrator, at least 10 business days before the private lender notes are to be executed, a certification and agreement executed by the President of the borrower's Board of Directors, such certification and agreement to be substantially in the form in appendix E of this subpart; providing that:
(i) The borrower has met each of the requirements in paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(4) of this section;
(ii) The proceeds of the private lender notes are to be used for the construction or purchase of the tangible plant and materials and supplies to provide telecommunications services in accordance with this section and such construction or purchase is expected to be completed not later than 4 years after execution of such notes;
(iii) The weighted-average life of the private loan evidenced by the private lender notes does not exceed the weighted-average remaining useful life of the assets being financed;
(iv) The private lender notes will provide for substantially level debt service or level principal amortization over a period not less than the original remaining years to maturity;
(v) All of the assets financed by the private loans will be purchased or otherwise procured in bona fide arm's length transactions;
(vi) The proceeds of the private lender notes will be lent to a wholly-owned subsidiary of the borrower pursuant to terms and conditions agreed upon by the borrower and subsidiary;
(vii) The borrower will, whenever requested by RUS, provide RUS with a copy of the financing or guarantee agreement between the borrower and the subsidiary or any similar or related material including security instruments, loan contracts, or notes issued by the subsidiary to the borrower;
(viii) The borrower will promptly report to the Administrator any default by the subsidiary or other actions that impair or may impair the subsidiary's ability to repay its loans;
(ix) The financing agreement with the private lender will provide that the private lender shall cease the advance of funds upon receipt of written notification from RUS that the borrower is in default under the RUS loan documents;
(x) Except as provided in the Government mortgage, the borrower has not
agreed to any restrictions or limitations on future loans from RUS; and
(xi) If the private lender determines that a supplemental mortgage is necessary, the borrower will comply with those procedures contained in paragraph (h) of this section for the preparation, execution, and delivery of a supplemental mortgage and take such additional action as may be required to secure the notes under the Government mortgage.
(f)
Borrower notification.
The borrower shall notify RUS of its intention to obtain an automatic lien accommodation under § 1744.30 by providing the following:
(1) The board resolution cited in § 1744.55(b)(1) and the opinion of counsel cited in § 1744.55(b)(2);
(2) The applicable certification or certifications required by paragraph (c)(2); paragraphs (d)(5) and (d)(6); or paragraphs (e)(5) and (e)(6), respectively, of this section, in substantially the form contained in the applicable appendices to this subpart.
(g)
RUS acknowledgment.
Within 5 business days of receipt of the completed certifications and any other information required under this section, RUS will review the information and provide written acknowledgment to the borrower and the private lender of its qualification for an automatic lien accommodation. Upon receipt of the acknowledgment, the borrower may execute the private lender notes.
(h)
Supplemental mortgage.
If the private lender determines that a supplemental mortgage is required to secure the private lender notes on a pari passu or pro-rata basis with all other notes secured under the Government mortgage, the private lender may prepare the supplemental mortgage using the form attached as appendix F to this subpart or the borrower may request RUS to prepare such supplemental mortgage in accordance with the following procedures:
(1) The private lender preparing the supplemental mortgage shall execute and forward the completed document to RUS. Upon ascertaining the correctness of the form and the information concerning RUS, RUS will execute and forward the supplemental mortgage to the borrower.
(2) When requested by the borrower, RUS will expeditiously prepare the supplemental mortgage, using the form in appendix F to this subpart, upon submission by the private lender of:
(i) The name of the private lender;
(ii) The Property Schedule for inclusion as supplemental mortgage Schedule B, containing legally sufficient description of all real property owned by the borrower; and
(iii) The amount of the private lender note.
(3) The government is not responsible for ensuring that the supplemental mortgage has been executed by all parties and is a valid and binding instrument enforceable in accordance with its terms, and recorded and filed in accordance with applicable law. If the private lender determines that additional security instruments or other documents are required or that RUS must take additional actions to secure the private lender notes under the mortgage, the private lender shall follow the procedures established in §§ 1744.40 or 1744.50, as appropriate. Except for the actions of the government expressly established in § 1744.40, the government undertakes no obligation to effectuate an automatic lien accommodation. When processing of the supplemental mortgage has been completed to the satisfaction of the private lender, the borrower shall provide RUS with the following:
(i) A fully executed counterpart of the supplemental mortgage, including all signatures, seals, and acknowledgements; and
(ii) Copies of all opinions rendered by borrower's counsel to the private lender.
(i)
Other approvals.
(1) The borrower is responsible for meeting all requirements necessary to issue private lender notes and to accommodate the lien of the Government mortgage to secure the private lender notes including, but not limited to, those of the private lender, of any other mortgagees secured under the existing RUS mortgage, and of any governmental entities with jurisdiction over the issuance of notes or the execution and delivery of the supplemental mortgage.
(2) To the extent that the borrower's existing mortgage requires RUS approval before the borrower can make an investment in an affiliated company, approval is hereby given for all investments made in affiliated companies with the proceeds of private lender notes qualifying for an automatic lien accommodation under paragraph (e) of this section. Any reference to an approval by RUS under the mortgage shall apply only to the rights of RUS and not to any other party.
[66 FR 41760, Aug. 9, 2001]
§ 1744.40
Act purposes.
(a) Borrowers are encouraged to submit requests for accommodation of the Government's lien on the borrower's system in order to facilitate obtaining financing from private lenders for purposes provided in the RE Act.
(b) The Administrator will consider requests for the subordination of the Government's lien on after-acquired property which will enable borrowers to obtain financing from private lenders for purposes provided in the Act: Provided, however, that property integral to the operation of projects financed with loans made or guaranteed by RUS shall be financed with funds obtained through lien accommodations instead of lien subordinations, unless the Administrator determines that it is in the Government's interest to do otherwise.
[51 FR 32430, Sept. 12, 1986. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, and further redesignated at 66 FR 41760, Aug. 9, 2001]
§§ 1744.41-1744.49
[Reserved]
§ 1744.50
Non-Act purposes.
(a) The Administrator will consider requests for the accommodation of the Government's lien on the borrower's system or the subordination of the Government's lien on after-acquired property which will enable the borrowers to obtain financing from private lenders for the purpose of providing new telecommunication services which may not be eligible for financing under the Act if the Administrator is satisfied that:
(1) The borrower will have the ability to repay its existing and proposed indebtedness;
(2) The security for outstanding Government loans and guarantees is reasonably adequate and will not be adversely affected by the accommodation or subordination; and
(3) Approval of the request is in the interests of the Government with respect to the financial soundness of the borrower and other matters, such as assuring that the borrower's system is constructed cost-effectively using sound engineering practices.
(b) In determining that the security for outstanding Government loans and guarantees is reasonably adequate and will not be adversely affected by the accommodation or subordination the Administrator will consider, among other matters, when applicable, the following:
(1) Market forecasts for the project;
(2) Projected revenues, expenses and net income of the borrower's existing system and the project;
(3) Maximum debt service on indebtedness of both the borrower's system and the project;
(4) Projected rate of return on the borrower's investment in the project;
(5) Fair market value of property acquired by the borrower as part of the project;
(6) Impact of the project on the ratio of the borrower's secured debt to assets;
(7) Projected growth in borrower's system and project equity; and
(8) Amount of funds available for plant additions, replacements and other similar costs of the system and the project.
(c) In determining whether the accommodation or subordination is in the interests of the Government, the Administrator may consider, among other matters, whether the project will improve the borrower's financial strength and the assurance of repayment of Government debt.
[51 FR 32430, Sept. 12, 1986. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43716, Aug. 25, 1994. Redesignated at 66 FR 41760, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 41763, Aug. 9, 2001]
§§ 1744.51-1744.54
[Reserved]
§ 1744.55
Application procedures.
(a) Requests for information regarding applications for lien accommodations or subordination under this part should be addressed to the Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program, Rural Utilities Service, Washington, DC 20250-1590.
(b) An application for a lien accommodation or subordination shall include the following supporting information:
(1) A board Resolution from the applicant requesting the lien accommodation or subordination and stating the general purpose for which the funds from the private lender will be used, the proposed amount of the loan, and the proposed terms and conditions of the loan;
(2) An opinion from counsel representing the applicant that the applicant has the authority under its articles of incorporation, bylaws, and under applicable state law to undertake the project;
(3) Engineering and pertinent studies related to the projects or purposes to be financed, when applicable;
(4) Feasibility studies with pro forma financial statements showing the ability to repay the loan and provide an appropriate margin or net income;
(5) Any other information or documentation deemed pertinent by the borrower or the Administrator in support of the application.
(c) When the Administrator makes a determination that an application for an accommodation or subordination will not be approved the Administrator shall set forth the reasons therefor in writing and furnish such determination and reasons to the borrower within 30 days of the determination.
[51 FR 32430, Sept. 12, 1986. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, and further redesignated at 66 FR 41760, Aug. 9, 2001, as amended at 66 FR 41763, Aug. 9, 2001]
§§ 1744.56-1744.59
[Reserved]
Pt. 1744, Subpt. B, App. A

# Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 1744—Statement, Certification, and Agreement of Borrower's President of Board of Directors Regarding Refinancing and Refunding Notes Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30(c)
ER09AU01.026
[66 FR 41763, Aug. 9, 2001]
Pt. 1744, Subpt. B, App. B

# Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 1744—Certification of Independent Certified Public Accountant Regarding Notes To Be Issued Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30(c)
ER09AU01.027
[66 FR 41763, Aug. 9, 2001]
Pt. 1744, Subpt. B, App. C

# Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 1744—Statement, Certification, and Agreement of Borrower's President of Board of Directors Regarding Notes To Be Issued Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30(
d

# )
Er09au01.028
[66 FR 41763, Aug. 9, 2001]
Pt. 1744, Subpt. B, App. D

# Appendix D to Subpart B of Part 1744—Certification of Independent Certified Public Accountant Regarding Notes To Be Issued Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30
Er09au01.029
[66 FR 41763, Aug. 9, 2001]
Pt. 1744, Subpt. B, App. E

# Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 1744—Statement, Certification, and Agreement of Borrower's President of Board of Directors Regarding Notes To Be Issued Pursuant to 7 CFR 1744.30(
e

# )
Er09au01.030
Er09au01.031
[66 FR 41763, Aug. 9, 2001]
Pt. 1744, Subpt. B, App. F

# Appendix F to Subpart B of Part 1744—Form of Supplemental Mortgage
Er09au01.032
Er09au01.033
Er09au01.034
[66 FR 41763, Aug. 9, 2001]

# Subpart C—Advance and Disbursement of Funds

# Source:
54 FR 12186, Mar. 24, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1744.60
General.
(a) The standard loan documents (as defined in 7 CFR part 1758) contain provisions regarding advances and disbursements of loan funds by telephone borrowers. This part implements certain of the provisions by setting forth requirements and procedures to be followed by borrowers in obtaining advances and making disbursements of loan and nonloan funds.
(b) This part supersedes any sections of RUS Bulletins with which it is in conflict.
§ 1744.61
[Reserved]
§ 1744.62
Introduction.
RUS is under no obligation to make or approve advances of loan funds unless the borrower is in compliance with all terms and conditions of the loan documents. The borrower shall use funds in its construction fund only to make disbursements approved by RUS.
§ 1744.63
The telephone loan budget.
When the loan is made, RUS provides the borrower a Telephone Loan Budget, RUS Form 493. This budget divides the loan into budget accounts such as “Engineering.” When a contract or other document is approved by RUS, funds are encumbered from the appropriate budget account. See 7 CFR part 1753.
§ 1744.64
Budget adjustment.
(a) If more funds are required than are available in a budget account, the borrower may request RUS's approval of a budget adjustment to use funds from another account. The request shall include an explanation of the change, the budget account to be used, and a description of how the adjustment will affect loan purposes. RUS will not approve a budget adjustment that affects other loan purposes unless the borrower satisfies RUS that the additional funds are available from another source, requests a deficiency loan, or scales back the project.
(b) RUS may make a budget adjustment without a formal request by the borrower when a budget account is insufficient to encumber funds for a contract that otherwise would be approved by RUS. See 7 CFR part 1753.
§ 1744.65
The construction fund.
(a) The construction fund is used by the borrower primarily to hold advances until disbursed.
(b) All advances shall be deposited in the construction fund.
(c) RUS may require that other funds be deposited in the construction fund. These may include equity or general fund contributions to construction, service termination payments, proceeds from the sale of property, amounts recovered from insurance for losses during the construction period, and interest received on loan funds in savings or interest bearing checking accounts, and similar receipts. Deposit slips for any deposit to the construction fund shall show the source and amount of funds deposited and be executed by an authorized representative of the bank.
(d) Funds shall be disbursed only up to the amount approved for advance on the FRS as described in § 1744.66. No funds may be withdrawn from the fund except for loan purposes approved by RUS.
(e) The disbursement of nonloan funds requires the same RUS approvals as loan funds.
(f) Disbursements must be evidenced by canceled checks. The invoices and supporting documentation needed for construction contracts are specified in the contracts and in 7 CFR part 1753. Disbursements to reimburse the borrower's general funds shall be documented by a reimbursement schedule,
to be retained in the borrower's files,
that lists the construction fund check number, date, and an explanation of amounts reimbursed by budget account.
§ 1744.66
The financial requirement statement (FRS).
(a) To request advances, the borrower must submit to RUS an FRS, a description of the advances desired, and other information related to the transactions when required by RUS.
(b) The FRS is used by RUS and the borrower to record and control transactions in the construction fund. Approved contracts and other items are shown on the FRS under “Approved Purposes.” Except as noted below, the amount approved for advance is 100 percent of the amount encumbered for that item. Funds are approved for advance as follows:
(1)
Construction
—(i)
Construction contracts and force account proposals.
Ninety percent of the encumbered amount (95 percent for outside plant), with the final 10 percent (5 percent) approved when RUS approves the closeout documents. When a contract contains supplement “A” (See 7 CFR part 1753), 90 percent (95 percent) of the contract is approved less materials supplied by the borrower. For the Supplement “A” materials, which are a separate entry on the FRS, 100 percent of the material cost is approved.
(ii)
Work orders.
The portion of the work order summary (See 7 CFR part 1753) determined by RUS to be for approved loan purposes.
(iii)
Work order fund.
Based on a borrower's request as described in 7 CFR part 1753.
(iv)
Real estate.
Upon request by the borrower after submission of evidence of a valid title.
(v)
Right of way procurement.
Based on the borrower's itemized costs.
(vi)
Joint use charges.
Based on copies of invoices from the other utility.
(2)
Engineering
—(i)
Preloan engineering.
Based on a final itemized invoice from the engineer.
(ii)
Postloan engineering contracts.
The amount shown on the engineering estimate, RUS Form 506, less the amount estimated for construction contract closeouts. The balance is approved when the engineering contract is closed.
(iii)
Force account engineering.
Ninety percent of the total amount of the RUS approved force account engineering proposal. The balance is approved when the force account engineering proposal is closed.
(3)
Office equipment, vehicles and work equipment.
Based on copies of invoices for the equipment.
(4)
General
—(i)
Organization and loan expenditures.
Based on an itemized list of requirements prepared by the borrower.
(ii)
Construction overhead.
Based on an itemized list of expenditures. If funds are required for employee salaries, the itemization shall include the employee's position, the period covered, total compensation for the period, and the portion of compensation attributable to the itemized construction.
(iii)
Legal fees.
Based on itemized invoices from the attorney.
(iv)
Bank stock.
Based on the requirements for purchase of class B Rural Telephone Bank stock established in the loan. Funds for class B stock will be advanced in an amount equal to 5 percent of the amount, exclusive of the amount for class B stock, of each loan advance, at the time of such advance.
(5)
Operating expenses
—(i)
Working capital—new system.
Based on the borrower's itemized estimate.
(ii)
Current operating deficiencies.
Based on a current and projected balance sheet submitted by the borrower.
(6)
Debt retirement and refinancing.
Upon release of the loan, based on the amount in the approved budget.
(7)
Acquisitions.
Based on final itemized costs, but cannot exceed the amount in the approved loan budget.
(c) Funds other than loan funds deposited in the construction fund, which shall include proceeds from the sale of property on which RUS has a lien, (lines 10 and 11 on the FRS) are reported as a credit under total disbursements. Disbursements of these funds are subject to the same RUS approvals as loan funds.
(d) The borrower shall request advances as needed to meet its obligations promptly. Generally, RUS does not approve an advance requested more than 60 days before the obligation is payable.
(e) Funds should be disbursed for the item for which they were advanced. If the borrower needs to pay an invoice for which funds have not been advanced, and disbursement of advanced funds for another item has been delayed, the latter funds may be disbursed to pay the invoice up to the amount approved for advance for that item on the FRS. The borrower shall make erasable entries on the next FRS showing the changes under “Total Advances to Date” and shall explain the changes in writing before RUS will process the next FRS.
(f) Advances will be rounded down to the nearest thousands of dollars except for final amounts.
(g) The certification on each of the three copies of the FRS sent to RUS shall be signed by a corporate officer of manager authorized by resolution of the board of directors to sign such statements. At the time of such authorization a certified copy of the resolution and one copy of RUS Form 675, Certificate of Authority, shall be submitted to RUS.
(h) The documentation required for the FRS transactions are the deposit slips, the canceled construction fund checks and the supporting invoices or reimbursement schedules. These shall be kept in the borrower's files for periodic audits by RUS.
[54 FR 12186, Mar. 24, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 26600, June 10, 1991]
§ 1744.67
Temporary excess construction funds.
(a) When unanticipated events delay the borrower's disbursement of advanced funds, the funds may be used as follows:
(1) With RUS loan funds for loans approved prior to November 1, 1993, or hardship loan funds, the borrower may invest the funds in 5 percent Treasury Certificates of Indebtedness—RUS Series.
(2) With RUS cost-of-money or FFB loan funds, the following apply:
(i) The borrower may invest the funds in short term securities issued by the United States Treasury.
(ii) If permitted by state law, the borrower may deposit the funds in savings accounts, including certificates of deposit, of federally insured savings institutions.
(3) Funds advanced by a guaranteed lender other than the FFB may, if so permitted by such lender, be invested under the terms and conditions described above for FFB advances.
(4) Any security or investment made under this authorization shall identify the borrower by its corporate name followed by the words “Trustee, Rural Utilities Service.”
(5) All temporary investments and all income derived from them shall be considered part of the construction fund and be subject to the same controls as cash in that account.
(6) Securities and other investments shall have maturity dates or liquidating provisions that ensure the availability of funds as required for the completion of projects and the payment of obligations.
(7) Any instrument evidencing a security or other investment herein authorized to be purchased or made, may not be sold, discounted, or pledged as collateral for a loan or as security for the performance of an obligation or for any other purpose.
(8) The Administrator may, at his sole discretion, require a borrower to pledge any security or other evidence of investment authorized hereby by forwarding to him all pertinent instruments and related documentation as he may reasonably require.
(9) Borrowers shall be responsible for the safekeeping of securities and other investments.
(b) All interest and income received from investments of temporary excess funds, as described in this section, shall be deposited in the Construction Fund.
(c) The borrower shall account for investment proceeds on the next FRS submitted to RUS. RUS will make the necessary adjustments on budgetary records.
(d) The Administrator reserves the right to suspend any borrower's authorization to invest temporary excess funds contained herein if the borrower does not comply with the requirements.
(e) For RUS loans approved prior to October 1, 1991, the borrower may return advanced funds to RUS as a refund of an advance. Interest stops accruing on the refunded advance upon receipt by RUS. A refunded advance may be readvanced. A refund of an advance shall be sent to the Rural Utilities Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Collections and Custodial Section, Washington, DC, 20250. The borrower should clearly indicate that this is a refund of an advance, and not a loan payment or prepayment.
[54 FR 12186, Mar. 24, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66257, Dec. 20, 1993; 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1744.68
Order and method of advances of telephone loan funds.
(a) Borrowers may specify the sequence of advances of funds under any combination of approved telephone loans from RUS or FFB, except that for all loans approved on or after November 1, 1993, the borrower may use loan funds:
(1) Only for purposes for which that type of loan (
i.e.
Hardship, RUS cost-of-money, or FFB) may be made; and
(2) Only in exchanges that qualify for the type of loan from which the funds are drawn.
(b) The first or subsequent advances of loan funds may be conditioned on the satisfaction of certain requirements stated in the borrower's loan contract.
(c) Normally, only one payment is made by the Automatic Clearing House (ACH) for an advance of funds.
(d) Borrowers of RUS funds may request advances by wire service only for amounts greater than $500,000 or for advances to borrowers outside the Continental United States. FFB advances in any amount over $100,000 can be sent by wire service.
(e) The following information shall be included with the FRS:
(1) Name and address of borrower's bank.
(2) If borrower's bank is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, the name and address of its correspondent bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System.
(3) American Bankers Association (ABA) nine digit identifier of the receiving banks (routing number and check digit).
(4) Borrower's bank account title and number.
(5) Any other necessary identifying information.
[54 FR 12186, Mar. 24, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39395, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66257, Dec. 20, 1993, as amended at 84 FR 59922, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1744.69
[Reserved]
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Borrower Investments

# Source:
58 FR 52642, Oct. 12, 1993, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1744.200
General statement.
(a) RUS telephone borrowers are encouraged to utilize their own funds to participate in the economic development of rural areas, provided that such activity does not impair a borrower's ability to provide modern telecommunications services at reasonable rates or to repay its indebtedness to RUS and other lenders. When considering loans, investments, or guarantees, borrowers are expected to act in accordance with prudent business practices and in conformity with the laws of the jurisdictions in which they serve.
(b) [Reserved]
[58 FR 52642, Oct. 12, 1993, as amended at 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1744.201
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
Advance
means any funds provided of which repayment is expected.
Affiliated company
means any organization that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the borrower.
Borrower
means any organization which has an outstanding loan made by RUS or guaranteed by RUS, or which is seeking such financing.
Extension of credit
means to make loans or advances.
Guarantee
means to undertake collaterally to answer for the payment of another's debt or the performance of another's duty, liability, or obligation, including, without limitation, the obligations of affiliated companies. Some examples of such guarantees would include:
(1) Guarantees of payment or collection on a note or other debt instrument;
(2) Issuing performance bonds or completion bonds; or
(3) Cosigning leases or other obligations of third parties.
Maximum investment ratio
means that the aggregate of all qualified investments by the borrower including the proposed qualified investment shall not be more than one-third of the net worth of the borrower.
Minimum total assets ratio
means the borrower's net worth is at least twenty percent of its total assets including the proposed qualified investment.
Net plant
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account Names
Number
(1) Telecommunications plant in service
2001
(2) Property held for future telecommunications use
2002
(3) Telecommunications plant under construction-short term
2003
(4) Telecommunications plant under construction-long term
2004
(5) Telecommunications plant adjustment
2005
(6) Nonoperating plant
2006
(7) Goodwill
2007
(8) Less accumulated depreciation
3100 through 3300s
(9) Less accumulated amortization
3400 through 3600s
Note:
All references to account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (47 CFR part 32).
Net worth
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account Names
Number
(1) Capital stock
4510
(2) Additional paid-in capital
4520
(3) Treasury stock
4530
(4) Other capital
4540
(5) Retained earnings
4550
Note:
For nonprofit organizations, owners' equity is shown in subaccounts of 4540 and 4550. All references regarding account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (47 CFR part 32).
Qualified investment
is defined in § 1744.202(b).
RE Act
means the Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
REA
means the Rural Electrification Administration formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs.
Rural development investment
is defined in § 1744.202(d).
RUS
means the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.
RUS mortgage
means the instrument creating a lien on or security interest in the borrower's assets in connection with a loan made or guaranteed under the RE Act.
Total assets
means the sum of the balances of the following accounts of the borrower:
Account Names
Number
(1) Current assets
1100s through 1300s
(2) Noncurrent assets
1400s through 1500s
(3) Total telecommunications plant
2001 through 2007
(4) Less accumulated depreciation
3100 through 3300s
(5) Less accumulated amortization
3400 through 3600s
Note:
All references regarding account numbers are to the Uniform System of Accounts (47 CFR part 32).
Uniform System of Accounts
means the Federal Communications Commission Uniform System of Accounts for Telecommunications Companies (47 CFR part 32) as supplemented by 7 CFR Part 1770, Accounting Requirements for RUS Telephone Borrowers.
[58 FR 52642, Oct. 12, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 66440, Dec. 27, 1994; 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1744.202
Borrowers may make qualified investments without prior approval of the Administrator.
(a) A borrower that equals or exceeds the minimum total assets ratio may make a qualified investment, defined in paragraph (b) of this section without prior written approval of the Administrator.
(b) A qualified investment is a rural development investment, defined in paragraph (d) of this section meeting the following criteria:
(1) Unless the borrower's commitment is a guarantee, extension of credit, or advance, the borrower receives any financial return accruing to such investment, or the borrower's proportionate share of such return;
(2) Unless the borrower's commitment is a guarantee, extension of credit, or advance, the borrower retains title to any asset acquired with such investment, or the borrower's proportionate share of such title; and
(3) The funds committed are the borrower's own funds. As used in this subpart, the term own funds shall not include proceeds of loans made, guaranteed or lien accommodated by RUS; funds necessary to make timely payments of principal and interest on loans made, guaranteed or lien accommodated by RUS; and funds on deposit in the cash construction fund-trustee account, as defined in the borrower's loan contract with RUS.
(c) A rural development investment will not be considered to be a qualified investment to the extent that the amount of such investments exceeds the borrower's maximum investment ratio.
(d) A rural development investment is an investment, extension of credit, advance, or guarantee by a borrower for a period longer than one year and for one or more of the following purposes:
(1) Improve the economic well-being of rural residents and alleviate the
problems of low income, elderly, minority, and otherwise disadvantaged rural residents;
(2) Improve the business and employment opportunities, occupational training and employment services, health care services, educational opportunities, energy utilization and availability, housing, transportation, community services, community facilities, water supplies, sewage and solid waste management systems, credit availability, and accessibility to and delivery of private and public financial resources in the maintenance and creation of jobs in rural areas;
(3) Improve state and local government management capabilities, institutions, and programs related to rural development and expand educational and training opportunities for state and local officials, particularly in small rural communities;
(4) Strengthen the family farm system; or
(5) Maintain and protect the environment and natural resources of rural areas.
(e) As used in paragraph (d) of this section, the term rural development investment shall include investments by a borrower in its own name, in affiliated companies, and in entities not affiliated with the borrower.
§ 1744.203
Establishing amount of rural development investment.
For purposes of determining whether a rural development investment is within the limits of the borrower's maximum investment ratio or the minimum total assets ratio, the amount of the qualified investment shall be the total amount of funds committed to the rural development project as of the date of determination. The total amount of funds committed to the rural development project includes:
(a) The principal amount of loans and advances made by the borrower;
(b) Guarantees made by the borrower; and
(c) A reasonable estimate of the amount the borrower is committed to provide to the rural development project in future years.
§ 1744.204
Rural development investments that do not meet the ratio requirements.
(a) Each borrower is authorized to make investments other than qualified investments only in accordance with the provisions of the borrower's mortgage with RUS. Without RUS's approval, the portion of any investment of funds or commitment to invest funds for any rural development investment that will exceed the borrower's maximum investment ratio or cause the borrower to fall below the minimum total assets ratio, must comply with the provisions of the RUS mortgage.
(b) RUS will consider, on a case-by-case basis, requests for approval of rural development investments not constituting qualified investments. RUS may condition such approval, if granted, on such requirements and restrictions as RUS may determine to be in the best interests of the Government, including, without limitation, the borrower's agreement to limit dividends or distributions of capital by an amount specified by RUS. Requests for such approvals must be submitted in writing to the relevant RUS regional office and shall include:
(1) A description of the rural development project and the type of investment to be made, such as a loan, guarantee, stock purchase or equity investment;
(2) A reasonable estimate of the amount the borrower is committed to provide to the rural development project including investments that may be required in the future; and
(3) A pro forma balance sheet and cash flow statement for the period covering the borrower's future commitments to the rural development project.
(c) In determining whether to approve a rural development investment that may cause the borrower to exceed the maximum investment ratio or to fall below the minimum total assets ratio in the future, RUS will consider annual increases to the borrower's net worth and total assets as might be reasonably anticipated from the borrower's normal operations.
§ 1744.205
Determinations and application of limitations described in § 1744.202.
(a) RUS will not include qualified investments, including qualified investments in affiliated companies, in calculating the amount of dividend or capital distributions a borrower may make under its RUS mortgage.
(b) A borrower's investment in its net plant shall not be considered a rural development investment for purposes of calculating the maximum investment ratio or the minimum total assets ratio.
(c) The borrower's net worth and total assets shall be determined using the balances of the respective accounts of the borrower as of December 31 of the last complete calendar year preceding the date on which the borrower's maximum investment ratio and minimum total assets ratio are calculated.
(d) All determinations required to be made under 7 U.S.C. 926 or this subpart will be made in accordance with the Uniform System of Accounts (USoA)(47 CFR part 32). References to specific USoA accounts shall include revised or replacement accounts.
§ 1744.206
Effect of subsequent failure to maintain ratios.
If an expenditure constitutes a qualified investment under the terms of this subpart, it does not cease to be a qualified investment merely because subsequently the borrower fails to maintain the maximum investment ratio or the minimum total assets ratio.
§ 1744.207
Investment not to jeopardize loan security.
A borrower shall not make a qualified investment or a rural development investment which jeopardizes:
(a) The security of loans made or guaranteed by RUS; or
(b) The borrower's ability to repay such loans under the terms and conditions as agreed.
§ 1744.208
Rural development investments before November 28, 1990.
All investments made by a borrower shall be subject to the provisions of this subpart, regardless of when the investment was made or whether it has been approved by RUS. Any restrictions required by RUS as a condition to approving a rural development investment before November 28, 1990, shall continue to be in effect to the extent that such investment exceeds the maximum investment ratio or causes the borrower to fall below the minimum total assets ratio.
§ 1744.209
Records.
(a) The records of borrowers, including records relating to qualified investments, shall be subject to the auditing procedures prescribed in part 1773 of this chapter. RUS reserves the right to review the records of the borrower relating to qualified investments to determine if the borrower is in compliance with this subpart.
(b) Borrowers shall report to RUS on the end-of-year operating report, RUS Form 479, the current status and principal amount of each qualified investment it has made or is committed to make pursuant to § 1744.202.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0098)
§ 1744.210
Effect of this subpart on RUS loan contract and mortgage.
(a) Except as expressly provided in this subpart, the borrower shall comply with all provisions of its loan contract with RUS, its notes issued to RUS, and the RUS mortgage, including all provisions thereof relating to investments not covered by this subpart.
(b) Nothing in this subpart shall affect any rights of supplemental lenders under the RUS mortgage, or other creditors of the borrower, to limit a borrower's investments, loans and guarantees to levels below those permitted in § 1744.202.
(c) As used in paragraph (b) of this section, supplemental lender means a creditor of the borrower, other than RUS, whose loan to the borrower is secured by the RUS mortgage.

# PART 1748—POST-LOAN POLICIES AND PROCEDURES FOR INSURED TELEPHONE LOANS [RESERVED]
Pt. 1751

# PART 1751—TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM PLANNING AND DESIGN CRITERIA, AND PROCEDURES
Subpart A [Reserved]
1751.1-1751.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—State Telecommunications Modernization Plan
Sec.
1751.100
Definitions.
1751.101
General.
1751.102
Modernization Plan Developer; eligibility.
1751.103
Loan and loan advance requirements.
1751.104
Obtaining RUS approval of a proposed Modernization Plan.
1751.105
Amending a Modernization Plan.
1751.106
Modernization Plan; requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
1921
et seq.;
Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
).

# Source:
60 FR 8174, Feb. 13, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
Subpart A [Reserved]
§§ 1751.1-1751.99
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—State Telecommunications Modernization Plan
§ 1751.100
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Bit rate.
The rate of transmission of telecommunications signals or intelligence in binary (two state) form in bits per unit time, e.g., Mb/s (megabits per second), kb/s (kilobits per second), etc.
Borrower.
Any organization that has received a RUS loan designation number and which has an outstanding telephone loan made by RUS or guaranteed by RUS, or which has a completed loan application with RUS.
Emerging technologies.
New or not fully developed methods of telecommunications.
Modernization Plan (State Telecommunications Modernization Plan).
A State plan, which has been approved by RUS, for improving the telecommunications network of those Telecommunications Providers covered by the plan. A Modernization Plan must conform to the provisions of this subpart.
New facilities.
Facilities which are wholly or partially constructed or reconstructed after a short- or medium-term requirements start date, as appropriate. This does not include connections or capacity extensions within the wired capacity of existing plant such as adding line cards to existing equipment.
Plan Developer.
The entity creating the Modernization Plan for the State, which may be the State PUC, the State legislature, or a numeric majority of the RUS Borrowers within the State. When this part refers to the PUC as the Plan Developer, this includes the State legislature.
PUC (Public Utilities Commission).
The public utilities commission, public service commission or other State body with such jurisdiction over rates, service areas or other aspects of the services and operation of providers of telecommunications services as vested in the commission or other body authority, to the extent provided by the State, to guide development of telecommunications services in the State. When this part refers to the PUC as the Plan Developer, this includes the State legislature.
RE Act.
The Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
REA.
The Rural Electrification Administration, formerly an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture and predecessor agency to RUS with respect to administering certain electric and telephone loan programs.
RELRA.
The Rural Electrification Loan Restructuring Act of 1993 (107 Stat. 1356).
RUS.
The Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178 (7 U.S.C. 6941
et seq.
)), successor to REA with respect to administering certain electric and telephone programs. See 7 CFR 1700.1.
RUS hardship loan.
A loan made by RUS under section 305(d)(1) of the RE Act bearing interest at a rate of 5 percent per year.
State.
Each of the 50 states of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the territories and insular possessions of the United States. This does not include countries in the Compact of Free Association.
Telecommunications.
The transmission or reception of voice, data, sounds, signals, pictures, writings, or signs of all kinds, by wire, fiber, radio, light, or other visual or electromagnetic means.
Telecommunications providers.
RUS Borrowers and if the Plan Developer is a PUC, such other entities providing telecommunications services as the developer of the Modernization Plan (See § 1751.101) may determine.
Wireline Service.
Telecommunica-tions service provided over telephone lines. It is characterized by a wire or wirelike connection carrying electricity or light between the subscriber and the rest of the telecommunications network. Wireline Service implies a physical connection. Although radio may form part of the circuit, it is not the major method of transmission as in radiotelephone.
[60 FR 8174, Feb. 13, 1995, as amended at 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1751.101
General.
(a) It is the policy of RUS that every State have a Modernization Plan which provides for the improvement of the State's telecommunications network.
(b) A proposed Modernization Plan must be submitted to RUS for approval. RUS will approve the proposed Modernization Plan if it conforms to the provisions of this subpart. Once obtained, RUS's approval of a Modernization Plan cannot be rescinded.
(c) The Modernization Plan shall not interfere with RUS's authority to issue such other telecommunications standards, specifications, requirements, and procurement rules as may be promulgated from time to time by RUS including, without limitation, those set forth in 7 CFR part 1755.
(d) The Modernization Plan must, at a minimum, apply to RUS Borrowers' wireline service areas. If a Modernization Plan is developed by the PUC, RUS encourages, but does not require, that the Modernization Plan's requirements apply to the rural service areas of all providers of telecommunications services in the State. A PUC's decision not to include non-RUS Borrowers will not prejudice RUS approval of that PUC's Modernization Plan. The PUC may also, at its option, extend coverage of the Modernization Plan to all service areas of all providers of telecommunications services in the State. In addition, while the requirements and goals contained in § 1751.106 apply only to wireline services, the PUC, at its discretion, may extend coverage of Modernization Plans to wireless or other communications services in the State as it deems appropriate. Borrower-developed Modernization Plans apply only to Borrowers.
§ 1751.102
Modernization Plan Developer; eligibility.
(a) Each PUC is eligible until February 13, 1996 to develop a proposed Modernization Plan and deliver it to RUS. RUS will review and consider for approval all PUC-developed Modernization Plans received by RUS within this one year period. The review and approval, if any, may occur after the one year period ends even though the PUC is no longer eligible to submit a proposed Modernization Plan.
(b) The PUC must notify all Telecommunications Providers in the State and other interested parties of its intent to develop a proposed Modernization Plan. The PUC is encouraged to consider all Telecommunications Providers' and interested parties' views and incorporate these views into the Modernization Plan. In the event that the PUC does not intend to develop a proposed Modernization Plan, RUS requests that the PUC inform RUS of this decision as soon as possible.
(c)(1) If the PUC is no longer eligible to develop a Modernization Plan or has informed RUS that it will not develop a Modernization Plan, as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, a majority of the Borrowers within the State may develop the Modernization Plan. If a majority of Borrowers develops the Modernization Plan, the following apply:
(i) All Borrowers shall be given reasonable notice of and shall be encouraged to attend and contribute to all
meetings and other proceedings relating to the development of the Modernization Plan; and
(ii) Borrowers developing a Modernization Plan are encouraged to solicit the views of other providers of telecommunications services and interested parties in the State.
(2) There is no time limit placed on Borrowers to develop a Modernization Plan. Borrowers should be aware that certain types of loans may be restricted until a Modernization Plan is approved. See § 1751.103.
§ 1751.103
Loan and loan advance requirements.
(a) For information about loan eligibility requirements in relation to the Modernization Plan, see 7 CFR part 1735. In particular, beginning February 13, 1996, RUS will make RUS hardship and RUS cost-of-money loans for facilities and other RE Act purposes in a State only if:
(1) The State has an RUS approved Modernization Plan; and
(2) The Borrower to whom the loan is to be made is participating in the Modernization Plan for the State. A Borrower is considered to be participating if, in RUS's opinion, the purposes of the loan requested by the Borrower are consistent with the Borrower achieving the requirements stated in the Modernization Plan within the timeframe stated in the Modernization Plan unless RUS has determined that achieving the requirements is not technically or economically feasible.
(b) With regard to the three types of loans discussed in paragraph (a), only loans approved after the date the State has an RUS approved Modernization Plan are subject to complying with the Modernization Plan.
(c) For loans subject to complying with the Modernization Plan, advances will not be made if, in RUS's opinion, the advances are not consistent with achieving the requirements of the Modernization Plan.
[60 FR 8174, Feb. 13, 1995, as amended at 84 FR 59923, Nov. 7, 2019]
§ 1751.104
Obtaining RUS approval of a proposed Modernization Plan.
(a) To obtain RUS approval of a proposed Modernization Plan, the Plan Developer must submit the following to RUS:
(1) A certified copy of the statute or PUC order, if the PUC is the Plan Developer, or a written request for RUS approval of the proposed Modernization Plan signed by an authorized representative of the Plan Developer, if a majority of Borrowers is the Plan Developer; and
(2) Three copies of the proposed Modernization Plan.
(b) Generally, RUS will review the proposed Modernization Plan within (30) days and either:
(1) Approve the Modernization Plan if it conforms to the provisions of this subpart in which case RUS will return a copy of the Modernization Plan with notice of approval to the Plan Developer; or
(2) Not approve the proposed Modernization Plan if it does not conform to the provisions of this subpart. In this event, RUS will return the proposed Modernization Plan to the Plan Developer with specific written comments and suggestions for modifying the proposed Modernization Plan so that it will conform to the provisions of this subpart. If the Plan Developer remains eligible, RUS will invite the Plan Developer to submit a modified proposed Modernization Plan for RUS consideration. This process can continue until the Plan Developer gains approval of a proposed Modernization Plan unless the Plan Developer is a PUC whose eligibility has expired. If a PUC's eligibility has expired, RUS will return the proposed Modernization Plan unapproved. Because RUS does not have authority to extend the term of a PUC's eligibility, RUS recommends that the PUC submit a proposed Modernization Plan at least 90 days in advance of February 13, 1996 to allow time for this process.
§ 1751.105
Amending a Modernization Plan.
(a) RUS understands that changes in standards, technology, regulation, and the economy could indicate that an RUS-approved Modernization Plan should be amended.
(b) The Plan Developer of the Modernization Plan may amend the Modernization Plan if RUS finds the proposed changes continue to conform to the provisions of this subpart.
(c) The procedure for requesting approval of an amended Modernization Plan is identical to the procedure for a proposed Modernization Plan except that there are no time limits on the eligibility of the Plan Developer.
(d) The existing Modernization Plan remains in force until RUS has approved the proposed amended Modernization Plan.
(e) RUS may from time to time revise these regulations to incorporate newer technological and economic standards that RUS believes represent more desirable goals for the future course of telecommunications services. Such revisions will be made in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act. These revisions shall not invalidate Modernization Plans approved by RUS but shall be used by RUS to determine whether to approve amendments to Modernization Plans presented for RUS approval after March 15, 1995.
§ 1751.106
Modernization Plan; requirements.
(a) The requirements for a Modernization Plan as stated in RELRA are:
(1) The plan must provide for the elimination of party line service.
(2) The plan must provide for the availability of telecommunications services for improved business, educational, and medical services.
(3) The plan must encourage and improve computer networks and information highways for subscribers in rural areas.
(4) The plan must provide for—
(i) Subscribers in rural areas to be able to receive through telephone lines—
(A) Conference calling;
(B) Video images; and
(C) Data at a rate of at least 1,000,000 bits of information per second; and
(ii) The proper routing of information to subscribers.
(5) The plan must provide for uniform deployment schedules to ensure that advanced services are deployed at the same time in rural and nonrural areas.
(6) The plan must provide for such additional requirements for service standards as may be required by the Administrator.
(b) To implement the requirements of the law described in paragraph (a) of this section, RUS has set minimum requirements as described in paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section. They are grouped into short-term and medium-term requirements. RUS has also included long-term goals which are not requirements. The Modernization Plan must meet all of the statutory requirements of RELRA and shall provide that short- and medium-term requirements be implemented as set forth in this section of the regulation except that the PUC, if it is the Plan Developer, or RUS, if a majority of Borrowers is the Plan Developer, may approve extensions of time if the required investment is not economically feasible or if the best available telecommunications technology lacks the capability to enable the Telecommunications Provider receiving the extension to comply with the Modernization Plan. Extensions shall be granted only on a case-by-case basis and generally shall not exceed a total of five years from the first such extension granted to the Telecommunications Provider.
(c) Each State's Modernization Plan shall be a strategic development proposal for modernizing the telecommunications network of the Telecommunications Providers covered by the Modernization Plan. In addition to implementing the requirements described in paragraphs (a), (i), and (j) of this section, the Modernization Plan shall include a short engineering description of the characteristics of a future telecommunications structure that would enable all Telecommunications Providers to achieve the requirements and goals of the Modernization Plan.
(d) Within the scope of § 1751.101(d), if the Plan Developer is the PUC, the Modernization Plan shall name the Telecommunications Providers in the State, in addition to Borrowers, that are covered by the Modernization Plan.
(e) The Modernization Plan must require that the design of the network
provided by Telecommunications Providers allow for the expeditious deployment and integration of such emerging technologies as may from time to time become commercially feasible.
(f) The Modernization Plan must provide guidelines to Telecommunications Providers for the development of affordable tariffs for medical links and distance learning services.
(g) With regard to the uniform deployment requirement of the law restated in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, if services cannot be deployed at the same time, only the minimum feasible interval of time shall separate availability of the services in rural and nonrural areas.
(h) The Modernization Plan must make provision for reliable powering of ordinary voice telephone service operating over those portions of the telecommunications network which are not network powered. In the event of electric utility power outages, an alternative source of power must be available to ensure reliable voice service.
(i)
Short-term requirements.
(1) The “short-term requirements start date” is the date one year after the date RUS approves the Modernization Plan for the State.
(2) All New Facilities providing Wireline Service after the short-term requirements start date, even if the construction began before such date, shall be constructed so that:
(i) Every subscriber can be provided 1-party service.
(ii) The New Facilities are suitable, as built or with additional equipment, to provide transmission and reception of data at a rate no lower than 1 Mb/sec.
(3) All switching equipment installed by a Telecommunications Provider after the short-term requirements start date shall be capable of:
(i) Providing custom calling features. At a minimum, custom calling features must include call waiting, call forwarding, abbreviated dialing, and three-way calling; and
(ii) Providing E911 service for areas served by the Telecommunication Provider when requested by the government responsible for this service.
(j)
Medium-term requirements.
(1) The “medium-term requirements start date” is the date six years after the date RUS approves the Modernization Plan for the State, or such earlier date as the Modernization Plan shall provide.
(2) All New Facilities providing Wireline Service after the medium-term requirements start date, even if the construction began before such date, shall be capable, as built or with additional equipment, of transmitting video to a subscriber. The video must be capable of depicting a reasonable representation of motion. The frame rate, resolution, and other measures of audio and video quality shall be determined by the Plan Developer.
(3) No later than the medium-term requirements start date, all switching equipment of Telecommunications Providers covered by the Modernization Plan must be capable of providing E911 service when requested by the government responsible for this service.
(4) No later than five years after the medium-term requirements start date, one-party service must be provided upon demand to any subscriber of a Telecommunications Provider covered by the Modernization Plan.
(k)
Long-term goals.
RUS suggests, but does not require, that the provisions of each Modernization Plan be consistent with the accomplishment of the following:
(1) The elimination of party line service.
(2) For subscribers that desire the service, universal availability of:
(i) Digital voice and data service (56-164 kb/sec).
(ii) Service that provides transmission and reception of high bit rate (no less than 1 Mb/sec) data.
(iii) Service that provides reception of video as described in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
Pt. 1752

# PART 1752—SERVICING OF TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROGRAMS
Sec.
1752.1
Purpose.
1752.2
Objectives.
1752.3
Definitions.
1752.4
Availability of forms, bulletins, and procedures.
1752.5
Monetary default by Borrower.
1752.6
Request for special servicing action.
1752.7
Civil rights and requirements.
1752.8-1752.10
[Reserved]
1752.11
Consent to additional, unsecured debt.
1752.12
Parity lien.
1752.13
Reamortization of or rescheduling of the debt payments.
1752.14
Deferment of principal and/or interest payments.
1752.15
Interest rate adjustments.
1752.16
Transfer of collateral and assumption of debt.
1752.17
Sale or exchange of loan collateral.
1752.18
Sale of the note.
1752.19
Debt settlement.
1752.20-1752.24
[Reserved]
1752.25
Special terms.
1752.26
No rights to special servicing actions.
1752.27
Confidentiality of borrower information.
1752.28
Interest accrual.
1752.29
Communications laws.
1752.30
Information collection and reporting requirements.
1752.31
Authorized signatories.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 1981(b)(4), 7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
and 7 U.S.C. 950aaa
et seq.

# Source:
85 FR 10558, Feb. 25, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1752.1
Purpose.
This part prescribes the policies and procedures for loan and grant servicing for financial assistance made under the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) Telecommunications Infrastructure Loan Program, Rural Broadband Program, Distance Learning and Telemedicine Program, Broadband Initiatives Program, and the Rural e-Connectivity Pilot Program (in this part collectively referred to as the “RUS Telecommunications Programs”).
§ 1752.2
Objectives.
The purpose of loan and grant servicing functions is to assist recipients to meet the objectives of loans and grants, repay loans on schedule, comply with agreements and protect RUS' financial interests. The provisions of this part will ensure recipients comply with any revised terms in repayment on loans and ensures serving actions are handled consistently by the Agency.
§ 1752.3
Definitions.
The terms and conditions provided in this section are applicable to this part only. All financial terms not defined in this section shall have the commonly-accepted meaning under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
Acceleration.
A written notice informing the Borrower that the total unpaid principal and interest is due and payable immediately.
Administrator.
Administrator of the Rural Utilities Service.
Agency.
The Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development mission area.
Assumption of debt.
Agreement by one party to legally bind itself to repay the debt of the RUS borrower.
Borrower.
Recipient of loan funding under a RUS Telecommunications Program.
Broadband system.
The telecommunications or broadband network financed with RUS loan and/or grant funding or maintained by the Borrower and contained as part of the collateral to the loan.
Cancellation.
Final discharge of debt with a release of liability.
Charge-off.
Write-off of a debt and termination of servicing activity without release of liability. A charge-off is a decision by the Agency to remove debt from Agency receivables, however, future payments may be received.
Collateral.
Means the assets, equipment and/or revenues pledged as security for the loan as defined in the loan documents.
Disposition of facility.
Relinquishing control of a facility to another entity.
Loan Documents.
All associated loan agreements, loan and security agreements, loan/grant agreements, mortgages, and promissory notes, as applicable.
Liquidation.
Satisfaction of a debt through the sale of a Borrower's assets and cancellation of liabilities.
Parity lien.
A lien having an equal lien position to another lender's lien on a Borrower's asset.
Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
An agency of the United States Department of Agriculture's Rural Development mission area.
Settlement.
Compromise, adjustment, cancellation, or charge-off of a debt owed to the Agency. The term “settlement” is used to refer to any of these
actions, whether individually or collectively.
Unliquidated obligations.
Obligated loan funds that have not been advanced.
Voluntary conveyance.
A method by which title to security is voluntarily transferred to the Federal Government.
§ 1752.4
Availability of forms, bulletins, and procedures.
Forms, bulletins, and procedures referenced in this part are available online at
https://www.rd.usda.gov/publications/regulations-guidelines.
§ 1752.5
Monetary default by Borrower.
A defaulting Borrower's primary responsibility is to expeditiously bring the delinquent account current. If a monetary default exceeds 60 days, RUS will attempt to discuss the situation with the Borrower and make the Borrower aware of options that may be available. In considering options, the prospects for providing a permanent cure without adversely affecting the risk to the Agency is the paramount objective. RUS will also work with entities that are not in monetary default but whose financial position is such that, without RUS action, a monetary default is imminent within the next 24 months, as evidenced by a financial forecast provided by the Borrower. RUS receives quarterly financial reports and annual audits from borrowers and actively monitors the borrower's Times Interest Earned Ratio (TIER), Current Ration, Debt Service Coverage Ratio, and Net Worth.
§ 1752.6
Request for special servicing action.
(a) Special servicing actions include, but are not limited to, one or more of the following:
(1) Consent to additional, unsecured debt;
(2) Parity lien;
(3) Reamortization or rescheduling of debt payments;
(4) Deferment of principal and/or interest;
(5) Interest rate adjustment;
(6) Transfer of collateral and assumption of debt;
(7) Sale or exchange of loan collateral;
(8) Sale of the note; and
(9) Debt settlement.
(b) In order for the Agency to consider one or more of the curative actions cited in paragraph (a) of this section, the Borrower must submit a written request to RUS.
(1) The written request must contain the following items:
(i) A detailed explanation of the request and why it is needed.
(ii) Most recent audited financial statements for the Borrower.
(iii) Borrower's Pro Forma 5-year financial forecast, which includes an Income Statement, Balance Sheet, and Statement of Cash Flows, 2 years of historical data, current year data and a 5-year forecast, with detailed supporting assumptions. Additionally, in order to request assistance under this paragraph (b)(1)(iii), the Borrower must make a showing that the account is delinquent and cannot be brought current within one year, or that the Borrower will become delinquent within 24 months, as demonstrated in the Pro Forma.
(iv) Existing and projected subscriber numbers and service tiers, along with pricing for each tier. Additionally, for companies receiving support from the Federal Communications Commission, a detailed forecast of the support revenue, certified by a cost consultant, must be included.
(v) Current organizational chart for the Borrower, related entities, and affiliated companies, as well as information relating to ownership interest in the Borrower and its related entities.
(vi) A complete list of all collateral and steps the Borrower is taking to preserve the collateral.
(2) The Agency may request the additional documents in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section after reviewing the Borrower's servicing request:
(i) An appraisal in order to determine the adequacy of loan security or repayment ability;
(ii) An itemized list of estimated liquidation expenses expected to be incurred along with justification for each expense;
(iii) A legal opinion regarding RUS' interests in the impacted collateral and supporting evidence, in the form of Uniform Commercial Code Statements and filed Mortgages, that RUS maintains a first lien position on all assets of the Borrower, or such collateral as mandated by the Loan Documents; and
(iv) Such other documents that may be relevant in individual cases, as determined by RUS.
(3) When submitting a request for a servicing action, the distressed Borrower must consent to the following during the request and for the duration of the servicing action:
(i)
On-site visit.
A Management Analysis Profile (MAP) visit of the Borrower's entire operation;
(ii)
RUS priority payment.
Borrowers must agree that no other creditors will be paid without RUS consent, if RUS is not receiving full principal and interest payments;
(iii)
Additional reporting and monitoring.
Throughout the term of the servicing action(s), RUS will require increased frequency and/or additional details to the reporting and monitoring required under the terms of the Loan Documents; and
(iv)
Additional controls and limitations.
RUS may require additional controls and limitations such as segregation of accounts, RUS review of expenditures, etc.
(c) False information provided by a Borrower, or by entities acting on behalf of the Borrower, will give rise to the immediate termination of any servicing action(s).
§ 1752.7
Civil rights and requirements.
(a)
Equal opportunity and nondiscrimination.
The Agency will ensure that equal opportunity and nondiscriminatory requirements are met in accordance with the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and 7 CFR part 15. In accordance with Federal civil rights law and U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) civil rights regulations and policies, the USDA, its agencies, offices, and employees, and institutions participating in or administering USDA programs are prohibited from discriminating based on race, color, national origin, religion, sex, gender identity (including gender expression), sexual orientation, disability, age, marital status, family/parental status, income derived from a public assistance program, political beliefs, or reprisal or retaliation for prior civil rights activity, in any program or activity conducted or funded by USDA (not all bases apply to all programs).
(b)
Civil rights compliance.
Recipients of Federal assistance under this part must comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Prior to determining eligibility of any servicing action under this part, the Agency will determine that the Borrower is in compliance with all civil rights requirements of the latest Civil Rights Compliance Review conducted by the Agency.
(c)
Discrimination complaints.
Persons believing they have been subjected to discrimination prohibited by this section may file a complaint personally, or by an authorized representative with USDA, Director, Office of Adjudication, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250. A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination, unless the time for filing is extended by the designated officials of USDA or the Agency.
§§ 1752.8-1752.10
[Reserved]
§ 1752.11
Consent to additional, unsecured debt.
(a) An additional, unsecured loan from another lender to the Borrower may be approved subject to the conditions set forth in this section. In order to request assistance under this section, the Borrower must make a showing that the additional debt will cure any existing or projected delinquency. Additionally, the following requirements must be met, as determined by RUS:
(1) The additional debt will not disadvantage RUS's standing or lien on any of the collateral already pledged to RUS;
(2) The additional debt will not adversely impact the continued financial viability of the Borrower or the Borrower's ability to carry out the purposes of the RUS loan;
(3) The debt is needed to resolve short-term, negative cashflow problems; and
(4) The Borrower is in good standing with the Agency or will become so with the additional debt.
(b) In the case where all assets of the Borrower are not secured by the Government's debt, the Borrower may request additional debt that is secured by collateral that is not subject to the Government's security interest.
§ 1752.12
Parity lien.
A Borrower's request for parity may be approved subject to the conditions set forth in this section. In order to request assistance under this section, the Borrower must make a showing that the amount of new debt is at least equal to the amount of the collateral being added and will cure any existing or projected delinquency. The following factors will be considered in assessing whether the request is in the Government's best interest:
(a) The value of the added assets compared with the amount of new debt to be secured;
(b) The value of the assets already pledged under the Loan Documents, and any effects of the proposed transaction on the value of those assets;
(c) The ratio of the total outstanding debt secured under the Loan Documents to the value of all assets pledged as security under the Loan Documents;
(d) The Borrower's ability to repay its debt owed to the Government;
(e) The overall financial viability of the Borrower; and
(f) That the Borrower is in good standing with the Agency or will become so with the parity lien; and
(g) Such other conditions as may be imposed by the Agency on a case-by-case basis, as determined by RUS.
§ 1752.13
Reamortization of or rescheduling of the debt payments.
A reamortization or rescheduling of debt payments may be approved subject to the conditions set forth in this section. In order to request a reamortization or rescheduling of debt payments, the Borrower must make a showing that the Borrower does not have access to other sources of capital or alternatives for resolving the delinquency, and that the reamortization or rescheduling of debt payment will cure any existing or projected delinquency. Reamortizations or rescheduling of debt will be limited to 10 years beyond the original maturity date. Additionally, the following requirements must be met, as determined by RUS:
(a) The Borrower has cooperated with RUS in exploring alternative servicing options and has acted in good faith with regard to eliminating the delinquency and complying with its loan agreements and Agency regulations;
(b) Any management deficiencies identified by RUS have been corrected or the Borrower has submitted a plan acceptable to RUS to correct any deficiencies;
(c) The Borrower has presented a budget which clearly indicates that it is able to meet the proposed payment schedule and the reamortization or rescheduling of debt payments will ensure the continued financial viability of the Borrower;
(d) The Agency will consider the useful life of the facilities along with the level of debt service payments that the Borrower can contribute when determining the appropriate term to place on any reamortized loan; and
(e) Such other conditions as may be imposed by the Agency on a case-by-case basis, as determined by RUS.
§ 1752.14
Deferment of principal and/or interest payments.
A deferment of principal and/or interest payments which will continue the original purpose of the loan may be approved subject to the conditions set forth in this section.
(a)
Principal-only deferrals.
In order to request a principal deferral, the Borrower must make a showing that at the end of the deferment period the Borrower's financial position has improved and the Borrower is able to make full principal and interest payments, curing any delinquency or projected delinquency. Deferments of principal will be limited to no more than 36 months. Additionally, the following requirements must be met, as determined by RUS:
(1) Any management deficiencies identified by RUS have been corrected or the Borrower has submitted a plan
acceptable to RUS to correct any deficiencies;
(2) The Borrower has presented a budget which clearly indicates that it is able to meet the new proposed payment schedule and after the end of the deferral period is able to resume making full principal and interest payments while maintaining a positive cashflow position;
(3) Unless authorized by prior RUS written consent, the Borrower will only use funds otherwise due and payable under the RUS Note for the benefit of the broadband system. Such expenditures include, but are not limited to, costs to complete any necessary construction of the Project, costs to connect additional subscribers, marketing and sales costs, and other such costs that are necessary to maximize the value of the broadband system; and
(4) The Borrower will comply with such other conditions as may be imposed by the Agency on a case-by-cases basis, as determined by RUS.
(b)
Principal and interest deferrals.
A principal and interest deferral shall only be approved when the Borrower has demonstrated that it is the only option for the Agency to avoid foreclosure and is in the best interest of the Government to avoid a substantial loss to the Government. Additionally, principal and interest deferrals may be approved if the Borrower and RUS have agreed to a public sale of the broadband system and such a deferral is needed to provide time to complete the sale of the broadband system. Principal and interest deferrals will be limited to no more than 24 months, unless extended by the Agency for good cause and full cooperation of the Borrower. Additionally, the following requirements must be met, as determined by RUS:
(1) The Borrower has cooperated with RUS in exploring alternative servicing options and has acted in good faith with regard to eliminating the delinquency and complying with its Loan Documents and Agency regulations;
(2) Any management deficiencies identified by RUS have been corrected or the Borrower has submitted a plan acceptable to RUS to correct any deficiencies; and
(3) Unless authorized by prior RUS written consent, the Borrower will only use funds otherwise due and payable under the RUS Note for the benefit of the broadband system. Such expenditures include, but are not limited to, costs to execute a sale of the broadband system, costs to complete any necessary construction of the Project, costs to connect additional subscribers, marketing and sales costs, and other such costs that are necessary to maximize the value of the broadband system for an eventual sale;
(4) In cases when the Borrower and RUS have agreed to a public sale of the broadband system, the Borrower agrees that within 30 days of the execution of the deferral agreement, the Borrower will develop a process and timeline for the sale of the broadband system, in form and substance satisfactory to RUS, and will continually execute on those plans in order to effectuate a public sale of the broadband system; and
(5) The Borrower will comply with such other conditions as may be imposed by the Agency on a case-by-cases basis, as determined by RUS.
§ 1752.15
Interest rate adjustments.
Interest rate reductions may be approved subject to the conditions set forth in this section. In order to request an interest rate reduction, the Borrower must make a showing that the Borrower does not have access to other sources of capital or alternatives to resolve the delinquency, and the interest rate adjustment will cure any existing or projected delinquency. Additionally, the following requirements must be met, as determined by RUS:
(a) The Borrower has cooperated with RUS in exploring alternative servicing options and has acted in good faith with regard to eliminating the delinquency and complying with its loan agreements and Agency regulations;
(b) Any management deficiencies identified by RUS have been corrected or the Borrower has submitted a plan acceptable to RUS to correct any deficiencies;
(c) The Borrower has presented a budget which clearly indicates that it is able to meet the proposed payment
schedule and the interest rate reduction will improve the financial viability of the Borrower;
(d) The Borrower has agreed to not maintain cash or cash reserves beyond what is reasonable at the time of interest rate adjustment to meet debt service, operating, and reserve requirements; and
(e) The Borrower will comply with such other conditions as may be imposed by the Agency on a case-by-cases basis, as determined by RUS.
§ 1752.16
Transfer of collateral and assumption of debt.
A transfer of collateral and assumption of debt may be approved subject to the conditions set forth in this section. In order to request assistance under this section, the Borrower must make a showing that the transfer of collateral and assumption of debt will improve the likelihood that the government will be repaid and maximize the Agency's recovery on such loans. Such actions will be subject to the following requirements:
(a) The transfer will not be disadvantageous to the Government, as determined by RUS;
(b) The Agency has concurred to plans for disposition of funds in any reserve account, including project construction bank accounts;
(c) The transferee will assume all of the Borrower's responsibilities regarding the loan(s) and will accept the original loan conditions, as well as any others that may be imposed by the Agency;
(d) There must be no lien, judgement, or similar claims of other parties against the loan collateral being transferred, and once transferred, such collateral may not be subject to the lien, judgement, or similar claims of other parties of the transferee;
(e) Title to all assets must be conveyed to the transferee; and
(f) The Borrower will comply with such other conditions as may be imposed by the Agency on a case-by-case basis, as determined by RUS.
§ 1752.17
Sale or exchange of loan collateral.
A cash sale of all or a portion of a Borrower's assets or an exchange of security property for Borrowers in a distressed situation may be approved subject to the conditions set forth in this section. In order to request assistance under this section, the Borrower must make a showing that the sale or exchange of collateral is in the best interest of the Government to avoid a substantial loss to the Government. Additionally, the following requirements must be met, as determined by RUS:
(a) If a sale of all of the assets, that the consideration is for the full amount of the debt or the present fair market value as determined by an independent appraiser that has been approved by RUS, and which addresses any conditions of the appraisal as may be imposed by RUS; and
(b) If the sale is for a portion of the assets, that the remaining property is adequate security for the loan and that the transaction will not adversely affect the Agency's security position; and provided that any proceeds remaining after paying reasonable and necessary selling expenses, as approved by the Agency in advance, are to be used for the following purposes:
(1) Repayment of the RUS debt, and other non-RUS debt if secured by a parity lien with the Agency; and/or
(2) Improvement of the broadband network or other facilities of the Borrower, including customer premise equipment and other equipment needed to upgrade the broadband network, if necessary to improve the Borrower's ability to repay the loan; and
(c) Any grant assets in the sale of collateral that were financed with Agency grants must follow the disposition rules as stated in the Loan Documents or Grant/Loan Documents.
§ 1752.18
Sale of the note.
In the event of one or more incidents of default by the Borrower that cannot or will not be cured within a reasonable period of time, the Agency may sell the note. A decision to sell the note may be made when the Agency determines that the monetary default cannot be cured through the other actions as outlined in this part, or it has been determined that it is in the best interest of the Agency. The decision to sell the note should be made as soon as
possible when one or more of the following exist:
(a) A loan is 90 days behind on any scheduled payment and the Agency and Borrower have not been able to cure the delinquency through actions such as those contained in this part;
(b) It is determined that delaying sale of the note will jeopardize full recovery on the loan; or
(c) The Borrower is uncooperative in resolving the delinquency or the Agency has reason to believe the Borrower is not acting in good faith, and it would improve the position of the Agency to sell the note immediately.
§ 1752.19
Debt settlement.
Debts will not be settled directly by the Agency if:
(a) Referral to the Office of Inspector General and/or to Office of General Counsel is contemplated or pending because of suspected criminal violation;
(b) Civil action to protect the interest of the Government is contemplated or pending;
(c) An investigation for suspected fiscal irregularity is contemplated or pending;
(d) The Borrower is uncooperative in resolving the delinquency or the Agency has reason to believe the Borrower is not acting in good faith; or
(e) The debt has been referred to the Department of Justice, such as in bankruptcy proceedings.
§§ 1752.20-1752.24
[Reserved]
§ 1752.25
Special terms.
If the Administrator determines the servicing actions in this part would not protect the Government's interest due to unique circumstances of the debtor, the Agency reserves the right to negotiate special terms to maximize the Government's recovery on the debt.
§ 1752.26
No rights to special servicing actions.
Nothing in this part should be assumed guaranteed as a right to the Borrower for any of the special servicing actions noted in this part.
§ 1752.27
Confidentiality of borrower information.
Borrowers are encouraged to identify and label any confidential and proprietary information contained in their applications. The Agency will protect confidential and proprietary information from public disclosure to the fullest extent authorized by applicable law, including the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552), the Trade Secrets Act, as amended (18 U.S.C. 1905), the Economic Espionage Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. 1831
et seq.
), and Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) (47 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
).
§ 1752.28
Interest accrual.
(a) The Agency may determine to stop accruing interest if the account has remained delinquent for a period of 18 months or more, and the Agency has determined, in its sole discretion, that it will not recover the full outstanding principal balance on the loan.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator may waive the accrual of interest on any outstanding delinquent debt, if in the sole determination of the Administrator, such waiver facilitates and maximizes the Government's recovery of the debt, such as under a voluntary foreclosure by the Borrower.
§ 1752.29
Communications laws.
Borrowers must comply with all applicable Federal and state communications laws and regulations, including, for example, the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 151
et seq.
), the Telecommunications Act of 1996, as amended (Pub. L. 104-104, 110 Stat. 56 (1996), and CALEA. For further information see
http://www.fcc.gov.
§ 1752.30
Information collection and reporting requirements.
Copies of all forms and instructions referenced in this part may be obtained from RUS. Data furnished by Borrowers will be used to determine eligibility for certain servicing actions. Furnishing the data is voluntary; however, the failure to provide data could result in a servicing action being denied or the Agency taking adverse action against the Borrower to collect
funds. The collection of information is vital to RUS to ensure compliance with the provisions of this part. The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under OMB Control Number 0572-0153.
§ 1752.31
Authorized signatories.
Only the RUS Administrator can bind the Government to the expenditure of funds. Notwithstanding anything contained in this part, however, any settlement resulting in the reduction of $500,000 or more in payment to the Government, inclusive of attorney's fees, shall be approved by the Under Secretary for Rural Development, or higher.
Pt. 1753

# PART 1753—TELECOMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION POLICIES AND PROCEDURES

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
1753.1
General.
1753.2
Definitions.
1753.3
Preconstruction review.
1753.4
Major and minor construction.
1753.5
Methods of major construction.
1753.6
Standards, specifications, and general requirements.
1753.7
Plans and specifications (P
S).
1753.8
Contract construction procedures.
1753.9
Subcontracts.
1753.10
Preconstruction conference.
1753.11
Contract amendments.
1753.12-1753.14
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Engineering Services
1753.15
General.
1753.16
Architectural services.
1753.17
Engineering services.
1753.18
Engineer and architect contract closeout certifications.
1753.19-1753.20
[Reserved]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Construction of Buildings
1753.25
General.
1753.26
Plans and specifications (P
S).
1753.27
Bidding procedure.
1753.28
Contract amendments.
1753.29
Force account procedures.
1753.30
Closeout procedures.
1753.31-1753.35
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Purchase and Installation of Central Office Equipment
1753.36
General.
1753.37
Plans and specifications (P
S).
1753.38
Procurement procedures.
1753.39
Closeout documents.
1753.40-1753.45
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Outside Plant Major Construction by Contract
1753.46
General.
1753.47
Plans and specifications (P
S).
1753.48
Procurement procedures.
1753.49
Closeout documents.
1753.50-1753.55
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Outside Plant Major Construction by Force Account
1753.56
General.
1753.57
Procedures.
1753.58
Closeout documents.
1753.59-1753.65
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Purchase and Installation of Special Equipment
1753.66
General.
1753.67
Contracts and specifications.
1753.68
Purchasing special equipment.
1753.69-1753.75
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Minor Construction
1753.76
General.
1753.77
Methods of minor construction.
1753.78
Construction by contract.
1753.79
Construction by force account.
1753.80
Minor construction procedure.
1753.81
Inspection and certification.
1753.82
Minor construction closeout.
1753.83-1753.90
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Construction Certification Program
1753.91
General.
1753.92
Policies and requirements.
1753.93
Responsibilities.
1753.94
Procedures.
1753.95
Advance of loan funds.
1753.96
Certification addendum.
1753.97-1753.99
[Reserved]

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 501, 7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.1
General.
(a) The standard RUS Telecommunications Loan Documents contain provisions regarding procurement of materials and equipment and construction of telecommunications facilities by telecommunications borrowers. This part implements certain of the provisions by setting forth requirements and procedures. Borrowers shall follow these requirements and procedures whenever using loan funds to purchase materials and equipment or perform construction, unless they have received the Administrator's written approval to do otherwise.
(b) The typical procedure followed in constructing a project financed by an RUS loan begins with the prospective borrower obtaining the necessary preloan engineering and developing a complete loan application, including an LD (See 7 CFR part 1737). If a loan is approved and all prerequisites to advance of funds are satisfied, the borrower may proceed with the purchase and installation of materials and equipment and the construction of telephone facilities pursuant to this part 1753. Subpart A describes
(1) RUS's general requirements with respect to steps to be taken after the loan is approved and before construction begins (See § 1753.3),
(2) RUS requirements with respect to methods of construction (See §§ 1753.5 and 1753.6),
(3) RUS requirements regarding sealed competitive bidding and negotiated bidding of construction contracts (See §§ 1753.6 and 1753.9),
(4) RUS standards for materials, equipment, and construction financed with loan funds (See § 1753.7), and
(5) RUS requirements for subcontracts and contract amendments covering construction financed with loan funds (See §§ 1753.10 and 1753.12).
(c) Each borrower is responsible for the construction of its facilities and for the procurement of materials and equipment that are best suited to its needs.
(d) If contracts, P
S, or other methods of procurement are subject to RUS approval pursuant to the provisions of the loan contract, as implemented by this part, RUS will review the documents or proposals submitted and notify the borrower in writing of approval or disapproval. RUS may withhold approval if, in RUS's judgment:
(1) The P
S or contract will not accomplish loan purposes.
(2) Provisions of the P
S or contract will add unnecessary expense to the project.
(3) The proposal, method of procurement, or P
S do not conform to RUS engineering criteria or construction standards, or if they present unacceptable loan security risks to RUS.
(4) The P
S or contract have been modified.
(e) The requirements and procedures covering procurement of architectural and engineering services are described in subpart B of this part.
(f) Single copies of RUS forms cited in this part are available from Administrative Services Division, Rural Utilities Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500. These RUS forms may be reproduced.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 16604, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part 1753:
Alternate—
A solicitation for a bid adjustment for a specified deviation from the Plans and Specifications.
Architect—
A person registered as an architect in the state where construction is performed, or a person on the borrower's staff, approved by RUS, authorized to perform architectural services.
Bid guarantee—
A bid bond or certified check required of contractors bidding on construction work to ensure that the bidder, if successful, will furnish a satisfactory performance bond ensuring completion of work.
Central office building—
The facility housing the central office equipment.
Central office equipment—
Switching and signaling equipment that performs call origination and completion functions for subscribers.
Closeout documents—
The documents required to certify satisfactory completion of all obligations under a contract or force account proposal.
Construction—
Purchase and installation of telecommunications facilities
in a borrower's system using loan funds.
Contract
—“Contract” means collectively the Seller's Proposal, Seller's Technical Proposal including any general or feature descriptions, equipment lists, Seller's responses to the Buyer's specifications and Performance Requirements, the Buyer's Acceptance, Articles I through X herein, the Performance Requirements, and the Contractor's Bond when required by the Buyer.
Contract construction—
Construction and installations performed using an RUS contract form. See 7 CFR 1755.93.
Engineer—
A person registered as an engineer in the state where construction is performed, or a person on the borrower's staff, approved by RUS, authorized to perform engineering services.
FAP
(force account proposal)—The borrower's detailed plans submitted to RUS for force account construction.
Force account construction
—Construction performed by the borrower's employees under an RUS approved FAP, with the borrower furnishing all materials, equipment, tools, and transportation.
FRS
—RUS Form 481 (OMB control number 0572-0023), Financial Requirement Statement.
GFR
—RUS General Field Representative.
Installation
—The act of setting up or placing in position equipment for service or use in the borrower's system.
Interim construction
—The purchase of equipment or the conduct of construction under an RUS-approved plan of interim financing. See 7 CFR part 1737.
Interim financing
—Funding for a project which RUS has acknowledged may be included in a loan, should said loan be approved, but for which RUS loan funds have not yet been made available.
Labor and materials
—All the labor and materials required for construction.
LD
(loan design)—Supporting data for a loan application. See 7 CFR part 1737.
Loan
—Any loan made or guaranteed by RUS. See 7 CFR part 1735.
Loan funds
—Funds provided by RUS through direct or guaranteed loans. See 7 CFR part 1744 subpart C.
Loan purposes
—The high level objectives of the loan are to fund the construction. These purposes are first stated in the characteristics letter described in 7 CFR 1737.80, which is sent to the applicant to offer a loan after RUS has completed its preloan studies.
Major construction
—A telecommunications plant project estimated to cost more than $250,000, including all labor and materials.
Minor construction
—A telecommunications plant project estimated to cost $250,000 or less, including all labor and materials.
Minor errors or irregularities
—A defect or variation in a seller's bid that is a matter of form and not of substance. Errors or irregularities are “minor” if they can be corrected or waived without being prejudicial to other bidders and when they do not affect the price, quantity, quality, or timeliness of construction. Unless otherwise noted, the borrower determines whether an error or irregularity is “minor.”
Modernization plan
—A State plan, which has been approved by RUS, for improving the telecommunications network of those Telecommunications Providers covered by the plan. A Modernization Plan must conform to the provisions of 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B.
Negotiation
—Any form of purchasing or contracting other than sealed competitive bidding. Any contract awarded without using the sealed competitive bidding procedure is a negotiated contract.
Outside plant
—The facilities that conduct electrical or optical signals between the central office and the subscriber's network interface or between central offices.
Performance bond
—A surety bond on a form satisfactory to RUS guaranteeing the contractor's faithful performance of a contract.
P
S
(plans and specifications)—An RUS contract form, the appropriate specifications, and such additional information and documents needed to provide a clear, accurate, and complete understanding of the installations to be made or construction to be performed.
Project
—“Project” means any equipment, including but not limited to
switching, routing, access, video, and/or transport equipment, which will be used in the delivery of voice, video, or data services, which are listed under Column 2, “Equipment,” in Schedule 1 hereto. A Project will have a single delivery and completion schedule listed under Column 7 and Column 8. The Contract may consist of one or more Projects.
Responsive bid
—A bid that complies with the requirements of the plans and specifications.
RUS
—the Rural Utilities Service, an agency of the United States Department of Agriculture established pursuant to Section 232 of the Federal Crop Insurance and Reform and Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 (Pub. L. 103-354, 108 Stat. 3178), successor to Rural Electrification Administration with respect to administering certain electric and telecommunications program. See 7 CFR 1700.1.
Sealed competitive bidding
—A method of contracting that employs sealed competitive bids, public opening of bids, and award of the contract to the bidder submitting the lowest responsive bid. See § 1753.8.
Single source negotiation
—Negotiating with a single source (contractor or seller).
Special equipment
—Equipment used primarily for the transmission and enhancement of voice, data, carrier, radio and light signals, and other equipment and facilities, including incidental cable and other transmission equipment.
Subcontract
—A secondary contract undertaking some of the obligations of a primary contract. Under all RUS forms of contract, the primary contractor bears full responsibility for the performance of the subcontractor.
Unbalanced bid
—A bid which contains pricing for a task or material that is significantly higher or lower than pricing for similar tasks or materials.
Work order construction
—Minor construction performed by the borrower's employees, pursuant to its work order procedure, with the borrower furnishing all materials, equipment, tools, and transportation.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66259, Dec. 20, 1993; 59 FR 17464, Apr. 13, 1994; 64 FR 16604, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 71582, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.3
Preconstruction review.
(a) Advance RUS approval must be obtained for any construction that does not conform to RUS standards and specifications or the approved LD, such as construction of extensions to serve subscribers in areas not included in the LD (See 7 CFR part 1737). For loans approved after RUS approval of the modernization plan in the borrower's state, the proposed construction must conform to the modernization plan, as required by 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B. To obtain approval, the borrower shall submit a written proposal containing:
(1) A description of the work, indicating any deviations from the approved LD or RUS standards and specifications.
(2) An engineering study covering the deviations if there are changes in the design.
(3) A cost estimate for labor, engineering, materials, and overheads.
(4) If applicable, a brief analysis from the borrower demonstrating that the proposed changes conform to the modernization plan.
(b) Before any construction, including interim construction, is initiated, the GFR shall meet with the borrower to review the LD to determine if any significant changes have occurred since its approval by RUS. It is important that the design and construction of the proposed facilities be based on the latest information on subscriber needs.
(c) If the borrower and GFR agree that there have been no significant changes, the borrower may proceed.
(d) If the GFR finds that the LD is no longer satisfactory, the borrower shall prepare an amendment to the LD incorporating the necessary revisions (See 7 CFR part 1737). The borrower must obtain RUS approval of the LD
amendment before proceeding with engineering activities on any project to be financed with loan funds.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66259, Dec. 20, 1993; 59 FR 17464, Apr. 13, 1994; 64 FR 16604, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.4
Major and minor construction.
RUS's general requirements for construction are set forth in this subpart A. Additional requirements and procedures for different types of major construction are presented in subparts D, E, F, G, and H (OMB control number 0572-0062). The requirements and procedures for minor construction are presented in subpart I. Borrowers may, at their option, follow the procedures in subparts D, E, F, G, and H for any minor construction.
§ 1753.5
Methods of major construction.
(a) All major construction projects financed by loan funds shall be performed pursuant to a contract approved by RUS and awarded through sealed competitive bidding unless
(1) A specific exception is granted in subparts D, E, F, G, or H, or
(2) Written RUS approval is obtained.
(b)
Contract construction.
(1) RUS approval of the borrower's award of the contract is not required if the contractor is selected through sealed competitive bidding, the bid amount is $500,000 or less and the contractor is not a company or organization affiliated with the borrower. This does not relieve the borrower of the requirements of bidding or bid evaluation set contained in this part.
(2) RUS approval of the borrower's award of the contract is required for all other competitively-bid and for negotiated major construction contracts.
(3) The requirements and procedures for sealed competitive bidding are presented in § 1753.8(a). The requirements and procedures for negotiation are presented in § 1753.8(b).
(c)
Force account construction.
To obtain RUS approval of the force account method for major construction the borrower must demonstrate its ability to perform major construction based on past force account construction which fully met RUS construction standards and was as cost-effective as contract construction in the area. If the borrower has no record of past performance to support its request, but has adequate equipment and experienced personnel to perform the proposed construction, RUS may approve a small trial project. The requirements and procedures for force account construction are presented in subparts D, E, G, and H.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43716, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16604, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.6
Standards, specifications, and general requirements.
(a) Materials, equipment, and construction financed with loan funds must meet the standards and specifications established by RUS in 7 CFR 1755.97 which lists the RUS Bulletins containing the standards and specifications for telephone facilities.
(b) The borrower may use RUS loan funds to finance nonstandard construction materials or equipment only if approved by RUS in writing prior to purchase or commencement of construction.
(c) Only new materials and equipment may be financed with loan funds, unless otherwise approved by RUS. The materials and equipment must be year 2000 compliant, as defined in 7 CFR 1735.22(e).
(d) All materials and equipment financed with loan funds are subject to the “Buy American” provision (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
as amended in 1938).
(e) All software, software systems, and firmware financed with loan funds must be year 2000 compliant, as defined in 7 CFR 1732.22(e).
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43716, Aug. 25, 1994; 63 FR 45679, Aug. 27, 1998; 64 FR 16605, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 71582, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.7
Plans and specifications (P
S).
(a) The P
S consist of an RUS contract form, the appropriate RUS specifications, and such additional information and documents needed to provide a
clear, accurate, and complete understanding of what is included in the construction.
(b) 7 CFR 1755.93 provides a list of the RUS forms of telecommunications contracts for use in purchasing telephone materials and equipment and for constructing telephone facilities with loan funds. Also listed is the source where copies may be obtained.
(c) The appropriate standards and specifications listed in 7 CFR part 1755 shall be included in the P
S. When RUS has not prepared standards and specifications, the borrower shall use all appropriate project specific engineering requirements and specifications prepared by the borrower's engineer. The specifications prepared by the borrower's engineer and based on appropriate project specific engineering requirements shall be subject to review and approval by RUS for all major construction, including major projects which would be exempted from RUS approval under paragraph (e) of this section.
(d) The P
S shall be based on the LD approved by RUS. Section 1753.3 presents the requirements and procedures for obtaining RUS approval for construction that does not conform to the LD approved by RUS.
(e) RUS approval of P
S is required for construction that is estimated to cost over $500,000 or 25% of the total loan, whichever is less, and for all building construction. P
S for all other construction are exempt from RUS review and approval except that, at the time of contract approval, RUS will examine the plans and specifications for conformity with the loan purposes and to determine that they comply with other requirements of this part.
(f) RUS will approve only contracts that will provide for at least the following requirements.
(1)
Equal employment opportunity provision.
If this provision is not already in the contract, RUS Contract Form 270, Equal Opportunity Addendum, shall be attached and made a part of the contract.
(2)
Liquidated damages provision.
(i) If not covered by the contract, an appropriate liquidated damages provision, in a form prescribed by RUS, shall be included and made a part of the contract
(ii) The liquidated damages must be based upon the borrower's best estimate of the damages it would incur as a result of the contractor's default.
(3)
Insurance and bond requirements.
(i) The insurance provision shall provide coverage as required by 7 CFR 1788.
(ii) A contractor's bond shall be furnished as required by 7 CFR part 1788.
(iii) The borrower is responsible for ensuring that its contractor complies with the insurance and bond requirements.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 17679, Apr. 14, 1994; 64 FR 16605, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 71582, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.8
Contract construction procedures.
(a)
Sealed, competitive bidding
—(1)
Bid opening date.
The borrower is responsible for scheduling the bid opening date. If RUS review of P
S is required by § 1753.7, the borrower shall wait until approval has been received before setting the date. In setting the date, sufficient time should be allowed for the bidders to examine the project site and prepare their bids. The borrower shall notify GFR of the bid date and invite GFR to attend.
(2)
Invitations to bid.
The borrower is responsible for sending invitations to prospective bidders and taking any other action necessary to procure full, free, and competitive bidding. The borrower should obtain from its engineer a list of prospective bidders and a recommendation indicating which bidders are considered qualified. The minimum number of contractors to be invited to bid on contracts for various types of facilities is set forth in subparts D, E, F, or H.
(3)
Qualifying bidders.
If the notice and instructions to bidders require that bidders show evidence of meeting certain requirements, the borrower shall qualify bidders before issuing P
S to them. Procedures for qualifying bidders are contained in subparts D, E, and F.
(4)
Receipt of bids.
The borrower shall write on the outside envelope of any bid or bid amendment, the date and
time the bid was received. Any bid received from an unqualified bidder or after the time specified for opening shall be returned promptly to the bidder unopened.
(5)
Procedure when fewer than three bids are received.
If fewer than three valid bids are received, the borrower shall consult with RUS to determine whether the bids are to be opened or returned unopened. RUS requires that the project be rebid if fewer than three bids are received and RUS determines that one or more other bidders with an express interest in bidding is available and could meet the bid requirements, but was not invited to bid. RUS shall also require rebidding if it is found that qualified bidders were discouraged from bidding by unreasonable bid requirements (such as late notification to bidders) or if the borrower fails to follow the bid procedure.
(6)
Conduct of bid openings.
The borrower shall conduct bid openings open to the public. The borrower should be able to contact its attorney for immediate consultation.
(7)
Review of bids.
The borrower shall review all bids prior to reading any bid results to determine that:
(i) The bid guarantees are adequate.
(ii) All minor errors or irregularities made through inadvertence are corrected or waived. Failing this, the bid shall be rejected as nonresponsive.
(iii) In the event of non-minor errors or irregularities, the bid is rejected and the bid price not disclosed.
(8)
Reading of bids.
Bid prices shall not be read until the borrower has reviewed all bids to determine if there are any minor errors or irregularities that may affect the recommendation as to award. These shall be made public at the same time the bid price is announced.
(9)
Evaluating bids.
The borrower shall consider the same alternates in all bids in determining the low bid.
(10)
Rejection.
The borrower shall reject:
(i) All bids if quoted prices are not acceptable or if the specifications were ambiguous and resulted in bidders having different interpretations of the requirements.
(ii) Any bid that is not responsive, or is incomplete, or submitted by an unqualified bidder, or unbalanced between labor and materials or other respects.
(11)
Award of contract.
(i) The borrower shall obtain from the engineer the determination of the lowest responsive bid, a tabulation of all bids and the engineer's recommendation for award of the contract. Contract award is subject to RUS approval if either the cost of the project is over $500,000 or the contract is with an organization affiliated with the borrower. Contract award of all other projects is not subject to RUS approval.
(ii) If an award is made, the borrower shall award the contract to the lowest responsive bidder. The borrower may award the contract immediately upon determination of the lowest responsive bidder if the following conditions are met:
(A) The project is included in an approved loan and adequate funds were budgeted in the loan and are available.
(B) All applicable RUS procedures were followed, including those in the Notice and Instructions to Bid in the standard forms of contract.
(iii) If RUS approval of the award of contract is required under this paragraph (a)(11), the borrower shall send to RUS for consideration of approval of the award:
(A) Two copies of the low bid.
(B) The engineer's recommendation and the tabulation of all bids.
(C) Evidence of acceptance of the low bid by the borrower, such as:
(
1
) Certified copy of board resolution or
(
2
) letter or telegram to RUS signed by a properly authorized corporate official.
(iv) If RUS approval of the award of contract is not required under this paragraph (a)(11), the borrower shall keep a file available for inspection by RUS. The file shall be kept for at least two years and shall include:
(A) One copy of all received bids.
(B) The engineer's recommendation and tabulation of all bids including “Buy American” evaluations, if any, and all other evaluations required by law.
(C) Evidence of acceptance of the low bid by the borrower, such as a copy of
the board resolution certified by the Secretary of the board.
(12)
Execution of contract.
(i) The borrower shall submit to RUS three original counterparts of the contract executed by the contractor and borrower.
(ii) If RUS approves the contract, it shall return one copy to the borrower and send one copy to the contractor.
(b)
Negotiated construction contracts.
(1) For the construction of certain facilities the borrower may negotiate a contract rather than solicit sealed competitive bids. Refer to the appropriate subparts E, F, or H for specific requirements and procedures.
(2) For negotiated purchases, borrowers shall use RUS contract forms, standards, and specifications.
(3) For all contract forms except RUS Form 773:
(i) After a satisfactory negotiated proposal has been obtained, the borrower shall submit it to RUS for approval, along with the engineer's recommendation, and evidence of acceptance by the borrower.
(ii) If RUS approves the negotiated proposal, the borrower shall submit three copies of the contract, executed by the contractor and borrower, to RUS for approval.
(iii) If RUS approves the contract, RUS shall return one copy of the contract to the borrower and one copy to the contractor.
(4) For RUS Form 773, the borrower is responsible for negotiating a satisfactory proposal, executing contracts, and closing the contract. See subparts F and I of this part for requirements for major and minor construction, respectively, on Form 773.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43716, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16605, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.9
Subcontracts.
(a) RUS construction contract Forms 257, 395, and 515, contain provisions for subcontracting. Reference should be made to the individual contracts for the amounts and conditions under which a contractor may subcontract work under the contract.
(b) RUS Form 282, Subcontract, shall be used for subcontracts under construction and installation contracts.
(1) Minor modifications or additions may be made to the subcontract form, as long as they do not change the intent of the primary contract. Any alterations to the subcontract shall be initialed and dated by the persons executing the subcontract.
(2) Subcontracts shall be prepared in quadruplicate and all copies executed by the contractor and subcontractor and consented to by the borrower and surety, if any.
(3) Four executed copies of the subcontract shall be forwarded to RUS for approval. Upon approval, one copy each will be sent to the borrower, contractor, and subcontractor.
(c) As stated in contract Forms 257, 395, and 515, the contractor shall bear full responsibility for the acts and omissions of the subcontractor and is not relieved of any obligations to the borrower and to the Government under the contract.
(d) As stated in the contract, construction shall not be performed by the subcontractor before approval of the subcontract by RUS.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43716, Aug. 25, 1994; 81 FR 71582, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.10
Preconstruction conference.
The borrower shall conduct a conference, attended by the borrower, contractor, and resident engineer prior to the beginning of construction to provide an opportunity to discuss and agree on responsibilities, procedures, practices, and methods before the work begins. The borrower shall provide each participant with a copy of the conference results. The GFR shall be invited to attend this conference.
§ 1753.11
Contract amendments.
(a) The borrower must obtain RUS approval before execution of any amendment to a contract if
(1) The amendment alters the terms and conditions of the contract or changes the scope of the project covered by the contract regardless of the amount of the contract before amendment,
(2) The amendment increases the amount to be paid under the contract by 20% or more, or
(3) The amendment causes an unbonded contract to require a contractor's performance bond. This would occur when a contract that is executed in an amount below that requiring a performance bond by 7 CFR part 1788, subpart C, is amended to an amount above that amount.
(b) Advance RUS approval to execute other contract amendments is not required. These amendments may be submitted to RUS at any time prior to closeout. If a borrower wishes to receive an advance of funds based on an amended contract amount (i.e., amendments that increase a contract by less than 20%), the borrower may initiate an increase in the amount approved for advance by submitting three copies of the amendment to RUS for approval.
(c) For each amendment executed, the borrower shall make certain that:
(1) The contractor's bond covers the additional work to be performed. If the amendment by itself (or together with preceding amendments) increases the original contract price by 20% or more, a bond extension will be required to bring the penal sum of the bond to the total amended contract price.
(2) If an amendment covers construction in a county or state not included in the original contract, the borrower and contractor are licensed to do business in that location.
(d) Upon execution of any amendment that causes the amended contract amount to exceed the original contract amount by 20% or more, three copies of the amendment shall be submitted to RUS for approval.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 16605, Apr. 6, 1999]
§§ 1753.12-1753.14
[Reserved]

# Subpart B—Engineering Services

# Source:
54 FR 3984, Jan. 27, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.15
General.
(a)(1) The standard RUS loan documents contain provisions regarding engineering and architectural services performed by or for RUS telecommunications borrowers. This part implements certain of the provisions by setting forth the requirements and procedures to be followed by borrowers in selecting architects and engineers and obtaining architectural and engineering services by contract or by force account.
(2) Borrowers shall obtain architectural and engineering services only from persons or firms which are not affiliated with, and have not represented, a contractor, vendor or manufacturer who may provide labor, materials, or equipment to the borrower under any current loan.
(3) Preloan architectural and engineering services may be provided by qualified personnel on the borrower's staff or by consultants. Neither the selection of a preloan architect or engineer by a borrower, nor the contractual arrangements with them, requires RUS approval.
(4) Postloan architectural and engineering services shall be obtained by borrowers from registered architects and engineers licensed in the State in which the facilities will be located, except where RUS has approved the borrower to provide these services by the force account method. When the extent of the proposed major or minor construction is such that the postloan engineering involved is within the capabilities of employees on the borrower's staff, the borrower may request RUS approval to provide such services. This method of providing engineering services is referred to as force account engineering. Refer to § 1753.17(c).
(5)(i) For major construction, services provided by architects and engineers not on the borrower's staff must be provided under Form 220, Architectural Service Contract, or Form 217, Postloan Engineering Service Contract—Telecommunications. These contracts require RUS approval.
(ii) For minor construction, borrowers may use the contracts in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section for postloan architectural or engineering services or any other form of contract, such as Form 245, Engineering Service Contract, Special Services—Telephone. RUS approval of contracts for postloan architectural or engineering services associated with minor construction,
except for buildings covered in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, is not required.
(6) For buildings to be constructed with RUS funds, postloan architectural or engineering services shall be obtained if (1) the construction cost exceeds $50,000 (prefab buildings using manufacturer's specifications approved by RUS are exempt from this requirement) or (2) soil or seismic conditions require special design considerations.
(b) For the purpose of this subpart B:
(1)
Contract
—The services contract between the borrower and its architect or engineer.
(2)
Force Account Engineering
—Any preloan or postloan engineering services performed by the borrower's staff.
(3)
Postloan engineering services
—The design, procurement, and inspection of construction to accomplish the objectives of a loan as stated in a LD approved by RUS.
(4)
Preloan engineering services
—The planning and design work performed in preparing a LD. This consists of helping the borrower determine the objectives for a loan, including consideration of RUS's requirements relating to the modernization plan, selecting the most effective and efficient methods of meeting loan objectives, and preparing the LD which describes the objectives and presents the method selected to meet them.
(c) Single copies of RUS forms and publications cited in this part are available free from Administrative Services Division, Rural Utilities Service, United States Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500. These forms and publications may be reproduced.
(d)(1) All outside architects and engineers employed by RUS telephone borrowers shall have insurance coverage as required by 7 CFR part 1788.
(2) Borrowers shall ensure that their architects and engineers comply with the insurance requirements of their contracts. See 7 CFR 1788.54.
(e)(1) Borrowers shall make prompt payments to architects and engineers as required by the contract.
(2) RUS shall not make loan funds available for late payment interest charges.
[54 FR 3984, Jan. 27, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 66259, Dec. 20, 1993; 59 FR 17464, Apr. 13, 1994; 64 FR 16605, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.16
Architectural services.
(a) The borrower shall be responsible for selecting an architect to perform the architectural services required in the design and construction of buildings.
(b)(1) The borrower shall use Form 220 when contracting for architectural services for major construction, except that the borrower may use either Form 220 or Form 217 if the building is an unattended central office building.
(2) The borrower and the architect negotiate the fees for services under Form 220.
(3) Reasonable modifications or additions to the terms and provisions in Form 220 may be made, subject to RUS approval, to obtain the specific services needed for a building.
(4)(i) Three copies of Form 220, executed by the borrower and the architect, shall be sent to GFR to be forwarded to RUS for approval. RUS will review the contract terms and conditions. RUS will not approve the contract if, in RUS's judgment:
(A) Unacceptable modifications have been made to the contract form.
(B) The contract will not accomplish loan purposes.
(C) The architectural service fees are unreasonable.
(D) The contract presents unacceptable loan security risk to RUS.
(ii) If RUS approves the contract, RUS will send one copy to the architect and one copy to the borrower.
(5) Loan funds will not be available to pay for the preliminary architectural services if a loan is not made for the construction project, or if the construction project is abandoned.
(6) Subpart D of 7 CFR part 1753 sets forth the requirements and procedures to be followed by borrowers constructing central office, warehouse, and garage buildings with RUS loan funds.
(c)(1) RUS telephone borrowers shall obtain two copies of a completed Form
284, Final Statement of Architect's Fees, when all services and obligations required under the architectural services contract have been completed. All fees shown on the statement shall be supported by detailed information where appropriate. For example: out-of-pocket expense, cost plus, and per diem types of compensation shall be listed separately with labor, transportation, etc., itemized for each service involving these types of compensation.
(2) If Form 284 and supporting data are satisfactory, the borrower shall approve the statement, sign both copies, and send one copy to the GFR.
(3) Upon approval of Form 284 by RUS, the borrower shall promptly make final payment to the architect.
[54 FR 3984, Jan. 27, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16606, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.17
Engineering services.
(a)(1) All engineering services required by a borrower to support its application for a loan shall be rendered by a qualified engineer selected by the borrower or by qualified employees on the borrower's staff. The selection of the preloan engineer, the form of preloan engineering service contract, and the contract itself, are not subject to RUS approval. Borrowers, however, should discuss their proposed method of obtaining preloan engineering services with the GFR before proceeding with any arrangements.
(2) Form 835, Preloan Engineering Service Contract, Telephone System Design, is a suggested form of preloan engineering service contract. While use of this form of contract is not required, it will be helpful in determining the tasks to be performed. Any form of contract used shall specify that preloan engineering services conform to RUS requirements for preloan studies. See subpart D of 7 CFR part 1737.
(b)(1)
Major construction.
(i) Three copies of Form 217 executed by the borrower and the engineer shall be sent to the GFR to forward to RUS for approval. The engineer's estimate of the engineering fees, on Form 506, shall be included.
(ii) RUS will review the contract terms and conditions. RUS will not approve the contract if, in RUS's judgement:
(A) Unacceptable modifications have been made to the contract form.
(B) The contract will not accomplish loan purposes.
(C) The engineering service fees are unreasonable.
(D) The contract presents unacceptable loan security risk to RUS.
(E) The consulting engineering firm is affiliated with or has represented a contractor, vendor, or manufacturer who may provide labor, materials, or equipment to the borrower under any current loan.
(2)
Minor construction.
When a borrower contracts for an engineering firm to inspect and certify construction accounted for under the work order procedure or the Contract for Miscellaneous Construction Work and Maintenance Services, Form 773 (See 7 CFR part 1753 subpart I), the borrower shall require that the certification be signed by a licensed engineer.
(c)(1)
Major construction.
When the extent and complexity of the proposed construction is such that the engineering involved is within the capabilities of employees on the borrower's staff, borrowers may request RUS approval to provide such services.
(i) The request shall include:
(A) A description of services to be performed.
(B) The name and qualifications of the employee to be in charge. RUS requires this employee to meet the State experience requirements for registered engineers. In the absence of specific State experience requirements, the employee must have at least eight years experience in the design and construction of telecommunication facilities, with at least two years of the work experience at a supervisory level. RUS does not require professional registration of this employee, but this does not relieve the borrower from compliance with applicable State registration requirements which may require a licensed individual to perform such services.
(C) The names, qualifications, and responsibilities of other principal employees who will be associated with providing the engineering services.
(D) A letter signed by an authorized representative of the borrower authorizing the engineering services to be performed by force account and certifying the information supporting the request.
(ii) RUS shall notify the borrower by letter of approval or disapproval to perform force account engineering. The letter shall set forth any conditions associated with an approval or the reasons for disapproval.
(iii) RUS's approval of force account engineering for major construction shall be only for the specific projects named in the notice of approval.
(2)
Minor construction.
(i) When the borrower proposes to perform the inspection and certification of minor construction, the following shall be submitted to the RUS:
(A) A copy of the employee's qualifications and experience record, unless previously submitted. RUS requires a minimum of four years of construction and inspection experience. The employee cannot be engaged in the actual construction.
(B) A letter signed by an authorized representative of the borrower authorizing the performance of these services by the employee, subject to RUS approval, and certifying the supporting information.
(ii) RUS shall notify the borrower by letter of approval or disapproval of the borrower's staff employee to perform the inspection and certification of construction. The approval shall be limited to the employee's area of expertise.
(d)(1) Subject to the requirements of this part and other applicable regulations, RUS will make loan funds available for the architectural and engineering services up to the amounts included in the approved loan.
(2) Advance of funds shall be requested on an FRS as set forth in 7 CFR part 1744 subpart C.
(e) The borrower shall obtain status of contract and force account proposal reports from the engineer once each month. The report shall show for each contract or FAP the approved contract or FAP amount, the date of approval, the scheduled date construction was to begin and the actual date construction began, the scheduled completion date, the estimated or actual completion date, the estimated or actual date of submission of closeout documents, and an explanation of delays or other pertinent data relative to progress of the project. One copy of this report shall be submitted to the GFR.
(f)(1) Upon completion of all services required under the engineering service contract Form 217, the borrower shall obtain from the engineer four copies of the Final Statement of Engineering Fee, Form 506.
(2) If the statement is satisfactory, the borrower shall sign all copies and send three to the GFR.
(3) After RUS approval of Form 506, one copy shall be sent to the borrower and one copy sent to the engineer.
(4) The borrower shall promptly make final payment to the engineer.
[54 FR 3984, Jan. 27, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16606, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.18
Engineer and architect contract closeout certifications.
A certification of completion and inspection of construction signed by the borrower and countersigned in accordance with accepted professional engineering and architectural practice, by the engineer or architect, shall be prepared as evidence of completion of a major construction project. This certification shall make reference to the contract number and contract amount, and shall include the following:
(a) A statement that the construction is complete and was done in accordance with the RUS approved system design or layout or subsequent RUS approved changes.
(b) A statement that the construction was for loan purposes.
(c) A statement that construction used was in accordance with specifications published by RUS covering the construction which were in effect when the contract was executed, or in the absence of such specifications, that it meets other applicable specifications and standards and that it meets all applicable national and local code requirements as to strength and safety.
(d) A statement that the construction complies with the “Buy American” provision (7 U.S.C. 903 note) of
the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
).
(e) A statement that all necessary approvals have been obtained from regulatory bodies and other entities with jurisdiction over the project.
(f) A statement that all closeout documents required by this part have been examined and found complete such that the Contractor has fulfilled all obligations under the contract except for warranty coverage.
(g) A statement that the engineer or architect is not affiliated with and does not represent the contractor, vendor, or manufacturer who is a participant in the contract.
[64 FR 16606, Apr. 6, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 71582, Oct. 18, 2016]
§§ 1753.19-1753.20
[Reserved]
Subpart C [Reserved]

# Subpart D—Construction of Buildings

# Source:
54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.25
General.
(a) This subpart implements and explains the provisions of the Loan Documents setting forth the requirements and the procedures to be followed by borrowers in constructing headquarters, commercial office, central office, warehouse, and garage buildings with loan funds.
(b) Terms used in this subpart are defined in § 1753.2.
(c) All plans and specifications for buildings to be constructed with loan funds are subject to the approval of RUS. In addition, preliminary plans and specifications for headquarters and commercial office buildings to be constructed with loan funds are subject to RUS approval.
(d) RUS Form 257, Contract to Construct Buildings, shall be used for the construction of all headquarters, commercial office, central office, warehouse, and garage buildings with loan funds. Refer to § 1753.26 for further instructions.
(e) The borrower shall use the sealed competitive bid procedure for all building construction, except for:
(1) Minor construction using subpart I procedures.
(2) Major construction, where the borrower has received advanced approval to perform the construction by force account.
Refer to §§ 1753.27 and 1753.29 for further instructions.
(f) The site location, design, and construction of the facilities must comply with all applicable laws and regulations, including:
(1) Pub. L. 90-480 (42 U.S.C. 4151) (Access to Physically Handicapped), which requires certain buildings financed with Federal funds be designed and constructed to be accessible to the physically handicapped.
(2) Pub. L. 91-596 (29 U.S.C. 651) the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970. OSHA issues rules and regulations covering occupational safety and health standards for buildings. These regulations are codified in 29 CFR chapter XVII.
(3) 7 CFR part 1970.
(4) 7 CFR part 1792, subpart C, which requires that the building design comply with applicable seismic design criteria. Prior to the design of buildings, borrowers shall submit to RUS a written acknowledgement from the architect or engineer that the design will comply.
(g) All construction pertaining to the building structure shall be performed under one contract. Separate contracts may be used for planting shrubbery, surfacing of roads and parking areas, and other identifiable parts of the project not pertaining to the building structure. These separate contracts shall also be subject to RUS approval as described in this subpart D.
(h) The borrower is responsible for submitting evidence, satisfactory to RUS, establishing that clear title to the building site has been obtained. RUS will not approve the construction contract until it has given title clearance.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16606, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 11028, Mar. 2, 2016]
§ 1753.26
Plans and specifications (P
S).
(a) For headquarters and commercial office buildings only, the borrower shall prepare preliminary P
S showing the floor plan and general architectural details of the building to be constructed using loan funds. In particular, the preliminary P
S shall address the requirements of § 1753.25(f) and the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4601
et seq.
). The P
S shall be submitted to the GFR and are subject to RUS approval.
(b) The borrower shall prepare P
S for construction of all buildings. Each set of P
S shall include:
(1) RUS Contract Form 257, Contract to Construct Buildings, completed to the extent explained in (c) of this section.
(2) Complete and detailed specifications covering materials and workmanship.
(3) A detailed building plan. Where the building is to house electronic apparatus, the detailed plan or specifications shall include the equipment environmental requirements and special equipment required.
(4) A site plan for each building showing the building location and giving the legal description of the site. Sufficient information must be provided for the site so that it can be identified as the same property on which title opinion was submitted to RUS. The legal description shall be typed on the site plan. The borrower shall also furnish topographical information and a description of any proposed site development work and show proposed connections for public utilities.
(c) RUS Contract Form 257 shall be completed as follows:
(1)
List of names or kinds of buildings and locations
—Site plan and specifications must be identified with the appropriate building.
(2)
Alternates
—The borrower shall keep the number of alternates to a minimum. Items for which alternates are to be taken shall be fully described on a separate sheet in the specifications and the details shown on the plans, when necessary, and identified by the alternate number. The Notice and Instructions to Bidders shall explain how bids will be evaluated with respect to alternates.
(3)
Time for construction
—A reasonable time for completion of construction, considering local conditions, shall be determined by the borrower and inserted in the space provided. Too short a construction period may discourage bidders or influence their bids. Completion of the building, where central office equipment is involved, shall be coordinated with delivery of the equipment. The time of completion shall allow adequate drying time before the central office equipment is stored or installed in the building.
(d) The plans and specifications shall show the identification and date of the model code used for seismic safety design considerations, and the seismic factor used. See 7 CFR part 1792, subpart C.
(e) Two sets of the building plans and specifications shall be prepared and submitted to the GFR.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16606, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.27
Bidding procedure.
Upon RUS approval of the P
S, the borrower shall proceed as follows:
(a) Bid documents shall consist of a copy of the approved P
S, including RUS Contract Form 257, completed in accordance with the instructions on the cover of the form and the plot plans showing site development details. For contracts in amounts of $100,000 or less, the borrower must specify in the Notice and Instructions to Bidders whether the contractor will be required to furnish a performance bond or a builder's risk policy.
(b) The borrower shall determine that title to the real estate has been approved by RUS before the invitations to bid are released.
(c) The borrower shall set the time for opening of bids, allowing ample time for bidders to prepare bids.
(d) The borrower shall solicit bids as set forth in § 1753.8(a)(2). Invitations shall be sent to at least six prospective bidders.
(e) The borrower shall conduct bid opening and award of contract in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 1753.8(a).
§ 1753.28
Contract amendments.
(a) The general requirements for contract amendments are set forth in § 1753.11.
(b) The borrower shall prepare construction contract amendments on RUS Contract Form 238, Construction or Equipment Contract Amendments. See 7 CFR 1755.93 to obtain copies of Form 238.
§ 1753.29
Force account procedures.
(a) The borrower must obtain RUS approval of the force account method of construction of buildings in advance in order to obtain RUS financing.
(b) The borrower shall prepare the P
S in accordance with § 1753.26.
(c) Prior to any construction activity or the purchase of materials or equipment, the borrower shall submit the FAP in duplicate to RUS, accompanied by a resolution indicating approval of the board of directors of the borrower or a letter signed by an authorized corporate official. The proposal shall include:
(1) A Copy of the P
S.
(2) An itemized list of all items of materials required for construction.
(3) A construction schedule showing the estimated construction period for each major construction item.
(4) An estimate of the material and labor and other costs for any construction item not provided for in the approved loan.
(d) Force Account construction to be financed with loan funds shall not be started until RUS approval has been received by the borrower.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994]
§ 1753.30
Closeout procedures.
(a) This section outlines the procedure to be followed to close out RUS Contract Form 257 (Contract to Construct Buildings) and construction or rehabilitation performed by the force account method.
(b)
RUS Form 257 Contract.
(1) Whenever changes were made in the plans and specifications which did not require immediate submission to RUS of an amendment under § 1753.11, a final contract amendment showing the changes shall be prepared.
(2) Upon completion of the project, the borrower shall obtain certifications from the architect or engineer that the project and all required documentation are satisfactory and complete. The requirements for this certification are contained in § 1753.18.
(3) The engineer's or architect's contract closeout certification and the final amendment shall be submitted to RUS as a basis for the final advance of funds for the contract.
(4) After all required RUS approvals are obtained, final payment is made in accordance with article III of RUS Form 257 once the borrower has received the architect's or engineer's certifications regarding satisfactory completion of the project.
(c) Upon completion of force account construction, the borrower shall:
(1) Arrange with its architect or engineer and the GFR for final inspection of the project.
(2) Complete, with the assistance of its architect or engineer, the documents listed in the following table that are required for the closeout of force account construction.
Documents Required To Closeout Construction of Buildings
RUS Form No.
Description
Use with
Contract
Force account
No. of copies prepared by
Contractor
Architect/engineer
Distribution
Borrower
Contractor
238
Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment (if not previously submitted, send to RUS for approval)
X
(3)
(to RUS)
(to RUS)
181
Certificate of Completion (contract construction)
1
X
2
1
1
231
Certificate of Contractor
X
1
1
224
Waiver and Release of Lien From Each Supplier
X
1
1
213
Certificate (buy American)
X
1
1
None
2
“As Built” Plans and Specifications
X
X
1
1
None
Guarantees, Warranties, Bonds, Operating or Maintenance Instructions, etc
X
1
1
None
Architect/Engineer seismic safety certification
X
X
2
1
1
1
Cost of materials and services furnished by borrower are not to be included in Total Cost on RUS Form 181.
2
When only minor changes were made during construction, two copies of a statement to that effect from the Architect will be accepted instead of the “as built” Plans and Specifications.
(3) Make distribution of the completed documents as indicated in the table in this section.
(d) Final payment shall not be made until RUS has approved the closeout documents.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39396, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16606, Apr. 6, 1999]
§§ 1753.31-1753.35
[Reserved]

# Subpart E—Purchase and Installation of Central Office Equipment

# Source:
54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.36
General.
(a) This subpart implements and explains the provisions of the Loan Documents setting forth the requirements and the procedures to be followed by borrowers in purchasing and installing central office equipment financed with loan funds.
(b) Terms used in this subpart are defined in § 1753.2 and Equipment Contract, RUS Contract Form 395 (RUS Contract Form 395).
(c) Borrowers shall use RUS Contract Form 395, and associated RUS Form 395a, Equipment Contract Certificate of Completion (Including Installation), when the firm supplying the equipment will install it and RUS Contract Form 395 and associated RUS Form 395b, Equipment Contract Certificate of Completion (Not Including Installation) when the supplier of the equipment will not be installing it. In either case the appropriate specifications shall be included in the contract.
(d) Alternates, if any, specified in the P
S shall be kept to a minimum.
(e) The borrower shall take sealed competitive bids for all central office equipment to be purchased under RUS Contract Form 395 using the procedure set forth in Sec. 1753.38(a), unless RUS approval to negotiate is obtained.
(f) The borrower may request permission to negotiate with a single supplier for additional central offices to standardize equipment on a system basis. RUS approval to negotiate must be obtained before release of the plans and specifications to the supplier. Except for remote switching terminals associated with an existing central office, RUS will not approve negotiation with a non-domestic manufacturer for the purpose of standardization because such a purchase does not meet the RE Act “Buy American” provisions.
(g) Materials and equipment must meet the standards and general specifications approved by RUS.
(h) Only new equipment shall be purchased unless otherwise approved by RUS.
(i) All purchases of materials and equipment are subject to the “Buy American” requirements.
(j) If the sealed competitive bid procedure is followed, negotiation after bid opening will not be permitted.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 16607, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 71582, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.37
Plans and specifications (P
S).
(a)
General.
(1) Prior to the preparation of P
S, the borrower shall review with the GFR the current and future requirements for central office equipment.
(2) The P
S shall specify the delivery and completion time required for each exchange.
(3) P
S for equipment to be provided under an Equipment Contract, RUS Contract Form 395 (RUS Contract Form 395) contract without installation shall require the supplier to provide specific installation information and a detailed bonding and grounding plan to be utilized by the engineer, borrower, and others responsible for the installation of the equipment.
(b)
Preparation of P
S.
The P
S shall include RUS Contract Form 395, Notice and Instructions to Bidders, specifications for the required equipment for each exchange, provision for spare parts, and all other pertinent data needed by the bidder to complete its proposal.
(c) RUS review of P
S is required for construction estimated to cost over $500,000 total or estimated to cost more than 25% of the total loan, whichever is less.
(1) If RUS review is required, the borrower shall submit one copy of the P
S to the GFR for RUS review.
(2) RUS will review the P
S and notify the borrower in writing of approval or disapproval.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 16607, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 71582, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.38
Procurement procedures.
(a)
Sealed competitive bidding.
Sealed competitive bidding of central office equipment shall be in two steps: presentation and evaluation of suppliers' technical proposals, and compliance with the sealed competitive bidding procedure set forth in § 1753.8(a). The procedure is as follows:
(1)
Solicitation of bids.
(i) After RUS approval of the specifications and equipment requirements (required only for projects expected to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less), the borrower shall send “Notice and Instructions to Bidders” to suppliers with central office equipment.
(ii) The “Notice” must set forth the method of evaluating bids and must require the submission of equipment lists and traffic calculations with the bids.
(iii) Equipment Contract, RUS Contract Form 395 (RUS Contract Form 395) shall be used, except that the “Notice” shall state that prior to the bid opening a technical session will be conducted with each supplier to resolve any questions related to the technical proposal submitted by the supplier. The suppliers' technical proposals should be requested for presentation 30 days in advance of the bid opening to enable sufficient time to make the technical evaluation.
(iv) The borrower shall solicit bids as set forth in § 1753.8(a)(2). The “Notice” shall be sent to at least three prospective bidders. A copy of the “Notice” and a list of such bidders shall be sent to RUS.
(v) At the request of an invited supplier, the borrower shall provide two copies of the P
S.
(2)
Technical Sessions.
(i) The borrower shall schedule individual technical sessions by the suppliers, notify each supplier of its scheduled date and time, notify the GFR of all scheduled dates and times, and request the following be available at the technical session:
(A) Lists of equipment, material and software.
(B) Proposed floor plan.
(C) Power and heat dissipation calculations.
(D) List of exceptions to plans and specifications.
(E) Protection and grounding requirements.
(F) Description of how office administration, maintenance and traffic collection are handled with step-by-step examples and printouts.
(G) Explanation of processor and/or memory expansion required to meet ultimate size. This shall include discussions of software, processor memory, and hardware additions needed for line additions and the introduction of various future services; the relative costs of installing the necessary hardware and software initially as compared with the anticipated cost if installed at
the time when the future services are to be offered.
(H) Description of how special equipment such as loop tests, volunteer fire alarm circuit, line load control, etc., will function.
(I) Description of method for translating initial office administration information into machine language, and proposal as to whether it will be done by the borrower or by the supplier.
(J) Some types of equipment contain software. RUS Contract Form 395 indicates whether the equipment contains software and whether the software contract stipulations are applicable.
(K) Any other items pertinent to the technical proposal, such as information regarding changes that have been made in hardware and software of the equipment that is of like manufacture to that presently in operation in the borrower's system. This shall include requirements for additional spare parts or training which have developed as a result of significant change in system device technology.
(ii) The borrower shall review in detail all exceptions to the P
S. No exceptions will be accepted unless all bidders are notified, in writing, of the change in the specifications and permitted to incorporate the change in their proposal.
(iii) If the technical proposal is not responsive, the borrower shall notify the supplier, in writing, that its proposal will not be given further consideration and why.
(iv) Changes in the P
S resulting from the technical sessions shall be subject to RUS's review and approval.
(v) After evaluation of the technical proposals and RUS approval of the changes to P
S (required only for projects that are expected to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less), sealed bids shall be solicited from only those bidders whose technical proposals meet P
S requirements. When fewer than three bidders are adjudged qualified by the borrower to bid, RUS approval must be obtained to proceed. Generally, RUS will grant such approval only if the borrower can demonstrate to the satisfaction of RUS that a good faith effort was made to obtain at least three competitive bids. This would be demonstrated if all suppliers currently listed in I.P. 300-4 were invited to submit technical proposals.
(vi) The borrower shall invite the GFR to attend the technical sessions.
(3)
Bidding and award of contract.
(i) All bids must be completed, dated, and signed prior to submission.
(ii) The bid opening and award of contract shall be conducted in accordance with the procedure set forth in § 1753.8(a).
(iii) The spare parts bid shall always be priced separately and added to the base bid when determining the low bidder.
(b)
Single source negotiated procurement.
If RUS has approved the borrower's request to procure central office equipment through single source negotiation in accordance with requirements contained in § 1753.36(f), the borrower shall proceed in accordance with this subsection.
(1) After RUS approval of the P
S and equipment requirements (required only for contracts expected to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less), the borrower shall send two complete copies of the approved P
S to the supplier and request that a proposal be submitted.
(2) The borrower shall schedule a time and date for a technical session by the supplier and request that the items listed in § 1753.38(a)(2)(i) be available at the technical session. In addition to these items, the supplier shall be requested to provide a description of the exact differences in hardware and software between the borrower's existing equipment and the proposed equipment so that the borrower can determine spare parts interchangeability, need for retraining, and the compatibility of administration of the old and new equipment.
(3) If the contract is expected to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, changes in the P
S resulting from the technical session shall be subject to RUS review and approval.
(4) The submitted proposal shall be based on the agreed-upon results of the technical evaluation and must be complete, dated, and signed.
(5) The borrower shall obtain an award recommendation from its engineer.
(6) The following shall be sent to RUS for review and approval:
(i) A copy of the engineer's recommendation to the borrower, and
(ii) Evidence of acceptance of the proposal by the borrower, such as
(A) A certified copy of the board resolution, or
(B) A letter to RUS signed by an authorized corporate official.
(7) RUS approval of the proposal will be conditioned upon the borrower obtaining prices that are consistent with current competitive prices. Upon RUS approval of the proposal, three copies of the contract shall be prepared with all specifications and proposal documents, and performance bonds, to be executed by the supplier and borrower.
(8) The three complete, executed contracts shall be sent to the RUS Area Engineering Branch Chief for approval.
(9) If RUS approves the contract, one copy will be returned to the borrower and one copy will be sent to the supplier.
(10) Installation of the central office equipment and materials provided under RUS Contract Form 395 may be made in accordance with subpart I, if applicable, or by an approved Force Account Proposal (FAP).
(c)
Contract amendments.
(1) The general requirements for contract amendments are set forth in § 1753.11.
(2) Equipment contract amendments shall be prepared on RUS Contract Form 238, Construction or Equipment Contract Amendments.
(d)
Additions.
When additions to existing central office equipment are required:
(1) A proposal shall be requested from the supplier.
(2) The borrower shall prepare a plan containing an outline of the proposed use of the equipment, the proposal from the supplier and an estimate of the installation cost. If the total cost exceeds $500,000, RUS approval of the award of contract is required. The borrower shall in this case submit its plan and the supplier's proposal to GFR. If the cost does not exceed $500,000, the borrower's award of contract is not subject to RUS approval.
(3) If RUS approval was required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, upon RUS approval the purchase may be made using RUS Contract Form 395, or when applicable, the procedures contained in subpart I of this part.
(4) If the purchase is to be made by contract, three executed copies of the contract with attachments are to be submitted to the RUS.
(5) Installation of the central office equipment and materials procured by RUS Contract Form 395 without installation may be made in accordance with subpart I, if applicable, or by an approved FAP.
(e)
Preinstallation conference.
RUS recommends, but does not require, that the borrower hold a preinstallation conference, attended by the borrower, its engineer, equipment installers, and if possible the GFR, prior to the beginning of the installation of the central office equipment.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 17679, Apr. 14, 1994; 64 FR 16607, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 71583, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.39
Closeout documents.
Closeout of Equipment Contract, RUS Contract Form 395 (RUS Contract Form 395) (including or not including installation) shall be conducted as follows:
(a)
Contract amendments.
Amendments that must be submitted to RUS for approval, as required by § 1753.11, shall be submitted promptly. All other amendments may be submitted to RUS with the engineer's contract closeout certification.
(b)
Acceptance tests.
The borrower will perform acceptance tests as part of the partial closeout and final closeout of RUS Contract Form 395 that will demonstrate compliance with the requirements as specified by the borrower's engineer in the Performance Requirements. Other tests demonstrating compliance will be acceptable.
(c)
Grounding system audit.
A grounding system audit shall be performed and found acceptable for equipment provided under RUS Contract Form 395, (including or not including installation), prior to placing a central office or remote switching terminal into full service operation. The audits are to be conducted in accordance with the requirements specified by the borrower's
engineer in the Performance Requirements. The audits shall be performed by the contractor and borrower when using the RUS Contract Form 395 with equipment installation and by the borrower when using the RUS Contract Form 395 without equipment installation.
(d)
Partial Closeout Procedure.
Under conditions set forth in RUS Contract Form 395, a contractor may, when approved by the borrower, receive payment in full for central offices and their respective associated remote switching terminals upon completion of the installation without awaiting completion of the project. The contractor is to receive such payment, according to procedures contained in the applicable sections of RUS Contract Form 395. In addition to complying with the appropriate partial closeout procedure contained in RUS Contract Form 395, the borrower shall:
(1) Obtain from the engineer a certification of partial closeout; and
(2) Submit one copy of the summary to RUS with an FRS.
(e)
Final contract closeout procedure.
The documents required for the final closeout of the equipment contract, RUS Contract Form 395 with or without installation, are listed in the Table 1 to paragraph (e), which also indicates the number of copies and their distribution.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
e
)—Documents Required To Close Out Equipment Contract,
RUS Contract Form 395
RUS Form No.
Description
Number of copies prepared by
Seller
Engineer
Distribution
Buyer
Seller
213
Certificate (Buy American)
1
1
238
Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment (If not previously submitted, send to RUS for approval)
3 sent to RUS
1 from RUS
1 from RUS.
395a
Certificate of Completion for Equipment Contract (Including Installation)
2
1
1.
395b
Certificate of Completion for Equipment Contract (Not Including Installation)
2
1
1.
395c
Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement (Use only for installation contracts)
1
1
None
Report in writing, including all measurements, any acceptance test report and other information required under Part II of the applicable specifications (Form 395d may be used)
1
1
None
Set of maintenance recommendations for all equipment furnished under the contract
1
1
(f) Once RUS approval has been obtained for any required amendments, the borrower shall obtain certifications from the engineer that the project and all required documentation are satisfactory and complete. The requirements for the final contract certification are contained in § 1753.18.
(g) Once these certifications have been received, final payment shall be made according to the payment terms of the contract. Copies of the certifications shall be submitted with the FRS, requesting the remaining funds on the contract.
[81 FR 71583, Oct. 18, 2016]
§§ 1753.40-1753.45
[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Outside Plant Major Construction by Contract

# Source:
54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.46
General.
(a) This subpart implements and explains the provisions of the loan documents setting forth the requirements and procedures to be followed by borrowers when outside plant major construction by contract is financed by loan funds. Terms used in this subpart are defined in § 1753.2 and RUS Contract Form 515.
(b) The contract method for major construction is described in § 1753.5(b).
(c) The two contract forms which may be used for major outside plant construction are Form 515 and Form 773. Limitations on the applicability of these forms shall be as follows:
(1) Form 515 shall be used for major outside plant construction projects which will be competitively bid. The contract contains plans and specifications and has no dollar limitation. See §§ 1753.47, 1753.48 and 1753.49.
(2) Contract Form 515, which is for $250,000 or less, may, at the borrower's option, be negotiated. See § 1753.48(b).
(3) RUS Form 773 may be used for minor outside plant projects which are not competitively bid because they cannot be designed and staked at the time of contract execution. Projects of this nature include routine line extensions and placement of subscriber drops. See subpart I of this part.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16608, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.47
Plans and specifications (P
S).
(a)
General.
(1) Prior to the preparation of P
S for the construction project:
(i) A review shall be made of the outside plant requirements, and the Loan Design (LD) shall be revised to reflect any needed changes (See § 1753.3).
(ii) Deviations from the approved LD (7 CFR part 1737) must be approved by RUS (See § 1753.3).
(2) The standard RUS specifications required for construction of outside plant facilities are:
(i) RUS Form 515a (Bulletin 345-150)—Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Direct Buried Plant.
(ii) RUS Form 515c (Bulletin 345-151)—Specifications and Drawings for Conduit and Manhole Construction.
(iii) RUS Form 515d (Bulletin 345-152)—Specifications and Drawings for Underground Cable Installation.
(iv) RUS Form 515f (Bulletin 345-153)—Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Pole Lines and Aerial Cables.
(v) RUS Form 515g (Bulletin 345-154)—Specifications and Drawings for Service Entrance and Station Protector Installation.
(b)
Preparation of plans and specifications.
Each set of plans and specifications shall include:
(1) RUS Contract Form 515, “Telephone System Construction Contract (Labor and Materials).”
(2) The specifications described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section as specified by the borrower in the RUS Contract Form 515.
(3) Description of special assembly units and guide drawings, if any.
(4) Key, detail, and cable layout maps.
(5) RUS Contract Form 787, “Supplement A to Construction Contract, RUS Contract Form 515,” when the borrower proposes to provide any materials to the contractor. The borrower shall not order materials for a contractor without RUS approval. In such cases the borrower must attach Form 787 and a “List of Owner's Materials on Hand” and/or a “List of Materials Ordered by Owner but Not Delivered” to contract Form 515 (See § 1753.48(f) of this part). Any materials furnished under Supplement A shall be listed in RUS Bulletin 344-2 unless special RUS approval has been received by the borrower to use unlisted materials.
(c)
Submission of plans and specifications to RUS.
(1) If the project does not exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, the borrower shall furnish GFR one set of P
S. The borrower may then proceed with procurement in accordance with § 1753.48.
(2) If the project exceeds $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, RUS approval of P
S is required. Two sets of P
S shall be furnished to GFR. RUS will return one set to the borrower upon notice of approval. The borrower may then proceed with procurement in accordance with § 1753.48.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, 55 FR 53488, Dec. 31, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 16609, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.48
Procurement procedures.
(a)
Sealed competitive bidding
—(1)
Qualifying bidders.
(i) The borrower is responsible for selecting qualified contractors to bid on the project. See
§ 1753.8(a)(3). Questions relating to bidders' qualifications shall be resolved prior to the pre-bid conference.
(ii) RUS Form 274 or its equivalent, supplemented by RUS Form 276, shall be used for the submission of bidders' qualifications for all types of construction and for the required information on the bidder and subcontractors.
(2)
Invitations to bid—
The borrower shall solicit bids as set forth in § 1753.8(a)(2). Invitations shall be sent to at least 6 prospective bidders.
(3)
Pre-bid conference.
(i) Representatives of the borrower and its engineer shall be present at the pre-bid conference at the time and place designated in the Notice to Bidders. The borrower shall invite the GFR to attend the pre-bid conference.
(ii) The purpose of the pre-bid conference is to acquaint the bidders with the scope and special considerations of the project and to clarify any concerns the bidders may have.
(iii) No proposals shall be considered from bidders that do not attend the pre-bid conference unless the bidder has been notified by the engineer that such bidder's attendance has been waived. Attendance can be waived if, in the judgment of the engineer, the bidder would gain no additional understanding of the construction project by attending the pre-bid conference.
(iv) The borrower shall obtain from the engineer the minutes of the pre-bid conference and shall distribute them to all potential bidders.
(v) When fewer than three bidders have been qualified to submit bids, RUS written approval must be obtained to proceed with requesting bids.
(4)
Bid openings.
(i) Bid openings and award of the contract shall be conducted in accordance with §§ 1753.5(b)(1) and 1753.8(a).
(ii) If § 1753.8 requires RUS approval of award of the bid, the borrower shall submit to RUS two copies of the assembly unit sections of the apparent lowest responsive bid accepted by the borrower.
(b)
Negotiated procurement.
(1) Competitive bids are not required for outside plant construction that is estimated to cost $250,000, or less, inclusive of labor and materials.
(2) The procedures to be followed are contained in § 1753.8(b) and paragraphs (3) and (4) of this section.
(3)
Negotiation conference.
(i) The borrower shall schedule a conference to be attended by representatives of the engineer, the borrower and the contractor selected for negotiations. The borrower shall invite the GFR to attend this conference.
(ii) The purpose of the negotiation conference is to acquaint the contractor with the scope and special considerations of the project and to answer any questions.
(iii) The borrower shall obtain from the engineer notes covering the negotiation conference and shall distribute them to all attendees.
(4) Two copies of the assembly unit sections of the negotiated contractor's proposal shall be sent to the GFR for approval.
(c)
Contract amendments.
The borrower shall prepare contract amendments in accordance with § 1753.11 on RUS Contract Form 526, Construction Contract Amendment.
(d)
Subcontracts.
The RUS requirements for subcontracts and the procedures to be followed are set forth in § 1753.9.
(e)
Preconstruction conference.
The borrower shall conduct a conference, attended by the borrower, contractor, subcontractors, resident engineer, and the GFR, prior to the beginning of cable placement, to resolve any questions pertaining to the construction. Results of the conference shall be provided to each conference participant (See § 1753.10).
(f)
Owner-furnished materials.
When the borrower furnishes materials under RUS Contract Form 787, Supplement A to Construction Contract, these steps shall be followed:
(1) Materials on hand to be furnished by the borrower shall be released to the contractor at the start of construction. Materials on order but not received shall be provided to the contractor as they become available. The borrower shall obtain from the contractor a written receipt for all such materials delivered.
(2) Materials on hand, until released to the contractor, shall be covered by fire and either wind-storm or extended
coverage insurance, exclusive of materials stored in the open and not within 100 feet of any building. Poles, wherever stored, shall be covered by fire insurance. All insured values must be at least 80 percent of the cash value of the property insured.
(3) Subject to adjustment at the time of final settlement, the borrower shall obtain from the contractor monthly invoices that show credit to the borrower, at the prices quoted in Form 787, Supplement A, for all materials furnished by the borrower and installed by the contractor during the preceding month.
(4) Any materials furnished by the borrower remaining as surplus at the completion of construction shall be returned to the borrower. For such materials, the borrower shall furnish a written receipt to the contractor and credit the contractor at the prices quoted in Supplement A.
(g)
Changes or corrections in construction.
(1) When changes or corrections in construction are necessary, and the cost of such changes or corrections is properly chargeable to the borrower, the borrower shall have its engineer prepare and sign four copies of a Construction Change Order, RUS Form 216, obtain borrower's approval and forward the four copies to the contractor. Receipt of the executed Construction Change Order by the contractor will constitute authorization to proceed with the changes or corrections.
(2) When the changes or corrections have been made, the borrower shall have the contractor complete the form, itemizing the costs in accordance with the terms of the contract, and return three copies to the borrower's engineer. A copy of each change order shall be attached to each copy of the construction inventory required to close out the contract.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 16609, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.49
Closeout documents.
(a)
General.
The borrower shall be responsible for preparing the closeout documents with, if necessary, the assistance of the GFR.
(b)
Documents required.
The following table lists the documents required to closeout the RUS contract Form 515.
Documents Required To Closeout Construction Contract
[RUS Form 515]
RUS Form No.
Description
No. of copies prepared by
Contractor
Engineer
Distribution
Borrower
Contractor
724
Final Inventory—Certificate of Completion
2
1
1
724a
Final Inventory—Assembly Units
2
1
1
None
Contractor's Bond Extension (send to RUS when required)
(3)
(to RUS)
(to RUS)
281
Tabulation of Materials Furnished by Borrower
2
1
1
213
Certificate—“Buy American”
1
1
None
Listing of Construction Change Orders
1
1
224
Waiver and Release of Lien (from each supplier)
1
1
231
Certificate of Contractor
1
1
527
Final Statement of Construction
2
1
1
None
Reports on Results of Acceptance Tests
1
1
1
None
Set of Final Staking Sheets
1
1
None
Tabulation of Staking Sheets
1
1
None
Correction Summary (legible copy)
1
1
None
Treated Forest Products Inspection Reports or Certificates of Compliance (prepared by inspection company or supplier)
1
None
Final Key Map (when applicable)
1
1
None
Final Central Office Area and Town Maps
1
1
(c)
Closeout procedure.
(1) After construction has been completed in accordance with the plans and specifications, and acceptance tests have been made, the borrower shall arrange the time for a final inspection to be made by the borrower's engineer, the contractor, the GFR and a representative of the borrower.
(2)
Final inventory documents.
(i) The borrower shall obtain certifications from the engineer that the project and all required documentation are satisfactory and complete. Requirements for these contract closeout certifications are contained in § 1753.18.
(ii) The borrower shall prepare and distribute the final inventory documents in accordance with the tables contained in this section. The documents listed for RUS shall be retained by the borrower for inspection by RUS for at least two years from the date of the engineer's contract closeout certification.
Step-by-Step Procedure for Closeout of Construction Contract
[RUS Form 515]
Sequence
Step No.
When
By
Procedure
1
Upon Completion of Construction
Borrower's Engineer
Prepares the following: a set of Detail Maps and a set (when applicable) of Key Maps which show in red the work done under the 515 contract; a Tabulation of Staking Sheet; and a tentative Final Inventory, RUS Forms 724 and 724a.
2
After acceptance tests made
Borrower's Engineer
Forwards letter to the borrower with copies to the GFR stating that the project is ready for final inspection. Schedules inspection date.
3
Upon receipt of letter from Borrower's Engineer
GFR
Advises borrower whether attending the final inspection will be possible.
4
By inspection date
Borrower's Engineer
Obtains and makes available the following documents: a set of “as constructed” detail maps and (when applicable) “as built” key maps; a list of construction change orders; the final staking sheets; the tabulation staking sheets; the treated forest products inspection reports or certificates of compliance; the tentative final inventory, RUS Forms 724 and 724a; the tentative tabulation, RUS Form 231 (if borrower furnished part of material); and, a report of results of acceptance tests.
5
During inspection
Borrower's Engineer
Issues instructions to contractor covering corrections to be made in construction as a result of inspection.
6
During inspection
Contractor
Corrects construction on basis of instructions from the borrower's engineer. The corrections should proceed closely behind the inspection in order that the borrower's engineer can check the corrections before leaving the system.
7
During inspection
Borrower's Engineer
Inspects and approves corrected construction. Marks inspected areas on the key map, if available, otherwise on the detail maps.
8
Upon completion of inspection
Borrower's Engineer
Prepares or obtains all the closeout documents listed in Table 3.
9
After signing final inventory
Borrower
Prepares and submits to RUS the engineer's certifications of completion and a Financial Requirement Statement, RUS Form 481, requesting amount necessary to make final payment due under contract.
10
On receipt of final advance
Borrower
Promptly forwards check for final payment to contractor.
11
During subsequent loan fund audit review following final payment
RUS Field Accountant
Examines borrower's construction records for compliance with the construction contract and Subpart F, and examines RUS Form 281 (Tabulation of Materials Furnished by Borrower) if any, for appropriate costs.
(iii) When the total inventory price exceeds the maximum contract by more than 20 percent, an extension to the contractor's bond is required.
(iv) The borrower shall submit the engineer's contract closeout certification with FRS for the final advance of funds.
(3) Final payment shall be made according to the payment provisions of article III of RUS Form 515, except that certificates and other documents required to be submitted to or approved by the Administrator shall be
submitted to and approved by the Owner.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43717, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16609, Apr. 6, 1999]
§§ 1753.50-1753.55
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Outside Plant Major Construction by Force Account

# Source:
55 FR 3572, Feb. 2, 1990, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.56
General.
(a) This subpart implements and explains the provisions of the loan documents setting forth the requirements and the procedures to be followed by borrowers for outside plant major construction by the force account method with RUS loan funds. Terms used in this subpart are defined in § 1753.2 and RUS Contract Form 515.
(b) A borrower shall not use the force account method for construction financed with loan funds unless prior RUS approval has been obtained.
(c) Generally, RUS will not approve the force account method for major outside plant construction for the initial loan to a borrower.
(d) The Force Account Proposals (FAPs) are subject to review and approval by RUS.
(e) The FAP is approved by RUS on the basis of estimated labor and material costs. The FAP is closed based on the borrower's actual cost of performing the construction. RUS will provide loan funds only up to the amount determined by the completed assembly units priced at the unit prices in the approved FAP.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0062)
§ 1753.57
Procedures.
(a)
The request.
(1) The borrower shall submit to RUS a certified copy of the board resolution or a letter signed by an authorized corporate official requesting approval to use the force account method of construction. The request shall state the advantages of the force account method of construction and provide the following information:
(i) The scope of the construction to be undertaken, stating briefly the facilities and equipment to be installed and other pertinent data.
(ii) The name and qualifications of the construction supervisor who will be directly in charge of construction, the names and qualifications of the construction foremen, and the availability of qualified construction personnel. The construction supervisor must have at least 5 years outside plant construction experience with at least 2 years at the supervisory level on RUS financed projects. Construction foremen must have at least 3 years of outside plant construction experience.
(iii) The availability of equipment for construction, exclusive of equipment needed for normal operation and maintenance.
(2) [Reserved]
(b)
Force Account Proposal (FAP).
Upon receiving RUS approval to use the force account method, the borrower, prior to any construction activity or the purchase of materials or equipment, shall submit to RUS two copies of its FAP. The FAP shall consist of:
(1) The RUS Contract Form 515 and appropriate supporting attachments that normally would be provided as plans and specifications for contract construction. See § 1753.47.
(2) The cost estimate, using Form 515 as a convenient means of showing the following:
(i) The quantity and cost estimates of the various assembly units required. “Labor and other” cost will not include the cost of engineering, legal, and other professional services, interest during construction, preliminary survey and investigation charges, and right-of-way easement procurement costs.
(ii) A list identifying materials or construction for which loan funds will not be requested.
(3) The estimated completion time.
(c)
Storage of materials.
All materials ordered for the construction shall be stored separate from normal maintenance materials.
(d)
Construction
—(1)
Preconstruction conference.
The borrower shall arrange
a conference, attended by the manager, construction supervisor, construction foremen, resident engineer and the GFR prior to the beginning of construction to clarify any questions pertaining to the construction. Notes of the conference shall be provided to each conference participant.
(2)
Construction schedule and progress reports.
The borrower shall obtain from the engineer a construction schedule and submit one copy to the GFR. The schedule shall include the starting date and a statement indicating that materials are either delivered or deliveries are assured to permit construction to proceed in accordance with the construction schedule. The borrower shall obtain from the engineer progress reports and submit one copy of each to the GFR. RUS Form 521 may be used for the construction schedule and the progress report.
(3)
Borrower's management responsibilities.
(i) Obtain all right-of-way easements, permits, etc., prior to construction.
(ii) Maintain records on all expenditures for materials, labor, transportation, and other costs of construction, in order that all costs may be fully accounted for upon completion of construction.
(iii) Ensure that all the required inspections and tests are made.
(4)
Engineer's responsibilities.
(i) Inspect and inventory construction as completed.
(ii) Require timely corrections and cleanup.
(iii) Perform acceptance tests as construction is completed.
(iv) Provide “as built” staking sheets of completed construction when the final inspections are made.
(v) Maintain accurate and current inventories of completed construction.
(5)
Construction supervisor's responsibilities.
(i) Correct construction errors as construction progresses.
(ii) Maintain an accurate inventory of completed construction.
(iii) Perform cleanup as construction is completed.
(iv) Perform all the inspections and acceptance tests a contractor would be required to make under the construction contract.
(v) Promptly perform cleanup required after final inspection.
§ 1753.58
Closeout documents.
(a)
General.
(1) This section outlines the procedure to be followed in the preparation of closeout documents for the FAP.
(2) The period between the completion of construction and submission of the closeout documents to RUS should not exceed 60 days.
(b)
Documents.
The documents required to close the FAP are listed in the following table. The following is a brief description of the closeout documents:
Documents Required To Close Out Force Account Outside Plant Construction
RUS Form No.
Description
817, 817a, 817b
Final Inventory Force Account Construction and Certificate of Engineer. Submit one copy to RUS, if required
1
213
Certificate—“Buy American” (as applicable from each supplier).
None
Detail Maps.
None
Key map, if applicable.
None
Staking Sheets.
None
Tabulation of staking sheets.
None
Treated Forest Products Inspection Reports or Certificates of Compliance (prepared by inspection company or supplier).
1
RUS Forms 817, 817a, and 817b are to be submitted to GFR only if required in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. Otherwise, the final inventory documents are to be assembled and retained by the borrower for at least two years.
(c)
Closeout procedures.
(1) The borrower shall notify the GFR when the project is ready for final inspection.
(2) The GFR shall be invited to make the final inspection accompanied by the engineer and the borrower.
(3) The borrower shall correct all deficiencies found during the final inspection.
(4) The borrower may request the assistance of an RUS field accountant to
review the borrower's record of construction expenditures and assist the borrower with any accounting problems in connection with construction expenditures.
(5) After inspection, the final inventory documents shall be assembled as indicated in the table in this section. RUS Forms 817, 817a, and 817b are to be submitted to GFR only if the amount of the closeout exceeds the original force account proposal by 20% or more. Otherwise, the final inventory documents are to be assembled and retained by the borrower for at least two years.
(6) Upon approval of the closeout documents, RUS will notify the borrower of approval and of any adjustments to be made in funds advanced in connection with the construction.
(d) The above are not intended to be a complete description of the requirements of the documents relating to RUS's closeout procedure. Refer to the documents for additional requirements.
[55 FR 3572, Feb. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 16610, Apr. 6, 1999]
§§ 1753.59-1753.65
[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Purchase and Installation of Special Equipment

# Source:
54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.66
General.
(a) This subpart implements and explains the provisions of the Loan Documents setting forth the requirements and the procedures to be followed by borrowers in purchasing and installing special equipment financed with loan funds.
(b) Terms used in this subpart are defined in § 1753.2 and Equipment Contract, RUS Contract Form 395 (RUS Contract Form 395).
(c) Borrowers must obtain RUS review and approval of the LD for their telephone systems. Applications of equipment not included in an approved LD must conform to the modernization plan as required by 7 CFR part 1751, subpart B, and must be submitted to RUS for review and approval.
(d) RUS Contract Form 395 and applicable specifications shall be used for the purchase of special equipment for major construction on a furnish-and-install basis, as well as on a furnish-only basis.
(e) The procedures provided in subpart I, if applicable, or a FAP approved by RUS may be used for the installation of special equipment purchased with a RUS Contract Form 395 contract not including installation.
(f) For special equipment purchases for minor construction, the borrower may at its option use the Methods of Minor Construction procedures contained in subpart I or the purchase procedures contained in this subpart H.
(g) Some types of special equipment contain software. RUS Contract Form 395 indicates whether the equipment contains software and whether the software contract stipulations are applicable.
[81 FR 71584, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.67
Contracts and specifications.
(a) Equipment Contract, RUS Contract Form 395 shall be used to purchase equipment on a furnish-and-install basis, as well as on a furnish-only basis.
(b) The equipment specifications must accompany the equipment contract form and each specification consists of performance specifications, installation requirements (if applicable), and application engineering requirements.
[81 FR 71584, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.68
Purchasing special equipment.
(a)
General.
(1) Equipment purchases are categorized as initial equipment purchase, equipment additions to existing systems and new system additions.
(i) An initial equipment purchase is a first time purchase by a borrower of a complete system of special equipment.
(ii) Equipment additions to existing systems are additions of components to complete operating systems to increase system capacity that require components made by the manufacturer of the existing system.
(iii) New system additions are purchases of complete systems of special
equipment when the purpose can be accomplished either with equipment of the same type and manufacture as other complete operating systems in the borrower's system, or with complete systems of special equipment from other manufacturers.
(iv) Where equipment is obtained under a Equipment Contract, RUS Contract Form 395 (RUS Contract Form 395) without installation, the borrower shall require the supplier to provide a detailed proposed bonding and grounding plan and detailed installation information. The installation information is to enable acceptance testing by the borrower upon completion of the installation.
(2) For initial equipment purchases that qualify as major construction, the borrower shall obtain proposals from at least three suppliers of equipment of different manufacturers.
(3) For equipment additions to increase the capacity of existing systems, the borrower may negotiate for equipment of a specific type and manufacture. RUS approval to negotiate in this instance is not required if these additions were specifically described in the LD approved by RUS
(4) For new system additions, the borrower may request RUS approval to negotiate for additional equipment for the purpose of standardization on a system basis, provided RUS approved the procurement method used for the initial equipment purchase. RUS approval to negotiate must be obtained before release of the P
S to the seller.
(5) RUS will not approve negotiation with a seller of non-domestic equipment for the purpose of standardization, because such a purchase does not meet the “Buy American” provision.
(6) RUS recommends, but does not require, that borrowers include installation by the seller for initial installations of special equipment that qualify as major construction.
(7) Special equipment may be installed by the borrower if it has qualified personnel and test equipment available to install the equipment and make the required acceptance tests, and written approval is given by RUS.
(8) Installations, whether by the borrower or the seller, must meet the installation requirements of RUS Contract Form 395specifications. A copy of the acceptance tests results must be attached to the closeout documents or work order summary.
(9) The specifications for the various applications of equipment is prepared by the RUS borrower's engineer and based on generally accepted engineering considerations and practices found in the Telecommunications Industry.
(10) The borrower must obtain authorization from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) to construct and operate radio transmitting equipment. Evidence of FCC authorization is required for RUS contract approval. Where required, the borrower must obtain approval of state regulatory bodies regarding tariffs and related matters.
(b)
Procurement procedures
—(1)
General.
The following are the procurement procedure steps required for the purchase of special equipment by borrowers.
(2)
Initial equipment purchase.
(i) The borrower prepares P
S and, for projects estimated to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, sends two copies to GFR for approval.
(ii) For projects estimated to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, RUS will either approve P
S in writing or notify the borrower of the reasons for withholding approval.
(iii) For projects estimated to cost less than $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, the borrower may proceed with procurement upon completion of the P
S.
(iv) If the borrower has employed full competitive bidding in the selection, a contract may be executed with the successful bidder and the borrower may proceed to paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section.
(v) If the borrower did not follow a fully competitive bidding process as described in § 1753.8, the selection, along with a summary of all proposals and an engineer's recommendation, shall be sent to RUS. RUS shall approve the proposal selection in writing or notify the borrower of any reason for withholding approval.
(vi) The borrower sends three executed contracts including specifications to RUS for approval.
(vii) After RUS approval of the contract, one copy will be returned to the borrower and one copy will be sent to the seller.
(3)
Equipment additions to existing systems.
Purchase procedures for equipment additions to existing systems are the same as for initial system purchase except that the borrower may negotiate for equipment of a specific type and manufacture instead of obtaining proposals from three or more sellers.
(4)
New system additions.
(i) The borrower prepares the P
S and, if the project is estimated to exceed $500,000 or 25% of the loan, whichever is less, sends two copies to the GFR for approval. The borrower may request RUS approval to negotiate for the purpose of standardization on a system basis prior to preparing the P
S.
(ii) RUS notifies the borrower in writing as to whether the borrower may negotiate for specific equipment. If P
S were required to be submitted to RUS under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, RUS notifies the borrower in writing of P
S approval (or notifies the borrower of the reasons for withholding approval).
(iii) The remainder of the purchase procedure for new system additions is the same as for initial equipment purchase.
(c)
Contract amendments.
(1) The general requirements for contract amendments are set forth in § 1753.11.
(2) The borrower shall prepare any required amendments to the special equipment contract, arrange for the execution by all parties, and submit these amendments to RUS in accordance with § 1753.11(d). RUS Form 238, Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment, shall be used for this purpose.
(d)
Closeout procedures
—(1)
Acceptance tests for RUS Contract Form 395 with installation.
(i) Immediately upon completion of the installation and alignment of the equipment, the borrower shall arrange with the contractor's installer and the GFR for acceptance tests.
(ii) The borrower shall obtain from the contractor, in writing, the results of all inspections and tests made by the contractor as required in the specifications. The borrower will analyze the test results and determine whether the performance of the equipment meets the contract specifications.
(2) Acceptance tests for RUS Contract Form 395 without installation. (Upon completion of the installation and alignment of the equipment (under this contract the installation alignment will be by other than the seller) the borrower shall perform all the inspections and tests outlined in the specifications.
(3)
Closeout documents.
When the acceptance tests have been completed and all deficiencies have been corrected, the borrower:
(i) Assembles and distributes the documents listed in the following table that are required for the closeout of the equipment contract. The documents listed for RUS shall be retained by the borrower for inspection by RUS for at least two years from the date of the engineer's contract closeout certification.
Table 1 to Paragraph
(d)(3)(i)
—Documents Required To Close Out Equipment Contract,
RUS Contract Form 395
RUS Form No.
Description
Number of copies prepared by
Seller
Engineer
Distribution
Buyer
Seller
213
Certificate (Buy American)
1
1
238
Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment (If not previously submitted, send to RUS for approval)
3 sent to RUS
1 sent to RUS
1 from RUS.
395a
Certificate of Completion for Equipment Contract (Including Installation)
2
1
1.
395b
Certificate of Completion for Equipment Contract (Not Including Installation)
2
1
1.
395c
Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement (Use only for installation contracts)
1
None
Report in writing, including all measurements, any acceptance test report and other information required under Part II of the applicable specifications. (Form 395d may be used.)
1
1
None
Set of maintenance recommendations for all equipment furnished under the contract
1
1
(ii) Obtains certifications from the engineer that the project and all required documentation are satisfactory and complete. Requirements for this contract closeout certification are contained in § 1753.18.
(iii) Submits copies of the engineer's certifications to RUS with the FRS requesting the remaining funds on the contract.
(iv) Makes final payment in accordance with the payment terms of the contract.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43718, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16611, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 71584, Oct. 18, 2016]
§§ 1753.69-1753.75
[Reserved]

# Subpart I—Minor Construction

# Source:
55 FR 3573, Feb. 2, 1990, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.76
General.
(a) This subpart implements and explains the provisions of the Loan Documents containing the requirements and procedures to be followed by borrowers for minor construction of telecommunications facilities using RUS loan funds. Terms used in this subpart are defined in § 1753.2.
(b) [Reserved]
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0062)
[55 FR 3573, Feb. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 16611, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.77
Methods of minor construction.
Minor construction may be performed by contract using RUS Contract Form 773, “Miscellaneous Construction Work and Maintenance Services”, by RUS Contract Form 515, or by work order construction. The rules for using Form 515 for minor construction are contained in subpart F of this part.
[64 FR 16612, Apr. 6, 1999]
§ 1753.78
Construction by contract.
(a) RUS Form 773 shall be used for minor construction by contract. Compensation may be based upon unit prices, hourly rates, or another basis agreed to in advance by the borrower and the contractor. A single work project may require more than one contractor.
(b) The borrower shall prepare the contract form and attach any diagrams, sketches and tabulations necessary to specify clearly the work to be performed and who shall provide which materials. Neither the selection of the contractor nor the contract requires RUS approval.
(c) Borrowers are urged to obtain quotations from several contractors before entering into a contract to be assured of obtaining the lowest cost. The borrower must ensure that the contractor selected meets all Federal and State licensing and bonding requirements, and that the contractor maintains the insurance coverage required by the contract for the duration of the work. (See 7 part CFR 1788)
(d) Upon completion and final inspection of the construction the borrower shall obtain from the Contractor a final invoice and an executed copy of
RUS Form 743, Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement.
(e) RUS Contract Form 773 may also be used to contract for the maintenance and repair of telephone equipment and facilities. Generally, RUS will not finance maintenance and repair contracts.
[55 FR 3573, Feb. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43718, Aug. 25, 1994]
§ 1753.79
Construction by force account.
The borrower shall require that:
(a) Minor construction by the force account method be supervised by a competent foreman. The work shall be performed in accordance with all regulatory and safety codes.
(b) Daily time and material reports, referenced by the work project number, shall be kept to record labor and materials used as construction is performed.
(c) The construction foreman shall maintain a tabulation of all construction units installed.
§ 1753.80
Minor construction procedure.
(a) If the borrower performs minor construction financed with loan funds, the borrower's regular work order procedure shall be used to administer construction activities that may be performed entirely by a contractor under Form 773 contract, by work order, or jointly by work order and one or more contractors under Form 773 contracts.
(b) RUS financing under Form 773 contracts dated in the same calendar year is limited to the following amounts for the following discrete categories of minor construction. The date of the Form 773 contract is the date the Form 773 contract is executed.
(1) For outside plant construction, the limit is $500,000 or ten per cent (10%) of the borrower's previous calendar year's outside plant total construction, whichever is greater.
(2) For central office equipment, the limit is $500,000.
(3) For equipment and buildings, the limit is $250,000 in each category.
(c) A single minor construction project may be a discrete element of a somewhat larger overall project, such as the provision and installation of a standby power generator or heating/air conditioning equipment in connection with a building modification or expansion project or the splicing on a major cable placement project. It cannot be a portion, by dividing into smaller segments, of a discrete major construction project, such as the placement of a continuous cable facility.
(d) RUS approval must be obtained in advance for minor construction unless all of the following conditions are met:
(1) RUS has approved the engineering design.
(2) All standard RUS procedures are followed, including the application of RUS construction practices (see § 1753.6).
(3) The Standard Form 773 contract is used without modification.
(e) The borrower shall determine the scope of each proposed construction project and decide how it will be constructed. A work project number shall be assigned to which all charges for that project are referenced.
(f) The borrower shall maintain accounting and plant records sufficient to document the cost and location of all construction and to support loan fund advances and disbursements.
(g) Normally the borrower will finance minor construction with general funds and obtain reimbursement with loan funds when construction is completed and executed Form 771 has been submitted to RUS. If a borrower satisfies RUS of its inability to finance the construction temporarily with general funds, RUS may establish, on a case by case basis, a work order fund for specific construction projects. The work order fund will be closed upon receipt of an FRS and the executed Forms 771 for the specific projects for which the work order fund was established.
(h) RUS will advance funds to finance minor construction work projects only if all necessary documents, including an FRS and supporting data covering the project, are received within one year of the date construction of the project is completed.
[55 FR 3573, Feb. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 59 FR 43718, Aug. 25, 1994; 64 FR 16612, Apr. 6, 1999; 81 FR 71585, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.81
Inspection and certification.
(a) Upon completion and prior to closeout, minor construction must be inspected and certified to be in compliance with RUS construction standards, to be reasonable in cost, and to meet applicable codes. The certification is made by an experienced telephone engineer who is either licensed in the state where the inspection will be performed, or is a borrower's staff engineer, who meets the requirements of the “employee in charge” of force account engineering as described in subpart B of this part. The GFR will periodically audit the inspection of minor construction to ensure integrity of the procedure. RUS borrowers with less than 2000 subscribers may use the above procedure or have construction inspection performed by the GFR.
(b) Engineering services for minor construction may be contracted using RUS Form 245, Engineering Service Contract—Special Services. Costs for these services may be included in the costs for construction on the Form 771. (See subpart B of this part.
(c) Upon completion of construction, the borrower shall obtain the engineer's certification on RUS Form 771. An official of the borrower, designated by the board of directors, shall also execute the borrower's certification on Form 771.
[54 FR 39267, Sept. 25, 1989. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 55 FR 53488, Dec. 31, 1990]
§ 1753.82
Minor construction closeout.
(a) For minor construction inspected by the borrower's engineer, an original and two copies of Form 771 shall be sent to the GFR. The GFR will initial and return the original and one copy.
(b) When funds are requested for minor construction, the original Form 771 signed or initialed by the GFR, shall be submitted with the FRS. Forms 771 should be submitted only with the FRS which they support. RUS does not encumber funds pursuant to Forms 771 unless an advance is made to the borrower. (See 7 CFR part 1744 subpart C).
§§ 1753.83-1753.90
[Reserved]

# Subpart J—Construction Certification Program

# Source:
55 FR 3574, Feb. 2, 1990, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990.
§ 1753.91
General.
(a) This subpart implements and explains the provisions of the loan documents setting forth the requirements and procedures to be followed by borrowers accepting nomination for the construction certification program. Terms used in this subpart are defined in § 1753.2.
(b) [Reserved]
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572-0062)
§ 1753.92
Policies and requirements.
(a) It is RUS policy that, as borrowers gain in experience and maturity, the advice and assistance rendered by RUS shall progressively diminish. Prior to approval of a loan, RUS may nominate certain borrowers to fulfill the responsibilities for administration and construction of projects financed with RUS loans. Borrowers who accept this nomination will be known as “certification borrowers,” and the program in which they participate will be known as the “certification program.”
(b) Generally, initial loan borrowers are not eligible for the certification program.
(c) Generally, the factors which RUS will consider in selecting borrowers for the certification program will include:
(1) The experience of the staff of the borrower.
(2) The RUS assessment of the borrower's ability to handle the certification program requirements considering the size and complexity of the proposed construction in the LD.
(3) The history of the borrower in following RUS's policies and procedures.
(4) Other factors deemed relevant by RUS.
(d) Except as specifically stated in this subpart, certification borrowers must comply with all requirements applicable to other borrowers.
(e) RUS reserves the right at any time to require submission of construction documents or to remove the borrower from the certification program.
§ 1753.93
Responsibilities.
(a)
Responsibilities transferred to certification borrowers.
(1) Approval of engineering and architectural service contracts.
(2) Approval of P
S.
(3) Approval of price quotations and bids, except where the low price bid is not accepted.
(4) Approval of award of construction contracts and amendments.
(5) Approval of FAP's if RUS has approved the force account method of construction for the construction project.
(6) Inspection and certification of construction.
(7) Approval of closeout documents.
(8) Other responsibilities as may be specifically granted in writing by RUS.
(b)
Responsibilities retained by RUS.
(1) Approval to deviate from RUS requirements, except as provided in (a) above.
(2) Approval of use of loan funds for projects other than those included in the loan construction budget. See 7 CFR part 1744 subpart C.
(3) Approval of use of loan funds in excess of amounts included in the loan budget.
(4) Approval of force account methods of engineering and construction.
(5) Approval to make significant deviations from the work plan approved by RUS.
(6) Approval of interim construction.
(7) Approval to modify or alter standard forms and contracts.
(8) Approval to open bids when fewer than the required number have been received.
(90) Approval of outside plant layouts.
(10) “Buy American” determinations.
(11) Other responsibilities not specifically transferred by this subpart or in writing by RUS.
[55 FR 3574, Feb. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 81 FR 71585, Oct. 18, 2016]
§ 1753.94
Procedures.
(a) Certification borrowers shall appoint three certification officials. These appointments shall be subject to RUS approval.
(1) The “Certifying Officer” shall be an officer or employee of the borrower who is authorized to execute binding agreements. This officer shall sign all contracts, amendments, closeout documents and the certification on RUS Form 158, Certification of Contract or Force Account Proposal Approval, and RUS Form 159, Summary of Completed Construction.
(2) The “Construction Certifier” shall be an experienced telephone engineer who is either licensed in the state where the inspection will be performed, or is a borrower's staff engineer who meets the requirements of the “employee in charge” of force account engineering as described in subpart B of this part. RUS may determine that it will accept the certification only for matters within the staff engineer's area of specialization. In such cases the position of “Construction Certifier” shall be filled by more than one engineer. This official is responsible for certifying that the construction complies with all technical and code requirements.
(3) The “Certification Coordinator” shall administer the certification program and serve as the official point of contact for RUS. The certifying officer or construction certifier may also serve as the certification coordinator.
(b) Certification borrowers, shall submit and obtain RUS approval of a work plan before construction and related engineering begin.
(1) The work plan shall provide a description of the proposed construction and methods of purchasing in such detail as to enable RUS to monitor the construction program to ensure to its satisfaction that loan purposes are accomplished in an organized construction program.
(2) The work plan shall include the following:
(i) The names and qualifications of the proposed certification officials defined in § 1753.94(a).
(ii) A listing of the proposed work projects to accomplish the loan purposes showing the estimated cost, method of performing the construction, and the proposed commencement and completion dates for each work
project. The proposed work projects shall be summarized on RUS Form 157, Construction Work Plan and Cost Distribution, or a form providing essentially the same information.
(iii) The proposed source of funds for meeting cost overruns if the total estimated cost of work projects exceeds the loan budget.
(iv) A statement signed by the borrower's certification officials and the GFR that the work plan is accurate and complete.
(c) Under the certification program, the borrower shall follow all standard RUS postloan engineering and construction procedures except that the approvals shown in § 1753.93(a) will be made by certification officials rather than RUS. The approvals noted in § 1753.93(a)(1), (4) and (5) will be reported immediately to RUS using RUS Form 158. Approval of closeouts, § 1753.93(a) (6) and (7), will be reported immediately on RUS Form 159.
(d) As the construction program progresses, the certification borrower shall request, by letter, RUS approval of any significant changes in work plan schedules and budgets and in certification officials.
§ 1753.95
Advance of loan funds.
Advance of loan funds needed to meet the certification borrower's current financial obligations are to be requested on RUS Form 481 for construction and engineering items supported by appropriate RUS Forms 158 and 159. For items other than construction or engineering, other supporting data shall be submitted. (See 7 CFR part 1744 subpart C.)
§ 1753.96
Certification addendum.
The certification borrower shall modify standard RUS forms of contract for use under the certification program by inserting an executed copy of the following certification addendum in each copy of the contract.

# Certification Addendum
Permission has been obtained by the Owner to proceed with this contract under 7 CFR part 1753 subpart J, pursuant to which the references in the RUS construction document requiring approvals and other actions of the RUS Administrator will not apply unless RUS gives specific notice in writing to the affected parties that designated approval(s) or action(s) will be required. Certifications by the Contractor of amounts due and certifications of completions of work under the contract are to be construed to be rendered for the purpose of inducing the Rural Utilities Service to advance funds to the Owner to make, or reimburse the Owner for, payments under this contract.
Date
Owner
By
Certifying Officer
Date
Contractor
By
Title
[55 FR 3574, Feb. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 81 FR 71585, Oct. 18, 2016]
§§ 1753.97-1753.99
[Reserved]
Pt. 1755

# PART 1755—TELECOMMUNICATIONS POLICIES ON SPECIFICATIONS, ACCEPTABLE MATERIALS, AND STANDARD CONTRACT FORMS
Sec.
1755.1-1755.2
[Reserved]
1755.3
Field trials.
1755.4-1755.25
[Reserved]
1755.26
RUS standard contract forms.
1755.27
Borrower contractual obligations.
1755.28
Notice and publication of listed contract forms.
1755.29
Promulgation of new or revised contract forms.
1755.30
List of telecommunications standard contract forms.
1755.31-1755.96
[Reserved]
1755.97
Telephone standards and specifications.
1755.98
List of telecommunications specifications included in other 7 CFR parts.
1755.99-1755.199
[Reserved]
1755.200
RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
1755.201-1755.369
[Reserved]
1755.370
RUS specification for seven wire galvanized steel strand.
1755.371-1755.389
[Reserved]
1755.390
RUS specifications for filled telephone cables.
1755.391-1755.396
[Reserved]
1755.397
RUS performance specification for line concentrators.
1755.398-1755.399
[Reserved]
1755.400
RUS standard for acceptance tests and measurements of telecommunications plant.
1755.401
Scope.
1755.402
Ground resistance measurements.
1755.403
Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
1755.404
Fiber optic cable telecommunications plant measurements.
1755.405
Voiceband data transmission measurements.
1755.406
Shield or armor ground resistance measurements.
1755.407
Data formats.
1755.408-1755.499
[Reserved]
1755.500
RUS standard for service installations at customers access locations.
1755.501
Definitions applicable to §§ 1755.501 through 1755.510.
1755.502
Scope.
1755.503
General.
1755.504
Demarcation point.
1755.505
Buried services.
1755.506
Aerial wire services
1755.507
Aerial cable services.
1755.508
Customer access location protection.
1755.509
Mobile homes.
1755.510
Construction and assembly unit drawings.
1755.511-1755.521
[Reserved]
1755.522
RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
1755.523-1755.699
[Reserved]
1755.700
RUS specification for aerial service wires.
1755.701
Scope.
1755.702
Copper coated steel reinforced (CCSR) aerial service wire.
1755.703
Nonmetallic reinforced (NMR) aerial service wire.
1755.704
Requirements applicable to both CCSR and NMR aerial service wires.
1755.705-1755.859
[Reserved]
1755.860
RUS specification for filled buried wires.
1755.861-1755.869
[Reserved]
1755.870
RUS specification for terminating cables.
1755.871-1755.889
[Reserved]
1755.890
RUS specification for filled telephone cables with expanded insulation.
1755.900
Abbreviations and definitions.
1755.901
Incorporation by reference.
1755.902
Minimum performance specification for fiber optic cables.
1755.903
Fiber optic service entrance cables.
1755.910
RUS specification for outside plant housings and serving area interface systems.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.,
1921
et seq.,
6941
et seq.

# Source:
55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, unless otherwise noted.
§§ 1755.1-1755.2
[Reserved]
§ 1755.3
Field trials.
(a) Except as covered in Bulletin 345-3, no loan funds shall be advanced for any product if any item to be included in the project is not included in the “List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telephone Systems of RUS Borrowers,” RUS Bulletin 344-2. When new items of materials or equipment are considered for acceptance by RUS or when a previously accepted item has been subjected to such major modifications that its suitability cannot be determined based on laboratory data and/or field experience, a field trial shall be required if RUS so determines. This field trial consists of limited field installations of the materials or equipment in closely monitored situations designed to determine, to RUS's satisfaction, their operational effectiveness under actual field conditions. Field trials are to be used only as a means for determining, to RUS's satisfaction, the operational effectiveness of a new or revised product under actual field conditions. Both the manufacturer and borrower are responsible for assuring that the field trial is carried out and that the required information on the product's performance is received by RUS in a timely manner. The use of materials or equipment derived from new inventions or concepts untried within the telephone industry is defined as “an experiment” and shall be handled as a special case using procedures considered appropriate by RUS to meet the individual experiment.
(b) To qualify for a field trial, the new and improved materials and equipment must appear to RUS to offer one or more of the following benefits:
(1) Improved performance.
(2) Decreased cost.
(3) Broader application.
(c) The item of material or equipment subject to field trial may be only part of the total amount of materials or equipment included in a bid or it may be the key component of the facility or system provided; therefore, RUS shall have authority to require that a satisfactory plan be provided to maintain or restore service in the event that the materials and equipment fail
to meet established performance requirements. RUS shall limit the quantity of new materials and equipment installed on any field trial and shall also limit the number of field trials for a given product to what RUS considers reasonable to provide the necessary information.
(d) A borrower may participate in a field trial only if, in RUS's opinion, the borrower possesses:
(1) Adequate financial resources so that no delay in the project will result from lack of funds.
(2) The financial stability to overcome difficulties which may result from an unsuccessful field trial. The borrower must be able to restore and maintain service until the manufacturer meets its financial obligations with respect to the field trial.
(3) Qualified personnel to enable it to discharge its responsibilities.
(4) A record satisfactory to RUS for maintaining equipment and plant facilities and for providing RUS with information when requested.
(5) Willingness to participate in the field trial and awareness of the effort and responsibility this entails.
(e) The test site for the field trial shall be, in RUS's opinion, readily accessible and provide the conditions, such as temperature extremes, high probability of lightning damage, etc., for which the product is being evaluated. The material or equipment involved shall be covered by an RUS specification or a suitable standard acceptable to RUS. The supplier is required to submit test data to show conformance with the applicable specification or standard. Further testing shall be performed if required by RUS personnel.
(f) A field trial shall normally continue for a minimum of six months, or for a longer period of time determined by RUS to be required to obtain conclusive data that the item either fulfills all requirements or is unacceptable. Either the borrower or supplier may terminate a field trial at any time, in accordance with their contractual agreement. Such termination, if prior to the time required by RUS, shall constitute withdrawal of the product from consideration by RUS. RUS has authority to terminate field trials based on its determination that the equipment is not performing satisfactorily and that this lack of performance may, in RUS's opinion, cause service degradation or hazards to life or property.
(g) Field trials shall be conducted in accordance with the instructions set forth in this regulation and the agreement relating to the specific application. Both the supplier and the borrower shall agree, and obtain RUS approval before the start of the trial, on the following:
(1) The specific purpose of the field trial;
(2) Ownership of items during trial;
(3) Starting date and duration;
(4) Responsibility for costs and removal of items in the event of noncompliance with the specification or purpose intended and arrangements for service continuity or restoration;
(5) Responsibility for testing, test equipment and normal operation and maintenance during the trial period;
(6) Availability of test equipment on site during the trial period; and
(7) Responsibility for spare parts and components consumed during the trial period.
(h) Both the supplier and the borrower shall keep RUS informed of the status of a field trial. These reports shall not be limited to details of problems of failures encountered during installation and subsequent operation but shall include information on progress of the field trial. If these reports are not received in accordance with the requirements of the RUS Form 399b, RUS shall have the authority to deny or suspend loan funds related to these products until the delinquent reports are received.
(i) Before a borrower purchases materials or equipment that require a field trial, prior approval must be obtained from RUS and RUS Form 399b, RUS Telecommunications Equipment Field Trial (available from the Director, Administrative Services Division, Rural Utilities Service, Room 0175, South Building, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250) will be completed by RUS and must be signed by both the borrower and supplier as an indication that they understand their
responsibilities in the field trial. Assurance must also be obtained from RUS that the “particular item” that is the subject of the field test is eligible for a field trial. To obtain this assurance, any proposal for use of an item on a field trial basis shall be forwarded to the Chief, Area Engineering Branch, for review and approval.
(j) Procedures for establishing field trials for the various categories of equipment after RUS has approved the 399b:
(1)
Electronic transmission equipment.
The procedure set forth in Bulletin 385-2 “Purchasing and Installing Special Electronic Equipment” shall be followed except that the Special Equipment Contract (Including Installation), RUS Form 397, shall be used in all purchases of electronic equipment for field trials. In addition, the borrower and supplier shall execute three copies of a “Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial,” RUS Form 399, or a “Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial (Secondary—Delivery, Installation, Operation)”, RUS Form 399a, as well as three copies of the RUS Form 399b, “RUS Telecommunications Equipment Field Trial”, and forward them, together with three copies of the executed contract and specifications, to the Chief, Area Engineering Branch. A limited number of copies of RUS Forms 399, 399a, and 399b are available from RUS upon request from the Director, Administrative Services Division, Rural Utilities Service, Room 0175, South Building, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Additional copies may be reproduced by the user as needed. This category includes:
(i) Voice frequency repeaters;
(ii) Trunk carriers;
(iii) Subscriber carrier;
(iv) Point-to-point radio (Microwave);
(v) Coaxial cable system electronics;
(vi) Fiber optic cable system electronics;
(vii) Multiplex equipment;
(viii) Mobile and fixed radiotelephone; and
(ix) Other items of electronic equipment associated with transmission.
(2)
Central office equipment.
The procedure set forth in Bulletin 384-1 “Purchasing and Installing Central Office Equipment” shall be followed except that “The Central Office Equipment Contract (Including Installation)”, RUS Form 525, shall be used to purchase switching equipment for field trials. In addition, the borrower and supplier shall execute three copies of a “Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial,” RUS Form 399, or a “Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial (Secondary—Delivery, Installation, Operation)”, RUS Form 399a, as the case may be, as well as three copies of the RUS Form 399b, “RUS Telecommunications Equipment Field Trial”, and forward them, together with three copies of the executed contract and specification to the Chief, Area Engineering Branch. This category includes:
(i) Central office dial equipment;
(ii) Direct distance dialing equipment;
(iii) Automatic number identification equipment;
(iv) Line concentrators;
(v) Remote switching equipment; and
(vi) All other items of equipment associated with switching equipment, such as loop extenders.
(3) Protection equipment and materials, outside plant equipment and materials, and all other equipment and materials, which includes all items not covered in paragraph (j) (1) or (2) of this section, shall be handled as described in Bulletin 344-1 “Methods of Purchasing Materials and Equipment for Use on Systems of Telephone Borrowers” except that the borrower's purchase order form is to be used for purchasing materials and equipment in these categories. In addition, the borrower and supplier shall execute three copies of the “Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial,” RUS Form 399, or a “Supplemental Agreement to Equipment Contract for Field Trial (Secondary—Delivery, Installation, Operation)”, RUS Form 399a, as the case may be, as well as three copies of the RUS Form 399b, “RUS Telecommunications Field Trial”, and forward them, together
with three copies of the purchase order to the Chief, Area Engineering Branch.
(k) For all items except Electronic Central Office Equipment, suppliers and manufacturers must furnish warranties or guarantees satisfactory to RUS against the failure of the material and equipment used in the field trial. Terms of this warranty must not be less than the provisions of the standard warranty included in the “Telephone System Construction Contract”, RUS Form 515, or the warranty provided for similar materials and equipment included in the “List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telephone Systems of RUS Borrowers”, RUS Bulletin 344-2. In lieu of a warranty, materials and equipment are sometimes furnished to RUS borrowers on a reduced or no cost basis. Terms of such arrangements are subject to RUS approval and should be fully covered in field trial proposals forwarded by borrowers to the Chief, Area Engineering Branch for review and approval. For the purchase of electronic central office equipment, suppliers and manufacturers are to provide warranties as provided in the applicable RUS contract form: RUS Form 397 for electronic equipment and RUS Form 525 for central office equipment. Forms 399 and 399a, which apply to field trials of these devices, specify that the term of the warranty does not begin until the satisfactory conclusion of the field trial.
[49 FR 28394, July 12, 1984. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990]
§§ 1755.4-1755.25
[Reserved]
§ 1755.26
RUS standard contract forms.
(a) The standard loan agreement between RUS and its borrowers provides that, in accordance with applicable RUS regulations, borrowers shall use standard contract forms promulgated by RUS for construction, procurement, engineering services, and architectural services financed by a loan or guaranteed by RUS. This part implements these provisions of the RUS loan agreement and prescribes the procedures that RUS follows in promulgating standard contract forms that borrowers are required to use. Part 1753 prescribes when and how borrowers are required to use these standard forms of contracts.
(b)
Contract forms.
RUS promulgates standard contract forms, identified in § 1755.30(c), List of Standard Contract Forms, that borrowers are required to use.
[64 FR 6500, Feb. 10, 1999]
§ 1755.27
Borrower contractual obligations.
(a)
Loan agreement.
As a condition of a loan or loan guaranteed under the RE Act, borrowers are normally required to enter into RUS loan agreements pursuant to which the borrowers agree to use RUS standard contract forms for construction, procurement, engineering services, and architectural services financed in whole or in part by the RUS loan. To comply with the provisions of the loan agreements as implemented by this part, borrowers must use those contract forms identified in the list of telecommunications standard contract forms, set forth in § 1755.30(c) of this part.
(b)
Compliance.
(1) If a borrower is required by part 1753 to use a listed contract form, the borrower shall use the listed contract form in the format available from RUS. The forms shall not be retyped, changed, modified, or altered in any manner not specifically authorized in this part or approved by RUS in writing. Any modifications approved by RUS must be clearly shown so as to indicate the difference from the listed contract form.
(2) The borrower may use electronic reproductions of a contract form if the contract documents submitted for RUS approval are exact reproductions of the RUS form and include the following certification by the borrower: I (Insert name of the person.), certify that the attached (Insert name of the contract form.), between (Insert name of the parties.), dated (Insert contract date.) is an exact reproduction of RUS Form (Insert form number), dated (Insert date of RUS form).
(Signature)
(Title)
(Employer's Address)
(c)
Amendment.
Where a borrower has entered into a contract in the form required by 7 CFR part 1753, no change may be made in the terms of the contract, by amendment, waiver or otherwise, without the prior written approval of RUS.
(d)
Waiver.
RUS may waive for good cause, on a case-by-case basis, the requirements imposed on a borrower pursuant to this part. Borrowers seeking an RUS waiver must provide RUS with a written request explaining the need for the waiver.
(e)
Violations.
A failure on the part of the borrower to use listed contracts as prescribed in 7 CFR part 1753 is a violation of the terms of the loan agreement with RUS and RUS may exercise any and all remedies available under the terms of the agreement or otherwise.
[64 FR 6500, Feb. 10, 1999]
§ 1755.28
Notice and publication of listed contract forms.
(a)
Notice.
Upon initially entering a loan agreement with RUS, borrowers will be provided with all listed contract forms. Thereafter, new or revised listed contract forms promulgated by RUS, including RUS approved exceptions and alternatives, will be sent by regular or electronic mail to the borrower's address as identified in its loan agreement with RUS.
(b)
Availability.
Listed contract forms are published by RUS. Interested parties may obtain the forms from the Rural Utilities Service, Program Development and Regulatory Analysis, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Stop 1522, Washington DC 20250-1522, telephone number (202) 720-8674. The list of contract forms can be found in § 1755.30(c).
[64 FR 6500, Feb. 10, 1999]
§ 1755.29
Promulgation of new or revised contract forms.
RUS may, from time to time, promulgate new contract forms or revise or eliminate existing contract forms. In so doing, RUS shall publish a notice of rulemaking in the
Federal Register
announcing, as appropriate, a revision in, or a proposal to amend § 1755.30(c), List of telecommunications standard contract forms. The amendment may change the existing identification of a listed contract form by, for example, changing the issuance date of the listed contract form or identifying a new required contract form. The notice of rulemaking will describe the new standard contract form or substantive change in the listed contract form, as the case may be, and the issues involved. The standard contract form or relevant portions thereof may be appended to the supplementary information section of the notice of rulemaking. As appropriate, the notice of rulemaking shall provide an opportunity for interested persons to provide comments. RUS shall send, by regular or electronic mail, a copy of each such
Federal Register
document to all borrowers.
[64 FR 6500, Feb. 10, 1999]
§ 1755.30
List of telecommunications standard contract forms.
(a)
General.
The following is a list of RUS telecommunications program standard contract forms for procurement, construction, engineering services, and architectural services. Borrowers are required to use these contract forms by the terms of their RUS loan agreements implemented by part 1753 and this part.
(b)
Issuance Date.
Where part 1753 requires the use of a standard contract form in connection with RUS financing, the borrower shall use the appropriate form identified in § 1755.30(c), List of Telecommunications Standard Contract Forms, published as of the date the borrower releases the plans and specifications to solicit bids or price quotes.
(c)
List of telecommunications standard contract forms.
(1) RUS Form 157, issued 10-77, Construction Work Plan and cost Distribution—Telephone.
(2) RUS Form 158, issued 10-77, Certification of Contract or Force Account Approval.
(3) RUS Form 159, issued 10-77, Summary of Completed Construction.
(4) RUS Form 168b, issued 2-04, Contractor's Bond.
(5) RUS Form 168c, issued 2-04, Contractor's Bond.
(6) RUS Form 181a, issued 3-66, Certificate of Completion (Force Account Construction).
(7) RUS Form 187, issued 2-04, Certificate of Completion, Contract Construction.
(8) RUS Form 213, issued 2-04, Certificate (Buy American).
(9) RUS Form 216, issued 7-67, Construction Change Order.
(10) RUS Form 217, issued 3-97, Postloan Engineering Services Contract—Telecommunications Systems.
(11) RUS Form 220, issued 6-98, Architectural Services Contract.
(12) RUS Form 224, issued 2-04, Waiver and Release of Lien.
(13) RUS Form 231, issued 2-04, Certificate of Contractor.
(14) RUS Form 238, issued 2-04, Construction or Equipment Contract Amendment.
(15) RUS Form 242, issued 11-58, Assignment of Engineering Service Contract.
(16) RUS Form 245, issued 11-75, Engineering Services Contract, Special Services—Telephone.
(17) RUS Form 257, issued 2-04, Contract to Construct Buildings.
(18) RUS Form 257a, issued 10-69, Contractor's Bond.
(19) RUS Form 274, issued 6-81, Bidder's Qualifications.
(20) RUS Form 276, issued 5-59, Bidder's Qualifications for Buried Plant Construction.
(21) RUS Form 281 issued 5-61, Tabulation of Materials Furnished by Borrower.
(22) RUS Form 282, issued 11-53, Subcontract (Under Construction or Equipment Contracts).
(23) RUS Form 284, issued 4-72, Final Statement of Cost for Architectural Service and Certificate of Architect.
(24) RUS Form 307, issued 2-04, Bid Bond.
(25) RUS Form 395, October 18, 2016, Equipment Contract.
(26) RUS Form 395a, October 18, 2016, Equipment Contract Certificate of Completion (Including Installation).
(27) RUS Form 395b, October 18, 2016, Equipment Contract Certificate of Completion (Not Including Installation).
(28) RUS Form 395c, October 18, 2016, Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement.
(29) RUS Form 395d, October 18, 2016, Results of Acceptance Tests.
(30) RUS Form 506, issued 3-97, Statement of Engineering Fee—Telecommunications.
(31) RUS Form 515, issued September 17, 2001, Telecommunications Systems Construction Contract (Labor and Materials).
(32) RUS Form 526, issued 8-66, Construction Contract Amendment.
(33) RUS Form 527, issued 3-71, Statement of Construction, Telephone System “Outside Plant”.
(34) RUS Form 553, issued 5-67, Check List for Review of Plans and Specifications.
(35) RUS Form 724, issued 10-63, Final Inventory, Telephone Construction Contract.
(36) RUS Form 724a, issued 4-61, Final Inventory, Telephone Construction—Telephone Construction Contract (Labor and Materials), columns 1-8.
(37) RUS Form 724b, issued 3-61, Final Inventory, Telephone Construction Contract (Labor and Materials), columns 9-14.
(38) RUS Form 771, issued 10-75, Summary of Work Orders (Inspected by RUS Field Engineer).
(39) RUS Form 771a, issued 10-75, Summary of Work Orders (Inspected by Licensed Engineer or Borrower's Staff Engineer).
(40) RUS Form 773, issued 12-90, Miscellaneous Construction Work and Maintenance Services Contract.
(41) RUS Form 787, issued 8-63, Supplement A to Construction Contract.
(42) RUS Form 817, issued 6-60, Final Inventory, Telephone Force Account Construction.
(43) RUS Form 817a, issued 6-60, Final Inventory, Telephone Force Account Construction, columns 1-8.
(44) RUS Form 817b, issued 6-60, Final Inventory, Telephone Force Account Construction, Columns 9-14.
(45) RUS Form 835, issued 3-66, Preloan Engineering Service Contract, Telephone System Design.
[64 FR 6501, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 53887, Oct. 5, 1999; 65 FR 51750, Aug. 25, 2000; 69 FR 7111, Feb. 13, 2004; 81 FR 71585, Oct. 18, 2016]
§§ 1755.31-1755.96
[Reserved]
§ 1755.97
Telephone standards and specifications.
(a)(1) Certain material is incorporated by reference into this part with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. This material is available for inspection at the Rural Utilities Service (RUS) and at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). Contact the RUS at: 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Washington, DC, 202-692-0042; email:
comments@usda.gov;
Telephone number: 202-692-0042;
https://www.rd.usda.gov/resources/regulations/bulletins.
For information on the availability of this material at NARA, email:
fr.inspection@nara.gov,
or go to:
www.archives.gov/federal-register/cfr/ibr-locations.html.
The material may be obtained from the following source(s):
(2) To comply with the provisions of this part, you must follow the requirements set out in the RUS telecommunications bulletins incorporated by reference. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval and notification of any change in these materials will be published in the
Federal Register.
The terms “RUS form”, “RUS standard form”, “RUS specification”, and “RUS bulletin” have the same meaning as the terms “REA form”, “REA standards form”, “REA specification”, and “REA bulletin”, respectively, unless otherwise indicated. For information on other standards incorporated by reference into this part see § 1755.901.
(b) Rural Utilities Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Room 5170-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250,
https://www.rd.usda.gov/publications/regulations-guidelines/bulletins.
(1) Bulletin 345-39, RUS specification for telephone station protectors, August 19, 1985.
(2) Bulletin 345-50 PE-60, RUS specification for trunk carrier systems, September 1979.
(3) Bulletin 345-54 PE-52, RUS specification for telephone cable splicing connectors, December 1971.
(4) Bulletin 345-55 PE-61, RUS specification for central office loop extenders and loop extender voice frequency repeater combinations, December 1973.
(5) Bulletin 345-65, PE-65, Specification for shield bonding connectors, March 22, 1985.
(6) Bulletin 345-66 PE-64, RUS specification for subscriber carrier systems, September 1979.
(7) Bulletin 345-69 PE-29, RUS specification for two-wire voice frequency repeater equipment, January 1978.
(8) Bulletin 345-72 PE-74, RUS specification for filled splice closures, October 1985.
(9) Bulletin 345-78 PE-78, RUS specification for carbon arrester assemblies for use in protectors, February 1980.
(10) Bulletin 345-180 Form 397a, RUS specifications for voice frequency repeaters and voice frequency repeatered trunks, January 1963.
(11) Bulletin 345-183 Form 397d, RUS design specifications for point-to-point microwave radio systems June 1970.
(12) Bulletin 345-184 Form 397e, RUS design specifications for mobile and fixed dial radio telephone equipment May 1971.
(13) Bulletin 1728F-700, RUS Specification for Wood Poles, Stubs and Anchor Logs, April 18, 2022.
(14) Bulletin 1753F-150 Form 515a, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Direct Buried Plant, September 30, 2010.
(15) Bulletin 1753F-151 Form 515b, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Underground Plan, September 12, 2001.
(16) Bulletin 1753F-152 Form 515c, Specifications and Drawings for Construction of Aerial Plant, September 17, 2001.
(17) Bulletin 1753F-153 Form 515d, Specifications and Drawings for Service Installation at Customer Access Locations, September 17, 2001.
[84 FR 28201, June 18, 2019, as amended at 86 FR 57022, Oct. 14, 2021; 87 FR 26963, May 6, 2022]
§ 1755.98
List of telecommunications specifications included in other 7 CFR parts.
The following specifications are included throughout 7 CFR chapter XVII. These specifications are not incorporated by reference elsewhere in the chapter. The terms “RUS form,” “RUS
standard form,” “RUS specification,” and “RUS bulletin” have the same meaning as the terms “REA form,” “REA standard form,” “REA specification,” and “REA bulletin,” respectively, unless otherwise indicated. The list of specifications follows:
Section
Issue date
Title
(a) 1728.202
4.18.2022
RUS Specification for Quality Control and Inspection of Timber Products.
(b) [Reserved]
[55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 84 FR 28201, June 18, 2019; 86 FR 57022, Oct. 14, 2021; 87 FR 26963, May 6, 2022]
§§ 1755.99-1755.199
[Reserved]
§ 1755.200
RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
(a)
Scope.
(1) This section describes approved methods for splicing plastic insulated copper and fiber optic cables. Typical applications of these methods include aerial, buried, and underground splices.
(2) American National Standard Institute/National Fire Protection Association (ANSI/NFPA) 70, 1993 National Electrical Code (NEC) referenced in this section is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A copy of the ANSI/NFPA 1993 NEC standard is available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2845, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies are available from NFPA, Batterymarch Park, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555.
(3) American National Standard Institute/Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (ANSI/IEEE), 1993 National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) referenced in this section is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. A copy of the ANSI/IEEE 1993 NESC standard is available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2845, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies are available from IEEE Service Center, 455 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, telephone number 1 (800) 678-4333.
(b)
General.
(1) Only Rural Utilities Service (RUS) accepted filled cable and splicing materials shall be used on outside plant projects financed by RUS.
(2) The installation instructions provided by the manufacturer of splicing materials shall be followed except where those instructions conflict with the procedures specified in this section.
(3) Precautions shall be taken to prevent the ingress of moisture and other contaminants during all phases of the splicing installation. When an uncompleted splice must be left unattended, it shall be sealed to prevent the ingress of moisture and other contaminants.
(4) Minor sheath damage during construction may be repaired if the repair is completed immediately and approved by the borrower's resident project representative. Minor damage is typically repaired by:
(i) Scuffing the cable sheath associated with the damaged area;
(ii) Applying several layers of DR tape over the scuffed and damaged area;
(iii) Applying several layers of plastic tape over the DR tape; and
(iv) If damage is severe enough to rupture the cable shield, a splice closure shall be installed.
(5) All splice cases installed on RUS toll trunk and feeder cables shall be filled, whether aerial, buried, or underground.
(c)
Splicing considerations for copper cables
—(1)
Preconstruction testing.
It is desirable that each reel of cable be tested for grounds, opens, shorts, crosses, and shield continuity before the cable is installed. However, manufacturer supplied test results are acceptable. All cable pairs shall be free from electrical defects.
(2)
Handling precautions.
The cable manufacturer's instructions concerning pulling tension and bending radius shall be observed. Unless the cable manufacturer's recommendation is more stringent, the minimum bending radius shall be 10 times the cable diameter for copper cables and 20 times the cable diameter for fiber optic cables.
(3)
Cable sheath removal.
(i) The length of cable sheath to be removed shall be governed by the type of splicing hardware used. Follow the splice case manufacturer's recommendations. For pedestals or large pair count splice housings, consider removing enough cable sheath to allow the conductors to extend to the top of the pedestal and then to hang downward to approximately 15 centimeters (cm) (6 inches (in.)) above the baseplate.
(ii) Caution shall be exercised to avoid damaging the conductor insulation when cutting through the cable shield and removing the shield. Sharp edges and burrs shall be removed from the cut end of the shield.
(4)
Shield bonding and grounding.
For personnel safety, the shields of the cables to be spliced shall be bonded together and grounded before splicing activities are started. (See paragraphs (g)(2), and (g)(5)(i) through (g)(5)(iii) of this section for final bonding and grounding provisions.)
(5)
Binder group identification.
(i) Color coded plastic tie wraps shall be placed loosely around each binder group of cables before splicing operations are attempted. The tie wraps shall be installed as near the cable sheath as practicable and shall conform to the same color designations as the binder ribbons. Twisted wire pigtails shall not be used to identify binder groups due to potential transmission degradation.
(ii) The standard insulation color code used to identify individual cable pairs within 25-pair binder groups shall be as shown in Table 1:
Table 1—Cable Pair Identification Within Binder Groups
Pair No.
Color
Tip
Ring
1
White
Blue.
2
White
Orange.
3
White
Green.
4
White
Brown.
5
White
Slate.
6
Red
Blue.
7
Red
Orange.
8
Red
Green.
9
Red
Brown.
10
Red
Slate.
11
Black
Blue.
12
Black
Orange.
13
Black
Green.
14
Black
Brown.
15
Black
Slate.
16
Yellow
Blue.
17
Yellow
Orange.
18
Yellow
Green.
19
Yellow
Brown.
20
Yellow
Slate.
21
Violet
Blue.
22
Violet
Orange.
23
Violet
Green.
24
Violet
Brown.
25
Violet
Slate.
(iii) The standard binder ribbon color code used to designate 25-pair binder groups within 600-pair super units shall be as shown in Table 2:
Table 2—Cable Binder Group Identification
Group No.
Color of bindings
Group pair count
1
White-Blue
1-25
2
White-Orange
26-50
3
White-Green
51-75
4
White-Brown
76-100
5
White-Slate
101-125
6
Red-Blue
126-150
7
Red-Orange
151-175
8
Red-Green
176-200
9
Red-Brown
201-225
10
Red-Slate
226-250
11
Black-Blue
251-275
12
Black-Orange
276-300
13
Black-Green
301-325
14
Black-Brown
326-350
15
Black-Slate
351-375
16
Yellow-Blue
376-400
17
Yellow-Orange
401-425
18
Yellow-Green
426-450
19
Yellow-Brown
451-475
20
Yellow-Slate
476-500
21
Violet-Blue
501-525
22
Violet-Orange
526-550
23
Violet-Green
551-575
24
Violet-Brown
576-600
(iv) Super-unit binder groups shall be identified in accordance with Table 3:
Table 3—Super-Unit Binder Colors
Pair numbers
Binder color
1-600
White.
601-1200
Red.
1201-1800
Black.
1801-2400
Yellow.
2401-3000
Violet.
3001-3600
Blue.
3601-4200
Orange.
4201-4800
Green.
4801-5400
Brown.
5401-6000
Slate.
(v) Service pairs in screened cables shall be identified in accordance with Table 4:
Table 4—Screened Cable Service Pair Identification
Service pair No.
Color
Tip
Ring
1
White
Red.
2
White
Black.
3
White
Yellow.
4
White
Violet.
Red
Black.
6
Red
Yellow.
7
Red
Violet.
8
Black
Yellow.
9
Black
Violet.
(6)
Cleaning conductors.
It is not necessary to remove the filling compound from cable conductors before splicing. However, it is permissible to wipe individual conductors with clean paper towels or clean cloth rags. No cleaning chemicals, etc., shall be used. Caution shall be exercised to maintain individual cable pair and binder group identity. Binder group identity shall be maintained by using color coded plastic tie wraps. Individual pair identification shall be maintained by carefully twisting together the two conductors of each pair.
(7)
Expanded plastic insulated conductor (PIC) precautions.
Solid PIC and expanded (foam or foam skin) PIC are spliced in the same manner, using the same tools and materials and, in general, should be treated the same. However, the insulation on expanded PIC is much more fragile than solid PIC. Twisting or forming expanded PIC into extremely compact splice bundles and applying excessive amounts of tension when tightening tie wraps causes shiners and, thus shall be avoided.
(8)
Splice connectors.
(i) Only RUS accepted filled splice connectors shall be used on outside plant projects financed by RUS.
(ii) Specialized connectors are available for splicing operations such as butt splices, in line splices, bridge taps, clearing and capping, and multiple pair splicing operations. The splice connector manufacturer's recommendations shall be followed concerning connector selection and use.
(iii) Caution shall be exercised to maintain conductor and pair association both during and after splicing operations.
(iv) Splicing operations that involve pairs containing working services shall utilize splice connectors that permit splicing without the interruption of service.
(9)
Piecing out conductors.
Conductors may be pieced-out to provide additional slack or to repair damaged conductors. However, the conductors shall be pieced-out with conductors having the same gauge and type and color of insulation. The conductors used for piecing-out shall be from cables having RUS acceptance.
(10)
Splice organization.
Spliced pair bundles shall be arranged in firm lay-ups with minimum conductor tension in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
(11)
Binder tape.
Perforated nonhygroscopic and nonwicking binder tape should be applied to splices housed in filled splice cases. The binder tape allows the flow of filling compound while holding the splice bundles near the center of the splice case to allow adequate coverage of filling compound.
(12)
Cable tags.
Cables shall be identified by a tag indicating the cable manufacturer's name, cable size, date of placement, and generic route information. Information susceptible to changes caused by future cable throws and rearrangements should not be included. Tags on load coil stubs shall include the serial number of the coil
case, the manufacturer's name, and the inductance value.
(13)
Screened cable.
Screened PIC cable is spliced in the same manner as nonscreened PIC cable. However, special considerations are necessary due to differences in the cable design. The transmit and receive bundles of the cable shall be separated and one of the bundles shall be wrapped with shielding material in accordance with the cable manufacturer's recommendations. When acceptable to the cable manufacturer, it is permissible to use either the scrap screening tape removed from the cable during the sheath opening process provided the screening tape is edge coated or new pressure sensitive aluminum foil tape over polyethylene tape.
(14)
Service wire connections.
(i) Buried service wires may be spliced directly to cable conductors inside pedestals using the same techniques required for branch cables. Buried service wires may also be terminated on terminal blocks inside pedestals in areas where high service order activity or fixed count cable administration policies require terminal blocks. However, only RUS accepted terminal blocks equipped with grease or gel filled terminations to provide moisture and corrosion resistance shall be used.
(ii) Only filled terminal blocks having RUS acceptance shall be used on aerial service wire connections.
(15)
Copper cable testing.
Copper cable testing shall be performed in accordance with RUS Bulletin 345-63, “RUS Standard for Acceptance Tests and Measurements of Telephone Plant,” PC-4, (Incorporated by reference at § 1755.97).
(16)
Cable acceptance.
Installed cable shall be tested and pass the inventory and acceptance testing specified in the Telephone System Construction Contract (Labor and Materials), RUS Form 515. The tests and inspections shall be witnessed by the borrower's resident project representative. All conductors shall be free from grounds, shorts, crosses, splits, and opens.
(d)
Splice arrangements for copper cables
—(1)
Service distribution closures.
(i) Ready access closures permit cable splicing activities and the installation of filled terminal blocks for service wire connections in the same closure. Ready access designs shall allow service technicians direct access to the cable core as well as the terminal block.
(ii) Fixed count terminals shall restrict service technician access to the cable core. Predetermined cable pairs shall be spliced to the terminal leads or stub cable in advance of service assignments.
(2)
Aerial splices.
Aerial splice cases accommodate straight splices, branch splices, load coils, and service distribution terminals. Aerial splicing arrangements having more than 4 cables spliced in the same splice case are not recommended. Stub cabling to a second splice case to avoid a congested splice is acceptable.
(3)
Buried splices.
(i) Direct buried splice cases accommodate straight splices, branch splices, and load coils. Direct buried splices shall be filled and shall be used only when above ground splicing in pedestals is not practicable.
(ii) A treated plank or equivalent shall be placed 15 cm (6 in.) above the buried splice case to prevent damage to the splice case from future digging. Where a firm base for burying a splice cannot be obtained, a treated plank or equivalent shall be placed beneath the splice case.
(iii) Each buried splice shall be identified for future locating. One method of marking the splice point is the use of a warning sign. Another method is the burying of an electronic locating device.
(4)
BD-type pedestals.
(i) BD-type pedestals are housings primarily intended to house, organize, and protect cable terminations incorporating splice connectors, ground lugs, and load coils. Activities typically performed in pedestals are cable splicing, shield bonding and grounding, loading, and connection of subscriber service drops.
(ii) The recommended splice capacities for BD-type pedestals are shown in Table 5. However, larger size pedestals are permissible if service requirements dictate their usefulness. Table 5 is as follows:
Table 5—Splice Capacities for BD-Type Pedestals
Pedestal type
Maximum straight splice pair capacity using single pair connectors or multiple pair splice modules
Maximum load splice pair capacity using single pair connectors or multiple pair splice modules (see note 1)
BD3, BD3A
100 Pair
50 Pair.
BD4, BD4A
200 Pair
100 Pair.
BD5, BD5A
600 Pair
300 Pair.
BD7
1200 Pair
600 Pair.
BD14, BD14A
100 Pair
50 Pair.
BD15, BD15A
400 Pair
200 Pair.
BD16, BD16A
600 Pair
300 Pair.
Note 1: This table refers to load coil cases that are to be direct buried with stub cables extending into the pedestal for splicing. Requirements involving individual coil arrangements inside the pedestal should be engineered on a case-by-case basis.
(iii) Special distribution pedestals having a divider plate for mounting filled terminal blocks are available. Distribution pedestals are also equipped with service wire channels for installation of buried service wires without disturbing the cabling and gravel inside the base of the pedestal. Distribution pedestals are recommended in locations where the connection of service wires is required.
(5)
Large pair count splice housings.
Large pair count splice housings are recommended for areas not suitable for man- holes. The recommended capacities are shown in Table 6:
Table 6—Splice Capacities for Large Count Housings
Housing type
Maximum straight splice pair capacity using single pair connectors or multiple pair splice modules
Maximum load splice pair capacity using single pair connectors or multiple pair splice modules (see note 1)
BD 6000
6,000 Pair
3,000 Pair.
BD 8000
8,000 Pair
4,000 Pair.
BD 10000
10,000 Pair
5,000 Pair.
(6)
Pedestal restricted access inserts.
Restricted access inserts may be used to protect splices susceptible to unnecessary handling where subsequent work activities are required or expected to occur after splices have been completed. Restricted access inserts also provide moisture protection in areas susceptible to temporary flooding. A typical restricted access insert is shown in Figure 1:
ER26JA95.002
(7)
Serving Area Interface (SAI) Systems.
SAI systems provide the cross-connect point between feeder and distribution cables. Connection of feeder to distribution pairs is accomplished by placing jumpers between connecting blocks. Only RUS accepted connecting blocks having grease or gel filled terminations to provide moisture and corrosion resistance shall be used.
(8)
Buried cable splicing arrangements.
Typical buried cable splicing arrangements are illustrated in Figures 2 through 5:
ER26JA95.003
ER26JA95.004
ER26JA95.005
ER26JA95.006
(9)
Underground splices (manholes).
Underground splice cases accommodate straight splices, branch splices, and load coils. Underground splices shall be filled.
(10)
Central office tip cable splices.
(i) Filled cable or filled splices are not recommended for use inside central offices, except in cable vault locations. Outside plant cable sheath and cable filling compound are susceptible to fire and will support combustion. Fire, smoke, and gases generated by these materials during burning are detrimental to telephone switching equipment.
(ii) Tip cables should be spliced in a cable vault. However, as a last resort, tip cables may be spliced inside a central office if flame retardant splice cases or a noncombustible central office splice housing is used to contain the splice.
(iii) Splices inside the central office shall be made as close as practical to
the point where the outside plant cables enter the building. Except in cable vault locations, outside plant cables within the central office shall be wrapped with fireproof tape or enclosed in noncombustible conduit.
(e)
Splicing considerations for fiber optic cables
—(1)
Connection characteristics.
Splicing efficiency between optical fibers is a function of light loss across the fiber junctions measured in decibels (dB). A loss of 0.2 dB in a splice corresponds to a light transmission efficiency of approximately 95.5 percent.
(2)
Fiber core alignment.
Fiber splicing techniques shall be conducted in such a manner that the cores of the fibers will be aligned as perfectly as possible to allow maximum light transmission from one fiber to the next. Without proper alignment, light will leave the fiber core and travel through the fiber cladding. Light outside the fiber core is not a usable light signal. Core misalignment is illustrated in Figure 6:
ER26JA95.007
(3)
Splice loss.
(i) Splice loss can also be caused by fiber defects such as nonidentical core diameters, cores not in center of the fiber, and noncircular cores. Such defects are depicted in Figure 7:
ER26JA95.008
(ii) Undesirable splice losses are caused by poor splicing techniques including splicing irregularities such as improper cleaves and dirty splices. Typical cleave problems are illustrated in Figure 8:
ER26JA95.009
(4)
Handling precautions.
The following precautions shall be observed:
(i) Avoid damaging the cable during handling operations prior to splicing. Minor damage may change the transmission characteristics of the fibers to the extent that the cable section will have to be replaced;
(ii) The cable manufacturer's recommendations concerning pulling tension shall be observed. The maximum pulling tension for most fiber optic cable is 2669 newtons (600 pound-force);
(iii) The cable manufacturer's recommendations concerning bending radius shall be observed. Unless the cable manufacturer's recommendation is more stringent, the minimum bending radius for fiber optic cable shall be 20 times the cable diameter;
(iv) The cable manufacturer's recommendations concerning buffer tube bending radius shall be observed. Unless the cable manufacturer's recommendation is more stringent, the minimum bending radius for buffer tubes is usually between 38 millimeters (mm) (1.5 in.) and 76 mm (3.0 in.). The bending limitations on buffer tubes are intended to prevent kinking. Buffer tube kinking may cause excessive optical loss or fiber breakage; and
(v) Handle unprotected glass fibers carefully to avoid introducing flaws such as scratched or broken fibers.
(5)
Personnel safety.
The following safety precautions shall be observed:
(i) Safety glasses shall be worn when handling glass fibers;
(ii) Never view open-ended fibers with the naked eye or a magnifying device. Improper viewing of a fiber end that is transmitting light may cause irreparable eye damage; and
(iii) Dispose of bare scrap fibers by using the sticky side of a piece of tape to pick up and discard loose fiber ends. Fiber scraps easily penetrate the skin and are difficult to remove.
(6)
Equipment requirements.
(i) Fiber optic splices shall be made in areas where temperature, humidity, and cleanliness can be controlled. Both fusion and mechanical splicing techniques may require a splicing vehicle equipped with a work station that will allow environmental control.
(ii) Both fusion and mechanical splicing techniques are permitted on RUS financed projects. When using the mechanical splicing technique, only RUS accepted mechanical fiber optic splice connectors can be used.
(iii) Fusion splicing machines shall be kept in proper working condition. Regular maintenance in accordance with the machine manufacturer's recommendations shall be observed.
(iv) Mechanical splicing tools shall be in conformance with the tool manufacturer's recommendations.
(v) An optical time domain reflectometer (OTDR) shall be used for testing splices. The OTDR shall be stationed at the central office or launch point for testing individual splices as they are made and for end-to-end signature tests for the fiber optic link.
(vi) An optical power meter shall be used for end-to-end cable acceptance tests.
(vii) A prerequisite for the successful completion of a fiber optic splicing endeavor is the presence of a talk circuit between the splicing technician in the splicing vehicle and the operator of the OTDR in the central office. The splicing technician and the OTDR operator shall have access to communications with each other in order to inform each other as to:
(A) Which splices meet the loss objectives;
(B) The sequence in which buffer tubes and fibers are to be selected for subsequent splicing operations; and
(C) The timing required for the performance of OTDR testing to prevent making an OTDR test at the same time a splice is being fused.
(7)
Cable preparation.
(i) Engineering work prints shall prescribe the cable slack needed at splice points to reach the work station inside the splicing vehicle. Consideration should be given to the slack required for future maintenance activity as well as initial construction activities. The required slack may be different for each splice point, depending on the site logistics. However, the required slack is seldom less than 15 meters (50 feet). The amount of slack actually used shall be recorded for each splice point to assist future maintenance and restoration efforts.
(ii) The splice case manufacturer's recommendations concerning the amount of cable sheath to be removed shall be followed to facilitate splicing operations. The length of the sheath opening shall be identified with a wrap of plastic tape.
(iii) If the cable contains a rip cord, the cable jacket shall be ring cut approximately 15 cm (6 in.) from the end and the 15 cm (6 in.) of cable jacket shall be removed to expose the rip cord. The rip cord shall be used to slit the jacket to the tape mark.
(iv) If the cable does not contain a rip cord, the cable jacket shall be slit using a sheath splitter. No cuts shall be made into the cable core nor shall the buffer tubes be damaged.
(v) If the cable contains an armor sheath, the outer jacket shall be opened along the slit and the jacket shall be removed exposing the armor sheath. The armor shall be separated at the seam and pulled from the cable exposing the inner jacket. The armor shall be removed making allowances for a shield bond connector. The inner sheath shall be slit using a sheath splitter or rip cord. The cable core shall not be damaged nor shall there be any damage to the buffer tubes. The jacket shall be peeled back and cut at the end of the slit. The exposed buffer tubes shall not be cut, kinked, or bent.
(vi) After the cable sheath has been removed, the binder tape shall be removed from the cable. The cable shall not be crushed or deformed.
(vii) The buffer tubes shall be unstranded one at a time. The buffer tubes shall not be kinked.
(viii) If the cable is equipped with a strength member, the strength member shall be cut to the length recommended by the splice case manufacturer.
(ix) Each buffer tube shall be inspected for kinks, cuts, and flat spots. If damage is detected, an additional length of cable jacket shall be removed and all of the buffer tubes shall be cut off at the point of damage.
(x) The cable preparation sequence shall be repeated for the other cable end.
(8)
Shield bonding and grounding.
For personnel safety, the shields and metallic strength members of the cables to be spliced shall be bonded together and grounded before splicing activities are started. (See paragraphs (g)(4), and (g)(5)(i) through (g)(5)(iii) of this section for final bonding and grounding provisions).
(9)
Fiber optic color code.
The standard fiber optic color code for buffer tubes and individual fibers shall be as shown in Table 7:
Table 7—Fiber and Buffer Tube Identification
Buffer tube and fiber No.
Color
1
Blue.
2
Orange.
3
Green.
4
Brown.
5
Slate.
6
White.
7
Red.
8
Black.
9
Yellow.
10
Violet.
11
Rose.
12
Aqua.
13
Blue/Black Tracer.
14
Orange/Black Tracer.
15
Green/Black Tracer.
16
Brown/Black Tracer.
17
Slate/Black Tracer.
18
White/Black Tracer.
19
Red/Black Tracer.
20
Black/Yellow Tracer.
21
Yellow/Black Tracer.
22
Violet/Black Tracer.
23
Rose/Black Tracer.
24
Aqua/Black Tracer.
(10)
Buffer tube removal.
(i) The splice case manufacturer's recommendation shall be followed concerning the total length of buffer tube to be removed. Identify the length to be removed with plastic tape.
(ii) Experiment with a scrap buffer tube to determine the cutting tool adjustment required to ring cut a buffer tube without damaging the fibers.
(iii) Buffer tubes shall be removed by carefully ring cutting and removing approximately 15 to 46 cm (6 to 18 in.) of buffer tube at a time. The process shall be repeated until the required length of buffer tube has been removed, including the tape identification marker.
(11)
Coated fiber cleaning.
(i) Each coated fiber shall be cleaned. The cable manufacturer's recommendations shall be followed concerning the solvent required to clean the coated fibers. Reagent grade isopropyl alcohol is a commonly used cleaning solvent.
(ii) A tissue or cotton ball shall be soaked in the recommended cleaning solvent and the coated fibers shall be carefully wiped one at a time using a clean tissue or cotton ball for each coated fiber. Caution shall be exercised to avoid removing the coloring agent from the fiber coating.
(12)
Fiber coating removal.
(i) Fiber coatings shall be removed. In accordance with the splicing method used, the splice case manufacturer's recommendation shall be followed concerning the length of fiber coating to be removed.
(ii) The recommended length of fiber coating shall be removed only on the two fibers to be spliced. Fiber coating removal shall be performed on a one-fiber-at-a-time basis as each splice is prepared.
(13)
Bare fiber cleaning.
After the fiber coating has been removed, the bare fibers shall be cleaned prior to splicing. Each fiber shall be wiped with a clean tissue or cotton ball soaked with the cleaning solvent recommended by the cable manufacturer. The bare fiber shall be wiped one time to minimize fiber damage. Aggressive wiping of bare fiber shall be avoided as it lowers the fiber tensile strength.
(14)
Fiber cleaving.
Cleaving tools shall be clean and have sharp cutting edges to minimize fiber scratches and improper cleave angles. Cleaving tools that are recommended by the manufacturer of the splicing system shall be used.
(15)
Cleaved fiber handling.
The cleaved and cleaned fiber shall not be allowed to touch other objects and
shall be inserted into the splicing device.
(16)
Completion of the splice.
(i) In accordance with the method of splicing selected by the borrower, the splice shall be completed by either fusing the splice or by applying the mechanical connector.
(ii) Each spliced fiber shall be routed through the organizer tray one at a time as splices are completed. The fibers shall be organized one at a time to prevent tangled spliced fibers. The splice case manufacturer's recommendation shall be followed concerning the splice tray selection.
(17)
Fiber optic testing.
Fiber optic testing shall be performed in accordance with RUS Bulletin 345-63, “RUS Standard for Acceptance Tests and Measurements of Telephone Plant,” PC-4, (Incorporated by reference at § 1755.97).
(18)
Cable acceptance.
Installed cable shall be tested and pass the inventory and acceptance testing specified in the Telephone System Construction Contract (Labor and Materials), RUS Form 515. The tests and inspections shall be witnessed by the borrower's resident project representative.
(f)
Splice arrangements for fiber optic cables
—(1)
Aerial splices.
Cable slack at aerial splices shall be stored either on the messenger strand, on the pole, or inside a pedestal at the base of the pole. A typical arrangement for the storage of slack cable at aerial splices is shown in Figure 9:
ER26JA95.010
(2)
Buried splices.
Buried splices shall be installed in handholes to accommodate the splice case and the required splicing slack. An alternative to the handhole is a pedestal specifically designed for fiber optic splice cases. Typical arrangements for buried cable splices are shown in Figures 10 and 11:
ER26JA95.011
ER26JA95.012
(3)
Underground manhole splices.
Underground splices shall be stored in manholes on cable hooks and racks fastened to the manhole wall. The cable slack shall be stored on cable hooks and racks as shown in Figure 12:
ER26JA95.013
(4)
Central office cable entrance.
(i) Filled cable or filled splices are not recommended for use inside central offices except in cable vault locations. Outside plant cable sheath and cable filling compound are susceptible to fire and will support combustion. Fire, smoke, and gases generated by these materials during burning are detrimental to telephone switching equipment.
(ii) As a first choice, the outside plant fiber optic cable shall be spliced to an all-dielectric fire retardant cable in a cable vault with the all-dielectric cable extending into the central office and terminating inside a fiber patch panel.
(iii) As a second choice, the outside plant cable may be spliced inside the central office if a flame retardant fiber optic splice case or a noncombustible central office splice housing equipped with organizer trays is used to contain the splice.
(iv) In cases referenced in paragraphs (f)(4)(ii) and (f)(4)(iii) of this section, as a minimum the fire retardant all-dielectric cable used to provide the connection between the cable entrance splice and the fiber patch panel shall be listed as Communication Riser Cable (Type CMR) in accordance with Sections 800-50 and 800-51(b) of the 1993 National Electrical Code.
(v) Splices inside the central office shall be made as close as practicable to
the point where the outside plant cables enter the building. Except in cable vault locations, outside plant cables within the central office shall be wrapped with fireproof tape or enclosed in noncombustible conduit.
(g)
Bonding and grounding fiber optic cable, copper cable, and copper service wire
—(1)
Bonding.
Bonding is electrically connecting two or more metallic items of telephone hardware to maintain a common electrical potential. Bonding may involve connections to another utility.
(2)
Copper cable shield bond connections.
(i) Cable shields shall be bonded at each splice location. Only RUS accepted cable shield bond connectors shall be used to provide bonding and grounding connections to metallic cable shields. The shield bond connector manufacturer's instructions shall be followed concerning installation and use.
(ii)(A) Shield bonding conductors shall be either stranded or braided tinned copper wire equivalent to a minimum No. 6 American Wire Gauge (AWG) and shall be RUS accepted. The conductor connections shall be tinned or of a compatible bimetallic design to avoid corrosion problems associated with dissimilar metals. The number of shield bond connectors required per pair size and gauge shall be as shown in Table 8:
Table 8—Shield Bond Connectors per Pair Size and Gauge
19 AWG
Pair size and gauge
22 AWG
24 AWG
26 AWG
No. of shield bond connectors
0-25
0-100
0-150
0-200
1
50-100
150-300
200-400
300-600
2
150-200
400-600
600-900
900-1500
3
300-600
900-1200
1200-2100
1800-3600
4
(B) It is permissible to strap across the shield bond connectors of several cables with a single length of braided wire. However, both ends of the braid shall be terminated on the pedestal ground bracket to provide a bonding loop. Shield bond connection methods for individual cables are shown in Figures 13 through 15, and the bonding of several cables inside a pedestal using the bonding loop is shown in Figure 16:
ER26JA95.014
ER26JA95.015
ER26JA95.016
ER26JA95.017
(3)
Buried service wire shield bond connections.
Buried service wire shields shall be connected to the pedestal bonding and grounding system. Typical buried service wire installations are shown in Figures 17 and 18. In addition to the methods referenced in Figures 17 and 18, the shields of buried service wires may also be connected to the pedestal bonding and grounding system using buried service wire bonding harnesses listed on Page 3.3.1, Item “gs-b,” of RUS Bulletin 1755I-100. RUS Bulletin 1755I-100 may be purchased from the
Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. When those harnesses are used they shall be installed in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions. Figures 17 and 18 are as follows:
ER26JA95.018
ER26JA95.019
(4)
Fiber optic cable bond connections.
(i) The cable shield and metallic strength members shall be bonded at each splice location. Only RUS accepted fiber optic cable shield bond connectors shall be used to provide bonding connections to the metallic cable shields. The shield bond connector manufacturer's instructions shall be followed concerning installation and use.
(ii) Shield bonding conductors shall be either stranded or braided tinned copper wire equivalent to a minimum No. 6 American Wire Gauge (AWG) and shall be RUS accepted. The conductor connections shall be tinned or of a compatible bimetallic design to avoid corrosion problems associated with dissimilar metals.
(5)
Grounding.
(i) Grounding is electrically connecting metallic telephone hardware to a National Electrical Safety Code (NESC) acceptable grounding electrode. Acceptable grounding electrodes are defined in the Rule 99A of the NESC.
(ii) The conductor used for grounding metallic telephone hardware shall be a minimum No. 6 AWG solid, bare, copper conductor.
(iii) For copper and fiber optic cable plant, all cable shields, all metallic strength members, and all metallic hardware shall be:
(A) Grounded at each splice location to a driven grounding electrode (ground rod) of:
(
1
) At least 1.5 meters (5 feet) in length where the local frost level is normally less than 0.30 meters (1 foot) deep; or
(
2
) At least 2.44 meters (8 feet) in length where the local frost level is normally 0.30 meters (1 foot) or deeper; and
(B) Bonded to a multi-grounded power system neutral when the splice is within 1.8 meters (6 feet) of access to the grounding system of the multi-grounded neutral system. Bonding to the multi-grounded neutral of a parallel power line may help to minimize telephone interference on long exposures with copper cable plant. Consideration, thus, should be given to completing such bonds, at least four (4) times each mile, when splices are greater than 1.8 meters (6 feet) but less than 4.6 meters (15 feet) from access to the multi-grounded neutral.
(6)
Bonding and grounding splice cases.
(i) Splice cases are equipped with bonding and grounding devices to ensure that cable shields and metallic strength members maintain electrical continuity during and after cable splicing operations. The splice case manufacturer's recommendations shall be followed concerning the bonding and grounding procedures. Conductors used for bonding shall be either stranded or braided tinned copper wire equivalent to 6 AWG. Conductors used for grounding shall be a solid, bare, copper wire equivalent to minimum No. 6 AWG.
(ii) Buried splice cases installed in either handholes or pedestals shall be grounded such that the cable shield grounds are attached to a common ground connection that will allow the lifting of a ground on the cable shield in either direction to permit efficient cable locating procedures. As a first choice, buried grounding conductor(s) shall be bare. However, if two or more grounding conductors are buried in the s they shall be insulated to avoid shorts when a locating tone is applied.
(iii) A typical bonding and grounding method for fiber optic splices is shown in Figure 19:
ER26JA95.020
(7)
Bonding and grounding central office cable entrances.
The RUS Telecommunications Engineering and Construction Manual (TE
CM) Section 810 provides bonding and grounding guidance for central office cable entrances. Splicing operations shall not be attempted before all metallic cable shield and strength members are bonded and grounded.
[60 FR 5097, Jan. 26, 1995; 60 FR 9079, Feb. 16, 1995]
§§ 1755.201-1755.369
[Reserved]
§ 1755.370
RUS specification for seven wire galvanized steel strand.
(a) RUS incorporates by reference ASTM A475-78, Standard Specification for Zinc-Coated Steel Wire Strand, issued May 1978. All seven wire galvanized steel strand purchased after April 1, 1990, for use on telecommunications systems financed by RUS loan funds must conform to this standard. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51 on January 19, 1990). Copies of ASTM A475-78 are available for inspection during normal business hours at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and the Rural Utilities Service, Administrative Services Division, room 0175-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, telephone 202-382-9551. For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies are available from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103, telephone 215-299-5400.
(b) In addition to the requirements of ASTM 475-78, all coils and reels having Class B or C coatings shall be marked with a 3-inch wide and 6-inch long deep-colored stripe, green or orange, respectively, to identify the class of galvanized coating of the strand. This marking shall be applied to the exposed convolutions of the strand in the eye of the coils and located near the midpoint on the outside layer of strand on the reels. The marking shall not cover any welded joint markings.
[55 FR 1792, Jan. 19, 1990; 55 FR 3685, Feb. 2, 1990. Redesignated at 55 FR 39397, Sept. 27, 1990, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§§ 1755.371-1755.389
[Reserved]
§ 1755.390
RUS specification for filled telephone cables.
(a)
Scope.
(1) This section covers the requirements for filled telephone cables intended for direct burial installation either by trenching or by direct plowing, for underground application by placement in a duct, or for aerial installations by attachment to a support strand.
(i) The conductors are solid copper, individually insulated with an extruded solid insulating compound.
(ii) The insulated conductors are twisted into pairs which are then stranded or oscillated to form a cylindrical core.
(iii) For high frequency applications, the cable core may be separated into compartments with screening shields.
(iv) A moisture resistant filling compound is applied to the stranded conductors completely covering the insulated conductors and filling the interstices between pairs and units.
(v) The cable structure is completed by the application of suitable core wrapping material, a flooding compound, a shield or a shield/armor, and an overall plastic jacket.
(2) The number of pairs and gauge size of conductors which are used within the RUS program are provided in the following table:
AWG
19
22
24
26
Pairs
6
6
6
12
12
12
18
18
18
25
25
25
25
50
50
50
75
75
75
100
100
100
150
150
150
200
200
200
300
300
300
400
400
400
600
600
900
Note:
Cables larger in pair sizes than those shown in this table must meet all requirements of this section.
(3) Screened cable, when specified, must meet all requirements of this section. The pair sizes of screened cables used within the RUS program are referenced in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section.
(4) All cables sold to RUS borrowers for projects involving RUS loan funds under this section must be accepted by RUS Technical Standards Committee “A” (Telephone). For cables manufactured to the specification of this section, all design changes to an accepted design must be submitted for acceptance. RUS will be the sole authority on what constitutes a design change.
(5) Materials, manufacturing techniques, or cable designs not specifically addressed by this section may be allowed if accepted by RUS. Justification for acceptance of modified materials, manufacturing techniques, or cable designs must be provided to substantiate product utility and long-term stability and endurance.
(6) The American National Standard Institute/Insulated Cable Engineers Association, Inc. (ANSI/ICEA) S-84-608-1988 Standard For Telecommunications Cable, Filled, Polyolefin Insulated, Copper Conductor Technical Requirements referenced throughout this section is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988 are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2845, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies are available from ICEA, P. O. Box 440, South Yarmouth, MA 02664, telephone number (508) 394-4424.
(7) American Society for Testing and Materials specifications (ASTM) A 505-87, Standard Specification for Steel, Sheet and Strip, Alloy, Hot-Rolled and Cold-Rolled, General Requirements For; ASTM B 193-87, Standard Test Method for Resistivity of Electrical Conductor Materials; ASTM B 224-80, Standard Classification of Coppers; ASTM B 694-86, Standard Specification for Copper, Copper Alloy, and Copper-Clad Stainless Steel Sheet and Strip for Electrical Cable Shielding; ASTM D 4565-90a, Standard Test Methods for Physical and Environmental Performance Properties of Insulations and Jackets for Telecommunications Wire and Cable; and ASTM D 4566-90, Standard Test Methods for Electrical Performance Properties of Insulations and Jackets for Telecommunications Wire and Cable referenced in this section are incorporated by reference by RUS. These incorporations by references were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the ASTM standards are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2845, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies are available from ASTM, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103-1187, telephone number (215) 299-5585.
(b)
Conductors and conductor insulation.
(1) The gauge sizes of the copper conductors covered by this specification must be 19, 22, 24, and 26 American Wire Gauge (AWG).
(2) Each conductor must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 2.1.
(3) Factory joints made in conductors during the manufacturing process must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 2.2.
(4) The raw materials used for conductor insulation must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 3.1 through 3.1.3.
(5) The finished conductor insulation must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 3.2.1 and 3.3.
(6) Insulated conductors must not have an overall diameter greater than 2 millimeters (mm) (0.081 inch (in.)).
(7) A permissible overall performance level of faults in conductor insulation must average not greater than one fault per 12,000 conductor meters (40,000 conductor feet) for each gauge of conductor.
(i) All insulated conductors must be continuously tested for insulation faults during the twinning operation with a method of testing acceptable to RUS. The length count and number of faults must be recorded. The information must be retained for a period of 6 months and be available for review by RUS when requested.
(ii) The voltages for determining compliance with the requirements of this section are as follows:
AWG
Direct Current Voltages (kilovolts)
19
8.0
22
6.0
24
5.0
26
4.0
(8) Repairs to the conductor insulation during manufacture are permissible. The method of repair must be accepted by RUS prior to its use. The repaired insulation must be capable of meeting the relevant electrical requirements of this section.
(9) All repaired sections of insulation must be retested in the same manner as originally tested for compliance with paragraph (b)(7) of this section.
(10) The colored insulating material removed from or tested on the conductor, from a finished cable, must meet the performance requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 3.4.1, 3.4.2, 3.4.4, 3.4.5, and 3.4.6.
(c)
Identification of pairs and twisting of pairs.
(1) The insulation must be colored to identify:
(i) The tip and ring conductor of each pair; and
(ii) Each pair in the completed cable.
(2) The colors to be used in the pairs in the 25 pair group, together with the pair numbers must be in accordance with the table specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 3.5.
(3) Positive identification of the tip and ring conductors of each pair by marking each conductor of a pair with the color of its mate is permissible. The method of marking must be accepted by RUS prior to its use.
(4) Other methods of providing positive identification of the tip and ring conductors of each pair may be employed if accepted by RUS prior to its use.
(5) The insulated conductors must be twisted into pairs.
(6) In order to provide sufficiently high crosstalk isolation, the pair twists must be designed to enable the cable to meet the capacitance unbalance and crosstalk loss requirements of paragraphs (k)(5), (k)(6), and (k)(8) of this section.
(7) The average length of pair twists in any pair in the finished cable, when measured on any 3 meter (10 foot) length, must not exceed the requirement specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 3.5.
(d)
Forming of the cable core.
(1) Twisted pairs must be assembled in such a way as to form a substantially cylindrical group.
(2) When desired for lay-up reasons, the basic group may be divided into two or more subgroups called units.
(3) Each group, or unit in a particular group, must be enclosed in bindings of the colors indicated for its particular pair count. The pair count, indicated by the colors of insulation, must be consecutive as indicated in paragraph (d)(6) of this section through units in a group.
(4) The filling compound must be applied to the cable core in such a way as to provide as near a completely filled core as is commercially practical.
(5) Threads and tapes used as binders must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 4.2 and 4.2.1.
(6) The colors of the bindings and their significance with respect to pair count must be as follows:
Group No.
Color of Bindings
Group Pair Count
1
White-Blue
1-25
2
White-Orange
26-50
3
White-Green
51-75
4
White-Brown
76-100
5
White-Slate
101-125
6
Red-Blue
126-150
7
Red-Orange
151-175
8
Red-Green
176-200
9
Red-Brown
201-225
10
Red-Slate
226-250
11
Black-Blue
251-275
12
Black-Orange
276-300
13
Black-Green
301-325
14
Black-Brown
326-350
15
Black-Slate
351-375
16
Yellow-Blue
376-400
17
Yellow-Orange
401-425
18
Yellow-Green
426-450
19
Yellow-Brown
451-475
20
Yellow-Slate
476-500
21
Violet-Blue
501-525
22
Violet-Orange
526-550
23
Violet-Green
551-575
24
Violet-Brown
576-600
(7) The use of the white unit binder in cables of 100 pairs or less is optional.
(8) When desired for manufacturing reasons, two or more 25 pair groups
may be bound together with nonhygroscopic and nonwicking threads or tapes into a super-unit. Threads or tapes must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section. The group binders and the super-unit binders must be color coded such that the combination of the two binders must positively identify each 25 pair group from every other 25 pair group in the cable. Super-unit binders must be of the color shown in the following table:
Super-Unit Binder Colors
Pair Numbers
Binder Color
1-600
White
601-1200
Red
1201-1800
Black
1801-2400
Yellow
2401-3000
Violet
(9) Color binders must not be missing for more than 90 meters (300 feet) from any 25 pair group or from any subgroup used as part of a super-unit. At any cable cross-section, no adjacent 25 pair groups and no more than one subgroup of any super-unit may have missing binders. In no case must the total number of missing binders exceed three. Missing super-unit binders must not be permitted for any distance.
(10) Any reel of cable which contains missing binders must be labeled indicating the colors and location of the binders involved. The labeling must be applied to the reel and also to the cable.
(e)
Screened cable.
(1) Screened cable must be constructed such that a metallic, internal screen(s) must be provided to separate and provide sufficient isolation between the compartments to meet the requirements of this section.
(2) At the option of the user or manufacturer, identified service pairs providing for voice order and fault location may be placed in screened cables.
(i) The number of service pairs provided must be one per twenty-five operating pairs plus two for a cable size up to and including 400 pairs, subject to a minimum of four service pairs. The pair counts for screened cables are as follows:
Screened Cable Pair Counts
Carrier Pair Count
Service Pairs
Total Pair Count
24
4
28
50
4
54
100
6
106
150
8
158
200
10
210
300
14
314
400
18
418
(ii) The service pairs must be equally divided among the compartments. The color sequence must be repeated in each compartment.
(iii) The electrical and physical characteristics of each service pair must meet all the requirements set forth in this section.
(iv) The colors used for the service pairs must be in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(5) of this section. The color code used for the service pairs together with the service pair number are shown in the following table:
Color Code For Service Pairs
Service Pair No.
Color
Tip
Ring
1
White
Red
2
”
Black
3
”
Yellow
4
”
Violet
5
Red
Black
6
”
Yellow
7
”
Violet
8
Black
Yellow
9
”
Violet
(3) The screen tape must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 5.1 through 5.4.
(4) The screen tape must be tested for dielectric strength by completely removing the protective coating from one end to be used for grounding purposes.
(i) Using an electrode, over a 30 centimeter (1 foot) length, apply a direct current voltage at the rate of rise of 500 volts/second until failure.
(ii) No breakdown should occur below 8 kilovolts.
(f)
Filling compound.
(1) After or during the stranding operation and prior to application of the core wrap, filling compound must be applied to the cable core. The compound must be as nearly colorless as is commercially feasible
and consistent with the end product requirements and pair identification.
(2) The filling compound must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 4.4 through 4.4.4.
(3) The individual cable manufacturer must satisfy RUS that the filling compound selected for use is suitable for its intended application. The filling compound must be applied to the cable in such a manner that the cable components will not be degraded.
(g)
Core wrap.
(1) The core wrap must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA-S-84-608-1988, paragraph 4.3.
(2) If required for manufacturing reasons, white or colored binders of nonhygroscopic and nonwicking material may be applied over the core and/or wrap. When used, binders must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(3) Sufficient filling compound must be applied to the core wrap so that voids or air spaces existing between the core and the inner side of the core wrap are minimized.
(h)
Flooding compound.
(1) Sufficient flooding compound must be applied on all sheath interfaces so that voids and air spaces in these areas are minimized. When the optional armored design is used, the flooding compound must be applied between the core wrap and shield, between the shield and armor, and between the armor and the jacket so that voids and air spaces in these areas are minimized. The use of floodant over the outer metallic substrate is not required if uniform bonding, per paragraph (i)(7) of this section, is achieved between the plastic-clad metal and the jacket.
(2) The flooding compound must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 4.5 and the jacket slip test requirements of appendix A, paragraph (III)(5) of this section.
(3) The individual cable manufacturer must satisfy RUS that the flooding compound selected for use is acceptable for the application.
(i)
Shield and optional armor.
(1) A single corrugated shield must be applied longitudinally over the core wrap.
(2) For unarmored cable the shield overlap must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.2. Core diameter is defined as the diameter under the core wrap and binding.
(3) For cables containing the coated aluminum shield/coated steel armor (CACSP) sheath design, the coated aluminum shield must be applied in accordance with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.2, Dual Tape Shielding System.
(4) General requirements for application of the shielding material are as follows:
(i) Successive lengths of shielding tapes may be joined during the manufacturing process by means of cold weld, electric weld, soldering with a nonacid flux, or other acceptable means.
(ii) Shield splices must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.3.
(iii) The corrugations and the application process of the coated aluminum and copper bearing shields must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.1.
(iv) The shielding material must be applied in such a manner as to enable the cable to pass the cold bend test specified in paragraph (l)(3) of this section.
(5) The following is a list of acceptable materials for use as cable shielding. Other types of shielding materials may also be used provided they are accepted by RUS prior to their use.
Standard Cable
Gopher Resistant Cable
8-mil Coated Aluminum
1
10-mil Copper
5-mil Copper
6-mil Copper-Clad
Stainless Steel
5 mil Copper-Clad
Stainless Steel
5 mil Copper-Clad Alloy
Steel
7-mil Alloy 194
6-mil Alloy 194
8-mil Coated Aluminum
1
and 6-mil Coated Steel
1
1
Dimensions of uncoated metal
(i) The 8-mil aluminum tape must be plastic coated on both sides and must comply with the requirements of ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.2.
(ii) The 5-mil copper tape must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.3.
(iii) The 10-mil copper tape must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.4.
(iv) The 6-mil copper clad stainless steel tape must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.5.
(v) The 5-mil copper clad stainless steel tape must be in the fully annealed condition and must conform to the requirements of American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) B 694-86, with a cladding ratio of 16/68/16.
(A) The electrical conductivity of the clad tape must be a minimum of 28 percent of the International Annealed Copper Standard (IACS) when measured per ASTM B 193-87.
(B) The tape must be nominally 0.13 millimeter (0.005 inch) thick with a minimum thickness of 0.11 millimeter (0.0045 inch).
(vi) The 5-mil copper clad alloy steel tape must be in the fully annealed condition and the copper component must conform to the requirements of ASTM B 224-80 and the alloy steel component must conform to the requirements of ASTM A 505-87, with a cladding ratio of 16/68/16.
(A) The electrical conductivity of the copper clad alloy steel tape must comply with the requirement specified in paragraph (i)(5)(v)(A) of this section.
(B) The thickness of the copper clad alloy steel tape must comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (i)(5)(v)(B) of this section.
(vii) The 6-mil and 7-mil 194 copper alloy tapes must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.6.
(6) The corrugation extensibility of the coated aluminum shield must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.4.
(7) When the jacket is bonded to the plastic coated aluminum shield, the bond between the jacket and shield must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 7.2.6.
(8) A single plastic-coated steel corrugated armor must be applied longitudinally directly over the coated aluminum shield listed in paragraph (i)(5) of this section with an overlap complying with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.2, Outer Steel Tape.
(9) Successive lengths of steel armoring tapes may be joined during the manufacturing process by means of cold weld, electric weld, soldering with a nonacid flux, or other acceptable means. Armor splices must comply with the breaking strength and resistance requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.3.
(10) The corrugations and the application process of the coated steel armor must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.3.1.
(i) The corrugations of the armor tape must coincide with the corrugations of the coated aluminum shield.
(ii) Overlapped portions of the armor tape must be in register (corrugations must coincide at overlap) and in contact at the outer edge.
(11) The armoring material must be so applied to enable the cable to pass the cold bend test as specified in paragraph (l)(3) of this section.
(12) The 6-mil steel tape must be electrolytic chrome-coated steel (ECCS) plastic coated on both sides and must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 6.2.8.
(13) When the jacket is bonded to the plastic-coated steel armor, the bond between the jacket and armor must comply with the requirement specified in ANSI/ICEA-S-84-608-1988, paragraph 7.2.6.
(j)
Cable jacket.
(1) The jacket must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 7.2.
(2) The raw materials used for the cable jacket must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 7.2.1.
(3) Jacketing material removed from or tested on the cable must meet the performance requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 7.2.3 and 7.2.4.
(4) The thickness of the jacket must comply with the requirements specified
in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 7.2.2.
(k)
Electrical requirements
—(1)
Conductor resistance.
The direct current resistance of any conductor in a completed cable and the average resistance of all conductors in a Quality Control Lot must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.1.
(2)
Resistance unbalance.
(i) The direct current resistance unbalance between the two conductors of any pair in a completed cable and the average resistance unbalance of all pairs in a completed cable must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.2.
(ii) The resistance unbalance between tip and ring conductors shall be random with respect to the direction of unbalance. That is, the resistance of the tip conductors shall not be consistently higher with respect to the ring conductors and vice versa.
(3)
Mutual capacitance.
The average mutual capacitance of all pairs in a completed cable and the individual mutual capacitance of any pair in a completed cable must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.3.
(4)
Capacitance difference.
(i) The capacitance difference for completed cables having 75 pairs or greater must comply with the requirement specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.4.
(ii) When measuring screened cable, the inner and outer pairs must be selected from both sides of the screen.
(5)
Pair-to-pair capacitance unbalance
—(i)
Pair-to-pair.
The capacitance unbalance as measured on the completed cable must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.5.
(ii)
Screened cable.
In cables with 25 pairs or less and within each group of multigroup cables, the pair-to-pair capacitance unbalance between any two pairs in an individual compartment must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.5. The pair-to-pair capacitance unbalances to be considered must be:
(A) Between pairs adjacent in a layer in an individual compartment;
(B) Between pairs in centers of 4 pairs or less in an individual compartment; and
(C) Between pairs in adjacent layers in an individual compartment when the number of pairs in the inner (smaller) layer is 6 or less. The center is counted as a layer.
(iii) In cables with 25 pairs or less, the root-mean-square (rms) value must include all the pair-to-pair unbalances measured for each compartment separately.
(iv) In cables containing more than 25 pairs, the rms value must include the pair-to-pair unbalances in the separate compartments.
(6)
Pair-to-ground capacitance unbalance
—(i)
Pair-to-ground.
The capacitance unbalance as measured on the completed cable must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.6.
(ii) When measuring pair-to-ground capacitance unbalance all pairs except the pair under test are grounded to the shield and/or shield/armor except when measuring cables containing super units in which case all other pairs in the same super unit must be grounded to the shield.
(iii) The screen tape must be left floating during the test.
(iv) Pair-to-ground capacitance unbalance may vary directly with the length of the cable.
(7)
Attenuation.
(i) For nonscreened and screened cables, the average attenuation of all pairs on any reel when measured at 150 and 772 kilohertz must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.7, Solid Column.
(ii) For T1C type cables over 12 pairs, the maximum average attenuation of all pairs on any reel must not exceed the values listed below when measured at a frequency of 1576 kilohertz at or corrected to a temperature of 20 ±1 °C. The test must be conducted in accordance with ASTM D 4566-90.
AWG
Maximum Average Attenuation decibel/kilometer (dB/km) (decibel/mile)
19
13.4 (21.5)
22
18.3 (29.4)
24
23.1 (37.2)
(8)
Crosstalk loss.
(i) The equal level far-end power sum crosstalk loss (FEXT) as measured on the completed cable must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.8, FEXT Table.
(ii) The near-end power sum crosstalk loss (NEXT) as measured on completed cable must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.8, NEXT Table.
(iii)
Screened cable.
(A) For screened cables the NEXT as measured on the completed cable must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 8.9 and 8.9.1.
(B) For T1C screened cable the NEXT as measured on the completed cable must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 8.9 and 8.9.2.
(9)
Insulation resistance.
The insulation resistance of each insulated conductor in a completed cable must comply with the requirement specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.11.
(10)
High voltage test.
(i) In each length of completed cable, the insulation between conductors must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.12, Solid Column.
(ii) In each length of completed cable, the dielectric between the shield and/or armor and conductors in the core must comply with the requirements specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.13, Single Jacketed, Solid Column. In screened cable the screen tape must be left floating.
(iii)
Screened cable.
(A) In each length of completed screened cable, the dielectric between the screen tape and the conductors in the core must comply with the requirement specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.14.
(B) In this test, the cable shield and/or armor must be left floating.
(11)
Electrical variations.
(i) Pairs in each length of cable having either a ground, cross, short, or open circuit condition will not be permitted.
(ii) The maximum number of pairs in a cable which may vary as specified in paragraph (k)(11)(iii) of this section from the electrical parameters given in this section are listed below. These pairs may be excluded from the arithmetic calculation.
Nominal Pair Count
Maximum Number of Pairs With Allowable Electrical Variation
6-100
1
101-300
2
301-400
3
401-600
4
601 and above
6
(iii)
Parameter variations.
(A)
Capacitance unbalance-to-ground.
If the cable fails either the maximum individual pair or average capacitance unbalance-to-ground requirement and all individual pairs are 3937 picofarad/kilometer (1200 picofarad/1000 feet) or less, the number of pairs specified in paragraph (k)(11)(ii) of this section may be eliminated from the average and maximum individual calculations.
(B)
Resistance unbalance.
Individual pair of 7 percent for all gauges.
(C)
Conductor resistance, maximum.
The following table shows maximum conductor resistance:
AWG
ohms/kilometer
(ohms/1000 feet)
19
29.9
(9.1)
22
60.0
(18.3)
24
94.5
(28.8)
26
151.6
(46.2)
Note:
RUS recognizes that in large pair count cable (600 pair and above) a cross, short or open circuit condition occasionally may develop in a pair which does not affect the performance of the other cable pairs. In these circumstances rejection of the entire cable may be economically unsound or repairs may be impractical. In such circumstances the manufacturer may desire to negotiate with the customer for acceptance of the cable. No more than 0.5 percent of the pairs may be involved.
(l)
Mechanical requirements
—(1)
Compound flow test.
All cables manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the compound flow test specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 9.1 using a test temperature of 80 ±1 °C.
(2)
Water penetration.
All cables manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the water penetration test specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 9.2.
(3)
Cable cold bend test.
All cables manufactured in accordance with the
requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the cable cold bend test specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 9.3.
(4)
Cable impact test.
All cables manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the cable impact test specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 9.4.
(5)
Jacket notch test (CACSP sheath only).
All cables utilizing the coated aluminum/coated steel sheath (CACSP) design manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the jacket notch test specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 9.5.
(6)
Cable torsion test (CACSP sheath only).
All cables utilizing the coated aluminum/coated steel sheath (CACSP) design manufactured in accordance with the requirements of this section must be capable of meeting the cable torsion test specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 9.6.
(m)
Sheath slitting cord (optional).
(1) Sheath slitting cords may be used in the cable structure at the option of the manufacturer unless specified by the end user.
(2) When a sheath slitting cord is used it must be nonhygroscopic and nonwicking, continuous throughout a length of cable and of sufficient strength to open the sheath without breaking the cord.
(n)
Identification marker and length marker.
(1) Each length of cable must be identified in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraphs 10.1 through 10.1.4. The color of the ink used for the initial outer jacket marking must be either white or silver.
(2) The markings must be printed on the jacket at regular intervals of not more than 0.6 meter (2 feet).
(3) The completed cable must have sequentially numbered length markers in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 10.1.5. The color of the ink used for the initial outer jacket marking must be either white or silver.
(o)
Preconnectorized cable (optional).
(1) At the option of the manufacturer and upon request by the purchaser, cables 100 pairs and larger may be factory terminated in 25 pair splicing modules.
(2) The splicing modules must meet the requirements of RUS Bulletin 345-54, PE-52, RUS Specification for Telephone Cable Splicing Connectors (Incorporated by reference at § 1755.97), and be accepted by RUS prior to their use.
(p)
Acceptance testing and extent of testing.
(1) The tests described in appendix A of this section are intended for acceptance of cable designs and major modifications of accepted designs. What constitutes a major modification is at the discretion of RUS. These tests are intended to show the inherent capability of the manufacturer to produce cable products having long life and stability.
(2) For initial acceptance, the manufacturer must submit:
(i) An original signature certification that the product fully complies with each section of the specification;
(ii) Qualification Test Data, per appendix A of this section;
(iii) To periodic plant inspections;
(iv) A certification that the product does or does not comply with the domestic origin manufacturing provisions of the “Buy American” requirements of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
);
(v) Written user testimonials concerning field performance of the product; and
(vi) Other nonproprietary data deemed necessary by the Chief, Outside Plant Branch (Telephone).
(3) For requalification acceptance, the manufacturer must submit an original signature certification that the product fully complies with each section of the specification, excluding the Qualification Section, and a certification that the product does or does not comply with the domestic origin manufacturing provisions of the “Buy American” requirements of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 901
et seq.
), for acceptance by August 30 of each year. The required data must have been gathered within 90 days of the submission. If the initial acceptance of a product to this specification was within 180 days of August 30, then requalification for that product will not be required for that year.
(4) Initial and requalification acceptance requests should be addressed to:
Chairman, Technical Standards Committee “A” (Telephone), Telecommunications Standards Division, Rural Utilities Service, Washington, DC 20250-1500.
(5)
Tests on 100 percent of completed cable.
(i) The shield and/or armor of each length of cable must be tested for continuity in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.16.
(ii) The screen tape of each length of screened cable must be tested for continuity in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.16.
(iii) Dielectric strength between conductors and shield and/or armor must be tested to determine freedom from grounds in accordance with paragraph (k)(10)(ii) of this section.
(iv) Dielectric strength between conductors and screen tape must be tested to determine freedom from grounds in accordance with paragraph (k)(10)(iii) of this section.
(v) Each conductor in the completed cable must be tested for continuity in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 8.16.
(vi) Dielectric strength between conductors must be tested to insure freedom from shorts and crosses in each length of completed cable in accordance with paragraph (k)(10)(i) of this section.
(vii) Each conductor in the completed preconnectorized cable must be tested for continuity.
(viii) Each length of completed preconnectorized cable must be tested for split pairs.
(ix) The average mutual capacitance must be measured on all cables. If the average mutual capacitance for the first 100 pairs tested from randomly selected groups is between 50 and 53 nanofarad/kilometer (nF/km) (80 and 85 nanofarad/mile), the remainder of the pairs need not be tested on the 100 percent basis (See paragraph (k)(3) of this section).
(6)
Capability tests.
Tests on a quality assurance basis must be made as frequently as is required for each manufacturer to determine and maintain compliance with:
(i) Performance requirements for conductor insulation, jacketing material, and filling and flooding compounds;
(ii) Bonding properties of coated or laminated shielding and armoring materials and performance requirements for screen tape;
(iii) Sequential marking and lettering;
(iv) Capacitance difference, capacitance unbalance, crosstalk, and attenuation;
(v) Insulation resistance, conductor resistance and resistance unbalance;
(vi) Cable cold bend and cable impact tests;
(vii) Water penetration and compound flow tests; and
(viii) Jacket notch and cable torsion tests.
(q)
Summary of records of electrical and physical tests.
(1) Each manufacturer must maintain suitable summary records for a period of at least 3 years of all electrical and physical tests required on completed cable by this section as set forth in paragraphs (p)(5) and (p)(6) of this section. The test data for a particular reel must be in a form that it may be readily available to the purchaser or to RUS upon request.
(2) Measurements and computed values must be rounded off to the number of places or figures specified for the requirement according to ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 1.3.
(r)
Manufacturing irregularities.
(1) Repairs to the shield and/or armor are not permitted in cable supplied to end users under this section.
(2) Minor defects in jackets (defects having a dimension of 3 millimeters (0.125 inch) or less in any direction) may be repaired by means of heat fusing in accordance with good commercial practices utilizing sheath grade compounds.
(s)
Preparation for shipment.
(1) The cable must be shipped on reels. The diameter of the drum must be large enough to prevent damage to the cable from reeling or unreeling. The reels must be substantial and so constructed as to prevent damage to the cable during shipment and handling.
(2) The thermal wrap must comply with the requirements of ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 10.3. When a thermal reel wrap is supplied, the wrap must be applied to the reel and must be suitably secured in place to minimize thermal exposure to the cable during
storage and shipment. The use of the thermal reel wrap as a means of reel protection will be at the option of the manufacturer unless specified by the end user.
(3) The outer end of the cable must be securely fastened to the reel head so as to prevent the cable from becoming loose in transit. The inner end of the cable must be securely fastened in such a way as to make it readily available if required for electrical testing. Spikes, staples, or other fastening devices which penetrate the cable jacket must not be used. The method of fastening the cable ends must be accepted by RUS prior to its use.
(4) Each length of cable must be wound on a separate reel unless otherwise specified or agreed to by the purchaser.
(5) The arbor hole must admit a spindle 63 millimeters (2.5 inches) in diameter without binding. Steel arbor hole liners may be used but must be accepted by RUS prior to their use.
(6) Each reel must be plainly marked to indicate the direction in which it should be rolled to prevent loosening of the cable on the reel.
(7) Each reel must be stenciled or labeled on either one or both sides with the information specified in ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 10.4 and the RUS cable designation:
Cable Designation
BFC
Cable Construction
Pair Count
Conductor Gauge
A = Coated Aluminum Shield
C = Copper Shield
Y = Gopher Resistant Shield
X = Armored, Separate Shield
H = T1 Screened Cable
H1C = T1C Screened Cable
P = Preconnectorized
Example: BFCXH100-22
Buried Filled Cable, Armored (w/separate shield), T1 Screened Cable, 100 pair, 22 AWG.
(8) When cable manufactured to the requirements of this section is shipped, both ends must be equipped with end caps acceptable to RUS.
(9) When preconnectorized cables are shipped, the splicing modules must be protected to prevent damage during shipment and handling. The protection method must be acceptable to RUS and accepted prior to its use.
(10) All cables ordered for use in underground duct applications must be equipped with a factory-installed pulling-eye on the outer end in accordance with ANSI/ICEA S-84-608-1988, paragraph 10.5.2.
(The information and recordkeeping requirements of this section have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the control number 0572-0059)

# Appendix A to § 1755.390—Qualification Test Methods
(I) The test procedures described in this appendix are for qualification of initial designs and major modification of accepted designs. Included in (V) of this appendix are suggested formats that may be used in submitting the test results to RUS.
(II)
Sample selection and preparation.
(1) All testing must be performed on lengths removed sequentially from the same 25 pair, 22 gauge jacketed cable. This cable must not have been exposed to temperatures in excess of 38 °C since its initial cool down after sheathing. The lengths specified are minimum lengths and if desirable from a laboratory testing standpoint longer lengths may be used.
(a) Length A shall be 10 ±0.2 meters (33 ±0.5 feet) long and must be maintained at 23 ±3 °C. One length is required.
(b) Length B shall be 12 ±0.2 meters (40 ±0.5 feet) long. Prepare the test sample by removing the jacket, shield or shield/armor and core wrap for a sufficient distance on both ends to allow the insulated conductors to be flared out. Remove sufficient conductor insulation so that appropriate electrical test connections can be made at both ends. Coil the sample with a diameter of 15 to 20 times its sheath diameter. Three lengths are required.
(c) Length C shall be one meter (3 feet) long. Four lengths are required.
(d) Length D shall be 300 millimeters (1 foot) long. Four lengths are required.
(e) Length E must be 600 millimeters (2 feet) long. Four lengths are required.
(f) Length F shall be 3 meters (10 feet) long and must be maintained at 23 ±3 °C for the duration of the test. Two lengths are required.
(2)
Data reference temperature.
Unless otherwise specified, all measurements must be made at 23 ±3 °C.
(III)
Environmental tests
—(1)
Heat aging test
—(a)
Test samples.
Place one sample each of lengths B, C, D and E in an oven or environmental chamber. The ends of Sample B must exit from the chamber or oven for electrical tests. Securely seal the oven exit holes.
(b)
Sequence of tests.
The samples are to be subjected to the following tests after conditioning:
(i) Water Immersion Test outlined in (III)(2) of this appendix;
(ii) Water Penetration Test outlined in (III)(3) of this appendix;
(iii) Insulation Compression Test outlined in (III)(4) of this appendix; and
(iv) Jacket Slip Strength Test outlined in (III)(5) of this appendix.
(c)
Initial measurements.
(i) For Sample B measure the open circuit capacitance for each odd numbered pair at 1, 150, and 772 kilohertz, and the attenuation at 150 and 772 kilohertz after conditioning the sample at the data reference temperature for 24 hours. Calculate the average and standard deviation for the data of the 13 pairs on a per kilometer or (on a per mile) basis.
(ii) The attenuation at 150 and 772 kilohertz may be calculated from open circuit admittance (Yoc) and short circuit impedance (Zsc) or may be obtained by direct measurement of attenuation.
(iii) Record on suggested formats in (V) of this appendix or on other easily readable formats.
(d)
Heat conditioning.
(i) Immediately after completing the initial measurements, condition the sample for 14 days at a temperature of 65 ±2 °C.
(ii) At the end of this period note any exudation of cable filler. Measure and calculate the parameters given in (III)(1)(c) of this appendix. Record on suggested formats in (V) of this appendix or on other easily readable formats.
(iii) Cut away and discard a one meter (3 foot) section from each end of length B.
(e)
Overall electrical deviation.
(i) Calculate the percent change in all average parameters between the final parameters after conditioning and the initial parameters in (III)(1)(c) of this appendix.
(ii) The stability of the electrical parameters after completion of this test must be within the following prescribed limits:
(A)
Capacitance.
The average mutual capacitance must be within 5 percent of its original value;
(B) The change in average mutual capacitance must be less than 5 percent over frequency 1 to 150 kilohertz; and
(C)
Attenuation.
The 150 and 772 kilohertz attenuation must not have increased by more than 5 percent over their original values.
(2)
Water immersion electrical test
—(a)
Test sample selection.
The 10 meter (33 foot) section of length B must be tested.
(b)
Test sample preparation.
Prepare the sample by removing the jacket, shield or shield/armor, and core wrap for sufficient distance to allow one end to be accessed for test connections. Cut out a series of 6 millimeter (0.25 inch) diameter holes along the test sample, at 30 centimeters (1 foot) intervals progressing successively 90 degrees around the circumference of the cable. Assure that the cable core is exposed at each hole by slitting the core wrapper. Place the prepared sample in a dry vessel which when filled will maintain a one meter (3 foot) head of water over 6 meters (20 feet) of uncoiled cable. Extend and fasten the ends of the cable so they will be above the water line and the pairs are rigidly held for the duration of the test.
(c)
Capacitance testing.
Measure the initial values of mutual capacitance of all odd pairs in each cable at a frequency of 1 kilohertz before filling the vessel with water. Be sure the cable shield or shield/armor is grounded to the test equipment. Fill the vessels until there is a one meter (3 foot) head of water on the cables.
(i) Remeasure the mutual capacitance after the cables have been submerged for 24 hours and again after 30 days.
(ii) Record each sample separately on suggested formats in (V) of this appendix or on other easily readable formats.
(d)
Overall electrical deviation.
(i) Calculate the percent change in all average parameters between the final parameters after conditioning with the initial parameters in (III)(2)(c) of this appendix.
(ii) The average mutual capacitance must be within 5 percent of its original value.
(3)
Water penetration testing.
(a) A watertight closure must be placed over the jacket of length C. The closure must not be placed over the jacket so tightly that the flow of water through pre-existing voids of air spaces is restricted. The other end of the sample must remain open.
(b) Test per Option A or Option B—(i)
Option A.
Weigh the sample and closure prior to testing. Fill the closure with water and place under a continuous pressure of 10 ±0.7 kilopascals (1.5 ±0.1 pounds per square inch gauge) for one hour. Collect the water leakage from the end of the test sample during the test and weigh to the nearest 0.1 gram. Immediately after the one hour test, seal the ends of the cable with a thin layer of grease and remove all visible water from the closure, being careful not to remove water that penetrated into the core during the test. Reweigh the sample and determine the weight of water that penetrated into the core. The weight of water that penetrated into the core must not exceed 8 grams.
(ii)
Option B.
Fill the closure with a 0.2 gram sodium fluorscein per liter water solution and apply a continuous pressure 10 ±0.7 kilopascals (1.5 ±0.1 pounds per square inch gauge) for one hour. Catch and weigh any water that leaks from the end of the cable during the one hour period. If no water leaks from the sample, carefully remove the water from the closure. Then carefully remove the jacket, shield or shield/armor and core wrap
one at a time, examining with an ultraviolet light source for water penetration. After removal of the core wrap, carefully dissect the core and examine for water penetration within the core. Where water penetration is observed, measure the penetration distance. The distance of water penetration into the core must not exceed 127 millimeters (5.0 inches).
(4)
Insulation compression test
—(a)
Test Sample D.
Remove jacket, shield or shield/armor, and core wrap being careful not to damage the conductor insulation. Remove one pair from the core and carefully separate, wipe off core filler, and straighten the insulated conductors. Retwist the two insulated conductors together under sufficient tension to form 10 evenly spaced 360 degree twists in a length of 10 centimeters (4 inches).
(b)
Sample testing.
Center the mid 50 millimeters (2 inches) of the twisted pair between 2 smooth rigid parallel metal plates that are 50 millimeters × 50 millimeters (2 inches × 2 inches). Apply a 1.5 volt direct current potential between the conductors, using a light or buzzer to indicate electrical contact between the conductors. Apply a constant load of 67 newtons (l5 pound-force) on the sample for one minute and monitor for evidence of contact between the conductors. Record results on suggested formats in (V) of this appendix or on other easily readable formats.
(5)
Jacket slip strength test
—(a)
Sample selection.
Test Sample E from (III)(1)(a) of this appendix.
(b)
Sample preparation.
Prepare test sample in accordance with the procedures specified in ASTM D 4565-90a.
(c)
Sample conditioning and testing.
Remove the sample from the tensile tester prior to testing and condition for one hour at 50 ±2 °C. Test immediately in accordance with the procedures specified in ASTM D 4565-90a. A minimum jacket slip strength of 67 newtons (15 pound-force) is required. Record the highest load attained.
(6)
Humidity exposure.
(a) Repeat steps (III)(1)(a) through (III)(1)(c)(iii) of this appendix for separate set of samples B, C, D, and E which have not been subjected to prior environmental conditioning.
(b) Immediately after completing the measurements, expose the test sample to 100 temperature cyclings. Relative humidity within the chamber must be maintained at 90 ±2 percent. One cycle consists of beginning at a stabilized chamber and test sample temperature of 52 ±1 °C, increasing the temperature to 57 ±1 °C, allowing the chamber and test samples to stabilize at this level, then dropping the temperature back to 52 ±1 °C.
(c) Repeat steps (III)(1)(d)(ii) through (III)(5)(c) of this appendix.
(7)
Temperature cycling.
(a) Repeat steps (III)(1)(a) through (III)(1)(c)(iii) of this appendix for separate set of samples B, C, D, and E which have not been subjected to prior environmental conditioning.
(b) Immediately after completing the measurements, subject the test sample to the 10 cycles of temperature between a minimum of −40 °C and + 60 °C. The test sample must be held at each temperature extreme for a minimum of 1
1/2
hours during each cycle of temperature. The air within the temperature cycling chamber must be circulated throughout the duration of the cycling.
(c) Repeat steps (III)(1)(d)(ii) through (III)(5)(c) of this appendix.
(IV)
Control sample
—(1)
Test samples.
A separate set of lengths A, C, D, E, and F must have been maintained at 23 ±3 °C for at least 48 hours before the testing.
(2) Repeat steps (III)(2) through (III)(5)(c) of this appendix except use length A instead of length B.
(3)
Surge Test.
(a) One length of sample F must be used to measure the breakdown between conductors while the other length of F must be used to measure the core to shield breakdown.
(b) The samples must be capable of withstanding without damage, a single surge voltage of 20 kilovolts peak between conductors, and a 35 kilovolts peak surge voltage between conductors and the shield or shield/armor as hereinafter described. The surge voltage must be developed from a capacitor discharged through a forming resistor connected in parallel with the dielectric of the test sample. The surge generator constants must be such as to produce a surge of 1.5 × 40 microsecond wave shape.
(c) The shape of the generated wave must be determined at a reduced voltage by connecting an oscilloscope across the forming resistor with the cable sample connected in parallel with the forming resistor. The capacitor bank is charged to the test voltage and then discharged through the forming resistor and test sample. The test sample will be considered to have passed the test if there is no distinct change in the wave shape obtained with the initial reduced voltage compared to that obtained after the application of the test voltage.
(V) The following suggested formats may be used in submitting the test results to RUS:
Environmental Conditioning______________
Frequency
1
kilohertz
Pair Number
Capacitance
nF/km (nanofarad/mile)
Initial
Final
1
____________
____________
3
____________
____________
5
____________
____________
7
____________
____________
9
____________
____________
11
____________
____________
13
____________
____________
15
____________
____________
17
____________
____________
19
____________
____________
21
____________
____________
23
____________
____________
25
____________
____________
Average x
____________
____________
Overall Percent Difference in Average x
______________
Environmental Conditioning______________
Frequency
150
kilohertz
Pair Number
Capacitance
nF/km (nanofarad/mile)
Initial
Final
Attenuation
dB/km (decibel/mile)
Initial
Final
1
______
______
______
______
3
______
______
______
______
5
______
______
______
______
7
______
______
______
______
9
______
______
______
______
11
______
______
______
______
13
______
______
______
______
15
______
______
______
______
17
______
______
______
______
19
______
______
______
______
21
______
______
______
______
23
______
______
______
______
25
______
______
______
______
Average x
______
______
______
______
Overall Percent Difference in Average x
Capacitance:____________ Conductance:____________
Environmental Conditioning______________
Frequency
772
kilohertz
Pair Number
Capacitance
nF/km (nanofarad/mile)
Initial
Final
Attenuation
dB/km (decibel/mile)
Initial
Final
1
______
______
______
______
3
______
______
______
______
5
______
______
______
______
7
______
______
______
______
9
______
______
______
______
11
______
______
______
______
13
______
______
______
______
15
______
______
______
______
17
______
______
______
______
19
______
______
______
______
21
______
______
______
______
23
______
______
______
______
25
______
______
______
______
Average x
______
______
______
______
Overall Percent Difference in Average x
Capacitance:____________ Conductance:____________
Environmental Conditioning______________
Water Immersion Test (
1
kilohertz)
Pair Number
Capacitance
nF/km (nanofarad/mile)
Initial
24 Hours
Final
1
______
______
______
3
______
______
______
5
______
______
______
7
______
______
______
9
______
______
______
11
______
______
______
13
______
______
______
15
______
______
______
17
______
______
______
19
______
______
______
21
______
______
______
23
______
______
______
25
______
______
______
Average x
______
______
______
Overall Percent Difference in Average x
______________
Water Penetration Test
Option A
End Leakage grams
Weight Gain grams
Option B
End Leakage grams
Penetration mm (in.)
Control
Heat Age
Humidity Exposure
Temperature Cycling
Insulation Compression
Failures
Control
________________
Heat Age
________________
Humidity Exposure
________________
Temperature Cycling
________________
Jacket Slip Strength @ 50 °C
Load in newtons (pound-force)
Control
________________
Heat Age
________________
Humidity Exposure
________________
Temperature Cycling
________________
Filler Exudation (grams)
Heat Age
________________
Humidity Exposure
________________
Temperature Cycle
________________
Surge Test (kilovolts)
Conductor to Conductor
________________
Shield to Conductors
________________
[58 FR 29338, May 20, 1993; 58 FR 32749, June 11, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 1711, Jan. 5, 1995; 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§§ 1755.391-1755.396
[Reserved]
§ 1755.397
RUS performance specification for line concentrators.
(a)
General.
(1) This section covers general requirements for a line concentrator (LC) system. This system shall operate in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications. Reliability shall be of prime importance in the design, manufacture and installation of the equipment. The equipment shall automatically provide for:
(i) Terminating subscriber lines at a location remote from the serving central office;
(ii) Concentrating the subscriber lines over a few transmission and supervisory paths to the serving central office; and
(iii) Terminating the lines at the central office without loss of individual identity. A subscriber connected to a line concentrator shall be capable of having essentially the same services as a subscriber connected directly to the central office equipment (COE). Intra-unit calling among subscribers connected to the concentrator may be provided, but is not required.
(2) Industry standards, or portions thereof, referred to in this paragraph (a) are incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 (a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of these standards are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2838, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(3) American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards are available from ANSI Inc., 11 West 42nd Street, 13th floor, New York, NY 10036, telephone 212-642-4900.
(i) ANSI Standard S1.4-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters, including Amendment S1.4A-1985.
(ii) [Reserved]
(4) American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) are available from 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103, telephone 215-299-5400.
(i) ASTM Specification B33-91, Standard Specifications for Tinned Soft or Annealed Copper Wire for Electrical Purposes.
(ii) [Reserved]
(5) Bell Communications Research (Bellcore) standards are available from Bellcore Customer Service, 8 Corporate Place, Piscataway, NJ 08854, telephone 1-800-521-2673.
(i) TR-TSY-000008, Issue 2, August 1987, Digital Interface between the SLC 96 Digital Loop Carrier System and a Local Digital Switch.
(ii) Bell Communications Research (Bellcore) document TR-TSY-000057, Issue 1, April 1987, including Revision 1, November 1988, Functional Criteria for Digital Loop Carrier Systems.
(iii) Bell Communications Research (Bellcore) Document TR-NWT-000303, Issue 2, December 1992, including Revision 1, December 1993, Integrated Digital Loop Carrier System Generic Requirements, Objectives, and Interface.
(6) Federal Standard H28, Screw-Thread Standards for Federal Services, March 31, 1978, including Change Notice 1, May 28, 1986; Change Notice 2, January 20, 1989; and Change Notice 3, March 12, 1990. Copies may be obtained from the General Services Administration, Specification Section, 490 East L'Enfant Plaza SW, Washington, DC 20407, telephone 202-755-0325.
(7) IEEE standards are available from IEEE Service Center, 445 Hoes Lane,
P.O. Box 1331, Piscataway, NJ 08854, telephone 1-800-521-2673.
(i) IEEE Standard 455-1985, Standard Test Procedure for Measuring Longitudinal Balance of Telephone Equipment Operating in the Voice Band.
(ii) [Reserved]
(8) RUS standards are available from Publications and Directives Management Branch, Administrative Services Division, Rural Utilities Service, room 0180, South Building, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500.
(i) RUS Bulletin 345-50, PE-60 (Sept 1979), RUS Specification for Trunk Carrier Systems.
(ii) [Reserved]
(b)
Types of requirements.
(1) Unless otherwise indicated, the requirements listed in this section are considered to be fixed requirements.
(2) The concentrator system shall communicate with standard T1 digital transmission format at a minimum between the concentrator and central office terminals. Analog conversion functions at remote and central office terminals shall be capable of being eliminated to accommodate end-to-end digital transmission.
(3) The LC shall operate properly as an integral part of the telephone network when connected to physical or carrier derived circuits and central offices meeting RUS specifications and other generally accepted telecommunications practices, such as Bellcore documents TR-NWT-000303, Integrated Digital Loop Carrier System Generic Requirements, Objectives and Interface; TR-TSY-000008, Digital Interface between the SLC 96 Digital Loop Carrier System and a Local Digital Switch; and TR-TSY-000057, Functional Criteria for Digital Loop Carrier Systems.
(4) For RUS acceptance consideration of a LC, the manufacturer must certify and demonstrate that all requirements specified in this section are available and in compliance with this section.
(5) Certain requirements are included in this section for features which may not be needed for every application. Such features are identifiable by the inclusion in the requirements of some such phrase as “when specified by the owner” or “as specified by the owner.” In some cases where an optional feature will not be required by an owner, either now or in the future, a system which does not provide this feature shall be considered to be in compliance with the specification for the specific installation under consideration, but not in compliance with the entire specification.
(6) The owner may properly request bids from any supplier of an RUS accepted LC whose system provides all the features which will be required for a specific installation.
(7) When required by the owner, the supplier shall state compliance to the Carrier Serving Area (CSA) requirements, as stated in Bell Communications Research (Bellcore) Standard TR-TSY-000057, Functional Criteria for Digital Loop Carrier Systems.
(c)
Reliability.
(1) The failure rate of printed circuit boards shall not exceed an average of 2.0 percent per month of all equipped cards in all system terminals during the first 3 months after cutover, and shall not exceed an average of 1.0 percent per month of all equipped cards in all system terminals during the second 3-month period. The failure rate for the equipment shall be less than 0.5 percent per month of all equipped cards in all system terminals after 6 months. A failure is considered to be the failure of a component on the PC board which requires it to be repaired or replaced.
(2) The line concentrator terminal units shall be designed such that there will be no more than 4 hours of total outages in 20 years.
(d)
System type acceptance tests.
General test results will be required on each system type. Any system provided in accordance with this section shall be capable of meeting any requirement in this section on a spot-check basis.
(e)
Features required.
The network control equipment and peripheral equipment shall be comprised of solid-state and integrated circuitry components as far as practical and in keeping with the state-of-the-art and economics of the subject system.
(f)
Subscriber lines
—(1)
General.
(i) The remote LC units shall operate satisfactorily with subscriber lines which meet all of the conditions under the bidder's specifications and all the requirements
of this section. This section recognizes that the loop limit of the line concentrator is dependent upon the transmission facility between the LC central office termination and the LC remote unit. When voice frequency (physical) circuits are used, the loop limit from the COE to the subscriber shall be 1900 ohms (including the telephone set). When electronically derived circuits (carrier, lightwave, etc.) are used, the loop limits of the electronic system will control. The bidder shall identify the loop limits of the equipment to be supplied.
(ii) There should be provisions for such types of lines as ground start, loop start, regular subscriber, pay stations, etc.
(2)
Dialing.
(i)
General.
The line concentrator remote and central office terminal equipment shall satisfactorily transmit dialing information when used with subscriber dials having a speed of operation between 8 and 12 dial pulses per second and a break period of 55 to 65% of the total signaling period.
(ii)
Subscriber dial interdigital time.
The remote and central office LC equipment shall permit satisfactory telecommunications operation when used with subscriber rotary dial interdigital times of 200 milliseconds minimum, and pushbutton dialing with 50 milliseconds minimum.
(iii)
Subscriber line pushbutton dialing frequencies.
The frequency pairs assigned for pushbutton dialing when provided by the central office shall be as listed in this paragraph (f)(2)(iii), with an allowable variation of ±1.5 percent:
Low group frequencies (Hz)
High group frequencies (Hz)
1209
1336
1477
1633
697
1
2
3
Spare.
770
4
5
6
Spare.
852
7
8
9
Spare.
941
*
0
#
Spare.
(3)
Ringing.
(i) When LC ringing is generated at the remote end, it shall be automatic and intermittent and shall be cut off from the called line upon removal of the handset at the called station during either the ringing or silent period.
(ii) When ringing generators are provided in the LC on an ancillary basis, they shall be accepted or technically accepted by RUS.
(iii) Where ringing is generated at the remote end, the ringing system shall provide sufficient ringing on a bridged basis over the voltage and temperature limits of this specification and over subscriber loops within the limits stated by the manufacturer. The manufacturer shall state the minimum number (not less than two) of main station ringers that can be used for each ringing option available.
(g)
Traffic.
(1)(i) The minimum grade of service for traffic in the line concentrator shall be B =. 005 using the Traffic Table, based on the Erlang Lost-Calls-Cleared Formula. Required grade of service, traffic assumptions and calculations for the particular application being implemented shall be supplied by the bidder.
(ii) Service to customers served by a traffic sensitive LC should not be noticeably different than the service to customers served by the dedicated physical pairs from the central office so that uniform grade of service will be provided to all customers in any class of service. Reference § 1755.522(p)(1)(i), RUS General Specification for Digital, Stored Program Controlled Central Office Equipment.
(2)
Traffic and Plant Registers.
Traffic measurements consist of three types—peg count, usage, and congestion. A peg count register scores one count per call attempt per circuit group such as trunks, digit receivers, senders, etc. Usage counters measure the traffic density in networks, trunks and other circuit groups. Congestion registers score the number of calls which fail to find an idle circuit in a trunk group or to find an idle path through the switching network when attempting to connect two given end points. These conditions constitute “network blocking.”
(3) When required, traffic data will be stored in electronic storage registers or a block of memory consisting of one or more traffic counters for each item to be measured. The bidder shall indicate what registers are to be supplied, their purpose and the means for displaying the information locally (or at a remote location when available).
(h)
Transmission requirements
—(1)
General.
Unless otherwise stated, the requirements in paragraphs (h) (2) through (20) of this section are specified in terms of analog measurements made from Main Distributing Frame (MDF) terminals to MDF terminals excluding cabling loss.
(2)
Telephone transmitter battery supply.
A minimum of 20 milliamperes, dc, shall be provided for the transmitter of the telephone set at the subscriber station under all loop conditions specified by the bidder. The telephone set is assumed to have a resistance of 200 ohms.
(3)
Impedance—subscriber loops.
For the purpose of this section, the input impedance of all subscriber loops served by the equipment is arbitrarily considered to be 900 ohms in series with 2.16 microfarad capacitor at voice frequencies.
(4)
Battery noise.
Noise across the remote terminal battery at power panel distribution bus terminals shall not exceed 35 dBrnC during the specified busy hour.
(5)
Stability.
The long-term allowable variation in loss through the line concentrator system shall be ±0.5 dB from the loss specified by the bidder.
(6)
Return loss.
The specified return loss values are determined by the service and type of port at the measuring end. Two-wire ports are measured at 900 ohms in series with 2.16 microfarads, and 4-wire ports are measured at 600 ohms resistive. When other balance networks are supplied, test equipment arranged for operation with the supplied network(s) may be used. The requirement given shall meet the following cited values on each balance network available in the system:
Line-to-Line or Line-to-Trunk (2-Wire)
Echo Return Loss (ERL)—18 dB, Minimum
Singing Return Loss (SRL)—Low—15 dB, Minimum
Singing Return Loss (SRL)—High—18 dB, Minimum
(7)
Longitudinal balance.
The minimum longitudinal balance, with dc loop currents between 20 to 70 mA, shall be 60 dB at all frequencies between 60 and 2000 Hz, 55 dB at 2700 Hz and 50 dB at 3400 Hz. The method of measurement shall be as specified in the IEEE standard 455, “Standard Testing Procedure for Measuring Longitudinal Balance of Telephone Equipment Operating in the Voice Band.” Source voltage level shall be 10 volts root mean square (rms) where conversation battery feed originates at the remote end.
(8)
60 hz longitudinal current immunity.
The LC 60 Hz longitudinal current immunity shall be measured in accordance with Figure 1 of this section. Under test conditions cited on Figure 1 of this section, the system noise shall be 23 dBrnC or less as follows:
ER29AU95.002
(9)
Steady noise (idle channel at 900 ohm impedance).
Steady noise: Measure on terminated call. Noise measurements shall comply with the following:
Maximum—23 dBrnC0
Average—18 dBrnC0 or Less
3KHz Flat—Less than 35 dBrnO as an Objective
(10)
Impulse noise.
LC central office terminal equipment shall have an impulse noise limit of not more than five counts exceeding 54 dBrnC0 voice band weighted in a 5-minute period on six such measurements made during the busy hour. A WILCOM T-194C Transmission Test Set, or equivalent, should be used for the measurements. The
measurement shall be made by establishing a normal connection from the noise counter through the switching equipment in its off-hook condition to a quiet termination of 900 ohms impedance. Office battery and signaling circuit wiring shall be suitably segregated from voice and carrier circuit wiring, and frame talking battery filters provided, if and as required, in order to meet these impulse noise limits.
(11)
Crosstalk coupling.
Worst case equal level crosstalk shall be 65 dB minimum in the range 200 to 3400 Hz. This shall be measured between any two paths through the system by connecting a 0 dBm0 level tone to the disturbing pair.
(12)
Digital error rate.
The digital line concentrator shall not introduce more than one error in 10
8
bits averaged over a 5-minute period, excluding the least significant bit.
(13)
Quantizing distortion.
(i) The system shall meet the following requirements:
Input level (dBm0) 1004 or 1020 Hz
Minimum signal to distortion with C-message weighting
0 to −30
33 dB
−30 to −40
27 dB
−40 to −45
22 dB
(ii) Due to possible loss of the least significant bit on direct digital connections, a signal to distortion degradation of up to 2 dB may be allowed where adequately justified by the bidder.
(14)
Overload level.
The overload level shall be + 3 dBm0.
(15)
Gain tracking (linearity)
shall meet the following requirements:
Input signal level
1
Maximum gain deviation
+ 3 to −37 dBm0
±0.5 dB
−37 to −50 dBm0
±1 dB
1
1004 Hz reference at 0 dBm0.
(16)
Frequency response (loss relative to 1004 Hz)
for line-to-line (via trunk group or intra-link) connections shall meet the following requirements:
Frequency (Hz)
Loss at 0 dBm0 input
1
60
20 dB Min.
2
300
−1 to + 3 dB
600 to 2400
+ 1 dB
3400
−1 to + 3 dB
1
(−) means less loss and (+) means more loss.
2
Transmit End.
(17)
Envelope delay distortion.
On any properly established connection, the envelope delay distortion shall not exceed the following limits:
Frequency (Hz)
Microseconds
1000 to 2600
190
800 to 2800
350
600 to 3000
500
400 to 3200
700
(18)
Absolute delay.
The absolute one-way delay through the line concentrator, excluding delays associated with the central office switching equipment, shall not exceed 1000 microseconds analog-to-analog measured at 1800 Hz.
(19)
Insertion loss.
The insertion loss in both directions of transmission at 1004 Hz shall be included in the insertion loss requirements for the connected COE switch and shall not increase the overall losses through the combined equipment beyond the values for the COE alone, when operated through a direct digital interface. Systems operated with a (VF) line circuit interface may introduce up to 3 dB insertion loss. Reference § 1755.522(q)(3).
(20)
Detailed requirements for direct digital connections.
(i) This paragraph (h)(20) covers the detailed requirements for the provision of interface units which will permit direct digital connection between the host central office and line concentrator subscriber terminals over digital facilities. The digital transmission system shall be compatible with T1 type span lines using a DS1 interface and other digital interfaces that may be specified by the owner. The RUS specification for the T1 span line equipment is PE-60. Other span line techniques may also be used. Diverse span line routing may be used when specified by the owner.
(ii) The output of a digital-to-digital port shall be Pulse Code Modulation (PCM), encoded in eight-bit words using the mu-255 encoding law and D3 encoding format, and arranged to interface with a T1 span line.
(iii) Signaling shall be by means of Multifrequency (MF) or Dual Pulsing (DP) and the system which is inherent in the A and B bits of the D3 format. In the case where A and B bits are not used for signaling or system control, these bits shall only be used for normal voice and data transmission.
(iv) When a direct digital interface between the span line and the host central office equipment is to be implemented, the following requirements shall be met:
(A) The span line shall be terminated in a central office as a minimum a DS1 (1.544Mb/s) shall be provided;
(B) The digital central office equipment shall be programmed to support the operation of the digital port with the line concentrator subscriber terminal;
(C) The line concentrator subscriber terminal used with a direct digital interface shall be interchangeable with the subscriber terminal used with a central office terminal.
(i)
Alarms.
The system shall send alarms for such conditions as blown fuses, blocked controls, power failure in the remote terminal, etc., along with its own status indication and status of dry relay contact closures or solid-state equivalent to the associated central office alarm circuits. Sufficient system alarm points shall be provided from the remote terminal to report conditions to the central office alarm system. The alarms shall be transmitted from the remote terminal to the central office terminal as long as any part of the connecting link is available for this transmission. Fuses shall be of the alarm and indicator type, and their rating designated by numerals or color code on fuse positions.
(j)
Electrical protection
—(1)
Surge protection.
(i) Adequate electrical protection of line concentrator equipment shall be included in the design of the system. The characteristics and application of protection devices must be such that they enable the line concentrator equipment to withstand, without damage or excessive protector maintenance, the dielectric stresses and currents that are produced in line-to-ground and tip-to-ring circuits through the equipment as a result of induced or conducted lightning or power system fault-related surges. All wire terminals connected to outside plant wire or cable pairs shall be protected from voltage and current surges.
(ii) Equipment must pass laboratory tests, simulating a hostile electrical environment, before being placed in the field for the purpose of obtaining field experience. For acceptance consideration RUS requires manufacturers to submit recently completed results (within 90 days of submittal) of data obtained from the prescribed testing. Manufacturers are expected to detail how data and tests were conducted. There are five basic types of laboratory tests which must be applied to exposed terminals in an effort to determine if the equipment will survive. Figure 2 of this section, Summary of Electrical Requirements and Tests, identifies the tests and their application as follows:
Figure 2—Summary of Electrical Requirements and Tests
Test
Application criteria
Peak voltage or current
Surge waveshape
Number of applications and maximum time between
Comments
Current surge
Low impedance paths exposed to surges
500A or lesser current (see fig. 4)
10 × 1000 µs
5 each polarity at 1 minute intervals
None.
60 Hz current carrying
High or low impedance paths exposed to surges
10A rms or lesser current (see fig. 6)
11 Cycles of 60 Hz (0.183 Sec.)
3 each at 1 minute intervals
None.
AC Power service surge voltage
AC power service connection
2500V or + 3 σ clamping V of arrester employed at 10kV/µs
1.2 × 50 µs
5 each polarity at 1 minute intervals
AC arrester, if used, must be removed. Communications line arresters, if used, remain in place.
Voltage surge
High impedance paths exposed to surges
1000V or + 3 σ dc breakdown of arrester employed
10 × 1000 µs
5 each polarity at 1 minute intervals
All primary arresters, if used, must be removed.
Arrester response delay
Paths protected by arresters, such as gas tubes, with breakdown dependent on V. rate of rise
+ 3 σ breakdown of arrester employed at 100V/µs of rise
100V/µs rise decay to
1/2
V. in tube's delay time
5 each polarity at 1 minute intervals
All primary arrestors, if used, must be removed.
(iii) Electrical protection requirements for line concentrator equipment can be summarized briefly as follows:
(A) Current surge tests simulate the stress to which a relatively low impedance path may be subjected before main frame protectors break down. Paths with a 100 Hz impedance of 50 ohms or less shall be subjected to current surges, employing a 10 × 1000 microsecond waveshape as defined in Figure 3 of this section, Surge Waveshape. For the purpose of determining this impedance, arresters which are mounted within the equipment are to be considered zero impedance. The crest current shall not exceed 500A; however, depending on the impedance of the test specimen this value of current may be lower. The crest current through the sample, multiplied by the sample's 100 Hz impedance, shall not exceed 1000 V. Where sample impedance is less than 2 ohms, peak current shall be limited to 500A as shown in Figure 4 of this section, Current Surge Tests. Figures 3 and 4 follow:
ER29AU95.003
ER29AU95.004
(B) Sixty Hertz (60 Hz) current carrying tests shall be applied to simulate an ac power fault which is conducted to the unit over the cable pairs. The test shall be limited to 10 amperes Root Mean Square (rms) of 60 Hz ac for a period of 11 cycles (0.1835 seconds) and shall be applied longitudinally from line to ground.
(C) AC power service surge voltage tests shall be applied to the power input terminals of ac powered devices
to simulate switching surges or lightning-induced transients on the ac power system. The test shall employ a 1.2 × 50 microsecond waveshape with a crest voltage of 2500 V. Communications line protectors may be left in place for these tests.
(D) Voltage surge tests which simulate the voltage stress to which a relatively high impedance path may be subjected before primary protectors break down and protect the circuit. To ensure coordination with the primary protection while reducing testing to the minimum, voltage surge tests shall be conducted at a 1000 volts with primary arresters removed for devices protected by carbon blocks, or the + 3 sigma dc breakdown voltage of other primary arresters. Surge waveshape should be 10 × 1000 microseconds.
(E) Arrester response delay tests are designed to stress the equipment in a manner similar to that caused by the delayed breakdown of gap type arresters when subjected to rapidly rising voltages. Arresters shall be removed for these tests, the peak surge voltage shall be the + 3 sigma breakdown voltage of the arrester in question on a voltage rising at 100 V per microsecond, and the time for the surge to decay to half voltage shall equal at least the delay time of the tube as explained in Figure 5 of this section, Arrester Response Delay Time as follows:
ER29AU95.005
(iv) Tests shall be conducted in the following sequence. As not all tests are required in every application, non-applicable tests should be omitted:
(A) Current Impulse Test;
(B) Sixty Hertz (60 Hz) Current Carrying Tests;
(C) AC Power Service Impulse Voltage Test;
(D) Voltage Impulse Test; and
(E) Arrester Response Delay Time Test.
(v) A minimum of five applications of each polarity for the surge tests and three for the 60 Hz Current Carrying Tests are the minimum required. All tests shall be conducted with not more than 1 minute between consecutive applications in each series of three or five applications to a specific configuration so that heating effects will be cumulative. See Figure 6 of this section, 60 Hz Current Surge Tests as follows:
ER29AU95.006
(vi) Tests shall be applied between each of the following terminal combinations for all line operating conditions:
(A) Line tip to ring;
(B) Line ring to ground;
(C) Line tip to ground; and
(D) Line tip and ring tied together to ground.
(2)
Dielectric strength.
(i) Arresters shall be removed for all dielectric strength tests.
(ii) Direct current potentials shall be applied between all line terminals and the equipment chassis and between these terminals and grounded equipment housings in all instances where the circuitry is dc open circuit from the chassis, or connected to the chassis through a capacitor. The duration of all dielectric strength tests shall be at least 1 second. The applied potential shall be at a minimum equal to the plus 3 sigma dc breakdown voltage of the arrester, provided by the line concentrator manufacturer.
(3)
Insulation resistance.
Following the dielectric tests, the insulation resistance of the installed electrical circuits between wires and ground, with the normal equipment grounds removed, shall not be less than 10 megohms at 500 volts dc at a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) and at a relative humidity of approximately 50 percent. The measurement shall be made after the meter stabilizes, unless the requirement is met sooner. Arresters shall be removed for these tests.
(4)
Self-protection.
(i) All components shall be capable of being continuously energized at rated voltage without injury. Design precautions must be taken to prevent damage to other equipment components when a particular component fails.
(ii) Printed circuit boards or similar equipment employing electronic components should be self-protecting against external grounds applied to the connector terminals. Board components and coatings applied to finished products shall be of such material or so treated that they will not support combustion.
(iii) Every precaution shall be taken to protect electrostatically sensitive components from damage during handling. This shall include written instructions and recommendations.
(k)
Miscellaneous
—(1)
Interconnect wire.
All interconnect wire shall be of soft annealed tinned copper wire meeting the requirements of ASTM Specification B33-91 and of suitable cross-section to provide safe current carrying capacity and mechanical strength. The insulation of installed wire, connected to its equipment and frames, shall be capable of withstanding the same insulation resistance and dielectric strength requirements as given in paragraphs (j)(2) and (j)(3) of this section at a temperature of 120 °F (49 °C), and a relative humidity of 90 percent.
(2)
Wire wrapped terminals.
These terminals are preferred and where used shall be of a material suitable for wire wrapping. The connections to them shall be made with a wire wrapping tool with the following minimum number of successive non-overlapping turns of bare tinned copper wire in contact with each terminal:
(i) 6 turns of 30 gauge;
(ii) 6 turns of 26 gauge;
(iii) 6 turns of 24 gauge; or
(iv) 5 turns of 22 gauge.
(3)
Protection against corrosion.
All metal parts of equipment frames, distributing frames, cable supporting framework and other exposed metal parts shall be constructed of corrosion resistant materials or materials plated or painted to render them adequately corrosion resistant.
(4)
Screws and bolts.
Screw threads for all threaded securing devices shall be of American National Standard form in accordance with Federal Standard H28, unless exceptions are granted to the manufacturer of the switching equipment. All bolts, nuts, screws, and washers shall be of nickel-copper alloy, steel, brass or bronze.
(5)
Environmental requirements.
(i) The bidder shall specify the environmental conditions necessary for safe storage and satisfactory operation of the equipment being bid. If requested, the bidder shall assist the owner in planning how to provide the necessary environment for the equipment.
(ii) To the extent practicable, the following temperature range objectives shall be met:
(A) For equipment mounted in central office and subscriber buildings, the carrier equipment shall operate satisfactory within an ambient temperature range of 32 °F to 120 °F (0 °C to 49 °C) and at 80 percent relative humidity between 50 °F and 100 °F (10 °C and 38 °C); and
(B) Equipment mounted outdoors in normal operation (with cabinet doors closed) shall operate satisfactorily within an ambient temperature range (external to cabinet) of −40 °F to 140 °F (−40 °C to 60 °C) and at 95 percent relative humidity between 50 °F to 100 °F (10 °C to 38 °C). As an alternative to the (60 °C) requirement, a maximum ambient temperature of 120 °F (49 °C) with equipment (cabinet) exposed to direct sunlight may be substituted.
(6)
Stenciling.
Equipment units and terminal jacks shall be adequately designated and numbered. They shall be stenciled so that identification of equipment units and leads for testing or traffic analysis can be made without unnecessary reference to prints or descriptive literature.
(7)
Quantity of equipment bays.
Consistent with system arrangements and ease of maintenance, space shall be provided on the floor plan for an orderly layout of future equipment bays. Readily accessible terminals will be provided for connection to interbay and frame cables to future bays. All cables, interbay and intrabay (excluding power), if technically feasible, shall be terminated at both ends by connectors.
(8)
Radio and television interference.
Measures shall be employed by the bidders to limit the radiation of radio frequencies generated by the equipment so as not to interfere with radio, television receivers, or other sensitive equipment.
(9)
Housing.
(i) When housed in a building supplied by the owner, a complete floor plan including ceiling height, floor loading, power outlets, cable entrances, equipment entry and travel, type of construction, and other pertinent information shall be supplied.
(ii) In order to limit corrosion, all metal parts of the housing and mounting frames shall be constructed of suitable corrosion resistant materials or materials protectively coated to render them adequately resistant to corrosion under the climatic and atmospheric conditions existing in the area in which the housing is to be installed.
(10)
Distributing frame.
(i) The line concentrator terminal equipment located at the central office shall be protected by the central office main distribution frame. The bidder may supply additional protection capability as appropriate. All protection devices (new or existing) shall be arranged to operate in a coordinated manner to protect equipment, limit surge currents, and protect personnel.
(ii) The distributing frame shall provide terminals for terminating all incoming cable pairs. Arresters shall be provided for all incoming cable pairs, or for a smaller number of pairs if specified.
(iii) The current carrying capacity of each arrester and its associated mounting shall coordinate with a #22 gauge copper conductor without causing a self-sustaining fire or permanently damaging other arrester positions. Where all cable pairs entering the housing are #24 gauge or finer, the arresters and mountings need only coordinate with #24 gauge cable conductors.
(iv) Remote terminal protectors may be mounted and arranged so that outside cable pairs may be terminated on the left or bottom side of protectors (when facing the vertical side of the MDF) or on the back surface of the protectors. Means for easy identification of pairs shall be provided.
(v) Protectors shall have a “dead front” (either insulated or grounded) where live metal parts are not readily accessible.
(vi) Protectors shall be provided with an accessible terminal of each incoming conductor which is suitable for the attachment of a temporary test lead. They shall also be constructed so that auxiliary test fixtures may be applied to open and test the subscriber's circuit in either direction. Terminals shall be suitable for wire wrapped connections or connectorized.
(vii) If specified, each protector group shall be furnished with a factory assembled tip cable for splicing to the outside cable; the tip cable shall be 20 feet (6.1 m) in length, unless otherwise
specified. Tip cable used shall be RUS accepted.
(viii) Protector makes and types used shall be RUS accepted.
(l)
Power equipment
—(1)
General.
When specified, batteries and charging equipment shall be supplied for the remote terminal of the line concentrator.
(2)
Operating voltage.
(i) The nominal operating voltage of the central office and remote terminal shall be 48 volts dc, provided by a battery with the positive side tied to system ground.
(ii) Where equipment is dc powered, it must operate satisfactorily over a range of 50 volts ±6 volts dc.
(iii) Where equipment is ac powered, it must operate satisfactorily over a range of 120±10 volts or 220±10 volts ac.
(3)
Batteries.
(i) Unless otherwise specified by the owner, sealed batteries shall be supplied for the remote line concentrator terminal.
(ii) The batteries shall have an ampere hour load capacity of no less than 8 busy hours. When an emergency ac supply source is available, the battery reserve may be reduced to 3 busy hours.
(iii) The batteries shall be sealed when they are mounted in the cabinet with the concentrator equipment.
(iv) When specified by the owner, battery heaters shall be supplied in a bidder-furnished housing.
(4)
Charging equipment.
(i) One charger capable of carrying the full dc power load of the remote terminal shall be supplied unless otherwise specified by the owner.
(ii) Charging shall be on a full float basis. The rectifiers shall be of the full wave, self-regulating, constant voltage, solid-state type and shall be capable of being turned on and off manually.
(iii) When charging batteries, the voltage at the battery terminals shall be adjustable and shall be set at the value recommended for the particular battery being charged, provided it is not above the maximum operating voltage of the central office switching equipment. The voltage shall not vary more than ±0.02 volt dc per cell between 10% load and 100% load. Between 3% and 10% load, the output voltage shall not vary more than ±0.04 volt dc per cell. Beyond full load current the output voltage shall drop sharply. The above output voltage shall be maintained with input line voltage variations of plus or minus 10 percent. Provision shall be made to manually change the output voltage of the rectifier to 2.25 volts per cell to provide an equalization charge on the battery.
(iv) The charger noise, when measured with a suitable noise measuring set and under the rated battery capacitance and load conditions, shall not exceed 22 dBrnC. See Figure 7 of this section, Charger Noise Test as follows:
ER29AU95.007
(v) The charging equipment shall be provided with a means for indicating a failure of charging current whether due to ac power failure, an internal failure in the charger, or to other circumstances which might cause the output voltage of the charger to drop below the battery voltage. Where a supplementary constant current charger is used, an alarm shall be provided to indicate a failure of the charger.
(vi) Audible noise developed by the charging equipment shall be kept to a minimum. Acoustic noise resulting from operation of the rectifier shall be expressed in terms of dB indicated on a sound level meter conforming to American National Standards Institute S1.4, and shall not exceed 65 dB (A-weighting) measured at any point 5 feet (1.5m) from any vertical surface of the rectifier.
(vii) The charging equipment shall be designed so that neither the charger nor the central office equipment is subject to damage in case the battery circuit is opened for any value of load within the normal limits.
(5)
Power panel.
(i) Battery and charger control switches, dc voltmeters, dc ammeters, fuses and circuit breakers, supervisory and timer circuits shall be provided as required. Portable or panel mounted frequency meters or voltmeters shall be provided as specified by the owner.
(ii) Power panels, cabinets and shelves, and associated wiring shall be designed initially to handle the line concentrator terminal when it reaches its ultimate capacity as specified by the owner.
(iii) The power panel shall be of the “dead front” type.
(6)
Ringing equipment.
The ringing system shall provide sufficient ringing on a bridged basis over the voltage and temperature limits of this section and over subscriber drops within the limits stated by the bidder. The ringing system shall be without operational problems such as bell tapping during dialing. The bidder shall state the minimum number (not less than two) of main station ringers that can be used for each ringing option available.
(7)
Interrupter equipment.
The interrupter may be an integral part of the system or may be part of the associated central office equipment connected to the line concentrator central office terminal.
(8)
Special systems.
Manufacturers of LC systems that operate by extending ringing current from the central office shall state their required input ringing (voltage and frequency) and the limitations on the connected subscriber loop.
(m)
Fusing requirements
—(1)
General.
(i) The equipment shall be completely wired and equipped with fuses, trouble signals, and all associated equipment for the wire capacity of the frames or cabinets provided.
(ii) Design precautions shall be taken to prevent the possibility of equipment damage arising from the insertion of an electronic package into the wrong connector or the removal of a package from any connector or improper insertion of the correct card in its connector.
(2)
Fuses.
Fuses and circuit breakers shall be of an alarm and indicator type, except where the fuse or breaker location is indicated on the alarm printout. Their rating shall be designated by numerals or color codes on the fuse or the panel.
(n)
Trouble location and test
—(1)
Equipment.
(i) Trouble indications in the system may be displayed in the form of lights on the equipment units or printed circuit boards.
(ii) When required, a jack or other connector shall be provided to connect a fault or trouble recorder (printer or display).
(2)
Maintenance system.
(i) The maintenance system shall monitor and maintain the system operation without interruption of call processing except for major failures.
(ii) The maintenance system shall be arranged to provide the ability to determine trouble to an individual card, functional group of cards, or other equipment unit.
(o)
Spare parts.
Lists of spare parts and maintenance tools as recommended by the bidder shall be provided. The cost of such tools and spare parts shall be indicated and shall not be included in the base price.
(p)
Drawings and printed material.
(1) The bidder shall supply instructional material for each line concentrator system involved at the time of delivery of the equipment. It is not the intent of this section to require system documentation necessary for the repair of individual circuit boards.
(2) Three complete sets of legible drawings shall be provided for each central office to be accessed. Each set shall include all of the following:
(i) Drawings of major equipment items such as frames, with the location of major component items of equipment shown therein;
(ii) Wiring diagrams indicating the specific method of wiring used on each item of equipment and interconnection wiring between items of equipment;
(iii) Maintenance drawings covering each equipment item that contains replaceable parts, appropriately identifying each part by name and part number; and
(iv) Job drawings including all drawings that are individual to the particular line concentrator involved such as mainframe, power equipment, etc.
(3) The following information shall also be furnished:
(i) A complete index of required drawings;
(ii) An explanation of electrical principles of operation of overall concentrator system;
(iii) A list of tests which can be made with each piece of test equipment furnished and an explanation of the method of making each test;
(iv) A sample of each form recommended for use in keeping records;
(v) The criteria for analyzing results of tests and determining appropriate corrective action;
(vi) A set of general notes on methods of isolating equipment faults to specific printed circuit cards in the equipment;
(vii) A list of typical troubles which might be encountered, together with general indications as to probable location of each trouble; and
(viii) All special line concentrator system grounding requirements.
(4) When installation is to be done by the bidder a complete set of drawings shall be provided by the owner, such as floor plans, lighting, grounding and ac power access.
(q)
Installation and acceptance
—(1)
General.
Paragraphs (q)(2)(i) through (q)(3)(xxi) of this section covers the general requirements for the installation of line concentrator equipment by the bidder, and outlines the general conditions to be met by the owner in connection with such installation work. The responsibilities apply in both the central office installation and remote terminal installations, unless otherwise noted.
(2)
Responsibilities of owner.
The owner shall:
(i) Allow the bidder and its employees free access to the premises and facilities at all hours during the progress of the installation;
(ii) Provide access to the remote site and any other site for development work needed during the installation;
(iii) Take such action as necessary to ensure that the premises are dry and free from dust and in such condition as not to be hazardous to the installation personnel or the material to be installed (not required when remote terminal is not installed in a building);
(iv) Provide heat or air conditioning when required and general illumination in rooms in which work is to be performed or materials stored;
(v) Provide suitable openings in buildings to allow material to be placed in position (not required when a remote terminal is not installed in a building);
(vi) Provide the necessary conduit and commercial and dc-ac inverter output power to the locations shown on the approved floor plan drawings;
(vii) Provide 110 volts a.c., 60 Hz commercial power equipped with a secondary arrester and a reasonable number of outlets for test, maintenance and installation equipment;
(viii) Provide suitable openings or channels and ducts for cables and conductors from floor to floor and from room to room;
(ix) Provide suitable ground leads, as designated by the bidder (not required when remote terminal is not installed in a building);
(x) Provide the necessary wiring, central office ground and commercial power service, with a secondary arrester, to the location of an exterior remote terminal installation based on the voltage and load requirements furnished voltage and load requirements furnished by the bidder;
(xi) Test at the owners expense all lines and trunks for continuity, leakage and loop resistance and ensure that all lines and trunks are suitable for operation with the central office and remote terminal equipment specified;
(xii) Make alterations and repairs to buildings necessary for proper installation of material, except to repair damage for which the bidder or its employees are responsible;
(xiii) Connect outside cable pairs on the distributing frame (those connected to protectors);
(xiv) Furnish all line, class of service assignment, and party line assignment information to permit bidder to program the data base memory within a reasonable time prior to final testing;
(xv) Release for the bidder's use, as soon as possible, such portions of the
existing plant as are necessary for the proper completion of such tests as require coordination with existing facilities including facilities for T1 span lines with properly installed repeaters between the central office and the remote terminal installations;
(xvi) Make prompt inspections as it deems necessary when notified by the bidder that the equipment, or any part thereof, is ready for acceptance;
(xvii) Provide adequate fire protection apparatus at the remote terminal, including one or more fire extinguishers or fire extinguishing systems of the gaseous type, that has low toxicity and effect on equipment;
(xviii) Provide necessary access ports for cable, if underfloor cabling is selected;
(xix) Install equipment and accessory plant devices mounted external to the central office building and external to the repeater and other outside housings including filters, repeater housings, splicing of repeater cable stubs, externally mounted protective devices and other such accessory devices in accordance with written instructions provided by the bidder; and
(xx) Make all cross connections (at the MDF or Intermediate Distribution Frame IDF) between the physical trunk or carrier equipment and the central office equipment unless otherwise specified in appendix A of this section.
(3)
Responsibilities of bidder.
The bidder shall:
(i) Allow the owner and its representatives access to all parts of the building at all times;
(ii) Obtain the owner's permission before proceeding with any work necessitating cutting into or through any part of the building structure such as girders, beams, concrete or tile floors, partitions or ceilings (does not apply to the installation of lag screws, expansion bolts, and similar devices used for fastening equipment to floors, columns, walls, and ceilings);
(iii) Be responsible for and repair all damage to the building due to carelessness of the bidder's workforce, exercise reasonable care to avoid any damage to the owner's switching equipment or other property, and report to the owner any damage to the building which may exist or may occur during its occupancy of the building;
(iv) Consult with the owner before cutting into or through any part of the building structure in all cases where the fireproofing or moisture proofing may be impaired;
(v) Take necessary steps to ensure that all fire fighting apparatus is accessible at all times and all flammable materials are kept in suitable places outside the building;
(vi) Not use gasoline, benzene, alcohol, naphtha, carbon tetrachloride or turpentine for cleaning any part of the equipment;
(vii) Be responsible for delivering the CO and remote terminal equipment to the sites where they will be needed;
(viii) Install the equipment in accordance with the specifications for the line concentrator;
(ix) Have all leads brought out to terminal blocks on the MDF (or IDF if stated in appendix A of this section) and have all terminal blocks identified and permanently labeled;
(x) Use separate shielded type leads grounded at one end only unless otherwise specified by the owner or bidder or tip cables meeting RUS cable crosstalk requirements for carrier frequencies inside the central office;
(xi) Group the cables to separate carrier frequency, voice frequency, signaling, and power leads;
(xii) Make the necessary power and ground connections (location as shown in appendix A of this section) to the purchaser's power terminals and ground bus unless otherwise stated in appendix A of this section (ground wire shall be 6 AWG unless otherwise stated);
(xiii) Place the battery in service in compliance with the recommendations of the battery manufacturer;
(xiv) Make final charger adjustments using the manufacturer's recommended procedure;
(xv) Run all jumpers, except line and trunk jumpers (those connected to protectors) unless otherwise specified in appendix A of this section;
(xvi) Establish and update all data base memories with subscriber information as supplied by the owner until an agreed turnover time;
(xvii) Give the owner notice of completion of the installation at least one week prior to completion;
(xviii) Permit the owner or its representative to conduct tests and inspections after installation has been completed in order that the owner may be assured the requirements for installation are met;
(xix) Allow access, before turnover, by the owner or its representative, upon request, to the test equipment which is to be turned over as a part of the delivered equipment, to permit the checking of the circuit features which are being tested and to permit the checking of the amount of connected equipment to which the test circuits have access;
(xx) Notify the owner promptly of the completion of work of the central office terminals, remote terminals or such portions thereof as are ready for inspection; and
(xxi) Correct promptly all defects for which the bidder is responsible.
(4)
Information to be furnished by bidder.
The bidder shall accompany its bid with the following information:
(i) Two copies of the equipment list and the traffic calculations from which the quantities in the equipment list are determined;
(ii) Two copies of the traffic tables from which the quantities are determined, if other than the Erlang B traffic tables;
(iii) A block diagram of the line concentrator and associated maintenance equipment will be provided;
(iv) A prescribed method and criteria for acceptance of the completed line concentrator which will be subject to review;
(v) This special grounding requirements including the recommended configuration, suggested equipment and installation methods to be used to accomplish them;
(vi) The special handling and equipment requirements to avoid damage resulting from the discharge of static electricity (see paragraph (j)(4)(iii) of this section) or mechanical damage during transit installation and testing;
(vii) The location of technical assistance service, its availability and conditions for owner use and charges for the service by the bidder; and
(viii) The identification of the subscriber loop limits available beyond the line concentrator.
(5)
Installation requirements.
(i) All work shall be done in a neat, workmanlike manner. Equipment frames or cabinets shall be correctly located, carefully aligned, anchored, and firmly braced. Cables shall be carefully laid with sufficient radius of curvature and protected at corners and bends to ensure against damage from handling or vibration. Exterior cabinet installations for remote terminals shall be made in a permanent, eye-pleasing manner.
(ii) All multiple and associated wiring shall be continuous, free from crosses, reverses, and grounds and shall be correctly wired at all points.
(iii) An inspection shall be made by the owner or its representatives prior to performing operational and performance tests on the equipment, but after all installing operations which might disturb apparatus adjustments have been completed. The inspection shall be of such character and extent as to disclose with reasonable certainty any unsatisfactory condition of apparatus or equipment. During these inspections, or inspections for apparatus adjustments, or wire connections, or in testing of equipment, a sufficiently detailed examination shall be made throughout the portion of the equipment within which such condition is observed, or is likely to occur, to disclose the full extent of its existence, where any of the following conditions are observed:
(A) Apparatus or equipment units failing to compare in quantity and type to that specified for the installation;
(B) Apparatus or equipment units damaged or incomplete;
(C) Apparatus or equipment affected by rust, corrosion or marred finish; and
(D) Other adverse conditions resulting from failure to meet generally accepted standards of good workmanship.
(6)
Operational tests.
(i) Operational tests shall be performed on all circuits and circuit components to ensure their proper functioning in accordance with appropriate explanation of the operation of the circuit.
(ii) All equipment shall be tested to ensure proper operation with all components connected in all possible combinations and each line shall be tested for proper ring, ring trip and supervision.
(iii) All fuses shall be verified for continuity and correct rating. Alarm indication shall be demonstrated for each equipped fuse position. An already failed fuse compatible with the fuse position may be used.
(iv) Each alarm or signal circuit shall be checked for correct operation.
(v) A sufficient quantity of locally originating and incoming calls shall be made to demonstrate the function of the line concentrator including all equipped transmission paths. When intra-link calling is supplied, all intra-link transmission paths shall be demonstrated.
(7)
Acceptance tests and data required.
(i) Data shall be supplied to the owner by the bidder in writing as a part of the final documents in closing out the contract as follows:
(A) A detailed cross connect drawing of alarm to power board, central office battery to physical trunks or carrier system, wiring options used in terminals, channels, filters, repeaters, etc., marked in the owner's copy of the equipment manual or supplied separately;
(B) The measured central office supply voltages applied to the equipment terminals or repeaters at the time the jack and test point readings are made and ac supply voltages where equipment is powered from commercial ac sources;
(C) A list of all instruments, including accessories, by manufacturer and type number, used to obtain the data; and
(D) The measurements at all jack or test points recommended by the manufacturer, including carrier frequency level measurements at all carrier terminals and repeaters where utilized.
(ii) Data in the form of a checklist or other notations shall be supplied showing the results of the operational tests.
(iii) The bidder shall furnish to the owner a record of the battery cell or multicell unit voltages measured at the completion of the installation of the switching system before it is placed in commercial service. This is not required at a site where the owner furnishes dc power.
(8)
Joint inspection requirements.
(i) The bidder shall notify the owner in writing at least one week before the date the complete system will be ready for inspection and tests. A joint inspection shall be made by the bidder and the owner (or owner's engineer) to determine that the equipment installation is acceptable. The inspection shall include physical inspection, a review of acceptance test data, operational tests, and sample measurements.
(A) The owner shall review the acceptance test data and compare it to the requirements of this section.
(B) Sample measurements shall be made on all systems installed under this contract. Test methods should follow procedures described in paragraph (g)(5) of this section.
(C) A check shall be made of measured test point and jack readings for compliance with the manufacturer's specifications. This applies also to channels, terminals, carrier frequency repefault locating circuits.
(ii) In the event that the measured data or operational tests show that equipment fails to meet the requirements quirements of this section, the deficiencies are to be resolved as set forth in Article II of the 397 Special Equipment Contract. (Copies are available from RUS, room 0174, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-1500.) The reports of the bidder and the owner shall be detailed as to deficiencies, causes, corrective action necessary, corrective action to be taken, completion time, etc.
(The information and recordkeeping requirements of this section have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the control number 0572-0059)

# Appendix A to § 1755.397—Specification for Line Concentrator Detailed Equipment Requirements

# (Information To Be Supplied by Owner)
Telephone Company (Owner)
Name:
Location:
Number of LC's Required: ________
Line Concentrator Locations:
Location
No. of Lines
Central
Office

# 1. General
1.1 Notwithstanding the bidder's equipment lists, the equipment and materials furnished by the bidder must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (p) of this section, and this appendix A.
1.2 Paragraph (a) through (p) of this section cover the minimum general requirements for line concentrator equipment.
1.3 Paragraph (q) of this section covers the requirements for installation, inspection and testing when such service is included as part of the contract.
1.4 This appendix A covers the technical data for application engineering and detailed equipment requirements insofar as they can be established by the owner. This appendix A shall be filled in by the owner.
1.5 Appendix B of this section covers detailed information on the line concentrator equipment, information on system reliability and traffic capacity as proposed by the bidder. Appendix B of this section is to be filled in by the bidder and must be presented with the bid.
Office Name
(By Location)
LC Designation

# 2. Number of Subscriber Lines
Equipped
Wired only
Single-Party
Pay Station (Type:________)
Other (Describe:________)
Total

# 3. Loop Resistance
3.1 Number of non-pay station lines having a loop resistance, including the telephone set as follows:
3.1.1 For physical trunks between the remote and the office units, the loop resistance is to include the resistance of the trunk.
No. of lines
1200-1900 ohms
1901-3200 ohms
3201-4500 ohms
3.1.2 Number of pay station lines having a loop resistance, excluding the telephone set, greater than:
No. of lines
1200 ohms (Prepay)
1000 ohms (Semi-Postpay)
When physical trunks are used, these resistances include that of the facility between the CO and the remote.
3.1.3 Range extension equipment, if required, is to be provided:
________ By Bidder
________ By Owner
(Quantity and Type)

# 4. Traffic Data
4.1 Average combined originating and terminating hundred call seconds (CCS) per line in the busy hour:
______ CCS/Line. (Assume originating
terminating equal.)
4.2 Percent Intra-Calling ________
4.3 Total Busy Hour Calls ________

# 5. TYPE or RINGING
5.1 Frequency No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
Frequency (Hz)
Max. No. of Phones/Freq.
5.2 Minimum ringing generator capacity to be supplied shall be sufficient to serve ________ lines (each frequency).

# 6. Central Office Equipment Interface
6.1 COE will be:
6.1.1 COE Manufacturer
Type
Year
Generic
6.1.2 ________ See digital central office specification for the switchboard at ____________________ .
6.2 Interface will be:
6.2.1 ________ Line Circuit(s)
6.2.2 ________ Direct Digital Interface
6.2.3 ________ Other (Describe)
6.3 Mounting rack for line concentrator furnished by:
________ Bidder
________ Owner
(Specify width and height of rack available) (Width) (Height)
6.4 Equipment to be installed in existing building:
________ Yes (Attach detailed plan)
________ No

# 7. Transmission Facilities
7.1 Transmission facilities between the central office and remote terminals shall be:
7.1.1 Type:
________ VF Carrier Derived Circuits
________ Digital Span Line (DS1)
________ Other
(Attach a layout of the transmission facilities between the central office and the remote terminals describing transmission and signaling parameters, routing and resistance where applicable.)
7.1.2 Utilizes physical plant
________ Cable Pairs (Existing/New)
________ Other

# Note:
Unless otherwise stated, physical plant will be supplied by the owner.
7.1.3 Terminal equipment for transmission facility to be supplied by:
________ Owner
________ Bidder
7.1.3.1 Carrier e/w voice terminations ________ Yes ________ No
Manufacturer and type
Central office voice terminations Equipped ________, Wired Only ________
7.1.3.2 Digital span line (DS1) supplied by
________ Owner
________ Bidder
Manufacturer and Type
7.1.3.3 Number of repeaters (per span line) ________
7.1.3.4 Diverse (alternate) span line routing required
________ Yes (Describe in Item 11) ________ No
7.1.3.5 Span line terminations only ________ Yes ________ No
7.1.3.6 Span line power required (CO and Remote Terminals) ________ Yes ________ No
7.1.3.7 Physical facility between CO and remote Loop Resistance ________ ohms, Length ________ meters

# 8. Power Equipment Requirements
8.1 Central Office Terminal
8.1.1 Owner-furnished −48 volt dc power ________ Yes ________ No
8.1.2 Other (Describe)
8.1.3 Standby power is available ________ Yes ________ No
8.2 Remote Terminal
8.2.1 Owner-furnished −48 vdc power ________ Yes ________ No
8.2.2 Bidder-furnished power supply ________ Yes ________ No
8.2.3 AC power available at site:
________ 110 vac, 60 Hz, single-phase
________ Other (Describe in Item 11)
8.2.4 A battery reserve of ________ busy hours shall be provided for this line concentrator terminal when it reaches ________ lines at the traffic rates specified.
8.2.5 Batteries supplied shall be:
________ Lead Calcium
________ Stabilized Electrolyte
________ Sealed Lead Acid
________ Other (Describe in item 11)
8.2.6 Standby power is available ________ Yes ________ No

# 9. Remote Terminal
9.1 Mounting
9.1.1 ________ Outside Housing (To be furnished by bidder)
9.1.2 ________ Concrete Slab to be furnished by owner (Bidder to supply construction details after award.)
9.1.3 ________ Manhole, environmentally controlled (Describe in Item 11)
9.1.4 ________ Pedestal Mounting
9.1.5 ________ Pole Mounting (Owner-furnished installed pole)
9.1.6 ________ Prefab Building (Owner-furnished site)
9.2 Equipment is to be installed in an existing building.
________ Yes ________ No
(Attach detailed plan.)
9.3 Other (Describe)

# 10. Alternates

# 11. Explanatory Notes

# Appendix B to § 1755.397—Specification for Line Concentrators Detailed Requirements; Bidder Supplied Information
Telephone Company (Owner)
Name:
Location:
Line Concentrator Equipment Locations
Central Office Terminal:
Remote Terminal:

# 1. General
1.1 The equipment and materials furnished by the bidder must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (p) of this section.
1.2 Paragraph (a) through (p) of this section cover the minimum general requirements for line concentrator equipment.
1.3 Paragraph (q) of this section covers requirements for installation, inspection and testing when such service is included as part of the contract.
1.4 Appendix A of this section covers the technical data for application engineering and detailed equipment requirements insofar
as they can be established by the owner. Appendix A of this section is to be filled in by the owner.
1.5 This appendix B covers detailed information on the line concentrator equipment, information as to system reliability and traffic capacity as proposed by the bidder. This appendix B shall be filled in by the bidder and must be presented with the bid.

# 2. Performance Objectives
2.1 Reliability (See paragraph (c) of this section)
2.2 Busy Hour Load Capacity and Traffic Delay (See Paragraph (g) of this section)

# 3. Equipment Quantities Dependent on System Design
3.1 Transmission Facilities between the Central Office and Remote Terminals
Type
Quantity equipped
Quantity wired only

# 4. Power Requirements

# 4.1 Central Office Terminal
Voltage
Current Drain (Amps) Normal ________, Peak ________
Fuse Qty ________, Size ________, Type ________
Heat Dissipation (BTU/Hr.) ________

# 4.2 Remote Terminal
AC or DC
Voltage
Current Drain (Amps) Normal ________, Peak ________
Fuse Qty ________, Size ________, Type ________
Heat Dissipation (BTU/Hr.) ________
Power required for heating or cooling equipment in remote bidder-furnished housing

# 5. Temperature and Humidity Limitations

# 5.1 Temperature
Central office
Remote*
Maximum °F (°C)
Minimum °F (°C)

# 5.2 Relative Humidity
Central office
Remote*
Maximum
Minimum
* Show conditions outside bidder-furnished housing.

# 6. Explanatory Notes
[60 FR 44729, Aug. 29, 1995, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§§ 1755.398-1755.399
[Reserved]
§ 1755.400
RUS standard for acceptance tests and measurements of telecommunications plant.
Sections 1755.400 through 1755.407 cover the requirements for acceptance tests and measurements on installed copper and fiber optic telecommunications plant and equipment.
[62 FR 23960, May 2, 1997]
§ 1755.401
Scope.
(a) Acceptance tests outlined in §§ 1755.400 through 1755.407 are applicable to plant constructed by contract or force account. This testing standard provides for the following:
(1) Specific types of tests or measurements for the different types of telecommunications plant and equipment;
(2) The method of measurement and types of measuring equipment;
(3) The expected results and tolerances permitted to meet the acceptable standards and objectives;
(4) Suggested formats for recording the results of the measurements and tests; and
(5) Some probable causes of nonconformance and methods for corrective action, where possible.
(b) Alternative methods of measurements that provide suitable alternative results shall be permitted with the concurrence of the Rural Utilities Service (RUS).
(c) For the purpose of this testing standard, a “measurement” shall be
defined as an evaluation where quantitative data is obtained (e.g., resistance in ohms, structural return loss in decibels (dB), etc.) and a “test” shall be defined as an evaluation where no quantitative data is obtained (e.g., a check mark indicating conformance is usually the result of the test).
(d) The sequence of tests and measurements described in this standard have been prepared as a guide. Variations from the sequence may be necessary on an individual application basis.
(e) There is some overlap in the methods of testing shown; also, the extent of each phase of testing may vary on an individual basis. The borrower shall determine the overall plan of testing, the need and extent of testing, and the responsibility for each phase of testing.
[62 FR 23960, May 2, 1997]
§ 1755.402
Ground resistance measurements.
(a) The resistance of the central office (CO) and the remote switching terminal (RST) ground shall be measured before and after it has been bonded to the master ground bar (MGB) where it is connected to the building electric service ground.
(b) The ground resistance of electronic equipment such as span line repeaters, carrier terminal equipment, concentrators, etc. shall be measured.
(c)
Method of measurement.
The connection of test equipment for the ground resistance measurement shall be as shown in Figure 1. Refer to RUS Bulletin 1751F-802, “Electrical Protection Grounding Fundamentals,” for a comprehensive discussion of ground resistance measurements.
(d)
Test equipment.
The test equipment for making this measurement is shown in Figure 1 as follows:
ER02MY97.023
(e)
Applicable results.
(1) For the CO and RST, the resistance after the bond has been made to the MGB electric service ground shall not exceed 5 ohms. Where the measured ground resistance exceeds 5 ohms, the borrower shall determine what additional grounding, if any, shall be provided.
(2) For electronic equipment, the ground resistance shall not exceed 25 ohms. Where the measured ground resistance exceeds 25 ohms, the borrower shall determine what additional grounding, if any, shall be provided.
(3) When ground resistance measurements exceed the ground resistance requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section, refer to RUS Bulletin 1751F-802, “Electrical Protection Grounding Fundamentals,” for suggested methods of reducing the ground resistance.
(f)
Data record.
Results of the CO and RST ground resistance measurements shall be recorded. A suggested format similar to Format I, Outside Plant Acceptance Tests—Subscriber Loops, in § 1755.407 or a format specified in the applicable construction contract may be used. Results of the electronic equipment ground resistance measurements shall be recorded. A suggested format similar to Format II, Outside Plant Acceptance Tests—Trunk Circuits, in § 1755.407 or a format specified in the applicable construction contract may be used. Data showing approximate moisture content of the soil at the time of measurement, the temperature, the type of soil and a description of the test equipment used shall also be included.
(g)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Refer to RUS Bulletin 1751F-802, “Electrical Protection Grounding Fundamentals,” and Telecommunications Engineering and Construction Manual (TE
CM) Section 810, “Electrical Protection of Electronic Analog and Digital Central Office Equipment,” for possible causes of nonconformance and suggested methods for corrective action.
[62 FR 23960, May 2, 1997]
§ 1755.403
Copper cable telecommunications plant measurements.
(a)
Shield or shield/armor continuity.
(1) Tests and measurements shall be made to ensure that cable shields or shield/armors are electrically continuous. There are two areas of concern. The first is shield or shield/armor bonding within a pedestal or splice and the second is shield or shield/armor continuity between pedestals or splices.
(2) Measurement techniques outlined here for verification of shield or shield/armor continuity are applicable to buried cable plant. Measurements of shield continuity between splices in aerial cable plant should be made prior to completion of splicing. Conclusive results cannot be obtained on aerial plant after all bonds have been completed to the supporting strand, multigrounded neutral, etc.
(3)
Method of measurement.
(i) The shield or shield/armor resistance measurements shall be made between pedestals or splices using either a Wheatstone bridge or a volt-ohm meter. For loaded plant, measurements shall be made on cable lengths that do not exceed one load section. For nonloaded plant, measurements shall be made on cable lengths that do not exceed 5,000 feet (ft) (1,524 meters (m)). All bonding wires shall be removed from the bonding lugs at the far end of the cable section to be measured. The step-by-step measurement procedure shall be as shown in Figure 2.
(ii) Cable shield or shield/armor continuity within pedestals or splices shall be measured with a cable shield splice continuity test set. The step-by-step measurement procedure outlined in the manufacturer's operating instructions for the specific test equipment being used shall be followed.
(4)
Test equipment.
(i) The test equipment for measuring cable shield or shield/armor resistance between pedestals or splices is shown in Figure 2 as follows:
ER02MY97.024
(ii) A cable shield splice continuity tester shall be used to measure shield or shield/armor continuity within pedestals or splices.
(5)
Applicable results.
(i) The shield or shield/armor resistance per 1000 ft and per kilometer (km) for cable diameters and types of shielding materials are given in Table 1 (English Units) and Table 2 (Metric Units), respectively as follows:
Table 1—Shield Resistance @ 68 °F (20 °C) Cable Diameters Versus Shield Types
[English Units]
Outside diameter inches (in.)
Nominal resistance ohm/1000 ft.
A
B
C
D
E
F
0.40-0.49
0.77
1.54
1.65
1.96
2.30
5.51
0.50-0.59
0.64
1.28
1.37
1.63
1.91
4.58
0.60-0.69
0.51
1.03
1.10
1.31
1.53
3.67
0.70-0.79
0.44
0.88
0.94
1.31
3.14
0.80-0.89
0.38
0.77
0.82
1.14
2.74
0.90-0.99
0.35
0.69
0.74
1.03
2.47
1.00-1.09
0.31
0.62
0.66
0.92
2.20
1.10-1.19
0.28
0.56
0.60
0.84
2.00
1.20-1.29
0.26
0.51
0.55
0.77
1.84
1.30-1.39
0.24
0.48
0.51
0.71
1.70
1.40-1.49
0.22
0.44
0.47
0.65
1.57
1.50-1.59
0.21
0.41
0.44
0.61
1.47
1.60-1.69
0.19
0.38
0.41
0.57
1.37
1.70-1.79
0.18
0.37
0.39
0.54
1.30
1.80-1.89
0.17
0.35
0.37
0.51
1.24
1.90-1.99
0.16
0.33
0.35
0.49
1.17
2.00-2.09
0.15
0.31
0.33
0.46
1.10
2.10-2.19
0.15
0.29
0.31
0.43
1.03
2.20-2.29
0.14
0.28
0.30
0.42
1.00
2.30-2.39
0.14
0.27
0.29
0.40
0.97
2.40-2.49
0.13
0.25
0.27
0.38
0.90
2.50-2.59
0.12
0.24
0.26
0.36
0.87
2.60-2.69
0.12
0.23
0.25
0.35
0.83
2.70-2.79
0.11
0.22
0.24
0.33
0.80
2.80-2.89
0.11
0.22
0.24
0.33
0.80
2.90-2.99
0.11
0.22
0.23
0.32
0.77
3.00-3.09
0.10
0.21
0.22
0.31
0.73
3.10-3.19
0.10
0.20
0.21
0.29
0.70
3.20-3.29
0.10
0.20
0.21
0.29
0.70
3.30-3.39
0.09
0.19
0.20
0.28
0.67
3.40-3.49
0.09
0.18
0.19
0.26
0.63
3.50-3.59
0.09
0.18
0.19
0.26
0.63
3.60-3.69
0.08
0.17
0.18
0.25
0.60
3.70-3.79
0.08
0.17
0.18
0.25
0.60
3.80-3.89
0.08
0.16
0.17
0.24
0.57
3.90-3.99
0.08
0.16
0.17
0.24
0.57
4.00-4.99
0.07
0.15
0.16
0.22
0.53
Where:
Column A-10 mil Copper shield.
Column B—5 mil Copper shield.
Column C—8 mil Coated Aluminum and 8 mil Coated Aluminum/6 mil Coated Steel shields.
Column D—7 mil Alloy 194 shield.
Column E—6 mil Alloy 194 and 6 mil Copper Clad Stainless Steel shields.
Column F—5 mil Copper Clad Stainless Steel and 5 mil Copper Clad Alloy Steel shields.
Table 2—Shield Resistance @ 68 °F (20 °C) Cable Diameters Versus Shield Types
[Metric Units]
Outside diameter millimeters (mm)
Nominal Resistance ohm/km
A
B
C
D
E
F
10.2—12.5
2.53
5.05
5.41
6.43
7.55
18.08
12.7—15.0
2.10
4.20
4.49
5.35
6.27
15.03
15.2—17.5
1.67
3.38
3.61
4.30
5.02
12.04
17.8—20.1
1.44
2.89
3.08
4.30
10.30
20.3—22.6
1.25
2.53
2.69
3.74
8.99
22.9—25.1
1.15
2.26
2.43
3.38
8.10
25.4—27.7
1.02
2.03
2.16
3.02
7.22
27.9—30.2
0.92
1.84
1.97
2.76
6.56
30.5—32.8
0.85
1.67
1.80
2.53
6.04
33.0—35.3
0.79
1.57
1.67
2.33
5.58
35.6—37.8
0.72
1.44
1.54
2.13
5.15
38.1—40.4
0.69
1.34
1.44
2.00
4.82
40.6—42.9
0.62
1.25
1.34
1.87
4.49
43.2—45.5
0.59
1.21
1.28
1.77
4.26
45.7—48.0
0.56
1.15
1.21
1.67
4.07
48.3—50.5
0.52
1.08
1.15
1.61
3.84
50.8—53.1
0.49
1.02
1.08
1.51
3.61
53.3—55.6
0.49
0.95
1.02
1.41
3.38
55.9—58.2
0.46
0.92
0.98
1.38
3.28
58.4—60.7
0.46
0.89
0.95
1.31
3.18
61.0—63.2
0.43
0.82
0.89
1.25
2.95
63.5—65.8
0.39
0.79
0.85
1.18
2.85
66.0—68.3
0.39
0.75
0.82
1.15
2.72
68.6—70.9
0.36
0.72
0.79
1.08
2.62
71.1—73.4
0.36
0.72
0.79
1.08
2.62
73.7—75.9
0.36
0.72
0.75
1.05
2.53
76.2—78.5
0.33
0.69
0.72
1.02
2.39
78.7—81.0
0.33
0.66
0.69
0.95
2.30
81.3—83.6
0.33
0.66
0.69
0.95
2.30
83.6—86.1
0.29
0.62
0.66
0.92
2.20
86.4—88.6
0.29
0.59
0.62
0.85
2.07
88.9—91.2
0.29
0.59
0.62
0.85
2.07
91.4—93.7
0.26
0.56
0.59
0.82
1.97
94.0—96.3
0.26
0.56
0.59
0.82
1.97
96.5—98.8
0.26
0.52
0.56
0.79
1.87
99.1—101.3
0.26
0.52
0.56
0.79
1.87
101.6—103.9
0.23
0.49
0.52
0.72
1.74
Where: Column A—10 mil Copper shield.
Column B—5 mil Copper shield.
Column C—8 mil Coated Aluminum and 8 mil Coated Aluminum/6 mil Coated Steel shields.
Column D—7 mil Alloy 194 shield.
Column E—6 mil Alloy 194 and 6 mil Copper Clad Stainless Steel shields.
Column F—5 mil Copper Clad Stainless Steel and 5 mil Copper Clad Alloy Steel shields.
(ii) All values of shield and shield/armor resistance provided in Tables 1 and 2 in (a)(5)(i) of this section are considered approximations. If the measured value corrected to 68 °F (20 °C) is within #30 percent (%) of the value shown in Table 1 or 2, the shield and shield/armor shall be assumed to be continuous.
(iii) To correct the measured shield resistance to the reference temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) use the following formulae:
R
68
= Rt/[1 + A(t − 68)] for English Units
R
20
= Rt/[1 + A(t − 20)] for Metric Units
Where:
R
68
= Shield resistance corrected to 68 °F in ohms.
R
20
= Shield resistance corrected to 20 °C in ohms.
R
t
= Shield resistance at measurement temperature in ohms.
A = Temperature coefficient of the shield tape.
t = Measurement temperature in °F or (°C).
(iv) The temperature coefficients (A) for the shield tapes to be used in the formulae referenced in paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section are as follows:
(A) 5 and 10 mil copper = 0.0021 for English units and 0.0039 for Metric units;
(B) 8 mil coated aluminum and 8 mil coated aluminum/6 mil coated steel = 0.0022 for English units and 0.0040 for Metric units;
(C) 5 mil copper clad stainless steel and 5 mil copper clad alloy steel = 0.0024 for English units and 0.0044 for Metric units;
(D) 6 mil copper clad stainless steel = 0.0019 for English units and 0.0035 for Metric units; and
(E) 6 and 7 mil alloy 194 = 0.0013 for English units and 0.0024 for Metric units.
(v) When utilizing shield continuity testers to measure shield and shield/armor continuity within pedestals or splices, refer to the manufacturer's published information covering the specific test equipment to be used and for anticipated results.
(6)
Data record.
Measurement data from shield continuity tests shall be recorded together with anticipated Table 1 or 2 values (see paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section) in an appropriate format to permit comparison. The recorded data shall include specific location, cable size, cable type, type of shield or shield/armor, if known, etc.
(7)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Among probable causes for nonconformance are broken or damaged
shields or shield/armors, bad bonding harnesses, poorly connected bonding clamps, loose bonding lugs, etc.
(b)
Conductor continuity.
After placement of all cable and wire plant has been completed and joined together in continuous lengths, tests shall be made to ascertain that all pairs are free from grounds, shorts, crosses, and opens, except for those pairs indicated as being defective by the cable manufacturer. The tests for grounds, shorts, crosses, and opens are not separate tests, but are inherent in other acceptance tests discussed in this section. The test for grounds, shorts, and crosses is inherent when conductor insulation resistance measurements are conducted per paragraph (c) of this section, while tests for opens are inherent when tests are conducted for loop resistance, insertion loss, noise, or return loss measurements, per paragraphs (d), (e), or (f) of this section. The borrower shall make certain that all defective pairs are corrected, except those noted as defective by the cable manufacturer in accordance with the marking provisions of the applicable cable and wire specifications. All defective pairs that are not corrected shall be reported in writing with details of the corrective measures attempted.
(c)
Dc insulation resistance (IR) measurement.
(1) IR measurements shall be made on completed lengths of insulated cable and wire plant.
(2)
Method of measurement.
(i) The IR measurement shall be made between each conductor and all other conductors, sheath, shield and/or shield/armor, and/or support wire electrically connected together and to the main distributing frame (MDF) ground. The measurement shall be made from the central office with the entire length of the cable under test and, where used with all protectors and load coils connected. For COs containing solid state arresters, the solid state arresters shall be removed before making the IR measurements. Field mounted voice frequency repeaters, where used, may be left connected for the IR test but all carrier frequency equipment, including carrier repeaters and terminals, shall be disconnected. Pairs used to feed power remote from the CO shall have the power disconnected and the tip and ring conductors shall be opened before making IR tests. All conductors shall be opened at the far end of the cable being measured.
(ii) IR tests are normally made from the MDF with all CO equipment disconnected at the MDF, but this test may be made on new cables at field locations before they are spliced to existing cables. The method of measurement shall be as shown in Figure 3 as follows:
ER02MY97.025
(iii) If the IR of the conductor cannot be measured because of breakdown of lightning arresters by the test voltage, the arrester units shall be removed and the conductor IR retested. If the IR then meets the minimum requirements, the conductor will be considered satisfactory. Immediately following the IR tests, all arrester units which have been removed shall be reinstalled.
(3)
Test equipment.
(i) IR measurements shall be made with either an insulation resistance test set or a direct current (dc) bridge type megohmmeter.
(ii) The IR test set shall have an output voltage not to exceed 500 volts dc and shall be of the hand cranked or battery operated type.
(iii) The dc bridge type megohmmeter, which may be alternating current (ac) powered, shall have scales and multiplier which make it possible to accurately read IR from 1 megohm to 1 gigohm. The voltage applied to the conductors under test shall not exceed “250 volts dc” when using an instrument having adjustable test voltage levels. This will help to prevent breakdown of lightning arresters.
(4)
Applicable results.
(i) For all new insulated cable or wire facilities, the expected IR levels are normally greater than 1,000 to 2,000 megohm-mile (1,609 to 3,218 megohm-km). A value of 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) at 68 °F (20 °C) shall be the minimum acceptable value of IR. IR varies inversely with the length and the temperature.
(ii) The megohm-mile (megohm-km) value for a conductor may be computed by multiplying the actual scale reading in megohms on the test set by the length in miles (km) of the conductor under test.
(iii) The objective insulation resistance may be determined by dividing 500 by the length in miles (805 by the length in km) of the cable or wire conductor being tested. The resulting value shall be the minimum acceptable meter scale reading in megohms.
(iv) Due to the differences between various insulating materials and filling compounds used in manufacturing cable or wire, it is impractical to provide simple factors to predict the magnitude of variation in insulation resistance due to temperature. The variation can, however, be substantial for wide excursions in temperature from the ambient temperature of 68 °F (20 °C).
(v) Borrowers should be certain that tip and ring IR measurements of each pair are approximately the same. Borrowers should also be certain that IR measurements are similar for cable or wire sections of similar length and cable or wire type. If some pairs measure significantly lower, borrowers should attempt to improve these pairs in accordance with cable manufacturer's recommendations.

# Note:
Only the megohm-mile (megohm-km) requirement shall be cause for rejection, not individual measurement differences.
(5)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format I, Outside Plant Acceptance Tests—Subscriber Loops, or Format II, Outside Plant Acceptance Tests—Trunk Circuits, in § 1755.407 or formats specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(6)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
(i) When an IR measurement is below 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km), the cable or wire temperature at the time of testing must then be taken into consideration. If this temperature is well above 68 °F (20 °C), the measurement shall be disregarded and the cable or wire shall be remeasured at a time when the temperature is approximately 68 °F (20 °C). If the result is then 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) or greater, the cable or wire shall be considered satisfactory.
(ii) Should the cable or wire fail to meet the 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) requirement when the temperature is known to be approximately 68 °F (20 °C) there is not yet justification for rejection of the cable or wire. Protectors, lightning arresters, etc., may be a source of low insulation resistance. These devices shall be removed from the cable or wire and the cable or wire IR measurement shall be repeated. If the result is acceptable, the cable or wire shall be considered acceptable. The removed devices which caused the low insulation resistance value shall be identified and replaced, if found defective.
(iii) When the cable or wire alone is still found to be below the 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) requirement after completing the steps in paragraph (c)(6)(i) and/or paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, the test shall be repeated to measure the cable or wire in sections to isolate the piece(s) of cable or wire responsible. The cable or wire section(s) that is found to be below the 500 megohm-mile (805 megohm-km) requirement shall be either repaired in accordance with the cable or wire manufacturer's recommended procedure or shall be replaced as directed by the borrower.
(d)
Dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance measurement.
(1) When specified by the borrower, dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance measurements shall be made on all cable pairs used as trunk circuits. The dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance measurements shall be made between CO locations. Measurements shall include all components of the cable path.
(2) Dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance measurements shall be made on all cable pairs used as subscriber loop circuits when:
(i) Specified by the borrower;
(ii) A large number of long loops terminate at one location (similar to trunk circuits); or
(iii) Circuit balance is less than 60 dB when computed from noise measurements as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(3) Dc resistance unbalance is controlled to the maximum possible degree by the cable specification. Allowable random unbalance is specified between tip and ring conductors within each reel. Further random patterns should occur when the cable conductor size changes. Cable meeting the unbalance requirements of the cable specification may under some conditions result in unacceptable noise levels as discussed in paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.
(4)
Method of measurement.
The method of measurement shall be as detailed in Figures 4 and 5.
(5)
Test equipment.
The test equipment is shown in Figures 4 and 5 as follows:
ER02MY97.026
ER02MY97.027
(6)
Applicable results.
(i) The measured dc loop resistance shall be within ±5% of the calculated dc loop resistance when corrected for temperature.
(ii) The calculated dc loop resistance is computed as follows:
(A) Multiply the length of each different gauge by the applicable resistance per unit length as shown in Table 3 as follows:
Table 3—DC Loop Resistance @ 68 °F (20 °C)
American wire gauge (AWG)
Loop resistance
ohms/1000 ft
ohms/km
19
16.1
52.8
22
32.4
106.3
24
51.9
170.3
26
83.3
273.3
(B) Add the individual resistances for each gauge to give the total calculated dc loop resistance at a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C).
(C) Correct the total calculated dc loop resistance at the temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) to the measurement temperature by the following formulae:
R
t
= R
68
× [1 + 0.0022 × t − 68)] for English Units
R
t
= R
20
× [1 + 0.0040 × (t − 20)] for Metric Units
Where:
R
t
= Loop resistance at the measurement temperature in ohms.
R
68
= Loop resistance at a temperature of 68 °F in ohms.
R
20
= Loop resistance at a temperature of 20 °C in ohms.
t = Measurement temperature in °F or (°C).
(D) Compare the calculated dc loop resistance at the measurement temperature to the measured dc loop resistance to determine compliance with the requirement specified in paragraph (d)(6)(i) of this section.
(iii) Resistance varies directly with temperature change. For copper conductor cables, the dc resistance changes by ±1% for every ±5 °F (2.8 °C) change in temperature from 68 °F (20 °C).
(iv) The dc resistance unbalance between the individual conductors of a pair shall not exceed that value which will result in a circuit balance of less than 60 dB when computed from noise measurements as described in paragraph (e) of this section. It is impractical to establish a precise limit for overall circuit dc resistance unbalance due to the factors controlling its contribution to circuit noise. These factors include location of the resistance unbalance in relation to a low impedance path to ground (close to the central office) and the magnitude of unbalance in short lengths of cable making up the total circuit length. The objective is to obtain the minimum unbalance throughout the entire circuit when it is ascertained through noise measurements that dc resistance unbalance may be contributing to poor cable balance.
(v) Pairs with poor noise balance may be improved by reversing tip and ring conductors of pairs at cable splices. Where dc resistance unbalances are systematic over the total trunk circuit or loop circuit length, tip and ring reversals may be made at frequent intervals. Where the unbalances are concentrated in a shorter section of cable, only one tip and ring reversal should be required. Concentrated dc resistance unbalance produces maximum circuit noise when located adjacent to the central office. Concentrated dc resistance unbalance will contribute to overall circuit noise at a point approximately two-thirds (
2/3
) of the distance to the subscriber. All deliberate tip and ring reversals shall be tagged and identified to prevent plant personnel from removing the reversals when resplicing these connections in the future. The number of tip and ring reversals shall be held to a minimum.
(vi) A systematic dc resistance unbalance can sometimes be accompanied by other cable parameters that are marginal. Among these are pair-to-pair capacitance unbalance, capacitance unbalance-to-ground, and 150 kilohertz (kHz) crosstalk loss. Engineering judgment has to be applied in each case. Rejection of cable for excessive dc resistance unbalance shall only apply to a single reel length, or shorter.
(7)
Data record.
The measurement data for dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format I for subscriber loops and Format II for trunk circuits in § 1755.407 or formats
specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(8)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Dc loop resistance and dc resistance unbalance are usually the result of the resistance of individual conductors used in the manufacture of the cable. Resistance unbalance can be worsened by defective splicing of the conductors (splicing connectors, improper crimping tool, etc.).
(e)
Subscriber loop measurement (loop checking).
(1) When specified by the borrower, insertion loss and noise measurements shall be performed on subscriber loops after connection of a line circuit to the loop by the one person method using loop checking equipment from the customer access location. For this method, the central office should be equipped with a 900 ohm plus two microfarad quiet termination and a milliwatt generator having the required test frequencies; or a portable milliwatt generator having the desired frequencies may be used, especially, where several small offices are involved.
(2) At a minimum, insertion loss and frequency response of subscriber loop plant shall be measured at 1,000, 1,700, 2,300, and 2,800 Hertz (Hz). When additional testing frequencies are desired, the additional frequencies shall be specified in the applicable construction contract.
(3) Measurements of insertion loss and noise shall be made on five percent or more of the pairs. A minimum of five pairs shall be tested on each route. Pairs shall be selected on a random basis with greater consideration in the selection given to the longer loops. Consideration shall be given to measuring a large percentage, up to 100 percent, of all loops.
(4)
Method of measurement
—(i)
Insertion loss.
The step-by-step measurement procedure shall be as shown in Figure 6. The output level of the milliwatt generator tones shall be determined prior to leaving the CO. This shall be accomplished by dialing the milliwatt generator number from a spare line at the MDF and measuring with the same equipment to be used in the tests at customer access locations. The output levels shall be recorded for reference later. Insertion loss measurements shall be made across the tip and ring terminals of the pair under test. Figure 6 is as follows:
ER02MY97.028
(ii)
Noise.
The step-by-step measurement procedure shall be as shown in Figure 7. Prior to leaving the CO for testing, dial the 900 ohm plus two microfarad quiet termination from a spare pair and measure the termination to determine that it actually is quiet. Circuit noise (noise-metallic) shall be measured at the customer access location across the tip and ring terminals of the pair under test. Power influence (direct reading with loop checking equipment) shall be measured at the customer access location from tip and ring conductors-to-ground (this connection is completed via the test
unit). The power influence measurement includes the entire talking connection from the quiet termination to the customer. (That is, the power influence measurement includes all the CO equipment which normally makes up the connection.) Figure 7 is as follows:
ER02MY97.029
(5)
Test equipment.
(i) Loop checking equipment which is available from several manufacturers may be used for these measurements. The equipment
should have the capability of measuring loop current, insertion loss, circuit noise (NM) and power influence (PI). The test equipment manufacturer's operating instructions shall be followed.
(ii) There should be no measurable transmission loss when testing through loop extenders.
(6)
Applicable results
—(i)
Insertion loss.
(A) For D66 loaded cables (a specific loading scheme using a 66 millihenry inductor spaced nominally at 4,500 ft [1,371 m] intervals) measured at a point one-half section length beyond the last load point, the measured nonrepeated insertion loss shall be within ±10% at 1000, 1700, 2300, and 2800 Hz, ±15% at 3400 Hz and ±20% at 4000 Hz of the calculated insertion loss at the same frequencies and temperature.
(B) For H88 loaded cables (a specific loading scheme using an 88 millihenry inductor spaced nominally at 6,000 ft [1,829 m] intervals) measured at a point one-half section length beyond the last load point, the measured nonrepeatered insertion loss shall be within ±10% at 1000, 1700, and 2300 Hz, ±15% at 2800 Hz, and ±20% at 3400 Hz of the calculated insertion loss at the same frequencies and temperature.
(C) For nonloaded cables, the measured insertion loss shall be within ±10% at 1000, 1700, 2300, and 2800 Hz, ±15% at 3400 Hz and ±20% at 4000 Hz of the calculated insertion loss at the same frequencies and temperature.
(D) For loaded cables, the calculated loss at each desired frequency shall be computed as follows:
(
1
) Multiply the length in miles (km) of each different gauge in the loaded portion of the loop (between the office and a point one-half load section beyond the furthest load point) by the applicable decibel (dB)/mile (dB/km) value shown in Table 4 or 5. This loss represents the total loss for each gauge in the loaded portion of the loop;
(
2
) Multiply the length in miles (km) of each different gauge in the end section or nonloaded portion of the cable (beyond a point one-half load section beyond the furthest load point) by the applicable dB/mile (dB/km) value shown in Table 6. This loss represents the total loss for each gauge in the nonloaded portion of the loop; and
(
3
) The total calculated insertion loss is computed by adding the individual losses determined in paragraphs (e)(6)(i)(D)(
1
) and (e)(6)(i)(D)(
2
) of this section.
(E) For nonloaded cables, the calculated loss at each desired frequency shall be computed by multiplying the length in miles (km) of each different gauge by the applicable dB/mile (dB/km) value shown in Table 6 and then adding the individual losses for each gauge to determine the total calculated insertion loss for the nonloaded loop.
(F) The attenuation information in Tables 4, 5, and 6 are based on a cable temperature of 68 °F (20 °C). Insertion loss varies directly with temperature. To convert measured losses for loaded cables to a different temperature, use the following value for copper conductors: For each ±5 °F (±2.8 °C) change in the temperature from 68 °F (20 °C), change the insertion loss at any frequency by ±1%. To convert measured losses for nonloaded cables to a different temperature, use the following value for copper conductors: For each ±10 °F (±5.6 °C) change in the temperature from 68 °F (20 °C), change the insertion loss at any frequency by ±1%. Tables 4, 5, and 6 are as follows:
Table 4—Frequency Attenuation @ 68 °F (20 °C) D66 Loaded Exchange Cables 83 nanofarad (nF)/mile (52 nF/km) (See Note)
Frequency (Hz)
Attenuation dB/mile (dB/km) AWG
19
22
24
26
200
0.41 (0.26)
0.67 (0.42)
0.90 (0.56)
1.21 (0.75)
400
0.43 (0.26)
0.77 (0.48)
1.09 (0.68)
1.53 (0.95)
600
0.44 (0.27)
0.80 (0.49)
1.17 (0.73)
1.70 (1.06)
800
0.44 (0.27)
0.81 (0.50)
1.21 (0.75)
1.80 (1.12)
1000
0.44 (0.27)
0.82 (0.51)
1.23 (0.76)
1.86 (1.15)
1200
0.45 (0.28)
0.83 (0.52)
1.24 (0.77)
1.91 (1.19)
1400
0.45 (0.28)
0.83 (0.52)
1.26 (0.78)
1.94 (1.20)
1600
0.45 (0.28)
0.84 (0.52)
1.26 (0.78)
1.96 (1.22)
1800
0.45 (0.28)
0.84 (0.52)
1.27 (0.78)
1.98 (1.23)
2000
0.46 (0.29)
0.85 (0.53)
1.28 (0.79)
1.99 (1.24)
2200
0.46 (0.29)
0.85 (0.53)
1.29 (0.80)
2.01 (1.25)
2400
0.47 (0.29)
0.86 (0.53)
1.30 (0.81)
2.02 (1.26)
2600
0.47 (0.29)
0.87 (0.54)
1.31 (0.81)
2.04 (1.27)
2800
0.48 (0.30)
0.88 (0.55)
1.32 (0.82)
2.07 (1.29)
3000
0.49 (0.30)
0.89 (0.55)
1.34 (0.83)
2.10 (1.30)
3200
0.50 (0.31)
0.91 (0.57)
1.36 (0.84)
2.13 (1.32)
3400
0.52 (0.32)
0.93 (0.58)
1.40 (0.87)
2.19 (1.36)
3600
0.54 (0.34)
0.97 (0.60)
1.45 (0.90)
2.26 (1.40)
3800
0.57 (0.35)
1.02 (0.63)
1.52 (0.94)
2.36 (1.47)
4000
0.62 (0.38)
1.10 (0.68)
1.63 (1.01)
2.53 (1.57)
Note:
Between end-section lengths of 2,250 ft (686 m) for D66 loading.
Table 5—Frequency Attenuation @ 68 °F (20 °C) H88 Loaded Exchange Cables 83 nF/ mile (52 nF/km) (See Note)
Frequency (Hz)
Attenuation dB/mile (dB/km) AWG
19
22
24
26
200
0.40 (0.25)
0.66 (0.41)
0.90 (0.56)
1.20 (0.75)
400
0.42 (0.26)
0.76 (0.47)
1.08 (0.67)
1.53 (0.95)
600
0.43 (0.27)
0.79 (0.49)
1.16 (0.72)
1.70 (1.06)
800
0.43 (0.27)
0.80 (0.50)
1.20 (0.75)
1.80 (1.12)
1000
0.43 (0.27)
0.81 (0.50)
1.23 (0.76)
1.86 (1.15)
1200
0.44 (0.27)
0.82 (0.51)
1.24 (0.77)
1.91 (1.19)
1400
0.44 (0.28)
0.82 (0.51)
1.25 (0.78)
1.94 (1.20)
1600
0.44 (0.27)
0.83 (0.52)
1.26 (0.78)
1.97 (1.22)
1800
0.45 (0.28)
0.84 (0.52)
1.28 (0.79)
1.99 (1.24)
2000
0.46 (0.29)
0.85 (0.53)
1.29 (0.80)
2.02 (1.26)
2200
0.47 (0.29)
0.86 (0.53)
1.31 (0.81)
2.06 (1.28)
2400
0.48 (0.30)
0.89 (0.55)
1.34 (0.83)
2.10 (1.30)
2600
0.50 (0.31)
0.92 (0.57)
1.39 (0.86)
2.18 (1.35)
2800
0.53 (0.33)
0.97 (0.60)
1.47 (0.91)
2.29 (1.42)
3000
0.59 (0.37)
1.07 (0.66)
1.60 (0.99)
2.48 (1.54)
3200
0.71 (0.44)
1.26 (0.78)
1.87 (1.16)
2.86 (1.78)
3400
1.14 (0.71)
1.91 (1.19)
2.64 (1.64)
3.71 (2.30)
3600
4.07 (2.53)
4.31 (2.68)
4.65 (2.90)
5.30 (3.29)
3800
6.49 (4.03)
6.57 (4.08)
6.72 (4.18)
7.06 (4.39)
4000
8.22 (5.11)
8.27 (5.14)
8.36 (5.19)
8.58 (5.33)
Note:
Between end-section lengths of 3,000 ft (914 m) for H88 loading.
Table 6—Frequency Attenuation @ 68 °F (20 °C) Nonloaded Exchange Cables 83 nF/ mile (52 nF/km) AWG
Frequency (Hz)
Attenuation dB/mile (dB/km) AWG
19
22
24
26
200
0.58 (0.36)
0.82 (0.51)
1.03 (0.64)
1.30 (0.81)
400
0.81 (0.51)
1.15 (0.71)
1.45 (0.90)
1.84 (1.14)
600
0.98 (0.61)
1.41 (0.87)
1.77 (1.10)
2.26 (1.40)
800
1.13 (0.70)
1.62 (1.01)
2.04 (1.27)
2.60 (1.61)
1000
1.25 (0.78)
1.80 (1.12)
2.28 (1.42)
2.90 (1.80)
1200
1.36 (0.84)
1.97 (1.22)
2.50 (1.55)
3.17 (1.97)
1400
1.46 (0.91)
2.12 (1.32)
2.69 (1.67)
3.42 (2.12)
1600
1.55 (0.96)
2.26 (1.40)
2.87 (1.78)
3.65 (2.27)
1800
1.63 (1.01)
2.39 (1.48)
3.04 (1.89)
3.87 (2.40)
2000
1.71 (1.06)
2.51 (1.56)
3.20 (1.99)
4.08 (2.53)
2200
1.78 (1.11)
2.62 (1.63)
3.35 (2.08)
4.27 (2.65)
2400
1.85 (1.15)
2.73 (1.70)
3.49 (2.17)
4.45 (2.76)
2600
1.91 (1.19)
2.83 (1.76)
3.62 (2.25)
4.63 (2.88)
2800
1.97 (1.22)
2.93 (1.82)
3.75 (2.33)
4.80 (2.98)
3000
2.03 (1.26)
3.02 (1.88)
3.88 (2.41)
4.96 (3.08)
3200
2.08 (1.29)
3.11 (1.93)
4.00 (2.48)
5.12 (3.18)
3400
2.13 (1.32)
3.19 (1.98)
4.11 (2.55)
5.27 (3.27)
3600
2.18 (1.35)
3.28 (2.04)
4.22 (2.62)
5.41 (3.36)
3800
2.22 (1.38)
3.36 (2.09)
4.33 (2.69)
5.55 (3.45)
4000
2.27 (1.41)
3.43 (2.13)
4.43 (2.75)
5.69 (3.53)
(G) For loaded subscriber loops, the 1 kHz loss shall be approximately 0.45 dB per 100 ohms of measured dc loop resistance. This loss shall be the measured loss less the net gain of any voice frequency repeaters in the circuit. Testing shall also be conducted to verify that the loss increases gradually as the frequency increases. The loss on H88 loaded loops should be down only slightly at 2.8 kHz but drop rapidly above 2.8 kHz. The loss on D66 loaded loops shall be fairly constant to about 3.4 kHz and there shall be good response at 4.0 kHz. When voice frequency repeaters are in the circuit there will be some frequency weighting in the build-out network and the loss at the higher frequencies will be greater than for nonrepeatered loops.
(H) For nonloaded subscriber loops, the 1 kHz loss shall be approximately 0.9 dB per 100 ohms of measured dc loop resistance. Testing shall also be conducted to verify that the loss is approximately a straight line function with no abrupt changes. The 3 kHz loss should be approximately 70% higher than the 1 kHz loss.
(ii)
Noise.
The principal objective related to circuit noise (noise-metallic) and the acceptance of new plant is that circuit noise levels be 20 dBrnc or less (decibels above reference noise, C-message weighted (a weighting derived from listening tests, to indicate the relative annoyance or speech impairment by an interfering signal of frequency (f) as heard through a “500-type” telephone set)). For most new, properly installed, plant construction, circuit noise will usually be considerably less than 20 dBrnc unless there are unusually long sections of telephone plant in parallel with electric power facilities and/or power influence of paralleling electric facilities is abnormally high. When circuit noise is 20 dBrnc or less, the loop plant shall be considered acceptable. When measured circuit noise is greater than 20 dBrnc, loop plant shall still be considered acceptable providing circuit balance (power influence reading minus circuit noise readings) is 60 dB or greater and power influence readings are 85 dBrnc or greater. When circuit noise is greater than 20 dBrnc and circuit balance is less than 60 dB and/or power influence is less than 85 dBrnc, loop plant shall not be considered acceptable and the loop plant shall be remedied to make circuit balance equal to or greater than 60 dB.
(7)
Data record.
Measurement data shall be recorded. A suggested format similar to Format I for subscriber loops in § 1755.407 or a format specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(8)
Probable causes for nonconformance
—(i)
Insertion loss.
Some of the more common causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to reversed load coil windings, missing load coils, bridge taps between load coils, load coil spacing irregularities, excessive end sections, cables having high or low mutual capacitance, load coils having the wrong inductance, load coils inadvertently installed in nonloaded loops, moisture or water in cable, split pairs, and improperly spliced connections. The above factors can occur singularly or in combination. Experience to date indicates that the most common problems are missing load coils, reversed load coil windings or bridge taps.
(ii)
Noise.
Some of the common causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to high power influence from paralleling electrical power systems, poor telephone circuit balance, discontinuous cable shields, inadequate bonding and grounding of cable shields, high capacitance unbalance-to-ground of the cable pairs, high dc loop resistance unbalance, dc loop current less than 20 milliamperes, etc. The
above factors can occur singularly or in combination. See TE
CM Section 451, Telephone Noise Measurement and Mitigation, for steps to be taken in reducing telecommunications line noise.
(f)
One-person open circuit measurement (subscriber loops).
(1) When specified by the borrower, open circuit measurements shall be made on all loaded and nonloaded subscriber loops upon completion of the cable work to verify that the plant is free from major impedance irregularities.
(2) For loaded loops, open circuit measurements shall be made using one of the following methods:
(i) Impedance or pulse return pattern, with cable pair trace compared to that of an artificial line of the same length and gauge. For best results, a level tracer or fault locator with dual trace capability is required;
(ii) Return loss using a level tracer, with cable pair compared to an artificial line of the same length and gauge connected in lieu of a Precision Balance Network (PBN). This method can be made with level tracers having only single trace capability; or
(iii) Open circuit structural return loss using a level tracer. This method can be made with level tracer having only single trace capability.
(3) Of the three methods suggested for loaded loops, the method specified in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section is the preferred method because it can yield both qualitative and quantitative results. The methods specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(iii) of this section can be used as trouble shooting tools should irregularities be found during testing.
(4) For nonloaded loops, open circuit measurements shall be made using the method specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.
(5)
Method of measurement.
Open circuit measurements shall be made at the CO on each loaded and nonloaded pair across the tip and ring terminals of the pair under test. All CO equipment shall be disconnected at the MDF for this test. For loaded loops containing voice frequency repeaters installed in the CO or field mounted, the open circuit measurement shall be made after the repeaters have been disconnected. Where field mounted repeaters are used, the open circuit measurement shall be made at the repeater location in both directions.
(i)
Impedance or pulse return pattern.
The step-by-step measurement procedure using the impedance or pulse return pattern for loaded and nonloaded loops shall be as shown in Figure 8. An artificial line of the same makeup as the cable to be tested shall be set up. The traces of the impedance or pulse return pattern from the cable pair and the artificial line shall be compared and should be essentially identical. If the impedance or pulse return traces from the cable pair are different than the artificial line trace, cable faults are possible. When the cable pair trace indicates possible defects, the defects should be identified and located. One method of identifying and locating defects involves introducing faults into the artificial line until its trace is identical with the cable trace.
(ii)
Return loss balanced to artificial line.
The step-by-step measurement procedure using the return loss balanced to artificial line for loaded loops shall be as shown in Figure 9. An artificial line of the same makeup as the cable to be tested shall be set up. The artificial line is connected to the external network terminals of the test set. The cable pair under test is compared to this standard. When defects are found, they should be identified and located by introducing faults into the artificial line. This is more difficult than with the method referenced in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section since this measurement is more sensitive to minor faults and only a single trace is used.
(iii)
Open circuit structural return loss using level tracer.
The step-by-step measurement procedure using the level tracer for loaded loops shall be as shown in Figure 10. The cable pair is compared to a PBN.
(6)
Test equipment.
Equipment for performing these tests is shown in Figures 8 through 10. For loaded loops, artificial loaded lines must be of the same gauge and loading scheme as the line under test. For nonloaded loops, artificial nonloaded lines must be of the same gauge as the line under test. Artificial lines should be arranged using
switches or other quick connect arrangements to speed testing and troubleshooting. Figures 8 through 10 are as follows:
ER02MY97.030
ER02MY97.031
ER02MY97.032
(7)
Applicable results.
(i) For loaded and nonloaded loops, the two traces in the pulse return pattern or impedance method (paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section) shall be essentially identical. The degree of comparison required of the two traces is to be determined by experience.
(ii) For loaded loops, results for return loss measurements using a level tracer, with artificial line, in lieu of a PBN (paragraph (f)(5)(ii) of this section) shall meet the following requirements:
(A) For D66 and H88 loaded cables the structural return loss (SRL) values shall range between 28 and 39 dB, respectively, at the critical frequency of structural return loss (CFSRL) within the pass band of the loading system being used. The minimum SRL value for uniform gauge shall be 25 dB CFSRL. These SRL values apply for loaded cables of uniform gauge for the
entire length of the subscriber loop circuit. Subscriber loop circuits shall meet the loading spacing deviations and the cable mutual capacitance requirements in the applicable RUS cable specifications;
(B) For mixed gauge loaded cables the SRL values shall be 25 and 27 dB CFSRL, respectively, and the minimum SRL value shall be 22 dB CFSRL; and
(C) The two traces in the pulse return pattern should be essentially identical. The degree of comparison required of the two traces is determined by experience.
(iii) For loaded loops, the results of open circuit structural return loss measurements using a level tracer (paragraph (f)(5)(iii) of this section) shall meet the following requirements. For D66 and H88 loaded cables with uniform or mixed gauges, the worst value allowed for measured open circuit structural return loss between 1,000-3,500 Hz and 1,000-3,000 Hz, respectively, shall be approximately 0.9 dB (round trip) for each 100 ohms outside plant dc loop resistance including the resistance of the load coils. The value of 0.9 dB per 100 ohms for the round trip loss remains reasonably accurate as long as:
(A) The subscriber end section of the loaded pair under test is approximately 2,250 ft (685 m) for D66 loading or 3,000 ft (914 m) for H88 loading in length; and
(B) The one-way 1,000 Hz loss does not exceed 10 dB.
(iv) For loaded loops, the measured value of open circuit structural return loss can only be as accurate as the degree to which the dc loop resistance of the loaded pair under test is known. Most accurate results shall be obtained when the dc loop resistance is known by actual measurements as described in paragraph (d) of this section. Furthermore, where the dc loop resistance is measured at the same time as the open circuit structural return loss, no correction for temperature is needed because the loss is directly proportional to the loop resistance. Where it is not practical to measure the dc loop resistance, it shall be calculated and corrected for temperature as specified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section. When measuring existing plant, care shall be taken to verify the accuracy of the records, if they are used for the calculation of the dc loop resistance. For buried plant, the temperature correction shall be based at the normal depth of the cable in the ground. (Temperature can be measured by boring a hole to cable depth with a ground rod, placing a thermometer in the ground at the cable depth, and taking and averaging several readings during the course of the resistance measurements.) For aerial cable it shall be based on the temperature inside the cable sheath.
(v) For loaded loops, the best correlation between the measured and the expected results shall be obtained when the cable is of one gauge, one size, and the far end section is approximately 2,250 ft (685 m) for D66 loading or 3,000 ft (914 m) for H88 loading. Mixing gauges and cable sizes will result in undesirable small reflections whose frequency characteristics and magnitude cannot be accurately predicted. In subscriber loop applications, cable gauge may be somewhat uniform but the cable pair size most likely will not be uniform as cable pair sizes taper off toward the customer access location and a downward adjustment of 1 dB of the allowed value shall be acceptable. “Long” end sections (as defined in TE
CM Section 424, “Guideline for Telecommunications Subscriber Loop Plant”) lower the expected value, a further downward adjustment of 3 dB in the allowed value shall be acceptable.
(vi) For loaded loops, the limiting factor when making open circuit structural return loss measurements is when the 1,000 Hz one-way loss of the loaded cable pair under test becomes 10 dB or greater; it becomes difficult to detect the presence of irregularities beyond the 10 dB point on the loop. To overcome this difficulty, loaded loops having a one-way loss at 1,000 Hz greater than 10 dB shall be opened at some convenient point (such as a pedestal or ready access enclosure) and loss measurements at the individual portions measuring less than 10 dB one-way shall be made separately. When field mounted voice frequency repeaters are used, the measurement shall be made at the repeater location in both directions.
(8)
Data record.
(i) When performing a pulse return pattern or impedance open
circuit measurement on loaded and nonloaded loops, a “check mark” indicating that the pair tests good or an “X” indicating that the pair does not test good shall be recorded in the SRL column. A suggested format similar to Format I for subscriber loops in § 1755.407 or a format specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(ii) When performing open circuit return loss measurements using the return loss balanced to an artificial line or return loss using a level tracer on loaded loops, the value of the poorest (lowest numerical value) SRL and its frequency in the proper column between 1,000 and 3,500 Hz for D66 loading or between 1,000 and 3,000 Hz for H88 loading shall be recorded. A suggested format similar to Format I for subscriber loops in § 1755.407 or a format specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(9)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Some of the more common causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to reversed load coil windings, missing load coils, bridge taps between load coils, load coil spacing irregularities, excessive end sections, cables having high or low mutual capacitance, load coils inadvertently installed in nonloaded loops, moisture or water in the cable, load coils having the wrong inductance, split pairs, and improperly spliced connectors. The above can occur singularly or in combination. Experience to date indicates that the most common problems are missing load coils, reversed load coil windings or bridge taps.
(g)
Cable insertion loss measurement (carrier frequencies).
(1) When specified by the borrower, carrier frequency insertion loss measurements shall be made on cable pairs used for T1, T1C, and/or station carrier systems. Carrier frequency insertion loss shall be made on a minimum of three pairs. Select at least one pair near the outside of the core unit layup. If the three measured pairs are within 10% of the calculated loss in dB corrected for temperature, no further testing is necessary. If any of the measured pairs of a section are not within 10% of the calculated loss in dB, all pairs in that section used for carrier transmission shall be measured.
(2)
Method of measurement.
The step-by-step method of measurement shall be as shown in Figure 11.
(3)
Test equipment.
The test equipment is shown in Figure 11 as follows:
ER02MY97.033
(4)
Applicable results.
(i) The highest frequency to be measured is determined by the type of carrier system. For T1 type carrier, the highest frequency is normally 772 kHz. For T1C type carrier, the highest frequency is normally 1576 kHz. The highest frequency to be measured for station carrier is 140 kHz.
(ii) The measured insertion loss of the cable shall be within ±10% of the calculated loss in dB when the loss is corrected for temperature.
(iii) The calculated insertion loss is computed as follows:
(A) Multiply the length of each different gauge by the applicable dB per unit length as shown in Table 7 or 8 as follows:
Table 7—Cable Attenuation @ 68 °F (20 °C) Filled Cables—Solid Insulation
Frequency (kHz)
Attenuation dB/mile (dB/km) Gauge (AWG)
19
22
24
26
10
2.8 (1.7)
4.8 (2.9)
6.4 (3.9)
8.5 (5.3)
20
3.2 (2.0)
5.8 (3.6)
8.2 (5.1)
11.2 (6.9)
40
3.6 (2.2)
6.5 (4.0)
9.6 (6.0)
13.9 (8.6)
60
4.0 (2.5)
6.9 (4.2)
10.3 (6.4)
15.2 (9.4)
80
4.5 (2.8)
7.3 (4.5)
10.7 (6.6)
16.0 (9.9)
100
4.9 (3.0)
7.7 (4.7)
11.1 (6.8)
16.5 (10.2)
112
5.2 (3.2)
8.0 (4.9)
11.3 (7.0)
16.8 (10.5)
120
5.4 (3.3)
8.1 (5.0)
11.5 (7.1)
17.0 (10.6)
140
5.8 (3.6)
8.6 (5.3)
11.9 (7.4)
17.4 (10.8)
160
6.2 (3.8)
9.0 (5.6)
12.3 (7.6)
17.8 (11.1)
180
6.6 (4.1)
9.5 (5.9)
12.7 (7.9)
18.2 (11.3)
200
7.0 (4.3)
10.0 (6.2)
13.2 (8.2)
18.6 (11.5)
300
8.7 (5.4)
12.2 (7.5)
15.4 (9.6)
20.6 (12.8)
400
10.0 (6.2)
14.1 (8.8)
17.7 (11.0)
22.9 (14.2)
500
11.2 (6.9)
15.9 (9.8)
19.8 (12.3)
25.2 (15.6)
600
12.2 (7.5)
17.5 (10.9)
21.8 (13.6)
27.4 (17.0)
700
13.2 (8.2)
19.0 (11.8)
23.6 (14.7)
29.6 (18.4)
772
13.8 (8.5)
19.9 (12.4)
24.8 (15.4)
31.4 (19.5)
800
14.2 (8.8)
20.1 (12.5)
27.4 (17.1)
31.7 (19.7)
900
14.8 (9.2)
21.6 (13.4)
29.0 (18.0)
33.8 (21.0)
1000
15.8 (9.8)
22.7 (14.1)
31.1 (19.3)
35.9 (22.3)
1100
16.4 (10.2)
23.8 (14.8)
32.7 (20.3)
38.0 (23.6)
1200
17.4 (10.8)
24.8 (15.4)
34.3 (21.3)
40.0 (24.9)
1300
17.9 (11.1)
25.9 (16.1)
35.4 (22.0)
41.7 (25.9)
1400
19.0 (11.8)
26.9 (16.7)
37.0 (23.0)
43.3 (26.9)
1500
19.5 (12.1)
28.0 (17.4)
38.0 (23.6)
44.3 (27.6)
1576
20.1 (12.4)
29.0 (18.0)
39.0 (24.3)
44.4 (28.2)
Table 8—Cable Attenuation @ 68 °F (20 °C) Filled Cables—Expanded Insulation
Frequency (kHz)
Attenuation dB/mile (dB/km) Gauge (AWG)
19
22
24
26
10
3.0 (1.8)
4.9 (3.0)
6.5 (4.0)
8.6 (5.3)
20
3.5 (2.1)
6.0 (4.1)
8.5 (5.2)
11.5 (7.1)
40
4.0 (2.5)
7.0 (4.3)
10.2 (6.3)
14.4 (8.9)
60
4.5 (2.8)
7.5 (4.6)
11.1 (6.8)
16.0 (9.9)
80
5.2 (3.3)
7.9 (4.9)
11.3 (6.9)
16.2 (10.1)
100
5.8 (3.6)
8.4 (5.2)
11.6 (7.2)
16.4 (10.2)
112
6.0 (3.8)
8.8 (5.4)
11.9 (7.4)
16.6 (10.3)
120
6.2 (3.9)
9.0 (5.6)
12.1 (7.5)
16.9 (10.5)
140
6.6 (4.1)
9.5 (5.9)
12.7 (7.9)
17.2 (10.7)
160
6.9 (4.3)
10.0 (6.2)
13.2 (8.2)
17.4 (10.8)
180
7.4 (4.6)
10.6 (6.6)
13.7 (8.5)
17.9 (11.1)
200
7.9 (4.9)
11.1 (6.9)
14.2 (8.8)
18.5 (11.5)
300
9.5 (5.9)
13.2 (8.2)
16.8 (10.5)
21.6 (13.4)
400
11.1 (6.9)
15.3 (9.5)
19.5 (12.1)
24.3 (15.1)
500
12.1 (7.5)
17.9 (11.1)
22.2 (13.8)
27.4 (17.1)
600
13.7 (8.5)
19.5 (12.1)
24.3 (15.1)
29.6 (18.4)
700
14.8 (9.2)
21.1 (13.1)
26.4 (16.4)
32.2 (20.0)
772
15.3 (9.5)
21.6 (13.4)
27.4 (17.1)
33.8 (21.90)
800
15.8 (9.8)
22.2 (13.8)
28.0 (17.4)
34.4 (21.3)
900
17.0 (10.5)
23.8 (14.8)
29.6 (18.4)
36.4 (22.6)
1000
17.4 (10.8)
24.8 (15.4)
31.1 (19.3)
38.5 (23.9)
1100
17.9 (11.1)
26.4 (16.4)
33.3 (20.7)
40.6 (25.3)
1200
19.0 (11.8)
27.4 (17.1
34.3 (21.3)
42.2 (26.2)
1300
19.5 (12.1)
28.5 (17.7)
35.9 (22.3)
43.8 (27.2)
1400
20.1 (12.5
29.6 (18.4)
37.0 (23.0)
45.9 (28.5)
1500
20.6 (12.8)
30.6 (19.0)
38.5 (23.9)
47.5 (29.5)
1576
21.6 (13.4)
31.1 (19.3)
39.1 (24.3)
48.6 (30.2)
(B) Add the individual losses for each gauge to give the total calculated insertion loss at a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C);
(C) Correct the total calculated insertion loss at the temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) to the measurement temperature by the following formulae:
A
t
= A
68
× [1 + 0.0012 × (t − 68)] for English Units
A
t
= A
20
× [1 + 0.0022 × (t − 20)] for Metric Units
Where:
A
t
= Insertion loss at the measurement temperature in dB.
A
68
= Insertion loss at a temperature of 68 °F in dB.
A
20
= Insertion loss at a temperature of 20 °C in dB.
t = Measurement temperature in °F or (°C); and
(D) Compare the calculated insertion loss at the measurement temperature to the measured insertion loss to determine compliance with the requirement specified in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this section. (
Note:
Attenuation varies directly with temperature. For each ±10 °F (5.6 °C) change in temperature increase or decrease the attenuation by ±1%.)
(iv) If the measured value exceeds the ±10% allowable variation, the cause shall be determined and corrective action shall be taken to remedy the problem.
(5)
Data record.
Results of carrier frequency insertion loss measurements for station, T1, and/or T1C type carrier shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format III, Outside Plant Acceptance Tests—T1 or T1C Carrier Pairs, and Format IV, Outside Plant Acceptance Tests—Station Carrier Pairs, in § 1755.407 or formats specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(6)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
If the measured loss is low, the cable records are likely to be in error. If the measured loss is high, there may be bridge taps, load coils or voice frequency build-out capacitors connected to the cable pairs or the cable records may be in error. Figures 12 and 13 are examples that show the effects of bridge taps and load coils in the carrier path. Figures 12 and 13 are as follows:
ER02MY97.034
ER02MY97.035
[62 FR 23962, May 2, 1997]
§ 1755.404
Fiber optic cable telecommunications plant measurements.
(a)
Armor continuity.
(1) Tests and measurements shall be made to ensure that the armor of fiber optic cables is continuous. There are two areas of concern. The first is armor bonding within a splice and the second is armor continuity between splices.
(2) Measurement techniques outlined here for verification of armor continuity are applicable to buried fiber optic cable plant. Measurements of armor continuity between splices in aerial, armored, fiber optic cable should be made prior to completion of splicing. Conclusive results cannot be obtained on aerial plant after all bonds have been completed to the supporting strand, multigrounded neutral, etc.
(3)
Method of measurement.
Armor continuity within splices shall be measured with a cable shield splice
continuity test set. The step-by-step measurement procedure outlined in the manufacturer's operating instructions for the specific test equipment being used shall be followed.
(4)
Test equipment.
A cable shield splice continuity tester shall be used to measure armor continuity within splices.
(5)
Applicable results.
When utilizing shield continuity testers to measure armor continuity within splices, refer to the manufacturer's published information covering the specific test equipment to be used and for anticipated results.
(6)
Data record.
Measurement data from armor continuity tests shall be recorded together with anticipated values in an appropriate format to permit comparison. The recorded data shall include specific location, cable size, and cable type, if known, etc.
(7)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Among probable causes for nonconformance are broken or damaged armors, bad bonding harnesses, poorly connected bonding clamps, loose bonding lugs, etc.
(b)
Fiber optic splice loss measurement.
(1) After placement of all fiber optic cable plant has been completed and spliced together to form a continuous optical link between end termination points, splice loss measurements shall be performed on all field and central office splice points.
(2)
Method of measurement.
(i) Field splice loss measurements shall be made between the end termination points at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers for single mode fibers and in accordance with Figure 14. Two splice loss measurements shall be made between the end termination points. The first measurement shall be from termination point A to termination point B. The second measurement shall be from termination point B to termination point A.
(ii) CO splice loss measurements shall be made at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers for single mode fibers and in accordance with Figure 15. Two splice loss measurements shall be made between the end termination points. The first measurement shall be from termination point A to termination point B. The second measurement shall be from termination point B to termination point A.
(3)
Test equipment.
The test equipment is shown in Figures 14 and 15. The optical time domain reflectometer (OTDR) used for the testing should have dual wave length capability. Figures 14 and 15 are as follows:
ER02MY97.036
ER02MY97.037
(4)
Applicable results.
(i) The splice loss for each single mode field splice shall be the bi-directional average of the two OTDR readings. To calculate the actual splice loss, substitute the OTDR readings maintaining the sign of the loss (+) or apparent gain (−) into the following equation:
EN07MY97.000
(ii) When specified in the applicable construction contract, the splice loss of each field splice at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers shall not exceed the limit specified in the contract.
(iii) When no limit is specified in the applicable construction contract, the splice loss of each field splice shall not exceed 0.2 dB at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers.
(iv) The splice loss for each single mode CO splice shall be the bi-directional average of the two OTDR reading. To calculate actual splice loss, substitute the OTDR reading, maintaining the sign of the loss (+) or apparent gain (−), into the equation specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.
(v) When specified in the applicable construction contract, the splice loss of each central office splice at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers shall not exceed the limit specified in the contract.
(vi) When no limit is specified in the applicable construction contract, the splice loss of each central office splice shall not exceed 1.2 dB at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers.
(5)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. A suggested format similar to Format V, Outside Plant Acceptance Test—Fiber Optic Telecommunications Plant, in § 1755.407 or a format specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(6)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
When the results of the splice loss measurements exceed the specified limits the following factors should be checked:
(i) Proper end preparation of the fibers;
(ii) End separation between the fiber ends;
(iii) Lateral misalignment of fiber cores;
(iv) Angular misalignment of fiber cores;
(v) Fresnel reflection;
(vi) Contamination between fiber ends;
(vii) Core deformation; or
(viii) Mode-field diameter mismatch.
(c)
End-to-end attenuation measurement.
(1) After placement of all fiber optic cable plant has been completed and spliced together to form a continuous optical link between end termination points, end-to-end attenuation measurements shall be performed on each optical fiber within the cable.
(2)
Method of measurement.
For single mode fibers, the end-to-end attenuation measurements of each optical fiber at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers in each direction between end termination points shall be performed in accordance with Figure 16.
(3)
Test equipment.
The test equipment is shown in Figure 16 as follows:
ER02MY97.038
(4)
Applicable results.
The end-to-end attenuation of each single mode optical fiber at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers shall not exceed the limits specified in the applicable construction contract.
(5)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. A suggested format similar to Format V for fiber optic telecommunications plant in § 1755.407 or on a format specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(6)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Failure of each optical fiber to meet the end-to-end attenuation limit could be attributed to the following:
(i) Excessive field or central office splice loss;
(ii) Excessive cable attenuation; or
(iii) Damage to the fiber optic cable during installation.
(d)
End-to-end fiber signature measurement.
(1) After placement of all fiber optic cable plant has been completed and spliced together to form a continuous optical link between end termination points, end-to-end fiber signature testing shall be performed on each optical fiber within the cable.
(2)
Method of measurement.
For single mode fibers, the end-to-end fiber signature measurement of each optical fiber in each direction shall be performed between end termination points at 1310 and/or 1550 nanometers in accordance with Figure 17.
(3)
Test equipment.
The test equipment is shown in Figure 17 as follows:
ER02MY97.039
(4)
Applicable results.
The appearance of each optical fiber between end termination points.
(5)
Data record.
Plot the trace of each optical fiber and retain as a permanent record for future comparison if needed.
(6)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
None.
[62 FR 23989, May 2, 1997; 62 FR 25017, May 7, 1997]
§ 1755.405
Voiceband data transmission measurements.
(a) The data transmission measurements listed in this section shall be used to determine the acceptability of trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits for data modem transmission.
(b)
Signal-to-C notched noise (S/CNN) measurement.
(1) When specified by the borrower, S/CNN measurements shall be made on trunk circuits and nonloaded subscriber loops. For trunk circuits, the measurement shall be made between CO locations. For nonloaded subscriber loops, the measurement shall be made from the CO to the station protector of the NID at the customer's access location.
(2) S/CNN is the logarithmic ratio expressed in dB of a 1,004 Hz holding tone signal compared to the C-message weighted noise level. S/CNN is one of the most important transmission parameters affecting the performance of data transmission because proper modem operation requires low noise relative to received power level. Since modulated carriers are used in data communication systems, noise measurements need to be performed with power on the connection to activate equipment having signal-level-dependent noise sources. For 4 kHz channels, a 1,004 Hz holding tone is used to activate the signal-dependent equipment on the channel or connection.
(3)
Method of measurement.
The S/CNN measurement shall be made using a 1,004 Hz holding tone at −13 dBm0 (decibels relative to one milliwatt, referred to a zero transmission level point) and performed in accordance with American National Standards Institute (ANSI) T1.506-1990, American National Standard for Telecommunications—Network Performance—Transmission Specifications for Switched Exchange Access Network including supplement ANSI T1.506a-1992, and American National Standards Institute/Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (ANSI/IEEE) 743-1984, IEEE Standard Methods and Equipment for Measuring the Transmission Characteristics of Analog Voice Frequency Circuits. The ANSI T1.506-1990, American National Standard for Telecommunications—Network Performance—Transmission Specifications for Switched Exchange Access Network is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI T1.506-1990 are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2845, U.S. Department of Agriculture, STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Copies are available from ANSI, Customer Service, 11 West 42nd Street, New York, New York 10036, telephone number (212) 642-4900. The ANSI/IEEE 743-1984, IEEE Standard Methods and Equipment for Measuring the Transmission Characteristics of Analog Voice Frequency Circuits is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 522(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI/IEEE 743-1984 are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2845, U.S. Department of Agriculture, STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration. Copies are available from ANSI, Customer Service, 11 West 42nd Street, New York, New York 10036, telephone number (212) 642-4900.
(4)
Test equipment.
The equipment for performing the measurement shall be in accordance with ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(5)
Applicable results.
The S/CNN for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits shall not be less than 31 dB.
(6)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format VI, Voiceband Data Transmission Tests—Nonloaded Subscriber Loops, and Format VII, Voiceband Data Transmission Tests—Trunk Circuits, in § 1755.407 or formats specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(7)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Some of the causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to excessive harmonic distortion, quantizing noise, phase and amplitude jitter, and loss in digital pads used for level settings.
(c)
Signal-to-intermodulation distortion (S/IMD) measurement.
(1) When specified
by the borrower, S/IMD measurements shall be made on trunk circuits and nonloaded subscriber loops. For trunk circuits, the measurement shall be made between CO locations. For nonloaded subscriber loops, the measurement shall be made from the CO to the station protector of the NID at the customer's access location.
(2) S/IMD is a measure of the distortion produced by extraneous frequency cross products, known as intermodulation products, when a multi-tone tone signal is applied to a system.
(3) Intermodulation distortion (IMD) is caused by system nonlinearities acting upon the harmonic frequencies produced from an input of multiple tones. The products resulting from IMD can be more damaging than noise in terms of producing data transmission errors.
(4) IMD is measured as a signal to distortion ratio and is expressed as the logarithmic ratio in dB of the composite power of four resulting test frequencies to the total power of specific higher order distortion products that are produced. The higher order products are measured at both the 2nd order and 3rd order and are designated R2 and R3, respectively. The four frequency testing for IMD is produced with four tones of 857, 863, 1,372, and 1,388 Hz input at a composite power level of −13 dBm0.
(5)
Method of measurement.
The S/IMD measurement shall be performed in accordance with ANSI T1.506-1990 and ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(6)
Test equipment.
The equipment for performing the measurement shall be in accordance with ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(7)
Applicable results.
The 2nd order (R2) S/IMD for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits shall not be less than 40 dB. The 3rd order (R3) S/IMD for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits shall not be less than 40 dB.
(8)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format VI for nonloaded subscriber loops and Format VII for trunk circuits in § 1755.407 or formats specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(9)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Some of the causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to channel nonlinearities, such as compression and clipping, which cause harmonic and intermodulation distortion in a voiceband signal.
(d)
Envelope delay distortion (EDD) measurement.
(1) When specified by the borrower, EDD measurements shall be made on trunk circuits and nonloaded subscriber loops. For trunk circuits, the measurement shall be made between CO locations. For nonloaded subscriber loops, the measurement shall be made from the CO to the station protector of the NID at the customer's access location.
(2) EDD is a measure of the linearity or uniformity of the phase versus frequency characteristics of a transmission facility. EDD is also known as relative envelope delay (RED).
(3) EDD is specifically defined as the delay relative to the envelope delay at the reference frequency of 1,704 Hz. EDD is typically measured at two frequencies, one low and one high in the voiceband. The low frequency measurement is made at 604 Hz. The high frequency measurement is made at 2,804 Hz.
(4)
Method of measurement.
The EDD measurement shall be performed in accordance with ANSI T1.506-1990 and ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(5)
Test equipment.
The equipment for performing the measurement shall be in accordance with ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(6)
Applicable results.
The EDD for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits at the low frequency of 604 Hz shall not exceed 1,500 microseconds. The EDD for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits at the high frequency of 2,804 Hz shall not exceed 1,000 microseconds.
(7)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format VI for nonloaded subscriber loops and Format VII for trunk circuits in § 1755.407 or formats specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(8)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Some of the causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to nonlinearity of the phase versus frequency
characteristic of the transmission facility. This nonlinear phase versus frequency characteristic of the transmission facility causes the various frequency components to travel at different transit times which results in successively transmitted data pulses to overlap at the receive end. The overlapping of the pulses at the receive end results in distortion of the received signal. Excessive EDD on the transmission facility may be reduced using data modems with equalization or by conditioning the transmission line.
(e)
Amplitude jitter (AJ) measurement.
(1) When specified by the borrower, AJ measurements shall be made on trunk circuits and nonloaded subscriber loops. For trunk circuits, the measurement shall be made between CO locations. For nonloaded subscriber loops, the measurement shall be made from the CO to the station protector of the NID at the customer's access location.
(2) AJ is any fluctuation in the peak amplitude value of a fixed tone signal at 1,004 Hz from its nominal value. AJ is expressed in peak percent amplitude modulation.
(3) AJ is measured in two separate frequency bands, 4-300 Hz and 20-300 Hz. The 4-300 Hz band is important for modems employing echo canceling capabilities. The 20-300 Hz band is used for modems that do not employ echo cancelers.
(4) Amplitude modulation can affect the error performance of voiceband data modems. The measurement of amplitude jitter indicates the total effect on the amplitude of the holding tone of incidental amplitude modulation and other sources including quantizing and message noise, impulse noise, gain hits, phase jitter, and additive tones such as single-frequency interference.
(5)
Method of measurement.
The AJ measurement shall be performed in accordance with ANSI T1.506-1990 and ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(6)
Test equipment.
The equipment for performing the measurement shall be in accordance with ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(7)
Applicable results.
The AJ for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits in the 4-300 Hz frequency band shall not exceed 6%. The AJ for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits in the 20-300 Hz frequency band shall not exceed 5%.
(8)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format VI for nonloaded subscriber loops and Format VII for trunk circuits in § 1755.407 or formats specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(9)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Some of the causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to excessive S/CNN, impulse noise, and phase jitter.
(f)
Phase jitter (PJ) measurement.
(1) When specified by the borrower, PJ measurements shall be made on trunk circuits and nonloaded subscriber loops. For trunk circuits, the measurement shall be made between CO locations. For nonloaded subscriber loops, the measurement shall be made from the CO to the station protector of the NID at the customer's access location.
(2) PJ is any fluctuation in the zero crossings of a fixed tone signal (usually 1,004 Hz) from their nominal position in time within the voiceband. PJ is expressed in terms of either degrees peak-to-peak (° p-p) or in terms of a Unit Interval (UI). One UI is equal to 360° p-p.
(3) PJ measurements are typically performed in two nominal frequency bands. The frequency bands are 20-300 Hz band and either the 2-300 Hz band or the 4-300 Hz band. The 20-300 Hz band is important to all phase-detecting modems. The 4-300 Hz band or the 2-300 Hz band is important for modems employing echo canceling capabilities.
(4) Phase jitter can affect the error performance of voiceband data modems that use phase detection techniques. The measurement of phase jitter indicates the total effect on the holding tone of incidental phase modulation and other sources including quantizing and message noise, impulse noise, phase hits, additive tones such as single-frequency interference, and digital timing jitter.
(5)
Method of measurement.
The PJ measurement shall be performed in accordance with ANSI T1.506-1990 and ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(6)
Test equipment.
The equipment for performing the measurement shall be in accordance with ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(7)
Applicable results.
The PJ for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits in the 4-300 Hz frequency band shall not exceed 6.5° p-p. The PJ for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits in the 20-300 Hz frequency band shall not exceed 10.0° p-p.
(8)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format VI for nonloaded subscriber loops and Format VII for trunk circuits in § 1755.407 or formats specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(9)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Some of the causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to excessive S/CNN, impulse noise, and amplitude jitter.
(g)
Impulse noise measurement.
(1) When specified by the borrower, impulse noise measurements shall be made on trunk circuits and nonloaded subscriber loops. For trunk circuits, the measurement shall be made between CO locations. For nonloaded subscriber loops, the measurement shall be made from the CO to the station protector of the NID at the customer's access location.
(2) Impulse noise is a measure of the presence of unusually large noise excursions of short duration that are beyond the normal background noise levels on a facility. Impulse noise is typically measured by counting the number of occurrences beyond a particular noise reference threshold in a given time interval. The noise reference level is C-message weighted.
(3)
Method of measurement.
The impulse noise measurement shall be performed using a 1,004 Hz tone at −13 dBm0 and in accordance with ANSI T1.506-1990 and ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(4)
Test equipment.
The equipment for performing the measurement shall be in accordance with ANSI/IEEE 743-1984.
(5)
Applicable results.
The impulse noise for both trunk and nonloaded subscriber loop circuits shall not exceed 65 dBrnC0 (decibels relative to one picowatt reference noise level, measured with C-message frequency weighting, referred to a zero transmission level point). The impulse noise requirement shall be based upon a maximum of 5 counts in a 5 minute period at equal to or greater than the indicated noise thresholds.
(6)
Data record.
The measurement data shall be recorded. Suggested formats similar to Format VI for nonloaded subscriber loops and Format VII for trunk circuits in § 1755.407 or formats specified in the applicable construction contract may be used.
(7)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
Some of the causes for failing to obtain the desired results may be due to excessive transient signals originating from the various switching operations.
[62 FR 23996, May 2, 1997, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.406
Shield or armor ground resistance measurements.
(a) Shield or armor ground resistance measurements shall be made on completed lengths of copper cable and wire plant and fiber optic cable plant.
(b)
Method of measurement.
(1) The shield or armor ground resistance measurement shall be made between the copper cable and wire shield and ground and between the fiber optic cable armor and ground, respectively. The measurement shall be made either on cable and wire lengths before splicing and before any ground connections are made to the cable or wire shields or armors. Optionally, the measurement may be made on cable and wire lengths after splicing, but all ground connections must be removed from the section under test.
(2) The method of measurement using either an insulation resistance test set or a dc bridge type megohmmeter shall be as shown in Figure 18 as follows:
ER02MY97.040
(c)
Test equipment.
(1) The shield or armor ground resistance measurements may be made using an insulation resistance test set, a dc bridge type megohmmeter, or a commercially available fault locator.
(2) The insulation resistance test set should have an output voltage not to exceed 500 volts dc and may be hand cranked or battery operated.
(3) The dc bridge type megohmmeter, which may be ac powered, should have
scales and multipliers which make it possible to accurately read resistance values of 50,000 ohms to 10 megohms. The voltage that is applied to the shield or armor during the test should not be less than “250 volts dc” nor greater than “1,000 volts dc” when using an instrument having adjustable test voltage levels.
(4) Commercially available fault locators may be used in lieu of the above equipment, if the devices are capable of detecting faults having resistance values of 50,000 ohms to 10 megohms. Operation of the devices and method of locating the faults should be in accordance with manufacturer's instructions.
(d)
Applicable results.
(1) For all new copper cable and wire facilities and all new fiber optic cable facilities, the shield or armor ground resistance levels normally exceed 1 megohm-mile (1.6 megohm-km) at 68 °F (20 °C). A value of 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) at 68 °F (20 °C) shall be the minimum acceptable value of the shield or armor ground resistance.
(2) Shield or armor ground resistance varies inversely with length and temperature. In addition other factors which may affect readings could be soil conditions, faulty test equipment and incorrect test procedures.
(3) For the resistance test method and dc bridge type megohmmeter, the ohm-mile (ohm-km) value for the shield or armor ground resistance shall be computed by multiplying the actual scale reading in ohms on the test set by the length in miles (km) of the cable or wire under test.
(4)(i) The objective shield or armor ground resistance may be determined by dividing 100,000 by the length in miles (161,000 by the length in km) of the cable or wire under test. The resulting value is the minimum acceptable meter scale reading in ohms. Examples for paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section are as follows:
Equation 1. Test Set: Scale Reading * Length = Resistance-Length
75,000 ohms * 3 miles = 225,000 ohm-mile
(75,000 ohms * 4.9 km = 367,000 ohm-km)
Equation 2. 100,000 ohm-mile ÷ Length = Minimum Acceptable Meter Scale Reading
100,000 ohm-mile ÷ 3 miles = 33,333 ohms
(161,000 ohm-km ÷ 4.9 km = 32,857 ohms)
(ii) Since the 33,333 ohms (32,857 ohms) is the minimum acceptable meter scale reading and the meter scale reading was 75,000 ohms, the cable is considered to have met the 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) requirement.
(5) Due to the differences between various jacketing materials used in manufacturing cable or wire and to varying soil conditions, it is impractical to provide simple factors to predict the magnitude of variation in shield or armor to ground resistance due to temperature. The variations can, however, be substantial for wide excursions in temperature from the ambient temperature of 68 °F (20 °C).
(e)
Data record.
The data shall be corrected to the length requirement of ohm-mile (ohm-km) and a temperature of 68 °F (20 °C) and shall be recorded on a form specified in the applicable construction contract.
(f)
Probable causes for nonconformance.
(1) When results of resistance measurements are below the 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) requirement at 68 °F (20 °C), the jacket temperature, soil conditions, test equipment and method shall be reviewed before the cable or wire is considered a failure. If the temperature is approximately 68 °F (20 °C) and soil conditions are acceptable, and a reading of less than 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) is indicated, check the calibration of the equipment; as well as, the test method. If the equipment was found to be out of calibration, recalibrate the equipment and remeasure the cable or wire. If the temperature was 86 °F (30 °C) or higher, the cable or wire shall be remeasured at a time when the temperature is approximately 68 °F (20 °C). If the test was performed in unusually wet soil, the cable or wire shall be retested after the soil has reached normal conditions. If after completion of the above steps, the resistance value of 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) or greater is obtained, the cable or wire shall be considered acceptable.
(2) When the resistance value of the cable or wire is still found to be below 100,000 ohm-mile (161,000 ohm-km) requirement after completion of the steps listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this
section, the fault shall be isolated by performing shield or armor ground resistance measurements on individual cable or wire sections.
(3) Once the fault or faults have been isolated, the cable or wire jacket shall be repaired in accordance with § 1755.200, RUS Standard for Splicing Copper and Fiber Optic Cables or the entire cable or wire section may be replaced at the request of the borrower.
[62 FR 23998, May 2, 1997]
§ 1755.407
Data formats.
The following suggested formats listed in this section may be used for recording the test data:
ER02MY97.041
ER02MY97.042
ER02MY97.043
ER02MY97.044
ER02MY97.045
ER02MY97.046
ER02MY97.047
[62 FR 24000, May 2, 1997]
§§ 1755.408-1755.499
[Reserved]
§ 1755.500
RUS standard for service installations at customers access locations.
(a) Sections 1755.501 through 1755.510 cover service installations at permanent or mobile home customer access locations. Sections 1755.501 through 1755.510 do not cover service installations at customer access locations associated with boat yards or marinas.
(b) Service installations for customer access locations in boat yards or marinas shall be performed in accordance with Article 800, Communications Circuits, of the American National Standards Institute/National Fire Protection Association (ANSI/NFPA) 70-1999,
National Electrical Code
® (
NEC
®). The
National Electrical Code
® and
NEC
® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-
1999,
NEC
® is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, are available for inspection during normal business hours at Rural Utilities Service (RUS), room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.501
Definitions applicable to §§ 1755.501 through 1755.510.
For the purpose of this section and §§ 1755.502 through 1755.510, the following terms are defined as follows:
American National Standards Institute (ANSI).
A private sector standards coordinating body which serves as the United States source and information center for all American National Standards.
Ampacity.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: The current, in amperes, that a conductor can carry continuously under the conditions of use without exceeding its temperature rating. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.) The
National Electrical Code
® and
NEC
® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
AWG.
American Wire Gauge.
BET.
Building entrance terminal.
Bonding (Bonded).
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: The permanent joining of metallic parts to form an electrically conductive path that will ensure electrical continuity and the capacity to conduct safely any current likely to be imposed. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
Bonding harness wire.
A reliable electrical conductor purposefully connected between metal parts which are required to be electrically connected (bonded) to one another to ensure the metal parts are at similar electrical potential.
Building entrance terminal (BET).
A BET is comprised of a housing suitable for indoor and outdoor installation which contains quick-connect or binding post terminals for terminating both telecommunications service cable conductors and inside wiring cable conductors. The BET also includes primary station protectors and a means of terminating the metallic shields of service entrance cables.
Demarcation point (DP).
As defined in the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules in 47 CFR part 68: The point of demarcation or interconnection between telecommunications company communications facilities and terminal equipment, protective apparatus, or wiring at a subscriber's premises. Carrier-installed facilities at, or constituting, the demarcation point
shall consist of wire or a jack conforming to subpart F of 47 CFR part 68. “Premises” as used herein generally means a dwelling unit, other building or a legal unit of real property such as a lot on which a dwelling unit is located, as determined by the telecommunications company's reasonable and nondiscriminatory standard operating practices. The “minimum point of entry” as used herein shall be either the closest practicable point to where the wiring crosses a property line or the closest practicable point to where the wiring enters a multiunit building or buildings. The telecommunications company's reasonable and nondiscriminatory standard operating practices shall determine which shall apply. The telecommunications company is not precluded from establishing reasonable clarifications of multiunit premises for determining which shall apply. Multiunit premises include, but are not limited to, residential, commercial, shopping center, and campus situations.
(1)
Single unit installations.
For single unit installations existing as of August 13, 1990, and installations installed after that date, the demarcation point shall be a point within 12 inches (in.) (305 millimeters (mm)) of the primary protector, where there is no protector, within 12 in. (305 mm) of where the telecommunications wire enters the customer's premises.
(2)
Multiunit installations.
(i) In multiunit premises existing as of August 13, 1990, the demarcation point shall be determined in accordance with the local carrier's reasonable and nondiscriminatory standard operating practices. Provided, however, that where there are multiple demarcation points within the multiunit premises, a demarcation point for a customer shall not be further inside the customer's premises than a point 12 in. (305 mm) from where the wiring enters the customer's premises.
(ii) In multiunit premises in which wiring is installed after August 13, 1990, including additions, modifications, and rearrangements of wiring existing prior to that date, the telecommunications company may establish a reasonable and nondiscriminatory practice of placing the demarcation point at the minimum point of entry. If the telecommunications company does not elect to establish a practice of placing the demarcation point at the minimum point of entry, the multiunit premises owner shall determine the location of the demarcation point or points. The multiunit premises owner shall determine whether there shall be a single demarcation point for all customers or separate such locations for each customer. Provided, however, that where there are multiple demarcation points within the multiunit premises, a demarcation point for a customer shall not be further inside the customer's premises than a point 12 in. (305 mm) from where the wiring enters the customer's premises.
DP.
Demarcation point.
Eligible country.
Any country that applies with respect to the United States an agreement ensuring reciprocal access for United States products and services and United States suppliers to the markets of that country, as determined by the United States Trade Representative.
FCC.
Federal Communications Commission.
Fuse link.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: A fine gauge section of wire or cable that serves as a fuse (that is, open-circuits to interrupt the current should it become excessive) that coordinates with the telecommunications cable and wire plant, and protective devices. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
Grounding conductor.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: A conductor used to connect equipment or the grounded circuit of a wiring system to a grounding electrode or electrodes. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on
the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
Listed.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: Equipment, materials, or services included in a list published by an organization that is acceptable to the authority having jurisdiction and concerned with evaluation of products or services, that maintains periodic inspection of production of listed equipment or materials or periodic evaluation of services, and whose listing states that either the equipment, material, or services meets identified standards or has been tested and found suitable for a specified purpose. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
Manufactured home.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: A factory-assembled structure or structures that bears a label identifying it as a manufactured home that is transportable in one or more sections, that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation where connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electric systems contained therein. Unless otherwise indicated, the term “mobile home” includes manufactured homes. Fine Print Note (FPN) No. 1: See the applicable building code for definition of the term permanent foundation. FPN No. 2: See 24 CFR part 3280, Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development for additional information on the definition. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
Mobile home.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: A factory-assembled structure or structures transportable in one or more sections that is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling without a permanent foundation where connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electric systems contained therein. Unless otherwise indicated, the term “mobile home” includes manufactured homes. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
Motor home.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: A vehicular unit designed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use built on or permanently attached to a self-propelled motor vehicle chassis or on a chassis cab or van that is an integral part of the completed vehicle. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
Network interface device (NID).
A NID is comprised of a housing suitable for outdoor installation which contains a compartment accessible by only telecommunications employees which includes a primary station protector and the means for terminating telecommunications service wire conductors and metallic shields, and a compartment accessible by customers which includes an RJ-11 plug and jack of the type specified in the FCC rules in 47 CFR part 68.
NID.
Network interface device.
Primary station protector.
An assembly which complies with RUS Bulletin 345-39, RUS Specification for Telephone
Station Protectors. Copies of RUS Bulletin 345-39 are available upon request from RUS, U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.
Qualified Installer.
A person who has extensive installation experience, complete knowledge and understanding of RUS Bulletin 1751F-805, Electrical Protection At Customer Locations; RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 (RUS Form 515d), Specifications and Drawings for Service Installations at Customer Access Locations, and applicable portions of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC. Copies of RUS Bulletins 1751F-805 and 1753F-153 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.
Recreational vehicle.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: A vehicular-type unit primarily designed as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. The basic entities are: travel trailer, camping trailer, truck camper, and motor home. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
RUS.
Rural Utilities Service.
RUS accepted (material and equipment).
Equipment which RUS has reviewed and determined that:
(1) Final assembly or manufacture of the equipment is completed in the United States, its territories and possessions, or in an eligible country;
(2) The cost of components within the material or equipment manufactured in the United States, its territories and possessions, or in an eligible country is more than 50 percent of the total cost of all components used in the material or equipment; and
(3) The material or equipment is suitable for use on systems of RUS telecommunications borrowers.
RUS technically accepted (material and equipment).
Equipment which RUS has reviewed and determined that the material or equipment is suitable for use on systems of RUS telecommunications borrowers but the material or equipment does not satisfy both paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition:
(1) Final assembly or manufacture of the equipment is not completed in the United States, its territories and possessions, or in an eligible country; and
(2) The cost of components within the material or equipment manufactured in the United States, its territories and possessions, or in an eligible country is 50 percent or less than the total cost of all components used in the material or equipment.
SEA.
Service entrance aerial.
SEB.
Service entrance buried.
Travel trailer.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: A vehicular unit, mounted on wheels, designed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel use, of such size and weight as not to require special highway movement permits when towed by a motorized vehicle, and of gross trailer area less than 320 square feet (29.7 square meters). (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
Truck camper.
As defined in the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®: A portable unit constructed to provide temporary living quarters for recreational, travel or camping use, consisting of a roof, floor, and sides, designed to be loaded onto and unloaded from the bed of a pick-up truck. (Reprinted with permission from NFPA 70-1999, the
National Electrical Code
®, Copyright
©
1998, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA 02269. This reprinted material is not the complete and official position of the National Fire Protection Association, on the referenced subject which is
represented only by the standard in its entirety.)
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.502
Scope.
(a) Sections 1755.503 through 1755.510 cover approved methods of making service installations at customer access locations in telecommunications systems of RUS borrowers.
(b) Requirements in §§ 1755.503 through 1755.510 cover facilities of the type described in the FCC rules in 47 CFR part 68 for one and multi-party customer owned premises wiring.
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001]
§ 1755.503
General.
(a) For the purposes of this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510, a NID shall be as defined in § 1755.501 and shall contain both a fuseless primary station protector and a modular plug and jack for each conductor pair, up to a maximum of 11 pairs, and shall be provided by the telecommunications company and used by customers.
(b) For the purposes of this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510, BET shall be as defined in § 1755.501 and shall contain both primary station protectors and connector terminals for each conductor pair, of 12 or more pairs, and shall be provided by the telecommunications company and used by customers. The primary station protectors may be either fuseless or fused.
(c) The requirements provided in this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510 have been designed to coordinate with the provisions of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and the American National Standards Institute/Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Inc. (ANSI/IEEE) C2-1997, National Electrical Safety Code (NESC). The
National Electrical Code
® and
NEC
® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999, NEC ®, and the ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are available from IEEE Service Center, 455 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, telephone number 1 (800) 678-4333. Copies of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and the ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
Most state and local authorities require that utility construction comply with either the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, or some earlier editions of the ANSI/NFPA 70,
NEC
®, and ANSI/IEEE C2, NESC. Some authorities have their own more stringent codes which may or may not be embellishments of the ANSI/NFPA 70,
NEC
®, and ANSI/IEEE C2, NESC.
(d) RUS borrowers shall make certain that all construction financed with RUS loan funds comply with:
(1) The provisions of this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510 and the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC codes, or any more stringent local codes; or
(2) The provisions of this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510 with borrower added adjustments to bring construction into compliance with any more stringent local codes.
(e) This section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510 are intended primarily for the installer who will perform the work. It assumes that decisions regarding the selection of grounding electrodes, locations, and types of equipment have been made by the RUS borrower or the engineer delegated by the RUS borrower.
(f) Only a
qualified installer
as defined in § 1755.501 shall be assigned to make installations without advance planning and without direct supervision.
(g) This section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.509 contain information which is normally not provided on the
construction drawings which are included in § 1755.510.
(h) All work shall be conducted in a careful and professional manner. Service wire and cable shall not be trampled on, run over by vehicles, pulled over or around abrasive objects or otherwise subjected to abuse.
(i) When situations not covered by this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510 arise, the RUS borrower or the engineer delegated by the borrower, shall specify the installation procedure to be used. The requirements of paragraph (j) of this section shall be complied with in every installation.
(j) NIDs, BETs, and fused primary station protectors shall be installed and grounded to meet the requirements of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, or local laws or ordinances, whichever are more stringent.
(k) Battery polarity and conductor identification shall be maintained throughout the system as indicated on construction drawings 815 and 815-1 contained in § 1755.510. Color codes and other means of conductor identification of buried and aerial service wires shall conform to the requirements of this section and §§ 1755.504 through 1755.510.
(l) All materials for which RUS makes acceptance determinations, such as service wires and cables, ground rods, ground rod clamps, etc., used in service entrance installations shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted. Borrowers shall require contractors to obtain the borrower's approval before RUS technically accepted materials are to be used in service entrance installations. Borrower's shall also ensure that the cost of the RUS technically accepted materials are at least 6 percent less than the cost of equivalent RUS accepted materials, as specified in “Buy American” Requirement of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938, as amended (7 U.S.C. 903 note). Materials used in service entrance installations which are of the type which RUS does not make acceptance determinations shall be of a suitable quality for their intended application as determined by the RUS borrower or the engineer delegated by the RUS borrower.
(m) On completion of an installation, borrowers shall require the installer to make all applicable tests required by §§ 1755.400 through 1755.407, RUS standard for acceptance tests and measurements of telecommunications plant.
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.504
Demarcation point.
(a) The demarcation point (DP) provides the physical and electrical interface between the telecommunications company's facilities and the customer's premises wiring.
(b) The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules in 47 CFR part 68 require telecommunications providers to establish a “DP” which marks a separation of the provider's facilities from the customer's (owned) premises wiring and equipment.
(c) RUS borrowers shall observe the FCC DP requirement by installing NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors when required by section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, at all new or significantly modified customer access locations which are financed with RUS loan funds.
The National Electrical Code
® and
NEC
® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P. O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(d) For all customer access locations of less than 12 pairs, RUS borrowers shall establish DPs by using either NIDs or fused primary station protectors when required by section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®.
For customer access locations of 12 pairs or greater, RUS borrowers shall establish DPs using either NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors when required by section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®.
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.505
Buried services.
(a) Buried services of two or three pairs shall consist of Service Entrance Buried (SEB) assembly units, in accordance with RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 (RUS Form 515d), Specifications and Drawings for Service Installations at Customer Access Locations. The wire used for buried services shall conform to the requirements of § 1755.860, RUS specification for filled buried wires, and shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted. The conductor size for two and three pair buried service wires shall be 22 American Wire Gauge (AWG). Copies of RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 690-2268.
(b) Buried services of six or more pairs shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted 22 AWG filled buried cable conforming to the requirements of § 1755.390, RUS specification for filled telephone cables.
(c) Buried service wire or cable shall be terminated in buried plant housings using either splicing connectors or filled terminal blocks in accordance with the applicable paragraphs of § 1755.200, RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
(d) Buried service wire or cable shall be identified at buried plant housings in accordance with construction drawing 958 contained in § 1755.510.
(e) Buried service wire or cable shall be installed up to the building in the same general manner as buried exchange cable but in addition must meet the following requirements:
(1) Light weight lawn plows or trenchers shall be used;
(2) The shortest feasible route commensurate with the requirements of § 1755.508(i), (j), and (k), and paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be followed;
(3) Buried service wire or cable shall be plowed or trenched to a depth of 12 in. (305 mm) or greater where practicable in soil, 36 in. (914 mm) in ditches, or 3 in. (76 mm) in rock. Depths shall be measured from the top of the wire or cable to the surface of the ground or rock;
(4) In the case of a layer of soil over rock either the minimum depth in rock measured to the surface of the rock, or the minimum depth in soil measured to the surface of the soil may be used; and
(5) Where adequate advance planning has been done, burial of telecommunications services jointly with electric power services may be feasible. If a decision has been reached by management to provide joint occupancy services, the services may be installed using the recommendations in RUS Bulletin 1751F-640, “Design of Buried Plant—Physical Considerations.” Copies of RUS Bulletin 1751F-640 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.
(f) Buried service wire or cable shall be installed on or in buildings as follows:
(1) Each buried service wire or cable shall contact the building as close to the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector as practicable. Service wire or cable runs on buildings shall normally consist of a single vertical run held to the minimum practical length. Horizontal and diagonal runs shall not be permitted.
(2) Buried service wire or cable shall be located so as to avoid damage from lawn mowers, animals, gardening operations, etc.
(3) Buried service wire or cable shall be installed against a foundation wall or pillar to provide adequate support and mechanical protection.
(4) Where it is likely that the service wire or cable shall be subjected to mechanical damage, the wire or cable shall be enclosed in a guard in accordance with assembly unit drawing BM83 contained in § 1755.510.
(5) The first above-ground attachment for a buried service wire or cable, unless it is enclosed in a guard, shall not be more than 4 in. (100 mm) above final grade.
(6) Uninsulated attachment devices may be used to attach buried service
wire and cable to masonry and other types of noncombustible buildings and on any type of building if fuseless primary station protectors incorporated in NIDs or BETs are used and installations fully comply with section 800-30(a)(1) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®. The
National Electrical Code
® and
NEC
® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1(800)344-3555. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(7) Insulated attachments shall be used to separate service wires or cables from woodwork where section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
® requiring the use of fused primary station protectors must be observed.
(8) Minimum separation between buried service wire or cable and other facilities shall be as listed in Table 1, as follows:
Table 1—Minimum Separation for Telecommunications Wires and Cables on or in Buildings
Foreign facility or obstruction
Minimum clearance in. [mm]
1 2
telecommunications company's wires or cables
Electric supply wire including neutral and grounding conductors:
Open
4 [102]
In conduit
2 [50.8]
Radio and television antennas, Lead-in and grounding conductors
4 [102]
Lightning rods and lightning conductors
3
72 [1830]
All foreign grounding conductors except lightning rod ground conductors
2 [50.8]
Neon signs and associated wiring
6 [150]
Metallic objects—pipes (gas, cold water, oil, sewer) and structures
4
2 [50.8]
Wires or cables of another communications system
2 [50.8]
1
If minimum separation cannot be obtained, nonshielded wire and cable facilities shall be protected with either porcelain tubes or flexible tubing as modified by Notes (3) and (4) of this table.
2
Separation applies to crossings and parallel runs.
3
If this separation cannot be obtained, bond the telecommunications grounding conductors or grounding electrode to the lightning rod grounding conductor or grounding electrode with at least a Number (No.) 6 AWG copper, insulated, ground wire. With this provision a minimum separation of 4 in. (100 mm) is acceptable but this provision must not be utilized if the separation cited in this table can be maintained.
4
Increase to a minimum of 3 in. (75 mm) separation from steam or hot water pipes, heating ducts, and other heat sources.
(9) Wire and cable attachments to buildings for outside mounted NIDS, BETs, or fused primary station protectors shall be in accordance with construction drawing 962 contained in § 1755.510.
(10) Appropriate devices for attaching service wire or cable on or in buildings vary with the type of building construction and the wire or cable size. Figures 1 and 2 illustrate various types of anchoring devices and their applications. The size and type of fastening device for the wire or cable size and type of surface shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendation; Figures 1 and 2 are as follows:
ER17au01.001
ER17au01.002
(11) Experience indicates that there are objections from many owners of buildings covered with aluminum or vinyl siding to the drilling of holes in the siding for the attachment of wires or cables, and NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors. It is, therefore, important to obtain permission from the owner before drilling holes in such siding.
(12) If the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector must be mounted inside (not recommended by RUS), the service entrance into the building shall be installed in accordance with section 800-12(c) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®. After pulling-in the wire or cable, the
free space around the cable or wire shall be carefully sealed both outside and inside with a duct sealer that has RUS acceptance or RUS technical acceptance.
(13) If the customer requests an all buried installation for an alarm system or objects to above-ground facilities because of appearance and one-party service is involved, the entrance hole shall be made below grade as shown in sketch C of construction drawing 510-2 contained in § 1755.510. Care shall be exercised to prevent damage to the building foundation. The hole shall be sealed as specified in paragraph (f)(12) of this section. The installation shall comply with all the requirements of section 800-12(c) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®.
(g) When the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector is to be installed inside the building, the installation shall comply with section 800-12(c) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and the outside plant wire or cable shall preferably be installed in a rigid metal or intermediate metal conduit that is grounded to an electrode in accordance with section 800-40(b) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, as shown in sketch A of Figure 3 in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. The shield of the outside plant wire or cable shall be bonded to the grounding terminal of the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector which in turn shall be connected to the closest, existing, and accessible grounding electrode, of the electrodes cited in section 800-40(b) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®.
(h) An inside NID, BET, or fused primary station protector installation may also be made without use of a rigid metal or intermediate metal conduit provided that the ingress of the outside plant wire or cable complies with section 800-12(c) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and provided either of the following are observed:
(1) The NID, BET, or fused primary station protector is located as close as practicable to the point where the outside plant wire or cable emerges through an exterior wall. The length of outside plant wire or cable exposed within the building shall be as short as practicable but in no case shall it be longer than 50 feet (ft) (15.2 meters (m)) in accordance with the allowable exception No. 3 of section 800-50 of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®. See sketch B of Figure 3 in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. The shield of the outside plant wire or cable shall be bonded to the grounding terminal of the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector which in turn shall be connected to the closest, existing and accessible grounding electrode, of the electrodes cited in section 800-40(b) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
® (Fine print Note No. 2 of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, section 800-50, warns that the full 50 ft (15.2 m) may not be authorized for outside unlisted cable (not in a metal or intermediate metal conduit) within a building if it is practicable to place the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector closer than 50 ft (15.2 m) to the cable entrance point, e.g., if there is an acceptable and accessible grounding electrode of the type cited in section 800-40(b) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, anywhere along the proposed routing of the outside cable within the building); or
(2) Where the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector must be located within the building remote from the entrance point and the entrance point of the outside plant wire or cable cannot be designed to be closer to the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector location, the outside plant wire or cable shall be spliced, as close as practicable to the point where the outside plant wire or cable emerges through an outside wall, to an inside wiring cable that is “Listed” as being suitable for the purpose in accordance with part E of article 800 of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®. The length of outside plant wire or cable exposed within the building shall be as short as practicable but in no case shall it be longer than 50 ft (15.2 m) in accordance with the allowable exception No. 3 of section 800-50 of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®. See sketch C of Figure 3. The shield of the outside plant wire or cable shall be bonded to the grounding terminal of the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector which in turn shall be connected to the closest, existing, and accessible grounding electrode, of the electrodes cited in section 800-40(b) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
® (Fine print Note No. 2 of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, section 800-50, warns that the
full 50 ft (15.2 m) may not be authorized for outside unlisted cable (not in a metal or intermediate metal conduit) if it is practicable to place the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector closer than 50 ft (15.2 m) to the cable entrance point, e.g., if there is an acceptable and accessible grounding electrode of the type cited in section 800-40(b) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, anywhere along the proposed routing of the outside cable within the building). Figure 3 is as follows:
ER17AU01.003
(i) The polarity of buried wire or cable “tip” and “ring” conductors shall be maintained by making the connections in accordance with Table 2, as follows:
Table 2—Color Codes For Tip And Ring Connections of Inside Wiring Cable
Pair
Tip
Color of insulation
Color of marking
Ring
Color of insulation
Color of marking
1
White
Blue
Blue
White
2
White
Orange
Orange
White
3
White
Green
Green
White
4
White
Brown
Brown
White
5
White
Slate
Slate
White
6
Red
Blue
Blue
Red
7
Red
Orange
Orange
Red
8
Red
Green
Green
Red
9
Red
Brown
Brown
Red
10
Red
Slate
Slate
Red
11
Black
Blue
Blue
Black
12
Black
Orange
Orange
Black
13
Black
Green
Green
Black
14
Black
Brown
Brown
Black
15
Black
Slate
Slate
Black
16
Yellow
Blue
Blue
Yellow
17
Yellow
Orange
Orange
Yellow
18
Yellow
Green
Green
Yellow
19
Yellow
Brown
Brown
Yellow
20
Yellow
Slate
Slate
Yellow
21
Violet
Blue
Blue
Violet
22
Violet
Orange
Orange
Violet
23
Violet
Green
Green
Violet
24
Violet
Brown
Brown
Violet
25
Violet
Slate
Slate
Violet
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.506
Aerial wire services.
(a) Aerial services of one through six pairs shall consist of Service Entrance Aerial (SEA) assembly units, in accordance with RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 (RUS Form 515d), Specifications and Drawings for Service Installations at Customer Access Locations. The wire used for aerial services shall conform to the requirements of §§ 1755.700 through 1755.704, RUS specification for aerial service wires, and shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted. Copies of RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.
(b) If aerial wire services are to be connected to aerial cable pairs, the NIDs or fused primary station protectors and grounds shall be installed and connected before the aerial service wires are attached to the customer's structure.
(c) Kinks or splices shall not be permitted in aerial service wire spans.
(d) Aerial service wires shall be run in accordance with the construction drawings contained in § 1755.510 and shall conform to all clearance requirements of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, or local laws or ordinances, whichever are the most stringent. The
National Electrical Code
® and
NEC
® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P.O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are available from IEEE Service Center, 455 Hoes Lane, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854, telephone number 1 (800) 678-4333. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, and ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, are
available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(e) Aerial service wire shall be installed using the maximum practicable sag consistent with the required ground clearance and good construction practices. In no event shall the minimum sags be less than the values shown on construction drawing 505 contained in § 1755.510 for various span lengths and loading areas provided. Span lengths shall not exceed 250 ft (76 m).
(f) To reduce vibration and galloping, aerial service wire shall be twisted one complete turn for each 10 ft (3 m) of span length at the time of installation.
(g) The methods of attaching aerial service wires at poles shall be as illustrated in construction drawings 503-2 and 504 contained in § 1755.510.
(h) Horizontal and vertical climbing spaces on poles used jointly with power circuits shall be provided in conformance with the requirements of Rule 236 of ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC.
(i) Not more than four aerial service wires shall be distributed from any one
7/16
in. (10 mm) drive hook, or more than two aerial service wires from any one
5/16
in. (8 mm) drive hook. Aerial service wires and drive hooks shall be arranged so that the load does not pull the drive hook out of the pole. When more than one drive hook is required, the drive hooks shall be staggered with a minimum separation of 1 in. (25.4 mm) horizontally on centers and 1.5 in. (40 mm) vertically on centers. If drive hooks are placed within 3 in. (76 mm) of the top of the pole and on the opposite side of the pole's circumference, a vertical separation of at least 3 in. (76 mm) shall be provided. A drive hook shall not be placed on the top of a pole or stub pole.
(j) When connecting aerial service wires to cable pairs at terminals, sufficient slack shall be provided so that each aerial service wire shall reach any binding post position as shown on construction drawing 312-1 contained in § 1755.510.
(k) Aerial service wire attachments on utility poles and the manner of placing bridle rings and entering cable terminals shall be as shown on construction drawing 503-2 contained in § 1755.510.
(l) Not more than two conductors shall be connected to any terminal binding post. Where it is necessary to bridge more than two aerial service wires at the same closure, the aerial service wires shall be terminated in aerial service wire terminals connected in parallel with a No. 20 AWG bridle wire which shall be terminated on the binding posts of the filled terminal block.
(m) Where aerial service wire is attached to aerial plastic cable, it shall be brought directly into a ready-access closure and shall be terminated on the binding posts of the filled terminal block as shown on construction drawing 503-2 contained in § 1755.510.
(n) The conductor of copper coated steel reinforced aerial service wires identified by tracer ridges shall be used as the ring (negative battery) conductor of the pair, and shall normally be connected to the right or lower binding post of a pair on filled terminal blocks and NIDs or fused primary station protectors.
(o)
Nonmetallic reinforced aerial service wire pair identification.
(1) The tip and ring conductors of nonmetallic reinforced aerial service wires shall be identified in accordance with Table 3, as follows:
Table 3—Nonmetallic Reinforced Aerial Service Wire Color Code
Pair number
Conductor color
Tip
Ring
1
White/Blue or White
Blue
2
White/Orange or White
Orange
3
White/Green or White
Green
4
White/Brown or White
Brown
5
White/Slate or White
Slate
6
Red/Blue or Red
Blue
(2) The ring (negative battery) conductor of the pair shall normally be connected to the right or lower binding post of a pair on filled terminal blocks and NIDs or fused primary station protectors.
(p) When it is necessary to avoid intervening obstacles between a pole and a building, span clamp attachments shall be used to support the aerial service wires at points between the poles that are supporting the cable on the suspension strand as indicated by construction drawings 501-1 and 501-2 contained in § 1755.510.
(q) Aerial service wire strung from pole to pole shall be placed entirely below or entirely above any existing wire or cable. When adequate ground clearance can be obtained, preference shall be given to placing aerial service wire below wire and cable.
(r) When more than one aerial service wire is installed from pole to pole, the first aerial service wire shall be sagged in accordance with construction drawing 505 contained in § 1755.510. Succeeding aerial service wires shall be sagged with 2 in. (50.8 mm) more sag for each aerial service wire.
(s) Aerial service wire spans from pole lines to buildings shall follow the shortest feasible route commensurate with the requirements of paragraph (t) of this section and shall be sagged in accordance with construction drawing 505 contained in § 1755.510. The route shall avoid trees and other obstructions to the extent practicable. Where trees cannot be avoided, tree trimming permission shall be obtained from the owner or the owner's representative, and all limbs and foliage within 2 ft (600 mm) of the finally sagged wire shall be removed. If tree trimming permission cannot be obtained, the matter shall be referred to the borrower for resolution before proceeding with the installation.
(t) Aerial service wires shall contact buildings as closely as practicable at a point directly above the NID, or fused primary station protector. Generally, horizontal drop wire runs on buildings shall not exceed 20 ft (6 m). The warning given in § 1755.505(f)(11) regarding drilling holes in aluminum and vinyl siding applies also to attaching aerial service wires.
(u) The point of the first building attachment shall be located so that the aerial service wire will be clear of roof drainage points.
(v) Where practicable, aerial service wires shall pass under electrical guys, power distribution secondaries and services, tree limbs, etc.
(w) Aerial service wire shall not pass in front of windows or immediately above doors.
(x) Aerial service wires shall be routed so as to have a minimum clearance of 2 ft (600 mm) from any part of a short wave, ham radio, etc. antenna mast and a television antenna mast in its normal vertical position and of the possible region through which it sweeps when being lowered to a horizontal position.
(y) Aerial service wires shall be installed such that all clearances and separations comply with either section 237 of ANSI/IEEE C2-1997, NESC, or ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, or local laws or ordinances, whichever is the most stringent.
(z) Aerial service wire attachments to buildings shall be as follows:
(1) First attachments on buildings shall be made in accordance with construction drawings 506, 507, or 508-1 contained in § 1755.510, as applicable;
(2) Intermediate attachments on buildings shall be made in accordance with construction drawings 510 or 510-1 contained in § 1755.510; and
(3) Uninsulated attachments shall be permitted to be used as follows:
(i) Wherever NIDS are used as permitted by section 800-30(a)(1) of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®; and
(ii) On masonry and other types of nonflammable buildings.
(aa) Insulated attachments shall be used on wooden frame, metallic siding and other types of combustible buildings where fused primary station protectors are used, as required by section 800-30(a)(2) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®.
(bb) Aerial service wire runs on buildings shall be attached vertically and horizontally in a neat and most inconspicuous possible manner. See construction drawing 513 contained in § 1755.510. Horizontal runs on buildings are undesirable and shall be kept to a minimum. Diagonal runs shall not be made.
(cc) Aerial service wire runs on buildings shall be located so as not to be subjected to damage from passing vehicles, pedestrians, or livestock.
(dd) Minimum separation between aerial service wires and other facilities on or in buildings shall be in accordance with § 1755.505(f)(8), Table 1.
(ee) Appropriate devices for attaching aerial service wires to buildings vary with the type of building construction and with the type of customer access location equipment. Table 4 lists various types of attachments and their application with respect to construction, customer access location equipment, and proper mounting devices. Construction drawings 506 through 513 contained in § 1755.510 illustrate requirements with respect to various angles of service wire contacts and uses of various attachments. Table 4 is as follows:
ER17AU01.004

# Notes:
1. Screw dimensions are minimum. Where appropriate, either or both dimensions shall be increased. All wood screws for exterior use shall be stainless steel. All other exterior metal devices shall be stainless steel, zinc coated steel, silicon bronze, or corrosion resistant aluminum alloy.
2. Toggle bolt dimensions are minimum. Where appropriate, either or both dimensions shall be increased.
3. All devices should be attached to studding.
4. Screw-type devices shall be secured by means of expansion-type anchors. Equivalent manual or machine-driven devices may be used. Where toggle bolts are specified equivalent devices may be used.
5. Pilot holes shall be provided for screws and bridle rings in shingles and dropsiding.
6. Attachment device not applicable.
7. Attachment device applicable but no separate fastening device required.
8. To convert English units to Metric units use 1 in. = 25.4 mm.
(ff) Fastener spacings for vertical and horizontal runs on frame or masonry buildings shall not be more than 6 ft (2 m) apart. Fasteners should be spaced close enough to prevent the aerial service wire from “slapping” against the building during windy conditions.
(gg) When it is necessary to pass behind or around obstructions such as downspouts and vertical conduits, the aerial service wire shall be supported firmly with attachment devices placed not more than 6 in. (152 mm) from the obstruction as illustrated in Figures 4 and 5 of paragraph (hh) of this section. Preferably, the aerial service wire should be routed behind obstructions to minimize the possibility of mechanical damage to the aerial service wire in the event repair work to the obstruction is required.
(hh) When passing around building projections of masonry or wood or around corners, aerial service wires shall be installed as illustrated in Figures 5 and 6. Figures 4, 5, and 6 are as follows:
ER17AU01.005
ER17AU01.006
ER17AU01.007
(ii) In areas where ice and snow conditions are severe, aerial service wires shall be located so that ice and snow falling from the roof will not strike the wires. However, where aerial service wires must pass under the sloping part of the roof, first attachments shall be made as close as practicable to the eaves.
(jj) If two aerial service wire spans are required to the same building, the first attachment shall be such that both aerial service wires can be attached at the same attachment device. Refer to construction drawing 508-1 contained in § 1755.510. Where more than two aerial service wires are required, additional attachment devices
in the same general location on the building shall be used.
(kk) When two or more aerial service wire runs are required on the same building they shall share the same type of attachment devices.
(ll) Aerial service wire entrances to buildings shall conform to sketch B of construction drawing 510-2 contained in § 1755.510, unless the entrance is made through a conduit.
(mm) When the aerial service wire approaches the entrance hole from above, a 1.5 in. (40 mm) minimum drip loop shall be formed in accordance with sketch B of construction drawing 510-2 contained in § 1755.510.
(nn) If an entrance conduit which slopes upward from outside to inside is available and suitably located, it shall be used for the aerial service wire entrance.
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.507
Aerial cable services.
(a) Where more than six pairs are needed initially, and where an aerial service is necessary, the service shall consist of 22 AWG filled aerial cable of a pair size adequate for the ultimate anticipated service needs of the building. The cable shall comply with the requirements of § 1755.390, RUS specification for filled telephone cables, and shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted.
(b) Aerial cable services shall be constructed in accordance with specific installation specifications prepared by the RUS borrower or the engineer delegated by the borrower.
(c) Unless otherwise specified in the installation specifications, aerial cable service installations shall meet the following requirements:
(1) Strand supported lashed construction shall be used.
(2) Where practicable a
5/16
in. (8 mm) utility grade strand and automatic clamps shall be used in slack spans to avoid damage to the building.
(3) Construction on poles shall comply with applicable construction drawings for regular line construction. Aerial service cable shall be spliced to the main cable in accordance with § 1755.200, RUS standard for splicing copper and fiber optic cables.
(4) Where practicable, aerial cable shall pass under electrical guys, distribution secondaries, and services.
(5) The suspension strand shall be attached to the building by wall brackets as indicated in Figure 7 as follows:
ER17AU01.008
(i) If taut spans are necessary, appropriate size strand may be used if the pull is in line with one wall of the building, or within 20 degrees of being in line as illustrated in sketch A of Figure 7. If the angle of pull is greater than 20 degrees from the building, the wall bracket shall be reinforced against pullout by an arrangement equivalent to sketch B of Figure 7. Taut spans may be strung using the recommendations in RUS Bulletin 1751F-630, Design of Aerial Plant. The same tension as would be used in normal line construction so as not to exceed 60 percent of the breaking strength of the strand under maximum loading shall be used. Taut spans shall
not exceed 100 ft (30.5 m) in length and the cable weight shall not exceed 1 pound/foot (lb/ft) [1.5 kilogram/meter (kg/m)] except when equivalent combinations of greater span lengths with cable weight less than 1 lb/ft (1.5 kg/m) are permissible. Copies of RUS Bulletin 1751F-630 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.
(ii) When an attachment must be made to the face of a building wall away from a corner, a “U” type wall bracket shall be used as indicated in sketch C of Figure 7. Only slack span construction with
5/16
in. (8 mm) utility grade strand shall be permitted in this situation. The bail of the automatic clamp shall be protected by a wire rope thimble.
(6) Aerial cable shall be located on the rear or side of the building and shall be run only in a horizontal or a vertical direction. The cable route shall be selected so as to avoid building projections and obstructions to the extent practicable.
(7) Cable attachment devices shall be located on solid masonry or on studs of wood frame buildings. Cable attachment devices may be installed on sheet surface materials only when such materials are reinforced with a backing material which allows penetration and firm holding of the attachment devices through the backing material.
(8) The minimum separation on or in buildings between cable and other facilities shall be as indicated in § 1755.505(f)(8), Table 1.
(9) On horizontal runs, cable clamps shall be placed so that the attachment is below the cable. On vertical runs, cable clamps shall be placed so that the attachment is on the same side as horizontal runs. Cable clamps shall be placed on the inside of cable bends.
(10) On horizontal runs, cable clamps shall be placed not more than 16 in. (400 mm) apart for cable diameters equal to or greater than 1 in. (25.4 mm) and 24 in. (600 mm) apart for cable diameters less than 1 in. (25.4 mm).
(11) On vertical runs, cable clamps shall be approximately 24 in. (600 mm) apart for all sizes of cable.
(12) For the cable entrance, holes shall be bored slightly larger in diameter than the cable and shall slope upward from outside to inside. A duct sealer having RUS acceptance or RUS technical acceptance shall be applied to both ends of the hole after the cable is pulled in.
(13) Section 1755.505(g) and (h) shall also apply to aerial cable services.
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001]
§ 1755.508
Customer access location protection.
(a) All customer access locations shall be protected.
(b) Customer access location protection shall consist of installing the telecommunications facilities with proper clearances and insulation from other facilities, providing primary voltage limiting protection, fuse links, NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors, if required, and adequate bonding and grounding.
(c) All NIDs shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted or the RUS borrower shall obtain RUS regional office approval on a case by case basis as applicable.
(d) All BETs shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted.
(e) All fused primary station protectors shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted.
(f) NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors shall be mounted outside for all applications except for those described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section.
(g) NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors may be mounted inside when:
(1) Large buildings are to be served and the customer requests an inside installation;
(2) Buried alarm circuits are requested by the subscriber; or
(3) The customer requests an all buried installation for appearance or to prevent the drilling of holes in aluminum or vinyl siding.
(h) Outside mounted NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors shall be easily accessible and shall be located between 3 to 5 ft (1 to 1.5 m) above final grade.
(i) The locations of NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors shall be selected with emphasis on utilizing the shortest primary station protector
grounding conductor practicable and on grounding of the telecommunications primary station protector to the electric service grounding system established at the building served utilizing electrodes (c) through (g) cited in section 800-40(b)(1) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®. The
National Electrical Code
® and
NEC
® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P. O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(j) If access to the building electric service grounding system, as referenced in paragraph (i) of this section, is not possible or is not reasonable (telecommunications primary station protector grounding conductor will be longer than 10 ft (3 m)), the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector shall be located as close as practicable to electrodes (a) or (b) cited in section 800-40(b)(1) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®.
(k) In addition, the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector shall be located in, on, or immediately adjacent to the structure or building to be served as close as practicable to the point at which the telecommunications service wire attaches to the building, making sure that the telecommunications primary station protector grounding conductor is connected to the closest, existing, and accessible electrode, of the electrodes cited in paragraph (i) or (j) of this section.
(l) For the preferred customer access location installation, the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, permits the telecommunications grounding conductor to be connected to the metallic conduit, service equipment closure, or electric grounding conductor as shown in Figure 8 of paragraph (l)(2) of this section.
(1) Connections to metallic conduits shall be made by ground straps clamped over a portion of the conduit that has been cleaned by sanding down to bare metal.
(2) Connections to metallic service equipment closures shall be made by attaching a connector which is listed for the purpose by some organization acceptable to the local authority (State, county, etc.) per article 100 of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, definition for “Listed” (for example connectors listed for the purpose by Underwriters Laboratories (UL)). Figure 8 is as follows:
ER17AU01.009
(m) Where it is not possible to accomplish the objective of paragraphs (i), (j), and (k) of this section, interior metallic pipes may be used to the maximum practicable extent to gain access to the electric service ground as shown in Figure 9. Note that the water pipe in Figure 9 is electrically continuous between electric and telecommunications bonds to the cold water pipe and it is used only as a portion of a bonding conductor and, therefore, does not have to be “acceptable” as a ground electrode but may be floating (isolated from ground by a plastic pipe section). ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, requires that metal piping be used as a bonding conductor in this manner only when
the connectors to the pipe are within 1.5 m (5 ft) of where the pipe enters the premises. This is not the preferred installation. The RUS preferred installation has the telecommunications primary station protector grounded directly to an accessible location near the power grounding system. See paragraph (l) of this section. Figure 9 is as follows:
ER17AU01.010
(n) Where the telecommunications premises system at a customer's access location is grounded to a separate electrode (of any type) this telecommunications grounding electrode must be bonded to the electric grounding system with a No. 6 AWG or larger copper insulated grounding conductor. Bonding of separate electrodes is a requirement of the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®.
(o) The NID, BET, or fused primary station protector pair size shall be selected for the number of lines anticipated within five years.
(p) When lightning damage is considered probable or customer access locations are remote from the borrower's headquarters, use of maximum duty gas tube primary station protectors incorporated in NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors should be considered. (See RUS TE
CM 823, Electrical Protection by Use of Gas Tube Arresters). Copies of RUS TE
CM 823 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.
(q) NIDs or BETs incorporating fuseless station protectors shall always be used in preference to fused station protectors or BETs incorporating fused protectors, when in the judgment of the RUS borrower or the engineer delegated by the RUS borrower, the requirements of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, for fuseless station protectors can be met.
(r) A fuse link consisting of a copper conductor two gauges (AWG) finer (numerically higher) conductivity than the aerial service wire shall be provided between the cable and aerial service wire where NIDs or BETs incorporating fuseless station protectors are used. Thus for a 22 AWG drop, a fuse link of No. 24 AWG or finer copper wire shall be provided. If the cable circuit is No. 24 gauge or finer, the cable conductors serve as the fuse link for the 22 AWG aerial service wire and no separate fuse link is necessary. (Note: The fuse link or the facilities serving as the fuse link must be located between the telecommunications facilities that are exposed to possible power cross and the customer drop where there is no exposure to possible power cross.)
(s) RUS's buried plant practices require buried main line plant to be protected against power contacts to aerial plant extensions and aerial inserts by No. 24 AWG fuse links at every buried-aerial junction.
(t) In aerial cable plant, fuse links are usually provided by No. 24 AWG leads on filled terminal blocks regardless of the gauge of the cable conductors. This practice is acceptable if the ampacity of the aerial service wire is sufficiently higher than the fuse link's ampacity.
(u) The grounding and bonding of each NID, BET, or fused primary station protector shall be selected by consulting paragraphs (i) through (n) of this section. The “first choice” assembly unit shall be selected whenever the prevailing conditions make its use practicable. The NID, BET, or fused primary station protector assembly unit selected shall be installed in accordance with the appropriate construction drawing specified in RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 (RUS Form 515d), Specifications and Drawings for Service Installations at Customer Access Locations (Incorporated by reference at § 1755.97). Copies of RUS Bulletin 1753F-153 are available upon request from RUS/USDA, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1522, Washington, DC 20250-1522, FAX (202) 720-4120.
(v) The minimum size grounding conductor that can be used with a single NID; a group of NIDs; a multipair NID; fused protector; or BET shall be in accordance Table 5, as follows:
Table 5—Grounding Conductor Size Versus Number of Circuits
Minimum grounding conductor size
Number of circuits
Fuseless (carbon or gas tube)
Fused
#12 AWG, copper, insulated
1 to 2
1 to 3.
#10 AWG, copper, insulated
3 to 5
4 to 7.
#6 AWG, copper, insulated
6 or more
8 or more.
(w) Grounding conductor runs between the NID, BET, or fused station protector and the ground electrode shall conform to the following:
(1) The shortest, most direct route practicable shall be used;
(2) Sharp bends in the grounding conductor shall be avoided during installation;
(3) No splices shall be made in the grounding conductor;
(4) Grounding conductors shall not be fished through walls, under floors, or placed in bridle rings or any metal conduit unless the grounding conductor is bonded to the conductor at both ends of the metallic conduit;
(5) Grounding conductor runs from an outside mounted NID, BET, or fused station protector to an inside ground electrode shall use the same entrance as the station wire; and
(6) Grounding conductor runs from an outside mounted NID, BET, or fused station protector to an outside ground electrode at the building shall be attached to the exterior surface of the building or buried. If buried, the grounding conductor shall be either plowed or trenched to a minimum depth of 12 in. (300 mm). When trenched, the trenches shall be as close to the side of the building as practicable, backfilled, and tamped to restore the earth to its original condition.
(x) Telecommunications grounding connectors shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted. Grounding and bonding conductors shall be made of copper. Where the grounding and bonding conductors must be connected to aluminum electric service grounding conductors, bimetal grounding connectors shall be used.
(y) Grounding conductor attachments shall conform to the following:
(1) Galvanized nails or clamps, or nickel-copper alloy staples shall be used for grounding conductor attachments in accordance with Table 6 in paragraph (y)(3) of this section;
(2) Grounding conductors, station or buried service wires in parallel runs may share the same fastening device when the device is specifically designed for two wires. See Table 6 in paragraph (y)(3) of this section for station wire and grounding conductor fasteners; and
(3) Grounding conductor fasteners shall be placed 12 to 18 in. (300 to 450 mm) apart on straight runs and 2 to 4 in. (50.8 to 100 mm) apart at corners and at bends. Table 6 is as follows:
ER17AU01.011

# Notes:
1. Screw dimensions are minimum. Where appropriate, either or both dimensions shall be increased. All wood screws for exterior use shall be stainless steel. All other exterior metal devices shall be stainless steel, zinc coated steel, silicon bronze, or corrosion resistant aluminum alloy.
2. Toggle bolt dimensions are minimum. Where appropriate, either or both dimensions shall be increased.
3. Wall screw anchors may be used in wall board, plaster or tile walls. Screws and nails in masonry shall be secured by means of expansions type anchors. Equivalent manual or machine-driven devices may be used. Where toggle bolts are specified, equivalent devices may be used.
4. Lead holes shall be drilled for screws, nails, and bridle rings in shingles and dropsiding.
5. Sheet metal screws shall be used except where toggle bolts are required. Where wood sheathing under sheet metal siding is encountered, the sheet metal may be drilled or punched and a wood screw used.
6. Machine-driven staples of nickel-copper composition may be used for exterior wiring.
7. Galvanized clamps and wiring nails may be used for exterior and interior wiring. Enameled clamps shall be used for interior wiring only. Where toggle bolts or equivalent devices require holes in the structure larger than the clamp being fastened, a suitable washer of sufficient size to cover the hole must be used under the clamp.
8. Double clamp may be used where two #22 AWG station wires, two #12 AWG grounding conductors, or one #22 AWG station wire and one #12 grounding conductor parallels one another.
9. For converting English units to Metric units use 1 in. = 25.4 mm.
(z) Grounding conductors shall be separated from non-telecommunications company wires in accordance with section 800-12(b) of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®.
(aa) Grounding conductors run through metal conduits shall be bonded to the conduit at each end. RUS accepted and RUS technically accepted pipe type ground clamps and grounding connectors shall be used for bonding.
(bb) Where NID, BET, or fused station protector assembly units require grounding conductor connections to pipe systems, the following apply:
(1) The connection shall be made to a cold water pipe of an operating water system;
(2) The connection point shall be preferably inside the building;
(3) Allow a minimum of 6 in. (152 mm) between the last fastener and the point where the grounding conductor first touches the water pipe;
(4) Leave 2 in. (50.8 mm) of slack in the grounding conductor to avoid breaking the conductor at the terminating point. Tape the grounding conductor to the pipe where possible to avoid movement. In no case, shall the grounding conductor be coiled or wrapped around the pipe;
(5) The pipe shall be cleaned with fine sand paper to make a good electrical connection. Care should be taken to avoid damaging the pipe while cleaning it;
(6) Attach the pipe grounding conductor connector to the cleaned area of pipe and tighten. Care shall be exercised to avoid deforming, crushing, or otherwise damaging the pipe. A simple continuity check with an ohmmeter between the connector and the pipe will indicate whether or not a good electrical contact has been made. Set the ohmmeter to “Rx1” scale to ensure that a low resistance contact is made;
(7) A warning tag shall be attached to the ground clamp with the following or equivalent statement: “Call the telecommunications company if this connector or grounding conductor is loose or must be removed;” and
(8) When the water pipe is used, the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, requires that metal piping be used as a bonding conductor in this manner only when the connections to the pipe are within 5 ft (1.5 m) of where the pipe enters the premises.
(cc) Bonding conductors shall consist of either copper or tinned copper insulated wires of appropriate sizes.
(1) Bonding conductors shall be run and attached in the same manner as grounding conductors.
(2) Attaching and terminating devices for bonding conductors shall be adequate for the size of wire involved. The No. 6 AWG copper insulated conductor or larger shall not be terminated by bending it around a threaded stud.
(dd) Where NID, BET, or fused station protector assembly units require a driven ground rod the following shall apply to the ground rod installation:
(1) Locate the ground rod at least 1 ft (300 mm) from buildings, poles, trees and other obstruction;
(2) Ground rods shall not be installed within 6 ft (2 m) of electric service ground rods (Note: This minimum separation is provided to avoid mutual impedance effects of multiple grounding electrodes that will deleteriously degrade the effective impedance-to-earth if grounding electrodes are installed any closer than 6 ft (2 m) to one another. This requirement is included for cases where the telecommunications company is not allowed, for some reason, to observe the RUS preferred grounding method of attaching the primary protector grounding conductor directly to an accessible point on the
building electric service grounding system. RUS believes that if the primary protector location can be sited within 6 ft (2 m) of the electric service ground rod then the electric service ground rod could be used as the preferred telecommunications grounding electrode and a separate telecommunications ground rod is unnecessary);
(3) A hole, 15 in. (350 mm) deep and 6 in. (150 mm) in diameter, shall be dug at the location where the ground rod is to be driven;
(4) Where “slip-on” type ground rod clamps are used instead of “clamp-around” type clamps, the ground rod clamps shall be placed onto the rod prior to driving the rod into the ground (Note there should be one clamp for the NID, BET, or fused station protector grounding conductor and one clamp for the conductor required to bond the telecommunications ground rod to the electric grounding system). However, the clamp shall not be tightened until the rod is completely driven. The end of the rod shall be placed in the bottom of the hole and the rod shall be aligned vertically adjacent to one wall of the hole prior to driving. The rod shall be driven until its tip is 12 in. (300 mm) below final grade. The grounding conductor shall then be attached, the clamp shall be tightened, and hole backfilled. Clamps employed in this manner shall be suitable for direct burial and shall be RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted; and
(5) Where rods are manually driven, a large number of blows from a light hammer (4 lbs (1.8 kg)) shall be used instead of heavy sledgehammer type blows. This should keep the rod from bending.
(ee) Terminations on fuseless primary station protectors incorporated in NIDs and on fused primary station protectors shall be as shown in Figures 10, 11, 12, and 13 of paragraph (ee)(1) of this section, Figure 14 of paragraph (ee)(4) of this section, and Figure 15 of paragraph (ee)(6) of this section. The inner jackets of buried service wires and outer jackets of cables used as service drops shall be extended into the NID or the fused primary station protector. A 10 in. (250 mm) length of each spare wire shall be left in NIDs or fused primary station protectors. The spare wires shall be coiled up neatly and stored in the NID or fused primary station protector housing.
(1) The shields of buried service wires may be connected to the ground binding post using RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted buried service shield bond connectors as shown in Figure 10 for NIDs and Figure 11 for fused primary station protectors. RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted buried service wire harness wires designed for customer access location installations may also be used for terminating buried service wire shields to the ground binding post of the NID as shown in Figure 12 and Figure 13 for fused primary station protectors. Figures 10 through 13 are as follows:
ER17AU01.012
ER17AU01.013
ER17AU01.014
ER17AU01.015
(2) On buried service drops and aerial service drops of more than 6 pairs using RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted cables, the shields shall be terminated with a RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted cable shield bonding connector and extended to the ground binding post of the NID, BET, or fused primary station protector with an RUS accepted or RUS technically accepted bonding harness wire. The installation of the shield bond connector and bonding harness wire shall be in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
(3) The shield and other conductors at the fuseless primary station protector incorporated in the NID shall be
terminated as shown on Figure 14 in paragraph (ee)(4) of this section. The pronged or cupped washer shall be placed above the shield. The grounding conductor shall be placed around the post on top of the pronged or cupped washer. A flat washer shall be placed above the grounding conductor.
(4) The station wire signaling ground conductor, if required, shall be placed above the first flat washer and beneath the second flat washer as indicated in Figure 14 as follows:
ER17AU01.016
(5) The shield and other conductors at the fused primary station protector shall be terminated as shown on Figure 15 in paragraph (ee)(6) of this section. The pronged or cupped washer shall be placed above the shield. The grounding conductor shall be placed around the post on top of the pronged or cupped washer. A flat washer shall be placed above the grounding conductor.
(6) The station wire signaling ground conductor, if required, shall be placed above the first flat washer and beneath the second flat washer as indicated in Figure 15 as follows:
ER17AU01.017
(7) Indoor NIDs or BETs that are equipped with “Quick Connect” type terminals shall not have more than one wire connected per clip. No. 19 AWG copper and No. 18 AWG copper covered-steel reinforced aerial service wire conductors shall not be connected to quick connect terminals. Nonmetallic reinforced aerial service wire using No. 22 AWG copper conductors may be connected to the quick connect terminals.
(8) Tip and ring connections and other connections in multipair NIDs or BETs shall be as indicated in Figure 16 as follows:
ER17AU01.018
(ff) System polarity and conductor identification shall be maintained in NIDs, BETs, or fused primary station protectors in accordance with construction drawings 815 and 815-1 contained in § 1755.510.
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.509
Mobile homes.
(a) Customer access location installations at mobile homes shall be treated the same whether the homes are mounted on permanent foundations or temporary foundations and shall be installed as specified in §§ 1755.500 through 1755.510. For the purpose of this section, mobile homes include manufactured homes, motor homes, truck campers, travel trailers, and all forms of recreational vehicles. Customer access location installations at mobile homes can be considerably different than customer access location installations at regular homes and borrowers shall be certain that the two types of installations are properly applied.
(b) The method of customer access location installation prescribed by the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
® for a mobile home depends on how the electric power is installed at the mobile home and it can involve considerable judgment on the part of the telecommunications installer. The
National Electrical Code
® and
NEC
® are registered trademarks of the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., Quincy, MA 02269. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, is incorporated by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies are available from NFPA, 1 Batterymarch Park, P. O. Box 9101, Quincy, Massachusetts 02269-9101, telephone number 1 (800) 344-3555. Copies of ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, are available for inspection during normal business hours at RUS, room 2905, U.S. Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., STOP 1598, Washington, DC 20250-1598, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, requires primary station protectors to be located where specific acceptable grounding electrodes exist. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, allows station protector installations to be at the location of the power meter or the electric disconnecting means apparatus serving the mobile home providing these electric facilities are installed in the manner specifically defined by the ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®. The ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, requires the station protectors to be installed at the nearest of a number of other meticulously defined ANSI/NFPA 70-1999,
NEC
®, acceptable electrodes where the protector cannot be installed at the power meter or the electric disconnecting means apparatus serving the mobile home. The provisions can be confusing.
(c) NIDs shall be installed at mobile homes as follows:
(1) Where the mobile home electric service equipment (power meter, etc.,) or the electric service disconnecting means associated with the mobile home is located within 35 ft (10.7 m) of the exterior wall of the mobile homes it serves, the NID shall be installed in accordance with Figure 17 as follows:
ER17AU01.019
(2) Where the mobile home electric service equipment (power meter, etc.,) or the electric service disconnecting means associated with the mobile home is located more than 35 ft (10.7 m) from the exterior wall of the mobile homes it serves, the NID shall be installed in accordance with Figure 18 as follows:
ER17AU01.020
(d) The service wire and station wire shall be terminated in the NID in accordance with Figure 19 in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) Installation of the station wire and grounding conductor at the mobile home shall be in accordance with Figure 20. Figures 19 and 20 are as follows:
ER17AU01.021
ER17AU01.022
[66 FR 43317, Aug. 17, 2001, as amended at 69 FR 18803, Apr. 9, 2004]
§ 1755.510
Construction and assembly unit drawings.
(a) The construction and assembly unit drawings in this section shall be used by borrowers to assist the installer in making the customer access location installations.
(b) The asterisks appearing on the construction drawings indicate that the items are no longer listed in the RUS Informational Publication (IP) 344-2, “List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telecommunications Systems of RUS Borrowers.” RUS IP 344-2 can
be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, P. O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954, telephone number (202) 512-1800.
(c) Drawings BM50, BM83, 312-1, 501-1, 501-2, 503-2, 504, 505, 506, 507, 508-1, 510, 510-1, 510-2, 513, 815, 815-1, 958, and 962 are as follows:
ER17AU01.023
ER17AU01.024
ER17AU01.025
ER17AU01.026
ER17AU01.027
ER17AU01.028
ER17AU01.029
ER17AU01.030
ER17AU01.031
ER17AU01.032
ER17AU01.033
ER17AU01.034
ER17AU01.035
ER17AU01.036
ER17AU01.037
ER17AU01.038
ER17AU01.039
ER17AU01.040
ER17AU01.041
[66 FR 43327, Aug. 17, 2001]
§§ 1755.511-1755.521
[Reserved]
§ 1755.522
RUS general specification for digital, stored program controlled central office equipment.
(a)
General.
(1) This section covers general requirements for a digital telephone central office switching system, which is fully electronic and controlled by stored program processors. A digital switching system transfers information which is digitally encoded from any input port to a temporarily addressed exit port. The information may enter
the system in either analog or digital form and may or may not be converted to analog at the exit port depending on the facility beyond. The switching system shall operate properly as an integral part of the telephone network when connected to physical and carrier derived circuits meeting RUS specifications and other generally accepted telecommunications practices.
(2) The output of a digital-to-digital port shall be Pulse Code Modulation (PCM), encoded in eight-bit words using the mu-255 encoding law and D3 encoding format, and arranged to interface with a T1 span line.
(3) American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Standard S1.4-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This includes S1.4A-1985 that is also incorporated by reference. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from ANSI Inc., 11 West 42nd Street, 13th Floor, New York, NY 10036, telephone 212-642-4900. Copies may be inspected during normal business hours at RUS, room 2838-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(4) American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) Specification B 33-91, Standard Specification for Tinned Soft or Annealed Copper Wire for Electrical Purposes, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from ASTM, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA, telephone 215-299-5400. Copies may be inspected during normal business hours at RUS, room 2838-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(5) Bell Communications Research (Bellcore) document SR-TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks—1990, March 1991, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR Part 51. Copies may be obtained from Bellcore Customer Service, 60 New England Avenue, Piscataway, NJ 08854, telephone 1-800-521-2673. Copies may be inspected during normal business hours at RUS, room 2838-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(6) Bellcore TR-TSY-000508, Automatic Message Accounting, July 1987, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from Bellcore Customer Service, 60 New England Avenue, Piscataway, NJ 08854, telephone 1-800-521-2673. Copies may be inspected during normal business hours at RUS, room 2838-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(7) Federal Standard H28, Screw-Thread Standards for Federal Services, March 31, 1978, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This includes: Change Notice 1, Federal Standard, Screw-Thread Standards for Federal Services, May 28, 1986; Change Notice 2, Federal Standard, Screw-Thread Standards for Federal Services, January 20, 1989; and Change Notice 3, Federal Standard, Screw-Thread Standards for Federal Services, March 12, 1990. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in
accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the General Services Administration, Specification Section, 490 East L'Enfant Plaza SW, Washington, DC 20407, telephone 202-755-0325. Copies may be inspected during normal business hours at RUS, room 2838-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(8) Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Std 455-1985, IEEE Standard Test Procedure for Measuring Longitudinal Balance of Telephone Equipment Operating in the Voice Band, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from IEEE Service Center, 445 Hoes Lane, P. O. Box 1331, Piscataway, NJ 08854, telephone (201) 981-0060. Copies may be inspected during normal business hours at RUS, room 2838-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(9) Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) Std 730-1989, IEEE Standard for Software Quality Assurance Plans, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from IEEE Service Center, 445 Hoes Lane, P. O. Box 1331, Piscataway, NJ 08854, telephone (201) 981-0060. Copies may be inspected during normal business hours at RUS, room 2838-S, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(10) RUS Bulletin 345-50, PE-60, RUS Specification for Trunk Carrier Systems, September 1979, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 (a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the Rural Utilities Service, Administrative Services Division, room 0175-S, Washington, DC 20250. The bulletin may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(11) RUS Bulletin 345-55, PE-61, Central Office Loop Extenders and Loop Extender Voice Frequency Repeater Combinations, December 1973, is incorporated by reference by RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 (a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the Rural Utilities Service, Administrative Services Division, room 0175-S, Washington, DC 20250. The bulletin may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(12) RUS Bulletin 345-87, PE-87, RUS Specification for Terminating (TIP) Cable, December 1983, is incorporated by reference RUS. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552 (a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the Rural Utilities Service, Administrative Services Division, room 0175-S, Washington, DC 20250. The bulletin may be inspected at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
http://
www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.
(b)
Reliability.
(1) Quality control and burn-in procedures shall be sufficient so the failure rate of printed circuit boards does not exceed an average of 1.0 percent per month of all equipped cards in the central office during the first three months after cutover, and an average of 0.5 percent per month of all equipped cards in the central office during any 6-month period thereafter. A failure is considered to be the failure of a component on the PC board which requires it to be repaired or replaced.
(2) The central office switching system shall be designed such that the expected individual line downtime does not exceed 30 minutes per year. This is the interval that the customer is out of service as a result of all failure types, excluding dispatch and travel time, i.e., hardware, software, and procedural errors.
(3) The central office switching system shall be designed such that there will be no more than 1 hour of total outages in 20 years, excluding dispatch and travel time for unattended offices.
(c)
System type acceptance tests.
(1) System type acceptance tests (general acceptance tests) are performed for the purpose of determining whether or not a type of switching system should be added or retained as an RUS accepted system. While general acceptance tests will be required on each system type, they will not be expected to cover every requirement in this section. However, any installation of a system provided in accordance with this section shall be capable of meeting any requirement in this section on a spot-check basis.
(2) A “completed call” test shall be made part of these system type acceptance tests. There shall be no more than two in 10,000 locally originating and incoming calls misdirected, unsuccessfully terminated, prematurely disconnected or otherwise failing as a result of equipment malfunction and/or equipment failures, or as a result of transients, noise or design deficiencies. This test shall be made with a load box with no less than 10 lines access and 10 subscriber numbers for completion, or equivalent, with no other traffic in the system. If there is a failure in the equipment during this test, the cause shall be repaired and the test restarted at zero calls.
(3) System type acceptance testing applies basically to factory type testing, and not to owner acceptance testing for individual installations. The overall installed and operating system shall also meet these requirements, except for unusual circumstances or where specifically excluded by this or other RUS requirements.
(d)
Types of requirements.
(1) Unless otherwise indicated, the requirements listed in this section are fixed requirements.
(2) Optional requirements are those which may not be needed for every office and are identifiable by a phrase such as, “when specified by the owner,” or, “as specified by the owner.”
(3) In some cases where an optional feature specified in paragraph (e) of this section will not be required by an owner, either now or in the future, a system which does not provide this feature will be considered to be in compliance with this section for the specific installation under consideration, but not in compliance with the entire section.
(4) The owner may request bids from any RUS accepted supplier whose system provides all the features which will be required for a specific installation.
(5) The Application Guide, RUS TE
CM 322, provides information about the economic and service factors involved in all optional features, as well as instructions for the completion of appendices A and B of this section.
(e)
General requirements.
(1) The equipment shall provide for terminating and automatically interconnecting subscriber lines and trunks in response to dial pulses (or pushbutton dialing signals, if specified) without the aid of an operator.
(2) Complete flexibility shall be provided for assigning any subscriber directory number to any central office line equipment by the use of internal programmed memory. Thus, any subscriber line and/or directory number may be moved to another terminal to distribute traffic loads, if the line
equipment hardware is compatible with the service provided.
(3) The system shall be arranged to interface with interexchange carrier trunks and networks using single digit or multi-digit access codes. The system shall be equipped to handle at least 20-digit subscriber dialed numbers. All subscriber directory numbers in the office shall be seven-digit numbers.
(4) The network and the control equipment shall be comprised of solid-state and integrated circuitry components. Peripheral equipment shall be comprised of solid-state and integrated circuitry components as far as practical and consistent with the state-of-the-art and economics of the subject system.
(5) The basic switching system shall include the provision of software programming and necessary hardware, including memory, for optional custom calling services such as call waiting, call forwarding, three-way calling, and abbreviated dialing. It shall be possible to provide these services to any individual line (single-party) subscriber. The addition of these services shall not reduce the anticipated ultimate engineered line, trunk, and traffic capacity of the switching system as specified in appendix A of this section.
(6) The requirements in this specification apply only to single party lines. Although only single frequency ringing is required, other types may be requested in appendix A of this section.
(7) Provision shall be made for local automatic message accounting (LAMA), and for traffic service position system (TSPS) trunks, or equivalent, to the operator's office when required either initially or in the future.
(8) Tandem switching features shall be provided if specified in appendix A of this section.
(9) The system shall be arranged to serve a minimum of eight All Number Calling (ANC) office codes per office, with discrimination on terminating calls by trunk group, numbering plan, or programmed memory and class mark, if specified in appendix A of this section.
(10) Busy hour load handling capacity is an important feature when an office approaches capacity. The delays which may occur in call completion during busy hour periods may prove to be excessive in some system designs. Accordingly, each bidder shall provide, in appendix C of this section, data satisfactory to RUS regarding the busy hour load handling capacity and traffic delays of the system.
(11) Provision shall be made for hotel-motel arrangements, as required by the owner, to permit the operation of message registers at the subscriber's premises to record local outdial calls by guests (see Item 10.5, appendix A of this section).
(12) Provision shall be made to identify the calling line or incoming trunk on nuisance calls (see paragraph (g)(10) of this section for details).
(13) Full access from every subscriber line to every interoffice trunk shall be provided.
(14) Facilities shall be provided to implement service orders, make traffic studies, and perform switching and transmission tests by means of remote control devices if such operations are specified in Items 11.2 and 11.3 of appendix A of this section.
(15) Provision shall be made for the addition of facilities to record all subscriber originated calls based on dialed directory number, time of day, and duration of conversation. They shall be such that the additional equipment (if any is required) may be added to an in-service system without interruption of service and a minimum of equipment, wiring and software modifications.
(16) The system shall be capable of distributed switching operation where groups of subscriber lines can be remotely located from the central office. The remotely situated units are known as “Remote Switching Terminals” (RST's) (see paragraph (w) of this section). This does not eliminate the use of pair gain devices such as direct digitally connected concentrators, regular concentrators or subscriber carrier equipment, where specifically ordered by the owner and its engineer.
(17) The switching system shall have means to synchronize its clock with switches above it in the network hierarchy, when specified by the owner in item 3, appendix A of this section (see paragraph (j) of this section).
(18) Consistent with system arrangements and ease of maintenance, space
shall be provided on the floor plan for an orderly layout of future equipment bays that will be required for anticipated traffic when the office reaches its ultimate size. Readily accessible terminals shall be provided for connection to interbay and frame cables to future bays. All cables, interbay and intrabay (excluding power), if technically feasible, shall be terminated at both ends by use of connectors.
(19) When specified in appendix A of this section, the system shall be capable of processing emergency calls to a 911 service bureau connected either by a group of one-way 911 lines or a trunk group.
(i) It shall be possible to reach the service bureau by dialing 911, 1 + 911, or a 7-digit number.
(ii) The system shall select an idle 911 line or trunk.
(iii) The system shall provide usual ringing and ringback signal until the called 911 line answers.
(iv) If the calling line goes on-hook first, the system shall hold the connection from the called 911 line and return steady low tone to the service bureau. The system shall then begin a 45-minute timeout, after which the calling line is disconnected and an alarm message is printed on a TTY. If the calling line goes off-hook before timeout, the system shall reestablish the conversation path.
(v) If the calling line does not disconnect, the service bureau attendant shall have the ability to force a disconnect of the established connection with the calling party.
(vi) When the 911 call is answered, the equipment shall be arranged so that coin lines are not charged for the call. Similarly, if some form of local call charging is used, there shall be no charge for the 911 call.
(vii) If the 911 service bureau is holding a calling line, it shall be possible for the 911 line to cause the equipment to ring back the calling line. This is done by providing a flash of on-hook signal from the 911 line lasting from 200 to 1,100 milliseconds. The signal to the calling line shall be ringing current if the line is on-hook, or receiver off-hook (ROH) tone if the line is off-hook.
(viii) Calls shall not be originated from the service bureau via the dedicated 911 lines. If an attempt is made to originate a call, it shall receive reorder tone. After 6 minutes, the system shall print an alarm message.
(ix) If 911 calls pass through intermediate switching, the forced-hold control, emergency ringback, and calling line status monitoring capabilities are lost.
(f)
Line circuit requirements
—(1)
General.
(i) The range of direct current (dc) resistances of subscriber loops, measured from the main frame in the central office and including the telephone set shall be at least 0-1900 ohms without loop extension and 1900-3600 ohms with loop extenders, or equivalent. The range when using extension equipment may be significantly reduced for straight line ringers. These limits apply under maximum adverse environmental and manufacturing variation tolerance conditions. Central office voltage shall be stabilized at a value necessary to provide at least a nominal 21 milliamperes current with a nontreated loop of at least 1900 ohms. Minimum loop insulation resistance without loop extenders shall be 25,000 ohms between conductors or from either conductor or both conductors in parallel to ground. Loop insulation resistance for loop extension devices may be 100,000 ohms minimum between conductors or from either conductor or both conductors in parallel to ground.
(ii) In addition to operating on nonloaded cable pairs and subscriber carrier, the equipment shall function properly with D-66 and H-88 loaded cable pairs, including any provisions the equipment must control for the purposes of proper transmission.
(2)
Dialing
—(i)
Subscriber dial speed.
The line equipment and central office equipment (COE) in tandem shall operate satisfactorily when used with subscriber dials having a speed of operation between eight and twelve impulses per second and a break period of 55 to 65 percent of the total impulse period.
(ii)
Subscriber dial interdigital time.
The line equipment and central office equipment shall operate satisfactorily with subscriber rotary dial interdigital times of 200 milliseconds minimum, and with pushbutton dialing interdigital times of 50 milliseconds minimum.
(iii)
Subscriber line pushbutton dialing frequencies.
(A) The frequency pairs assigned for pushbutton dialing shall be as follows, with an allowable variation of ±1.5 percent:
Low Group Frequencies (Hz)
High Group Frequencies (Hz)
1209
1336
1477
1633
697
1
2
3
Spare
770
4
5
6
Spare
852
7
8
9
Spare
941
*
0
#
Spare
(B) The receiver shall comply with the operating parameters of the dual-tone multifrequency (DTMF) central office receiver as described in section 6 of Bell Communications Research (Bellcore) document SR-TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks—1990.
(3)
Impedance.
For the purpose of this section, the input impedance of all subscriber loops served by the equipment is arbitrarily considered to be 900 ohms at voice frequencies.
(4)
Lockout.
(i) All line circuits shall be arranged for line lockout. When a permanent condition occurs prior to placing a line into lockout, a timed low level warning followed by a timed high level receiver off-hook (ROH) tone (see paragraph (i)(2)(xi) of this section) or a howler circuit (see paragraph (o)(2)(iii)(C) of this section) shall be applied to the line.
(ii) The line on lockout shall be reconnected automatically to the central office when the permanent off-hook condition is cleared.
(5)
Pay stations.
Pay stations may be prepay, or semi-postpay, as specified by the owner.
(6)
Loop extension.
(i) The number of lines which exceed 1900 ohms will be specified by the owner. When requested by the owner, the bidder shall furnish equipment to guarantee satisfactory operation of all lines.
(ii) Working limits for subscriber lines with loop extenders are covered in RUS Bulletin 345-55, PE-61, Central Office Loop Extenders and Loop Extender Voice Frequency Repeater Combinations.
(iii) Ringing from RUS accepted loop extenders, or their equivalent, shall be cut off from the called line when the handset at the called station is removed during the ringing or the silent interval.
(7)
Private branch exchange (PBX) lines.
PBX trunk hunting shall be available. It will not be necessary to segregate PBX lines to certain line groups.
(8)
Quantity.
A sufficient number of terminations shall be provided, in addition to the quantity specified by the owner for subscriber line service, to meet the requirements of the system for equipment testing, alarm checking, tone transfer, loop around test and other features.
(9)
Types.
There shall be provisions for types of lines such as ground start, loop start, regular subscriber, pay stations, etc.
(g)
Intraoffice switching requirements.
(1) The switching system shall:
(i) Provide dial tone in response to origination of a call by a subscriber, except on special lines where the application of dial tone is not applicable, such as manual and hot lines;
(ii) Remove dial tone immediately after the first digit has been dialed;
(iii) Recognize the class of service of the calling subscriber;
(iv) Register the digits dialed by the calling subscriber where the rotary dial or pushbutton dialing characteristics and the minimum interdigital times are as specified;
(v) Perform the necessary translation functions when the required number of digits have been registered, and select a channel to a proper outgoing trunk, if one is available, to the designated interexchange carrier;
(vi) Provide a transmission path from the calling subscriber line to the selected trunk, if an idle one is found;
(vii) Provide for more than one alternate route to the desired destination when specified by the owner, select an idle outgoing trunk in the first or second choice alternate route trunk group, if all trunks in the higher choice groups are busy, and provide a reorder signal (see paragraph (i)(2)(iv) of this section) to the subscriber if no trunks are available in the last choice alternate route;
(viii) Translate the proper part of the registered incoming routing data on tandem calls into an identification of an outgoing trunk group, select an idle trunk in that group, initiate the connection of the incoming trunk to the
outgoing trunk, set the trunks in the proper configuration for tandem operation, and transmit information as required to permit completion to the desired destination in the distant office;
(ix) Transmit the proper stored information over the selected trunk to permit completion of outgoing calls to the desired destination by the distant office or offices, and provide multifrequency (MF) outpulsing when specified;
(x) Register all the digital information on calls incoming from a distant office, when dial or MF pulsing characteristics and interdigital times are as specified;
(xi) Translate internally a registered directory number into line equipment location, ringing code and terminating class (such as “PBX hunting”) on incoming or intraoffice calls;
(xii) Test the called line for a busy condition;
(xiii) Connect the incoming trunk or locally originated call to the called line if the called line is idle;
(xiv) Permit any type of ringing voltage available in the central office to be associated with any Subscriber Directory Number (SDN), cause the proper type of ringing voltage to be connected to the called line, and remove ringing from the line upon answer whether in the ringing or silent period; and
(xv) Test and monitor the switching system continually during periods of low traffic using the maintenance and diagnostic subsystem.
(2) The switching system shall offer at least the following originating and terminating class-of-service indications on a per-line basis to subscribers, as specified by the owner:
(i) Flat rate individual line, bridged ringing;
(ii) Flat rate PBX and trunk hunting numbers, bridged ringing;
(iii) Pay station;
(iv) Message rate subscriber line;
(v) Wide Area Telephone Service (WATS);
(vi) Extended Area Service (EAS);
(vii) Data service;
(viii) Hotel-Motel capability;
(ix) Denied originating;
(x) Denied terminating;
(xi) Custom calling features;
(xii) Special interexchange carrier accesses; and
(xiii) Presubscription to designated interexchange carrier.
(3) The switching system shall provide PBX hunting.
(i) At least one trunk hunting group in each 100 SDN's equipped shall be provided. More may be provided as specified by the owner.
(ii) PBX groups shall be of a reasonable size commensurate with the ultimate size of the switching system.
(iii) Any available SDN may be used for PBX trunk hunting.
(iv) Each PBX group shall have the capability of being assigned one or more nonhunting SDN's for night service.
(v) If the called line is a PBX hunting line, the switching system shall test all assigned lines in the hunting group for a busy condition.
(vi) If the called PBX group is busy, line busy tone, as specified in paragraph (i)(2)(iii) of this section, shall be returned to the originating end of the connection.
(4) The switching system shall provide pay stations which may be prepay or semi-postpay. The system shall be arranged so that an operator and emergency service (911) may be reached from prepay or semi-postpay coin lines without the use of a coin, when the proper pay station equipment is provided.
(5) To meet dialing requirements, the switching system shall:
(i) Initiate the line lockout function after a delay, as specified in paragraph (r)(3) of this section, if dial or pushbutton dialing pulses are not received after initiation of a call, preferably routing the subscriber line to a holding circuit for tones and then automatically to lockout;
(ii) Connect 120 interruptions per minute (IPM) paths busy tone, recorded message, or other distinctive tone to the calling subscriber if an interval longer than that specified in paragraph (r)(4) of this section elapses between dialed digits;
(iii) Register the standard tone calling signals received from a subscriber station arranged for pushbutton dialing if specified by the owner, provide arrangements to function properly with 12-button pushbutton dialing sets,
and return a reorder signal to the subscriber upon receipt of signal from the 11th or 12th buttons if neither of these buttons is assigned functions; and
(iv) Connect the incoming trunk to the digit register equipment within 120 milliseconds after seizure where direct dialing is received on calls from a distant office, cancel the bid for a register, and return reorder tone to the calling end if dial pulses are received before a register is attached.
(6) The switching system shall provide for appropriate circuit usage.
(i) To avoid inefficient utilization of the switching network, that portion of the common equipment that establishes the connection on intramachine calls shall not require more than 500 milliseconds, exclusive of ringing and ring trip, to complete its function under no-delay conditions.
(ii) The switching system shall provide for duplication in a load sharing or redundant configuration any circuit elements or components, the failure of which would reduce the grade of service of 100 or more lines by more than 25 percent of the traffic carrying capacity.
(iii) The switching system shall ensure that failure of access to a high choice circuit will not prevent subsequent calls from being served by lower choice circuits, wherever possible.
(iv) Where only two circuits of a type are provided, circuits shall be designed so that failure of one circuit will not permanently block any portion of the system for the duration of the failure.
(v) Where more than two circuits of a type are provided, successive usages should be on a rotational or random basis rather than the step-up selection with the possible exception of a last choice trunk.
(vi) The system shall be designed so that, in the event of a network failure, the system shall immediately or simultaneously use a redundant portion of the network to complete the call.
(7) The switching system shall provide busy verification facilities with the method of access specified by the owner.
(i) Only an operator or a switchman shall be able to override a busy line condition.
(ii) If the called line is busy, off-hook supervision shall be given the operator or switchman.
(iii) The responsibility of restricting subscribers in distant offices from having access to busy verification shall be on the distant office personnel when the toll trunks are used for both toll connecting and verification traffic.
(iv) When a verification code is used, all digits of the code must be dialed before cut-through to the called line can be accomplished.
(8) The switching system shall provide intercept facilities.
(i) All unused numbering plan area codes, home numbering plan area office codes, service codes and subscriber directory numbers (SDN's) shall be routed to intercept. All intercept administration shall be by changes in memory administrable by telephone company personnel. Maximum machine time to place a subscriber on intercept shall be 15 seconds.
(ii) Unequipped SDN's intercept shall be effective if the processor memory does not have information concerning the SDN in question.
(iii) The intercept equipment shall be arranged so that specific SDN's can be routed to a separate intercept circuit for changed numbers.
(iv) When an intercept call is answered, either by an operator or by a recorded announcement, an off-hook or charge supervision signal shall not be returned, even momentarily, to the originating end.
(v) When intercepting service is to be handled over the regular interoffice toll trunks, a distinctive identifying tone shall be transmitted when the operator answers. This tone shall be of the frequency and duration specified in paragraph (i)(2)(x) of this section.
(9) The switching system shall provide nuisance call trap facilities which, when activated, provide a permanent record of the calling and called numbers complete with date and time of day. Where the call originates over an interoffice trunk, the actual trunk number shall be recorded. There shall be provision for the called subscriber to hold the connection and for the positive trace of the call from origination to termination within the office.
(10) The switching system shall follow appropriate release procedures.
(i) The office shall be arranged so a connection to a terminating channel other than assistance operator shall be released under control of the calling party so that the channel can be reseized, unless the call is to emergency 911 service or other termination arranged for called party control.
(ii) If the called party disconnects first, the channel used in the originally established connection shall be held until the calling party disconnects or until the timing interval specified in paragraph (r)(7) of this section has elapsed. This feature shall not interfere with the normal operation of calls to intercept, fire alarm, or other special services.
(11) The switching system shall provide line load control facilities, when specified by the owner, to give preference for originating service to a limited group of subscribers during emergencies.
(i) These facilities may be activated manually by input-output (I/O) device or automatically after a manual setting of a key (or equivalent) to put line load control into effect, as determined by the bidder. The automatic procedure is preferable.
(ii) Procedures shall be established to avoid the unauthorized use of the line load control facilities.
(iii) Where automatic activation is provided, service may be provided to small groups of nonemergency subscribers on limited grade of service whenever the office load becomes low enough to permit this to be done safely.
(h)
Interoffice trunk circuit requirements
—(1)
General.
(i) The bidder shall supply, as requested by the owner, solid-state technology type trunk and signaling circuits of any of the types described in RUS TE
CM 319, Interoffice Trunking and Signaling, or, with the approval of RUS, any other more recent and desirable types not as yet covered in the manual. For dc signaling, the duplex (DX) and loop types of signaling are preferred.
(ii) Trunks shall not be directly driven from the subscriber's dial on outward calls.
(iii) In order to reduce the spares inventory and minimize incidence of improper maintenance replacement of circuit assemblies, the types of trunk circuits shall be kept to a minimum. Variation in assemblies should be mainly limited to variation in signaling modes.
(iv) Trunk circuits which connect with carrier or 4-wire transmission facilities shall be arranged for 4-wire transmission to avoid an intermediate 2-wire interface between a 4-wire switching system and trunk facilities.
(2)
Quantity.
Trunk quantities shall be as specified in appendix A of this section. Sufficient space shall be provided for an orderly layout of trunks. Trunks of a certain type going to the same destination may be grouped together on the original installation.
(3)
Requirements for interoffice connections.
(i) When operator trunks are used in common for both coin and noncoin lines, they shall be arranged to provide an indication to the operator by means of a visual signal or tone when calls are from pay stations. When a tone is used, it shall be of the type specified in paragraph (i)(2)(v) of this section and shall be connected to be heard only by the operator upon answer. It shall be possible to repeat the tone signal.
(ii) There are no requirements for trunks arranged for manual re-ring by a toll operator, either with the receiver on or off the hook, except to coin stations with the receiver on the hook.
(iii) On calls from subscribers to the assistance operator, the release of the connection shall be under control of the last party to disconnect. An exception is operator control of disconnect that is used on outgoing trunks to a TSP/TSPS system.
(iv) On calls originated by an operator, the release of the connection shall be under control of the operator.
(v) Where trunks with E and M lead signaling are used, the trunk circuits for Type I signaling shall be arranged to place ground on the M lead during the on-hook condition and battery on the M lead in the off-hook condition. For E and M Type II, only a make contact between the MA and MB lead will be required. In either type, current limiting shall be provided in the E lead of the trunk circuit itself, as required
for proper operation. It shall be assumed that connection equipment in the form of trunk carrier, multiplex, or associated signaling apparatus furnishes only a contact closure to ground (Type I) or to a signal ground lead (Type II) for an off-hook condition on the E lead.
(vi) Where answer supervision is used to determine the initiation of the charging interval for a call, such answer supervision shall not be effective for charging until after the elapse of the timing interval listed in paragraph (r)(5) of this section.
(vii) When necessary, provision shall be made for reception of start and stop dial signals on toll trunk equipment.
(viii) When trunks arranged for automatic message accounting (AMA), toll ticketing, or centralized automatic message accounting (CAMA) are specified by the owner, these trunks shall provide the pertinent features described in paragraph (k) of this section applicable to such functions.
(4)
Requirements for direct digital connections.
(i) Interface units which will permit direct digital connection to other digital switches, channel banks and remote line and/or trunk circuits over digital facilities shall be provided when specified by the owner. The digital transmission system shall be compatible with T1 type span lines using a DS1 interface and other digital interfaces that may be specified by the owner. The RUS specification for the span line equipment is Bulletin 345-50, PE-60, RUS Specification for Trunk Carrier Systems.
(ii) Each interface circuit shall connect 24 voice channels to the switching system from a 1.544 megabit per second DS1 bit stream. The DS1 bit stream entering or exiting the system shall be in the D3 format and the voice signals shall be encoded in 8 bit mu-255 PCM. The format and processing of the bit stream must be compatible with characteristics of the D3 channel bank such as alarm and maintenance characteristics. Loss of receive signal (DS1) shall be detected and the equivalent of a carrier group alarm shall be executed in 2.5 ±0.5 seconds. Loss of synchronization shall be detected by slips, timing jitter, and wander in accordance with industry standards.
(iii) Signaling shall be by means of MF or dial pulse (DP) and the system which is inherent in the A and B bits of the D3 format. In the case where they are not used for signaling, the A and B bits shall be used only for normal voice and data transmission.
(i)
Tone requirements
—(1)
General.
Tones shall be provided to indicate the progress of a call through the office. Tone generators should be an integral part of the switching systems. The tones should be introduced digitally by the application of the appropriate bit stream to the line or trunk circuit via the digital switching network. The necessary precautions shall be made to ensure tone sources automatically if the primary sources fail.
(2)
Tone specifications.
(i) Dial tone shall consist of 350 Hz plus 440 Hz at a composite level of −10 dBm0 which equates to −13 dBm0 per frequency. This is the precise tone suitable for use with pushbutton dialing.
(ii) Low tone shall consist of 480 Hz plus 620 Hz at a composite level of −21 dBm0 which equates to −24 dBm0 per frequency.
(iii) Line busy tone shall be low tone interrupted at 60 IPM, with tone on 0.5 seconds and off 0.5 seconds.
(iv) Reorder, all paths busy, and no circuit tone shall be low tone interrupted at 120 IPM, with tone on 0.25 seconds and off 0.25 seconds.
(v) Identifying tone on calls from coin lines shall be uninterrupted low tone.
(vi) High tone shall consist of 480 Hz at −17 dBm0.
(vii) Audible ringback tone shall consist of 440 plus 480 Hz at a composite level of −16 dBm0 which equates to −19 dBm0 per frequency.
(viii) The call progress tones listed in this section are described in Bellcore document SR-TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks—1990, section 6. The 350, 440, 480, and 620 Hz tones shall be held at ±0.5 percent frequency tolerance and ±3 dB amplitude variation. The amplitude levels specified are to be measured at the main distributing frame, excluding cable loss.
(ix) Distinctive tone, when required for alarm calls, or other features, shall consist of high tone interrupted at 200 IPM with tone on 150 ms and off 150 ms.
(x) Identifying tone on intercepted calls shall consist of uninterrupted high tone impressed on the trunk circuit 300 to 600 milliseconds following the operator's answer of intercepted calls.
(xi) An ROH circuit shall have output tones which do not interfere with the pushbutton or multifrequency signaling tones. The ROH tone may be introduced digitally internal to the system near the overload level of + 3 dBm0. No power adjustment will be required. The frequency of the output shall be distinctive and urgent in order to attract the subscriber's attention to an off-hook situation. (Warning: In order to determine the signal level, a frequency selective voltmeter must be used to determine the level of each signal component and mathematical power addition used to combine these measurements into a single level value.)
(xii) During application of tones, office longitudinal balance shall be maintained within 15 dB of that specified in paragraph (q)(8) of this section.
(j)
System clock.
(1) The central office clock and network synchronization system shall have the ability to be synchronized with external clocks for network synchronization, including detection of slips, timing, jitter and wander, in a digital-to-digital environment or operate initially in an independent network (refer to Bellcore document SR-TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks—1990, section 11).
(2) The end office central office system clock shall be a Stratum 3 clock with:
(i) A minimum long-term accuracy of ±4.6 × 10
−6
(±7 Hz @ 1.544 MHz);
(ii) A minimum stability of 3.7 × 10
−7
/day upon loss of all frequency references; and
(iii) A “Pull-In Range” for the capability of synchronizing to a clock with accuracy of ±4.6 × 10
−6
.
(3) The access tandem central office system clock shall be a Stratum 2 clock with:
(i) A minimum long-term accuracy of ±1.6 × 10
−8
(±0.025 Hz @ 1.544 MHz);
(ii) A minimum stability of 1 × 10
−10
/day upon loss of all frequency references; and
(iii) A “Pull-In Range” for the capability of synchronization to a clock with accuracy of ±1.6 × 10
−8
.
(k)
Switched access service arrangements
—(1)
General.
The equipment shall be capable of providing Feature Group A, Feature Group B, Feature Group C, and Feature Group D switched access service arrangements, as described in Bellcore document SR-TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks—1990, section 6 and section 15, including arrangements for automatic number identification (ANI).
(2)
Operation.
(i) All equipment shall be arranged for Feature Group A (Line Side Connection).
(ii) All equipment shall be arranged for Feature Group B given that appendix A of this section requires the equipment of the necessary trunks (Trunk Side Connection).
(iii) The equipment shall be arranged for Feature Group C on the trunk groups specified in appendix A of this section. Even though appendix A of this section specifies Feature Group D or some other trunk group, it shall be possible through software commands available to the owner to use Feature Group C signaling protocols on a trunk group basis until such time that the trunk group in question converts to Feature Group D signaling protocols.
(iv) The equipment shall be arranged for Feature Group D on the trunk groups specified in appendix A of this section.
(v) Calls originating from coin lines toward switched access service shall be arranged either to provide signaling protocols for TSPS, or in the absence of TSPS-type service, such calls shall be blocked.
(vi) The equipment shall be arranged for forwarding routing information, calling party identification, and called party numbers in the proper feature group protocols, by trunk group as specified in appendix A of this section.
(vii) The equipment shall be arranged for AMA data collection as specified in appendix A of this section by trunk group. Unless otherwise specified by the owner, the equipment shall be arranged to collect the billing data in the Bellcore AMA format as described in Bellcore document TR-TSY-000508, Automatic Message Accounting.
(viii) If specified in Item 9.4, appendix A of this section, the equipment shall be arranged to store the billing data in a pollable system. If specified in Item 9.5, appendix A of this section, equipment shall be furnished to poll the pollable systems associated with the contract.
(l)
Fusing and protection requirements
—(1)
General.
(i) The equipment shall be completely wired and equipped with fuses, trouble signals, and arranged for printout of fault conditions, with all associated equipment for the wired capacity of the frames or cabinets provided.
(ii) Design precautions shall be taken to prevent the possibility of equipment damage arising from the insertion of an electronic package into the wrong connector, the removal of a package from any connector, or the improper insertion of the correct card in its connector.
(2)
Fuses.
Fuses and circuit breakers shall be of an alarm and indicator type, except where the fuses or breaker location is indicated on the alarm printout. Their rating shall be designated by numerals or color code on the fuse panel, where feasible.
(3)
Components.
(i) Insofar as possible, all components shall be capable of being continuously energized at rated voltage without injurious results. Insofar as possible, design precautions shall be taken to prevent damage to other equipment and components when a particular component fails.
(ii) Printed circuit boards or similar equipment employing electronic components shall be self-protecting against external grounds applied to the connector terminals, where feasible. Board components and coatings applied to finished products shall be of such material or treated so they will not support combustion.
(iii) Every precaution shall be taken to protect electrostatically sensitive components from damage during handling. This shall include written instructions and recommendations (see Item 6.1,h of appendix C of this section).
(m)
Switching network requirements
—(1)
The network.
(i) All networks shall be comprised of solid-state components.
(ii) The switching network shall employ time division digital switching and be compatible for connection to D3 type PCM channel banks without conversion to analog.
(iii) Equipment shall be available as required to connect analog lines and trunks, analog or digital service circuits, digital carriers to RST's, D3 channel banks or other digital switching units.
(2)
Network quantity.
Where the number of stages in the switching network and their control varies with the capacity of the system, sufficient equipment and wiring shall be supplied initially in order that there will be no service interruptions when additions are made up to the ultimate capacity as specified in appendix A of this section. This does not imply the necessity of supplying empty cabinets unless this is the only way the necessary wiring can be accomplished.
(n)
Stored program control (SPC) equipment requirements.
(1) The system shall provide redundancy in call processing such that the failure of a call processing unit does not degrade the call processing capabilities of the switching system nor result in the loss of established calls.
(2) Programs shall be modular, flexible and structured. In the interest of more dependable and more easily read programs, it is desirable to use a language which is more person-oriented leaving the detailed machine-oriented problems to a compiler program. Quality assurance of all software programs shall be in accordance with IEEE Std 730-1989, IEEE Standard for Software Quality Assurance Plans, or equivalent.
(3) The office administration program shall have checks within it to prevent failure due to erroneous or inconsistent input data. It shall safeguard against the possibility of upsetting machine performance with improper instructions or information. In addition, modular structure shall allow the use of a variety of human-engineered service order formats. Service changes may be performed remotely if so desired. Average machine time for service change shall be 15 seconds or less. Service changes shall not be registered in permanent memory until
verified. The access to the service change shall not have access to generic program.
(4) The switching system shall be able to offer, by request, at least the following printouts of its routine stored data for administrative purposes:
(i) A list of all assigned directory numbers, in numerical order, with their assigned class of service and line terminal numbers;
(ii) A list of all directory numbers, in numerical order, associated with a class of service;
(iii) A list of all unassigned line terminals;
(iv) Traffic data in proper form for separation studies in accordance with the revenue separations procedures current at the time of the contract;
(v) All lines on lockout;
(vi) All lines assigned to intercept;
(vii) All available (unassigned) directory numbers in the working thousands group; and
(viii) A list of equipment busied out for maintenance.
(5) The printouts in paragraph (n)(4) of this section may be delayed to times of light traffic.
(6) Maintenance diagnostics shall be performed by a fault recognition system utilizing both software and hardware, each being used where they are most effective for maintenance and reliability. In the economic interests of providing early and efficient fault detection and accurate pinpointing of faulty areas, it is desirable to have a comprehensive person-machine interface supported by extensive automatic fault detection and analysis, involving diagnostic software for fault resolution and automatic recovery mechanisms to maintain continuous service. Maintenance messages may be channeled to a remote maintenance center if so desired.
(7) Information in memory, having no requirement for changes to be introduced in the maintenance or operation of the system, may be stored in memory devices such as programmable read-only memory (PROM) or other devices that cannot be reprogrammed in the field.
(o)
Maintenance facilities
—(1)
Alarm features, including alarm sending.
(i) The equipment shall be arranged to provide audible and visual alarms indicating fuse operation or other circuit malfunctions resulting from component failure, crosses or open wiring, or any other conditions affecting service which can be detected economically.
(ii) The alarms shall be classified in accordance with their effect on the system.
(A) Catastrophic alarms demand immediate attention and require notification of the highest level of supervisory personnel. Conditions such as loss of service, loss of one or more remote line switches or line concentrators connected through Direct Digital Interface, loss of network control, and loss of computer program in all processors shall produce catastrophic alarms.
(B) Major alarms demand rapid action. Conditions such as loss of one or more groups of subscribers or trunk ports, blown fuses for common groups of channels, loss of control to groups of channels, failure of one or both redundant units, and total loss of battery charging current for more than 15 minutes shall produce major alarms.
(C) Minor alarms indicate nonemergency conditions which cause degraded service or fault conditions which causes the system to operate within less-than-optimum performance. Conditions discovered in automatic routining which have not shown in the operation of the equipment but require attention and cumulative line lockout (level adjustable) are examples of minor alarm conditions.
(iii) When the office is arranged for unattended operation, facilities shall be provided for extending the alarm indications to an attended point.
(iv) When the use of a separate outside plant facility for alarm sending is specified, the nature of the alarm may be indicated to the distant point by machine printout or other display device.
(v) When alarm sending is accomplished over a regular operator office trunk, the operator shall be apprised that the call is an alarm indication by a distinctive tone, as specified by the owner in appendix A of this section. It shall be possible for the operator to determine at any time the presence of a trouble condition by dialing a number
set aside for that purpose. This number shall also be accessible from lines classmarked for this feature.
(vi) When the alarm sending circuit seizes an interoffice operator trunk, the operator must dial the alarm checking code over another trunk before the first trunk can be released except where the alarm condition has disappeared first.
(vii) The alarm sending circuit shall have access to two or more trunks if the trunks are used for subscriber traffic.
(viii) An alarm indication of higher priority shall supersede an original alarm indication and reseize an interoffice operator trunk.
(ix) In any group of offices purchased under one contract, the same codes shall be used in each office for alarm checking and test.
(x) When the alarm checking number is dialed, the alarm indications received shall be as follows:
(A) Catastrophic alarm—No tone.
(B) Major alarm—Continuous busy tone 60 IPM, unless alarm is overridden.
(C) Minor alarm—Continuous 1-ring code ringback tone, unless alarm is overridden.
(D) No trouble—Continuous 2-ring code ringback tone, unless alarm is overridden.
(xi) Audible and visual local alarms and transmitted alarms shall be provided as follows:
Classification
Delay Interval
Local Alarms
Alarms Transmitted
Catastrophic
0
0
Major
0
0
1
Minor
0
0-30 Min.
1
Except no charge alarm delayed 15 minutes.
(xii) The central office alarm circuits shall be arranged to provide optional wiring to transmit either a minor alarm or a major alarm and a printout to accommodate various types of trunk and subscriber carrier systems, microwave, mobile radio, other transmission systems, and environmental protection systems with different priorities when a set of contacts is closed in the equipment of such systems and the alarm checking code is dialed. The alarm relay shall be furnished by the supplier of the carrier multiplex and/or mobile radio equipment. The option or options shall be specified by the owner.
(2)
Trouble location and test.
(i)
Equipment.
(A) A maintenance center shall be provided with a fault recorder (printer and/or display) for troubles. Here, system and sub-system visual trouble indications are shown for maintenance aid.
(B) The fault recorder shall provide a permanent or semi-permanent record of the circuit elements involved whenever a trouble is encountered. It shall be arranged to recognize an existing fault condition and not cause multiple printouts of the same fault, except during test routine.
(ii)
Maintenance system.
(A) The maintenance system shall monitor and maintain the system operation without interruption of call processing, except for major failures.
(B) The maintenance system shall provide both specialized maintenance hardware circuits and an extensive software package to enable maintenance to determine trouble to an individual card or functional group of cards.
(C) Maintenance programs may be both on-line and off-line. On-line maintenance programs are activated by system errors and shall be scheduled to execute call tests during low traffic periods and periodic hardware tests at specific time intervals. Programs shall provide diagnostic tools for the maintenance personnel and be initiated by them.
(D) Scheduled periodic hardware tests shall automatically detect faults and alert maintenance personnel via alarm or appropriate input/output device(s) at local and/or remote locations.
(E) Facilities shall be provided so that test calls can be set up using pre-selected items of switching equipment.
(F) The maintenance personnel shall be able to make tests to determine if every trunk and every item of switching equipment are functioning properly. Also, it shall be possible to make each trunk and each SPC equipment, or part thereof, busy to service calls. Where possible, equipment which is made busy to service calls shall still be accessible for test calls.
(iii)
Outside plant and subscriber stations.
(A) A subscriber loop test set or equivalent shall be provided either as a separate set or as a part of the maintenance center, as specified in item 11.2 of appendix A of this section. This circuit shall include a high resistance volt-ohm meter, wiring to tip and ring terminals to permit a portable wheatstone bridge to be used, an operator's telephone circuit, a dial circuit (and pushbutton dialing keys, if specified), outgoing trunks to dial equipment for access to lines under test without use of the main distributing frame (MDF) test shoe and the necessary test keys. No dry cell batteries shall be accepted for test potentials. Circuits shall be designed so that alternating current (ac) induction on the line will have no effect on dc measurements. All functions shall be under control of lever or pushbutton keys. As a minimum the test system shall:
(
1
) Test for bridged foreign electromotive force (EMF);
(
2
) Test for regular line battery;
(
3
) Test for booster battery voltage and polarity using the test shoe;
(
4
) Test for open circuits, short, tip ground, and ring ground;
(
5
) Test for tip or ring negative potential;
(
6
) Test for capacitance of a subscriber's line;
(
7
) Supply talking battery to the line with and without booster battery;
(
8
) Ring the subscriber through the test access circuit or through a test shoe;
(
9
) Test in and out of the central office; and
(
10
) Supply a reverse polarity key for voltage readings, except when positive or negative values are displayed directly.
(B) An acceptable arrangement for making the tests shown in paragraph (o)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is to have them under software control with results displayed at one of the system's I/O ports.
(C) A howler circuit for maintenance purposes, if ordered by the owner, shall have output tones which do not interfere with the pushbutton or multifrequency signaling tones. The harmonics of the output tones shall be attenuated at least 26 dB below the fundamental frequency for all load conditions. The frequency stability shall be 2 percent or less for all output tones when the unit is operated in the specified load and environmental range. It shall be possible to vary the output voltage (power) of the howler circuit. It shall remove tone and restore the line to service when the telephone instrument receiver is placed on-hook. The frequency of the output shall be chosen to be distinctive and urgent in order to attract the subscriber's attention to an off-hook situation.
(D) When a dial speed test facility is specified by the owner, it shall be accessed by dialing a special code and shall return to the calling station readily identifiable signals to indicate that the dial speed is slow, normal, or fast.
(E) When the office is arranged for pushbutton dialing, optional facilities shall be provided for testing the pushbutton dialing equipment at the subscriber station.
(F) When a system for testing subscriber lines in remote offices from a test position in a centrally located office is specified by the owner, it shall be capable of working with all the central offices and RST's in the remote areas. This testing equipment shall preferably be solid-state with a minimum of electromechanical devices and shall operate from central office battery. It shall be capable of working over any voice grade telephone circuit and shall not require a dedicated trunk. There shall be no interference to or from “in-band” voice channel tones. When used over a network, the verification or access shall be guarded to prevent unauthorized access by subscribers. Access to this system shall only be available to the test operator in all cases.
(3)
Transmission testing.
(i) When transmission test circuits are specified in Item 11.3 of appendix A of this section, they shall permit testing of trunks by a distant office without any assistance in the local dial office. Analog test ports shall meet appropriate trunk requirements. If Centralized Automatic Reporting on Trunks (CAROT), or equivalent, is to be used, the equipment at the end office shall comply with Bellcore document SR-
TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks—1990, section 8, Item 2.
(ii) Transmission test circuits are available with a variety of options. These include single frequency and multifrequency tone generators with one or more generator output terminals, quiet terminations, and loop around test arrangements for both one-way and two-way trunks.
(iii) Where multifrequency generators are used, they are usually arranged to provide a minimum of three frequencies. With some equipment, up to seven additional frequencies may be provided if needed. No industry standardization of test frequencies is as yet provided. Therefore, it is important that the selection of frequencies, the order in which they are applied and the time interval for application of each frequency be agreed upon by the connecting company and the RUS borrower and listed in appendix A of this section in those situations where connecting companies request the installation of multifrequency generators in borrowers' central offices.
(iv) The milliwatt generator shall be solid-state and generate the analog or digital equivalent of 1004 Hz. The milliwatt generator shall be assigned to a 4-wire analog test port or be digitally generated. All 2-wire and 4-wire voice frequency ports are at a nominal 0 dBm0 level. The level of the 1004 Hz tone generator shall appear at outgoing 2-wire and 4-wire ports at 0 dBm ±0.5 dB. For direct digital connections, the encoded output shall be the digital equivalent of a 0 dBm0 ±0.5 dB signal.
(v) Reference tone generators can be used individually or they can be part of a loop around test arrangement. If both single frequency and multifrequency reference tone generators are to be provided, only one can be arranged as part of a loop around test. Where a loop around arrangement is provided, the generator output can be obtained by dialing singly one of the two line terminals. By dialing the other line terminal singly, usually a 900 ohm resistor in series with a 2.16 microfarad capacitor is connected to the circuit under test to act as a “quiet termination” for noise measurements and other tests. Whenever both line terminals are held simultaneously, both the milliwatt supply and the quiet termination shall be lifted off and a “loop around” condition established. This permits the overall loss to be determined from the distant office by going out over one trunk, looping around in the end office and returning over the other trunk. The insertion loss of this test arrangement when used in a loop around configuration should not exceed 0.1 dB at the frequencies specified for the milliwatt supply. Unless otherwise specified, continuous off-hook supervision is to be provided on both line terminals to prevent collusive calling without charge. It will be permissible to accomplish the quiet termination by opening the 4-wire path internally and to accomplish the loop around by digital switching.
(vi) Provision shall be made so that the milliwatt supply can be manually patched to circuits.
(vii) Test jack access shall be provided for all interoffice trunks of the voice frequency type. The jack access shall be properly designated for line, drop, monitor, and signaling leads plus any other jacks as requested by the owner. This may be accomplished by a set of jacks located at the maintenance center which have access to each trunk on a switching basis.
(p)
Traffic
—(1)
General engineering guidelines.
(i) The Traffic Table, based on the Erlang Lost-Calls-Cleared Formula, shall be used for determining the quantity of intraoffice paths, registers, and senders where full availability conditions apply. The following table shows the traffic capacity in CCS for 1 to 200 trunks at nine grades of service.
Traffic Table
Full Availability for Random Traffic
Lost-Calls-Cleared
Offered Traffic Expressed in CCS
Number of Trunks
B-.001
.002
.005
.01
.02
.05
.1
.2
.5
Number of Trunks
1
0
0
0
0
1
2
4
9
36
1
2
2
3
4
5
8
14
22
36
98
2
3
7
9
13
17
22
32
46
69
165
3
4
16
19
25
31
39
55
74
106
234
4
5
27
32
41
49
60
80
104
144
304
5
6
41
48
58
69
82
107
135
184
374
6
7
57
65
78
90
106
135
168
224
445
7
8
74
83
98
113
131
163
202
265
516
8
9
92
103
120
136
156
193
236
307
586
9
10
111
123
143
161
183
224
270
348
656
10
11
131
145
166
186
210
255
306
391
729
11
12
152
167
190
212
238
286
341
433
801
12
13
174
190
215
238
266
318
377
476
872
13
14
196
213
240
265
295
350
413
519
944
14
15
219
237
266
292
324
383
449
562
1015
15
16
242
261
292
320
354
415
486
605
1087
16
17
266
286
318
347
384
449
523
648
1158
17
18
290
311
345
376
414
482
560
692
1230
18
19
314
337
372
404
444
515
597
735
1302
19
20
339
363
399
433
474
549
634
779
1374
20
21
364
388
427
462
505
583
671
823
1445
21
22
389
415
455
491
536
617
709
866
1517
22
23
415
441
483
521
567
651
747
910
1589
23
24
441
468
511
551
599
685
784
954
1661
24
25
467
495
540
580
630
720
822
998
1733
25
26
493
523
568
611
662
754
860
1042
1805
26
27
520
550
598
641
693
788
898
1086
1876
27
28
546
578
627
671
725
823
936
1130
1948
28
29
573
606
656
702
757
858
974
1174
2020
29
30
600
634
685
732
789
893
1012
1218
2092
30
31
628
662
715
763
822
928
1050
1263
2164
31
32
655
690
744
794
854
963
1089
1307
2236
32
33
683
719
774
825
887
998
1127
1351
2308
33
34
711
747
804
856
919
1033
1165
1395
2380
34
35
739
776
834
887
951
1068
1203
1439
2452
35
36
767
805
864
918
984
1104
1242
1484
2524
36
37
795
834
895
950
1017
1139
1281
1528
2595
37
38
823
863
925
981
1050
1174
1319
1572
2667
38
39
851
892
955
1013
1083
1210
1358
1617
2739
39
40
880
922
986
1044
1116
1246
1396
1661
2811
40
41
909
951
1016
1076
1149
1281
1435
1706
2883
41
42
937
980
1047
1108
1182
1317
1474
1750
2955
42
43
966
1010
1078
1140
1215
1352
1512
1795
3027
43
44
995
1040
1109
1171
1248
1388
1551
1839
3099
44
45
1024
1070
1140
1203
1282
1424
1590
1884
3171
45
46
1053
1099
1171
1236
1315
1459
1629
1928
3243
46
47
1083
1129
1202
1268
1349
1495
1668
1973
3315
47
48
1112
1159
1233
1300
1382
1531
1706
2017
3387
48
49
1141
1189
1264
1332
1416
1567
1745
2062
3459
49
50
1170
1220
1295
1364
1449
1603
1784
2106
3531
50
51
1200
1250
1327
1397
1483
1639
1823
2151
3603
51
52
1229
1280
1358
1429
1516
1675
1862
2195
3675
52
53
1259
1310
1390
1462
1550
1711
1901
2240
3747
53
54
1289
1341
1421
1494
1584
1747
1940
2285
3819
54
55
1319
1371
1453
1527
1618
1783
1979
2329
3891
55
56
1349
1402
1484
1559
1652
1819
2018
2374
3962
56
57
1378
1432
1516
1592
1686
1856
2057
2418
4034
57
58
1408
1463
1548
1625
1719
1892
2096
2463
4106
58
59
1439
1494
1579
1657
1753
1928
2136
2508
4178
59
60
1468
1525
1611
1690
1787
1965
2174
2552
4250
60
61
1499
1556
1643
1723
1821
2001
2214
2597
4322
61
62
1529
1587
1675
1756
1855
2037
2253
2642
4394
62
63
1559
1617
1707
1789
1889
2073
2292
2687
4466
63
64
1590
1648
1739
1822
1923
2110
2331
2731
4538
64
65
1620
1679
1771
1855
1958
2146
2370
2776
4610
65
66
1650
1710
1803
1888
1992
2182
2409
2821
4682
66
67
1681
1742
1835
1921
2026
2219
2449
2865
4754
67
68
1711
1773
1867
1954
2060
2255
2488
2910
4826
68
69
1742
1804
1900
1987
2094
2291
2527
2955
4898
69
70
1773
1835
1932
2020
2129
2328
2566
3000
4970
70
71
1803
1867
1964
2053
2163
2364
2606
3044
5042
71
72
1834
1898
1997
2087
2197
2401
2645
3089
5114
72
73
1865
1929
2029
2120
2232
2438
2684
3134
5186
73
74
1895
1961
2061
2153
2266
2474
2723
3178
5258
74
75
1926
1992
2093
2186
2300
2511
2763
3223
5330
75
76
1957
2024
2126
2219
2335
2547
2802
3268
5402
76
77
1988
2055
2159
2253
2369
2584
2841
3313
5474
77
78
2019
2087
2191
2286
2404
2620
2881
3357
5546
78
79
2050
2118
2223
2319
2438
2657
2920
3402
5618
79
80
2081
2150
2256
2353
2473
2694
2959
3447
5690
80
81
2112
2182
2289
2386
2507
2730
2999
3492
5762
81
82
2143
2213
2321
2420
2542
2767
3038
3537
5834
82
83
2174
2245
2354
2453
2577
2803
3077
3581
5906
83
84
2206
2277
2386
2487
2611
2840
3117
3626
5977
84
85
2237
2309
2419
2521
2646
2877
3156
3671
6049
85
86
2268
2340
2452
2554
2680
2913
3196
3716
6121
86
87
2299
2372
2485
2588
2715
2950
3235
3761
6193
87
88
2331
2404
2517
2621
2750
2987
3275
3805
6265
88
89
2362
2436
2550
2655
2784
3024
3314
3850
6337
89
90
2393
2468
2583
2688
2819
3060
3353
3895
6409
90
91
2425
2500
2616
2722
2854
3097
3393
3940
6481
91
92
2456
2532
2649
2756
2889
3134
3432
3984
6553
92
93
2488
2564
2682
2790
2923
3171
3471
4029
6625
93
94
2519
2596
2715
2823
2958
3208
3511
4074
6697
94
95
2551
2628
2748
2857
2993
3244
3551
4119
6769
95
96
2582
2660
2781
2891
3028
3281
3590
4164
6841
96
97
2614
2692
2814
2925
3063
3318
3630
4209
6913
97
98
2645
2724
2847
2958
3097
3355
3669
4253
6985
98
99
2677
2757
2880
2992
3132
3392
3708
4298
7057
99
100
2709
2789
2913
3026
3167
3429
3748
4343
7129
100
105
2867
2950
3078
3196
3342
3613
3946
4567
7489
105
110
3027
3112
3244
3366
3516
3798
4143
4792
7849
110
115
3186
3275
3411
3536
3691
3983
4341
5016
8209
115
120
3347
3437
3578
3707
3867
4168
4539
5241
8569
120
125
3507
3601
3745
3878
4043
4353
4737
5465
8929
125
130
3669
3765
3912
4049
4219
4539
4935
5689
9289
130
135
3830
3929
4081
4221
4395
4724
5133
5914
9649
135
140
3992
4093
4249
4392
4571
4910
5332
6138
10009
140
145
4155
4258
4418
4564
4748
5095
5530
6363
10369
145
150
4318
4423
4586
4737
4925
5282
5728
6587
10729
150
155
4481
4589
4755
4909
5102
5467
5927
6812
11089
155
160
4644
4755
4925
5082
5279
5654
6125
7037
11449
160
165
4808
4920
5094
5255
5457
5840
6324
7261
11809
165
170
4972
5087
5264
5428
5634
6026
6523
7486
12169
170
175
5137
5253
5434
5602
5811
6213
6722
7710
12529
175
180
5301
5420
5604
5775
5989
6399
6920
7935
12889
180
185
5466
5587
5775
5949
6167
6586
7119
8160
13249
185
190
5631
5754
5945
6123
6345
6773
7318
8384
13609
190
195
5797
5922
6116
6296
6524
6960
7517
8609
13969
195
200
5962
6089
6287
6471
6702
7146
7716
8834
14329
200
(ii) The traffic capacity for all interoffice trunks shall be based on full availability, even though the distant office itself is not engineered to provide full availability access.
(iii) The Traffic Table may also be used to determine the approximate traffic capacity of high-usage intertoll trunks. The traffic offered to high-usage groups may be read at B.10, signifying that 10 percent of the traffic overflows to the alternate route. This approximates the HU12 table used by AT
T.
(iv) In reading the trunk quantity from the table, the higher quantity shall be used when the CCS load is three or more CCS over the lower quantity. For example, the number of trunks justified for 294 CCS at B.005 is 16, but for 295 CCS 17 trunks are justified.
(v) Limited availability is not permitted.
(vi) The traffic capacity in the following table should be used for small trunk groups such as pay station, special service trunks, intercept, and PBX trunks, unless otherwise specified in appendix A of this section:
Number of Circuits
Permissible CCS
1
10
2
20
3
30
4
40
(vii) The percentage of lines equipped for pushbutton dialing is to be used to determine the number of tone receivers. Local registers, if required, shall be supplied on the basis of all dial pulse.
(2)
Grade of service.
(i) Grade of service specifies the expected performance when there are adequate service facilities for an assumed volume of traffic. It is expressed as a portion of the total traffic during a busy hour that cannot be terminated immediately or within a predetermined time period due to congestion. This places responsibility on the traffic engineers to specify facilities which will be entirely satisfactory to the users and which can be equipped at a price which will be accepted as reasonable.
(ii) The number of calls encountering dial tone delay in excess of 3 seconds, measured over the busy hour of the four high-consecutive week (4HW) period, shall not be more than 1.5 percent.
(iii) The average post dialing delay objective for an intraoffice call shall not exceed 1 second. This includes all connect, operate, and translation time.
(iv) The line to line (intraoffice) network matching loss objective shall be 0.02 or less.
(v) The blocking probabilities related to trunks include both “mismatch” probability and probability of “all trunks busy.” It is likely that the “mismatch” will be negligible in that many digital central offices have essentially nonblocking switching characteristics. The objectives for trunk connections are as follows:
(A) Subscriber to outgoing trunk objective 0.01 or less;
(B) Incoming trunk to subscriber objective 0.02 or less; and
(C) Local trunk tandem objective 0.01 or less.
(vi) Groups of common service circuits are to be engineered utilizing the full availability traffic tables that appear in paragraph (p)(1)(i) of this section at the following stipulated probabilities:
(A) Outgoing trunks to 2/6 MF or dial pulse senders at B.001;
(B) Incoming trunks to 2/6 MF receivers at B.001;
(C) Incoming nondelay dial trunks to receivers at B.001; and
(D) Incoming trunks with start dial at B.01.
(vii) Remote Switching Terminals (RST's) shall meet the same grade of service objectives as the host.
(3)
Holding times.
For the purpose of estimating the quantity of common control circuits, the following average holding times may be used. These holding times are conservative and represent the average effective and ineffective call. If these holding times are to be used, it must be so stated in appendix A of this section.
(i) The following average call holding times (HT) may be used.
Type of Call
HT—Seconds
Intraoffice
120
EAS
150
Special Service, Intercept, Verification
60
Toll, CLR
300
Toll, S-S
24
Toll, PPCS
270
(ii) The following average subscriber dialing holding times may be used (times used to dial digits do not include machine time).
Digits Dialed
DP Sec.
Pushbutton Sec.
Operator, Non-Pay Station
1
4.7
3.4
Special Service
3
7.7
5.0
Local
7
13.7
8.2
EAS
7
13.7
8.2
DDD: 1/0 + 7
8
15.2
9.0
DDD: 1/0 + 10
11
19.7
11.4
Dialing Time Per Digit
-
1.5
0.8
Dial Tone Response
-
3.2
2.6
(iii) The following average incoming register holding times may be used (times for digit registrations do not include machine time).
Basic
Holding Time (Sec.)
Digits
Additional Per Digit
MF Receiver from:
No. 5 Crossbar—Non-LAMA
1.4
4
0.14
No. 5 Crossbar—LAMA
2.3
4
0.14
Crossbar Tandem
4A Toll
3.1
4
0.14
No. 1 ESS
1.4
4
0.14
Key Pulsing Switchboard
5.2
4
0.60
DP Receivers—10 PPS from:
SxS
6.0
4
1.5
Dialing Switchboard
6.6
4
1.3
4A Toll
5.6
5
1
-
Crossbar Tandem
4.9
4
1.2
1
No reduction for fewer digits.
(iv) The following average sender holding times may be used (does not include machine setup and release time).
Basic
Holding Time (Sec.)
Digits
Additional Per Digit
MF Senders:
No. 5 Crossbar
1.5
4
0.14
Crossbar Tandem
4A Toll
1
2.0
4
0.14
TSP/TSPS
2.4
7
0.14
SxS—CAMA, Called Number
3.7
7
0.14
SxS—CAMA, Calling Number
1.3
7
-
DP Senders—10 PPS:
With Overlap Pulsing
2
9.1
Up to 6
1.8
Without Overlap Pulsing
4.6
4
1.2
1
Add 1.3 seconds for ANI outpulsing on special toll (0 + ) calls and on DDD calls if AMA is not provided.
2
Assumes overlap outpulsing starting on receiving of third digit; applies only to calls handled on direct trunk groups.
(4)
Traffic data requirements.
(i) Traffic measurements are composed of primarily two types—counts and usage. The following types of traffic data recording are required:
(A)
Peg count
registers shall be incremented when a successful network connection is established to a particular circuit group such as trunks, senders, digital receivers, etc.
(B)
Overflow count
registers shall be incremented when access to a particular circuit group is denied due to all resource busy condition.
(C)
Network blockage count
registers shall be incremented due to an unavailability of a path in an access or switching matrix network.
(D)
Usage
measurements of the length of time associated with a particular setup event or network connection shall be made. Usage data measurements are normally collected by scanning circuit groups resources every 10 or 100 seconds to determine busy/idle states. Measurements are accumulated and read directly in CCS (hundred call seconds).
(E)
Service delay
measurements shall provide percentage counts of the calls for a particular service that are delayed beyond a specified interval of time, e.g., calls not receiving dial tone within 3 seconds after call origination.
(ii) Traffic data shall be stored in electronic storage registers or block of memory consisting of one or more traffic counters for each item to be measured. The registers listed in paragraph (p)(4)(i) of this section shall be associated with the interoffice trunks, switching network and central control equipment in such a manner that the register readings can be used to determine the traffic load and flow to, from and within the system. Two-way
trunks shall be metered to indicate inward and outward seizures. The bidder shall indicate what registers are to be supplied and their purpose.
(iii) The measured data shall be shown on a printout. It should be possible to have local or remote printout, or both. Arrangement shall be made for automatic data printout on command for 15-, 30-, or 60-minute intervals as required, and be arranged for automatic start-stop and in accordance with revenue separation procedures current at the time of contract.
(iv) All traffic records shall have dates and times and office identification.
(q)
Transmission
—(1)
General.
The transmission characteristics will be governed by the fact that the switching matrix will be based on digital operation. Unless otherwise stated, the requirements are in terms of analog measurements made from Main Distributing Frame (MDF) to MDF terminals, excluding cabling loss.
(2)
Impedance.
For the purpose of this section, the nominal input impedance of analog ports in an end office shall be 900 ohms for 2-wire ports and 600 ohms for 4-wire ports. Where the connecting facility or equipment is other than this impedance, suitable impedance matching shall be provided by the bidder when specified by the owner.
(3)
Insertion loss.
The insertion loss in both directions of transmission at 1004 Hz shall meet the following requirements when measured with a 0 dBm input signal at 900 ohms (or 600 ohms, when required) at a temperature of 77 °F ±9 °F (25 °C ±5 °C).
(i)
Trunk-to-trunk or trunk-to-line.
The loss shall be set between 0 and 0.5 dB for 2-wire to 2-wire, 2-wire to 4-wire, or 4-wire to 4-wire voice frequency connections.
(ii)
Line-to-line.
The loss shall be set between 0 and 2 dB.
(iii)
Direct digital interface.
On a direct digital interface, the loss through the office shall be adjusted to the proper level in the receive side.
(iv)
Stability.
The long-term allowable variation in loss through the office shall be ±0.5 dB from the loss specified by the bidder.
(4)
Frequency response (loss relative to 1004 hz)
shall meet the following requirements.
(i)
Trunk-to-trunk.
Frequency (Hz)
Loss at 0 dBm0 Input
1
2-Wire to 2-Wire
4-Wire to 4-Wire
60
20 dB Min.
2
16 dB Min.
2
200
0 to 5 dB
0 to 3 dB
300-3000
−0.5 dB to 1 dB
−0.3 to + 0.3 dB
3300
1.5 dB Max.
1.5 dB Max.
3400
0 to 3 dB
0 to 3 dB
1
(−) means less loss and (+) means more loss.
2
Transmit End
(ii)
Line-to-line.
Frequency (Hz)
Loss at 0 dBm0 Input
1
60
20 dB Min.
2
300
−1 to + 3 dB
600-2400
±1 dB
3200
−1 to + 3 dB
1
(−) means less loss and (+) means more loss.
2
Transmit End
(iii)
Trunk-to-line.
The trunk-to-line frequency response requirements shall be a compromise between those values specified in paragraphs (q)(4)(i) and (q)(4)(ii) of this section.
(5)
Overload level.
The overload level at 900 ohm impedance shall be + 3 dBm0.
(6)
Gain tracking (linearity)
shall meet the following requirements.
Input Signal Level
1
Maximum Gain Deviation
+ 3 to −37 dBm0
±0.5 dB
−37 to −50 dBm0
±1 dB
1
1004 Hz reference at 0 dBm0.
(7)
Return loss.
(i) The specified return loss values are determined by the service and type of port at the measuring (near) end. Two-wire ports are measured (near end) at 900 ohms in series with 2.16 microfarads and 4-wire ports are measured at 600 ohms resistive.
(ii) Far end test terminations shall be as follows:
(A) Loaded line circuit—1650 ohms in parallel with the series combination of .005 microfarads and 100 ohms;
(B) Nonloaded line circuit—800 ohms in parallel with the series combination of .05 microfarads and 100 ohms;
(C) Special service line circuit including electronic lines and carrier lines—900 ohms in series with 2.16 microfarads;
(D) Two-wire trunk—900 ohms in series with 2.16 microfarads; and
(E) Four-wire trunk—600 ohms.
(iii) For trunk-to-trunk (2-wire or 4-wire) connections the echo return loss (ERL) shall be 27 dB, minimum and the singing return loss (SRL) shall be 20 dB, minimum low and 23 dB, minimum high.
(iv) For trunk-to-line (2-wire or 4-wire) connections the ERL shall be 24 dB, minimum and the SRL shall be 17 dB, minimum low and 20 dB, minimum high.
(v) For line-to-line or line-to-trunk (2-wire or 4-wire) connections the ERL shall be 18 dB, minimum and the SRL shall be 12 dB, minimum low and 15 dB, minimum high.
(8)
Longitudinal balance.
The minimum longitudinal balance, with dc loop currents of 20 to 70 mA, shall be 60 dB at all frequencies between 60 and 2000 Hz, 55 dB at 2700 Hz and 50 dB at 3400 Hz. The method of measurement shall be as specified in the IEEE Std 455-1985, IEEE Standard Test Procedure for Measuring Longitudinal Balance of Telephone Equipment Operating in the Voice Band. Source voltage level shall be 10 volts root-mean-square (rms).
(9)
60 hz longitudinal current immunity.
Under test conditions with 60 Hz, the system noise shall be no greater than 23 dBrnC0 as measured using the configuration in Figure 1.
Figure 1—Measuring the Effects of Low Frequency Induction
EC14NO91.091
Notes:
1. 900 ohm termination, C-message weighting, hold coil off
2. SNC Noise Choke 35 W, or equivalent
3. Test at 0.020 Adc and 0.070 Adc
4. 2 ±0.001 microfarad, 150 Vdc
(10)
Steady noise
(idle channel at 900 ohms impedance) measured on a terminated call shall be 23 dBrnC0 maximum
and average 18 dBrnC0 or less. The 3K Hz Flat noise should be less than 35 dBrnC0 as an objective.
(11)
Impulse noise.
The central office switching equipment shall be capable of meeting an impulse noise limit of not more than five counts exceeding 54 dBrnC0 voice band weighted in a 5-minute period on six such measurements made during the busy hour. A Northeast Electronics Company TTS 4002 Impulse Noise Counter, Wilcom T194C, Hewlett Packard 4945, or equivalent, should be used for the measurements. The measurement shall be made by establishing a normal connection from the noise counter through the switching equipment in its off-hook condition to a quiet termination of 900 ohms impedance. Office battery and signaling circuit wiring shall be suitably segregated from voice and carrier circuit wiring, and frame talking battery filters provided, if and as required, in order to meet these impulse noise limits.
(12)
Crosstalk coupling.
Worst case equal level crosstalk is to be 75 dB minimum in the range 200-3400 Hz. This is to be measured between any two paths through the system connecting a 0 dBm0 level tone to the disturbing pair.
(13)
Quantizing distortion.
(i) The switching system shall meet the following requirements.
Input Level (dBm0) 1004 or 1020 Hz
Minimum Signal to Distortion with C-Message Weighting
0 to −30
33 dB
−30 to −40
27 dB
−40 to −45
22 dB
(ii) Due to the possible loss of the least significant bit on direct digital connections, a signal to distortion degradation of up to 2 dB may be allowed where adequately justified by the bidder.
(14)
Absolute delay.
The absolute one-way delay through the switching system, excluding delays associated with RST switching, shall not exceed 1000 microseconds analog-to-analog measured at 1800 Hz.
(15)
Envelope delay distortion.
On any properly established connection, the envelope delay distortion shall not exceed the following limits.
Frequency Range (Hz)
Microseconds
1000 to 2600
190
800 to 2800
350
600 to 3000
500
400 to 3200
700
(16)
Digital error rate.
The digital switching system shall not introduce an error into digital connections which is worse than one error in 10
8
bits averaged over a 5-minute period.
(17)
Battery noise.
Noise across battery at power board distribution bus terminals shall not exceed 35 dBrnC during the busy hour.
(18) Radio and television interference. The central office switching equipment shall be designed and installed so that radiation of high frequency noise will be limited so as not to interfere with radio and television receivers.
(r)
Timing intervals
—(1)
Type of equipment required.
The equipment for providing the specified timing intervals shall be solid-state.
(2)
Tolerance.
Where a range of time is specified as minimum and maximum, the lower limits shall be considered as controlling and the variation between this minimum and the actual maximum shall be kept as small as practicable. In no case shall the quoted upper limit be exceeded.
(3)
Permanent signal timing.
Lockout shall occur after an interval of 20 to 30 seconds after receipt of dial tone if a “permanent” condition occurs prior to the transmission of dial pulses or pushbutton dialing signals. This interval may be reduced appreciably during periods of heavy traffic.
(4)
Partial dial timing.
Partial dial timing shall be within 15 to 37 seconds. This timing may be reduced appreciably during periods of heavy traffic.
(5)
Charge delay timing.
Charge delay timing shall be within 2 seconds.
(6)
Called party disconnect timing.
Timed disconnect of a terminating path under control of the called party shall be 10 to 32 seconds.
(7)
Timing intervals for signals involved in distance dialing.
Timing intervals shall be provided to meet the requirements for distance dialing equipment, which have been established in Bellcore document SR-TSV-002275, BOC Notes on the LEC Networks—1990.
Some of the more important times which this document specifies are for:
(i) Disconnect signal;
(ii) Wink signal;
(iii) Start dialing signal;
(iv) Pulse delay signal;
(v) Go signal;
(vi) Digit timing; and
(vii) Sender, register, and link attachment timing.
(s)
Power requirements and equipment
—(1)
Operating voltage.
The nominal operating voltage of the central office shall be 48 volts dc, provided by a battery with the positive side tied to system ground.
(2)
Batteries.
(i) When battery cells of the lead antimony type are specified, the pasted plate type shall be considered adequate.
(ii) When lead calcium cells are specified, no cell shall differ from the average voltage of the string of fully charged cells by more than ±0.03 volt when measured at a charging rate in amperes equivalent to 10 percent of the ampere hour capacity of the cells. Similarly, when cells are fully charged and floating between 2.30 and 2.33 volts per cell, the cell voltage of any cell in a given string shall not differ more than ±0.03 volt from the average. These requirements are for test purposes only and do not apply to operating conditions.
(iii) Voltage readings shall be corrected by a temperature coefficient of 0.0033 volt per degree F (0.006 per degree C), whenever temperature variations exist between cells in a given string. This correction factor shall also be applied when comparing cell voltages taken at different times and at different temperatures. The correction factor shall be added to the measured voltage when the temperature is above 77 °F (25 °C) and subtracted when the temperature is below 77 °F (25 °C).
(iv) The specific gravity readings of lead antimony cells at full charge shall be 1.210 ±.010 at 77 °F (25 °C) at maximum electrolyte height.
(v) When counter cells are supplied by the bidder, they shall be the dry counter electromotive force (CEMF) type.
(vi) When lead antimony batteries are specified, they shall be designed to last a minimum of 10 years when maintained on a full float operation between 2.15 and 2.17 volts per cell. When lead calcium batteries are specified, they shall be designed to last a minimum of 20 years when maintained on full float operation between 2.17 and 2.25 volts per cell. The battery shall be clearly designated as “antimony” or “calcium” by means of stencils, decals or other devices.
(vii) Each battery cell shall be equipped with an explosion control device.
(viii) The battery size shall be calculated in accordance with standard procedures. The battery in no case shall have a reserve capacity in ampere hours less than four times the current capacity of the largest charger.
(3)
Charging equipment.
(i) Charging shall be on a full float basis. The rectifiers shall be of the full wave, self-regulating, constant voltage, solid-state type and shall be capable of being turned on and off manually.
(ii) When charging batteries, the voltage at the battery terminals shall be adjustable and shall be set at the value recommended for the particular battery being charged, providing it is not above the maximum operating voltage of the switching system equipment. The voltage shall not vary more than plus or minus 0.02 volt per cell between 10 percent load and 100 percent load. Between 3 percent and 10 percent load, the output voltage shall not vary more than plus or minus 0.04 volt per cell. Beyond full load current, the output voltage shall drop sharply. The output voltage shall be maintained with the line voltage variations of plus or minus 10 percent. Provision shall be made to change the output voltage of the rectifier manually to 2.25 volts per cell to provide an equalization charge on the battery.
(iii) The charger noise shall not exceed 22 dBrnC when measured with a suitable noise measuring set and under the rated battery capacitance and load conditions as determined in Figure 2.
Figure 2—Charger Noise Test
ER01JA93.386
The manufacturer may elect to eliminate the capacitor C from the measurement.
A. Capacitance in µF = 30,000 µF per ampere-hour per cell. For example, 25 cells at 100 ampere-hour would be equivalent to a capacitance of:
(30,000 × 100) / 25 = 120,000 µF
B. The value of the resistive load R is determined by the nominal battery voltage in volts divided by the full load rating in amperes. For example, for a 48 volt battery and a full load current of 24 amperes, the load resistance R is 48/24 = 2 ohms of appropriate power handling capacity.
(iv) The charging equipment shall indicate a failure of charging current, whether due to ac power failure, an internal failure in the charger, or to other circumstances which might cause the output voltage of the charger to drop below the battery voltage. Where a supplementary constant current charger is used, an alarm shall be provided to indicate a failure of the charger.
(v) Audible noise developed by the charging equipment shall be kept to a minimum. Acoustic noise resulting from operation of the rectifier shall be expressed in terms of dB indicated on a sound level meter conforming to ANSI S1.4-1983, Specification for Sound Level Meters, and shall not exceed 65 dB (A-weighting) measured at any point 5 feet (152.4 cm) from any vertical surface of the rectifier.
(vi) The charging equipment shall be designed so that neither the charger nor the central office switching equipment is subject to damage in case the battery circuit is opened for any value of load within the normal limits.
(vii) The charging equipment shall have a capacity to meet the requirements of central office size and special requirements of the owner in appendix A of this section.
(viii) Minimum equipment requirement for chargers is one of the following:
(A) Two chargers either capable of carrying the full office load as specified in Item 12 of appendix A of this section; or
(B) Three chargers each capable of carrying half the office load as specified in Item 12 of appendix A of this section.
(4)
Miscellaneous voltage supplies.
(i) Any power supply required for voltages other than the primary battery voltage shall be provided by either a solid-state dc-to-dc converter or dc-to-ac inverter,
operating from the central office battery or from a separate battery and charger. These power supplies shall meet the noise limit specified for chargers in paragraph (s)(3)(iii) of this section, except the capacitor “C” shall be eliminated and the resistive load “R” shall be determined by the nominal output voltage in volts divided by the full load current rating in amperes. This requirement does not preclude the use of commercial ac power to operate input/output devices.
(ii) Power converters required for the purpose of providing various operating voltages to printed circuit boards or similar equipment employing electronic components shall be provided in duplicate with each unit capable of immediately assuming the full operating load upon failure of a unit. An exception to the duplicate power converter requirement permits nonduplicated power converter(s) to be utilized where there is full compliance with the following criteria.
(A) The failure of any single nonduplicated power converter shall not reduce the grade of service of common control and service circuits to any individual line or trunk by more than 50 percent.
(B) The failure of any single nonduplicated power converter shall not reduce the traffic carrying capacity of any interoffice trunk group by more than 50 percent.
(C) In central office switching systems of 400 or more equipped lines, any single nonduplicated power converter failure shall not cause a complete loss of service to more than 100 equipped lines.
(D) In central office switching systems of less than 400 equipped lines, any single nonduplicated power converter failure shall not cause a complete loss of service to more than 25 percent of the total equipped lines.
(5)
Ringing generators.
Ringing generators supplied on an ancillary basis shall be selected from RUS Bulletin 1755I-100, List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telephone Systems of RUS Borrowers. Regardless of whether the ringing is generated on an ancillary basis or is generated integrally to the switching system, the ringing equipment shall meet the requirements of this section.
(i)
Ringing equipment provisioning.
(A) Redundant ringing equipment shall be provided. There shall be automatic transfer to the redundant equipment within the period of one ringing cycle, in case of failure of the equipment in use (either regular or standby). Automatic transfer shall not take place under any other conditions. Manual transfer in each direction shall be provided.
(B) An exception to the redundant ringing equipment requirement permits nonredundant ringing equipment to be utilized where there is full compliance with the following service criteria.
(
1
) In a central office switching system of 400 or more equipped lines, a single nonduplicated ringing source failure shall not cause the complete loss of ringing capability to more than 100 lines.
(
2
) In a central office switching system of less than 400 equipped lines, a single nonredundant ringing source failure shall not cause the complete loss of ringing capability to more than 25 percent of the total equipped lines.
(ii)
Output voltage.
(A) The ringing generators shall have an output voltage which approximates a sine wave and, as a minimum, shall be suitable for ringing straight-line ringers. Although not a requirement for RUS listing, decimonic, synchromonic, or harmonic ringing may also be specified in appendix A of this section.
(B) The ringing generator shall obtain its energy from the nominal 48-volt office battery.
(C) The output of each generator shall have three or more voltage taps or a single tap with associated variable control. Taps or control shall be easily accessible as installed in the field. Software control of ringing generator outputs via I/O devices may be provided in lieu of taps. The taps, or equivalent, shall be designated L, M, and H. The variable control shall have a locking device to prevent accidental readjustment. The outputs at the terminals of the generators with a voltage input of 52.1 volts and rated full resistive load shall be as follows for the ringing frequencies provided:
Frequency Range (Hz)
Output Volts rms
(Tolerance 3 Volts)
L
M
H
16
2/3
through 20
90
105
120
21 through 30
95
110
120
31 through 42
100
115
130
43 through 54
110
125
140
(D) No voltages in excess of the values in column H of the table in paragraph (s)(5)(ii)(C) of this section shall be provided at the output taps. Additional intermediate and/or lower taps may be provided without restriction.
(iii)
Voltage regulation.
(A) The output voltage for resistive, capacitive power factor of 0.8, and inductive power factor of 0.5 loads from no load to full rated output with 52.1 volts input battery shall not vary more than ±3 percent from the output voltage measured at
1/2
rated output, 1.0 power factor with 52.1 volts dc input applied.
(B) The output voltage for resistive, capacitive power factor of 0.8, and inductive power factor of 0.5 from no load to full rated output with input battery variations between 48-56 volts dc shall not vary more than ±10 percent from the output voltage measured at
1/2
rated output and 1.0 power factor with 52.1 volts dc input applied.
(C) The output voltage for resistive, capacitive power factor of 0.8, and inductive power factor of 0.5 loads from no load to full rated output and with input battery variations between 44-56 volts dc shall not vary more than + 10/−15 percent from the output voltage measured at
1/2
rated output and 1.0 power factor with 52.1 volts dc input applied.
(iv)
Cross ringing.
Unwanted voltage caused by harmonic distortion or intermodulation distortion shall not exceed 15 volts rms when measured within ±5 Hz of any other assigned ringing frequency under any condition of load or input battery specified by paragraph (s)(5)(iii) of this section.
(v)
Frequency stability.
At ambient temperature of 70 ° ±5 °F (21 ° ±0.3 °C), for any combination of capacitive power factor of 0.8, inductive power factor of 0.5, and resistive loads with variations in input battery ranging from 44 to 56 volts, the output frequency shall not vary more than ±1/3 Hz or ±1 percent, whichever is less stringent. At temperatures between 15 °F (4 °C) to 130 °F (54 °C), and for any combination of resistive load and variations in input battery ranging from 44-56 volts, the output frequency shall not vary more than ±1/3 Hz or ±1 percent, whichever is less stringent.
(vi)
Self-protection on overloads.
The ringing generator equipment shall be capable of withstanding a short circuit across any pair of output terminals for a period of 5 minutes without fuse operation or damage.
(6)
Interrupter equipment.
(i) The interrupter shall be an integral part of the switching system and shall be controlled by any call processor or equivalent.
(ii) The ringing cycle provided by the interrupter equipment shall not exceed 6 seconds in length. The ringing period shall be 2 seconds.
(7)
Power panels.
(i) Battery and charger control switches, dc voltmeters, dc ammeters, fuses and circuit breakers, supervisory and timer circuits shall be provided as required. Voltmeters shall be provided as specified by the owner.
(ii) Portable or panel mounted frequency meters shall be provided as specified by the owner unless the system is equipped to measure actual ringing generator voltage and frequency outputs internally. If the system is equipped to make such measurements and print the results, the bidder is not required to provide a frequency meter.
(iii) Power panels, cabinets and shelves, and associated wiring shall be designed initially to handle the exchange when it reaches its ultimate capacity as specified by the owner.
(iv) The power panel shall be of the “dead front” type.
(t)
Main distributing frames.
(1) The main distributing frame shall provide terminals for terminating all incoming cable pairs. Arresters shall be provided for all incoming cable pairs, or for a smaller number of pairs if specified, provided an acceptable means of temporarily grounding all terminated pairs which are not equipped with arresters is furnished.
(2) The current carrying capacity of each arrester and its associated mounting shall coordinate with a #22 gauge
copper conductor without causing a self-sustaining fire or permanently damaging other arrester positions. Where all cable pairs entering the central office are #24 gauge or finer, the arresters and mountings need only coordinate with #24 gauge cable conductors. Item 13 of appendix A of this section designates the gauge of the cable conductors serving the host office. Item 7 of appendix B of this section designates the gauge of the cable conductors serving the RST(s).
(3) Central office protectors shall be mounted and arranged so that outside cable pairs may be terminated on the left side of protectors (when facing the vertical side of the MDF) or on the back surface of the protectors. Means for easy identification of pairs shall be provided.
(4) Protectors shall have a “dead front” (either insulated or grounded) whereby live metal parts are not readily accessible.
(5) Protectors shall be provided with an accessible terminal of each incoming conductor which is suitable for the attachment of a temporary test lead. They shall also be constructed so that auxiliary test fixtures may be applied to open and test the subscriber's circuit in either direction. Terminals shall be tinned or plated and shall be suitable for wire wrapped, insulation displacement or connectorized connections.
(6) If specified in appendix A of this section, each protector group shall be furnished with a factory assembled tip cable for splicing to the entrance cable; the tip cable to be 20 feet (610 cm) in length unless otherwise specified. Factory assembled tip cable shall be #22 gauge and selected from RUS Bulletin 1755I-100, List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telephone Systems of RUS Borrowers. Tip cable requirements are provided in RUS Bulletin 345-87, PE-87, RUS Specification for Terminating (TIP) Cable. Cables having other kinds of insulation and jackets which have equivalent resistance to fire and which produce less smoke and toxic fumes may be used if specifically approved by RUS.
(7) Protectors shall be mounted on vertical supports, with centers not exceeding 9 inches (22.9 cm). The space between protector units shall be adequate for terminating conductors.
(8) Cable supporting framework shall be provided between the cable entrance and the MDF when overhead cable entrance is specified in Item 14.3.3 of appendix A of this section.
(9) The main distributing frame shall be equipped with a copper ground bus bar having the conductivity of a #6 American Wire Gauge (AWG) copper conductor or a greater conductivity, or may consist of another metal if specifically approved, provided it has adequate cross-sectional area to provide conductivity equivalent to, or better than, bare copper. A guardrail or equivalent shall also be furnished.
(10) Other features not specified in paragraph (t) of this section may be required at the option of the owner, if checked in Item 13.4 of appendix A of this section.
(11) Main frame protector makes and types shall be selected only from RUS Bulletin 1755I-100, List of Materials Acceptable for Use on Telephone Systems of RUS Borrowers. Protectors shall be capable of easy removal.
(u)
Electrical protection
—(1)
Surge protection.
(i) Adequate electrical protection of central office switching equipment shall be included in the design of the system. The characteristics and application of protection devices shall be such that they enable the central office switching equipment to withstand, without damage or excessive protector maintenance, the dielectric stresses and currents that are produced in line-to-ground and tip-to-ring circuits through the equipment as a result of induced or conducted lightning or power system fault-related surges. All wire terminals connected to outside plant wire or cable pairs shall be protected from voltage and current surges.
(ii) Central office switching equipment shall pass laboratory tests, simulating the hostile electrical environment, before being placed in the field for the purpose of obtaining field experience. There are five basic types of laboratory tests which shall be applied to exposed terminals in an effort to determine if the equipment will survive. Figure 3 summarizes these tests and the minimum acceptable levels of protection for equipment to pass them.
Figure 3—Summary of Electrical Requirements and Tests
Test
Application Criteria
Peak Voltage or Current
Surge Waveshape
No. of Applications
Max. Time Between
Comments
Current Surge
Low Impedance Paths Exposed to Surges
500A or Lesser Current (See Fig. 5)
10 × 1000 µs
5 each Polarity at 1 minute intervals
60 Hz Current Carrying
High or Low Impedance paths Exposed to Surges
10A rms or Lesser Current (See Fig. 6)
11 Cycles of 60 Hz (0.183 Sec.)
3 each Polarity at 1 minute intervals
AC Power Service Surge Voltage
AC Power Service Connection
2500V or + 3 σ clamping V of arrester employed at 10kV/µs
1.2 × 50 µs
5 each Polarity at 1 minute intervals
AC arrester, if used, must be removed. Communications line arresters, if used, remain in place.
Voltage Surge
High Impedance Paths Exposed to Surges
1000V or + 3 σ dc breakdown of arrester employed
10 × 000 µs
Same
All primary arresters, if used, must be removed.
Arrester Response Delay
Paths protected by arresters, such as gas tubes, with breakdown dependent on V. rate of rise.
+ 3 σ breakdown of arrester employed at 100V/µs of rise
100V/µs rise decay to 1/2 V. in tube's delay time
Same
Same
(iii)
Two categories of surge tests.
(A) Current surge tests simulate the stress to which a relatively low impedance path may be subjected before main frame protectors break down. Paths with a 100 Hz impedance of 50 ohms or less shall be subjected to current surges, employing a 10 × 1000 microseconds waveshape as defined in Figure 4. For the purpose of determining this impedance, arresters which are mounted within the equipment are to be considered zero impedance. The crest current shall not exceed 500A; however, depending on the impedance of the test specimen this value of current may be lower. The crest current through the sample, multiplied by the sample's 100 Hz impedance, shall not exceed 1000 volts (V). Where sample impedance is less than two ohms, crest current shall be limited to 500A as shown in Figure 5.
Figure 4—Explanation of Surge Waveshape
EC14NO91.087
Surge Waveshape is defined as follows:
Rise Time × Time to Decay to Half Crest Value
(For example, 10 × 1000 µs)
Notes:
T
1
= Time to determine the rate of rise. The rate of rise is determined as the slope between 10% and 90% of peak voltage or current.
T
2
= Time to 50% of peak voltage (decay to half value).
Figure 5—Explanation of Surge Waveshape
EC14NO91.088
V
L
= Not to exceed 1000V
V
B
= Charging Voltage
Z
100
= Test Specimen Impedance to be measured at 100 Hz.
R
P
= Parallel Resistance (Waveshape)
R
S
= Series Resistance (Current Limiting)
Z
100
R
S
R
P
V
B
0
5
∞
2500
1
4
∞
2500
2
3
∞
2500
3
2
∞
1670
4
1
∞
1250
5
0
∞
1000
7.5
0
15
1000
10
0
10
1000
15
0
7.5
1000
20
0
6.7
1000
25
0
6.25
1000
30
0
6
1000
40
0
5.7
1000
50
0
5.5
1000
(B) Sixty Hertz (60 Hz) current-carrying tests should be applied to simulate an ac power fault which is conducted to the unit over the cable pairs. The test should be limited to 10 amperes rms at 60 Hz for a period of 11 cycles (0.1835 seconds) and should be applied longitudinally from line to ground (see Figures 3 and 6 of this section).
Figure 6—60 Hz Current Surge Test
EC14NO91.089
V—700 Volts RMS (Approximately 1000V Peak).
Z
60
—Test specimen impedance to be measured at 60 Hz.
R
S
—Series Resistance (current limiting) in each side of line. (Source impedance never less than 50 Ω longitudinal.)
Z
60
Hz
R
S
0
140
10
120
20
100
50
100
Over 50
100
(C) AC power service surge voltage tests should be applied to the power input terminals of ac powered devices to simulate switching surges or lightning-induced transients on the ac power system. The test shall employ a 1.2 × 50 microseconds waveshape with a crest voltage of 2500V. Communications line protectors may be left in place for this test. Borrowers are urged to install commercially available surge protectors at the ac service entrance as part of their COE building program.
(D) Voltage surge tests simulate the voltage stress to which a relatively high impedance path may be subjected before primary protectors break down and protect the circuit. To assure coordination with the primary protection while reducing testing to the minimum, voltage surge tests should be conducted at a 1000 volts with primary arresters removed for devices protected by carbon blocks, or the + 3 sigma dc breakdown of other primary arresters. Surge waveshape should be 10 × 1000 microseconds.
(E) Arrester response delay tests are designed to stress the equipment in a manner similar to that caused by the delayed breakdown of gap type arresters when subjected to rapidly rising voltages. Arresters shall be removed for these tests, the peak surge voltage should be the + 3 sigma breakdown of the arrester in question on a voltage rising at 100V per microsecond and the time for the surge to decay to half voltage shall equal at least the delay time of the tube, as explained in Figure 7.
Figure 7—Explanation of Arrester Response Delay Time
EC14NO91.090
The delay time is that period of time when the potential across an arrester exceeds its dc firing level.
(iv) Five applications of each polarity for the surge tests and three for the 60 Hz Current Carrying Test are the minimum required. All tests should be conducted with not more than 1 minute between consecutive applications in each series of three or five to a specific configuration so that heating effects will be cumulative. As not all tests are required in every application, nonapplicable tests should be omitted. Tests should be conducted in the following sequence.
(A) Current Impulse Test.
(B) Sixty Hertz (60 Hz) Current Carrying Test.
(C) AC Power Service Impulse Voltage Test.
(D) Voltage Impulse Test.
(E) Arrester Response Delay Test.
(v) Tests should be applied between each of the following terminal combinations for all line operating conditions.
(A) Line tip to ring.
(B) Line ring to ground.
(C) Line tip to ground.
(D) Line tip to ring tied together to ground.
(2)
Extraordinary surge protection.
A central office or RST may be located in an area where ground conditions prevent the reasonable economic achievement of a low resistance to ground and/or there exists a greater than average probability of surge damage. Such an unusually hostile operating environment shall be recognized and taken into consideration by the bidder in the engineering and specification of the central office switching system and line protection. This subject of operating environment, ground conditions, etc., should be discussed at the time of technical presentation to assure the owner that adequate system protection will be provided by the bidder.
(3)
Dielectric strength.
Arresters shall be removed for all dielectric strength tests. The duration of all dielectric strength tests shall be at least 1 second. The applied potential shall equal or exceed the + 3 sigma dc breakdown voltage of the arrester, provided by the
COE manufacturer. Direct current potentials shall be applied between all line terminals and equipment chassis and between these terminals and grounded equipment housings in all instances where the circuitry is dc open circuit from the chassis, or connected to the chassis through a capacitor.
(4)
Insulation resistance.
Following the dielectric tests, the insulation resistance of the installed electrical circuits between wires and ground, with the normal equipment grounds removed, shall not be less than 10 megohms at 500 volts dc at approximately room temperature (68 °F (20 °C)) and at a relative humidity of approximately 50 percent. The measurement shall be made after the meter stabilizes, unless the requirement is met sooner. Arresters shall be removed for these tests.
(5)
Self-protection.
(i) All components shall be of the self-protecting type, capable of being continuously energized at rated voltage without injurious results.
(ii) The unit equipment shall not be permanently damaged by accidental short circuits of any duration across either the central office side tip and ring or the line side tip and ring. A test is to be made with the unit energized at the highest recommended voltages.
(6)
Static discharge.
Assemblies subject to damage by static discharge shall be identified and special handling instructions shall be supplied.
(v)
Miscellaneous
—(1)
Office wire.
All office wire shall be of soft annealed tinned copper wire meeting the requirements of ASTM Specification B 33-91, Standard Specification for Tinned Soft or Annealed Copper Wire for Electrical Purposes, and of suitable cross-section to provide safe current carrying capacity and mechanical strength. The insulation of installed wire, connected to its equipment and frames, shall be capable of withstanding the same insulation resistance and dielectric strength requirements as given in paragraphs (u)(3) and (u)(4) of this section at a temperature of 120 °F (49 °C) and a relative humidity of 90 percent.
(2)
Wire wrapped terminals.
These terminals are preferred and where used shall be of a material suitable for wire wrapping. The connections to them shall be made with a wire wrapping tool with the following minimum number of successive nonoverlapping turns of bare tinned copper wire in contact with each terminal.
(i) 6 Turns of 30 Gauge.
(ii) 6 Turns of 26 Gauge.
(iii) 6 Turns of 24 Gauge.
(iv) 5 Turns of 22 Gauge.
(3)
Protection against corrosion.
All metal parts of equipment frames, distributing frames, cable supporting framework, and other exposed metal parts shall be constructed of corrosion resistant materials or materials plated or painted to render them adequately corrosion resistant.
(4)
Screws and bolts.
Screw threads for all threaded securing devices shall be of American National Standard form in accordance with Federal Standard H28, Screw-Thread Standards for Federal Services, unless exceptions are granted to the manufacturer of the switching equipment. All bolts, nuts, screws, and washers shall be of nickel-copper alloy, steel, brass or bronze.
(5)
Temperature and humidity range.
The supplier shall furnish the operating temperature and humidity ranges of the equipment being provided in order that adequate heating and cooling may be supplied (see Items 5.2.1 and 5.2.2 of appendix C of this section).
(6)
Stenciling.
Equipment units and terminal jacks shall be adequately designated and numbered. They shall be stenciled so that identification of equipment units and leads for testing or traffic analysis can be made without unnecessary reference to prints or descriptive literature.
(7)
Equipment frame design.
For newly designed systems, consideration should be given to the desirability of providing frames which can be installed in rooms of normal ceiling height [up to 10 feet (305 cm)]. Where feasible, frames and equipment units shall be designed for ready portability and high salvage value.
(8)
Quantity of equipment bays.
Consistent with system arrangements and ease of maintenance, space shall be provided on the floor plan for an orderly layout of future equipment bays that will be required for anticipated traffic when the office reaches its ultimate size. Readily accessible terminals
shall be provided for connection to interbay and frame cables to future bays. All cables, interbay and intrabay (excluding power), if technically feasible, shall be terminated at both ends by use of connectors.
(w)
Remote switching terminal (RST)
—(1)
General.
The RST is a remotely located digital switching terminal which is placed at a subordinate wire center for subscriber lines and is a part of the host central office from a switching standpoint, and has hardware interchangeable with the host office, except for items that are applicable only to RST control and associated peripheral equipment. This does not preclude the use of existing in-service remote units on a new or upgraded host central office of the latest series generic or release.
(2)
Span line.
The RST is to be connected to the host central office via a means compatible with T1 type span lines using a DS-1 interface. This connection will be for control supervision and subscriber communication. The RUS equipment specification for a span line is PE-60.
(3)
Switching.
(i) The RST may have its switching functions controlled either by the host central office stored program control processors or by local subordinate processors which communicate with the host office processors.
(ii) As long as the connecting span line is intact, the subscribers served by the RST shall have all features, traffic capacity, and services including busy verification, available to all other subscribers in the system.
(iii) The RST shall have available an emergency call processing option which permits calling among all subscribers and from subscribers to emergency numbers within the RST if control link connections to the host central office are severed or otherwise disabled. The RST shall be capable of rerouting normally used emergency numbers, such as 911, to predetermined line terminations in this emergency stand-alone operating condition. This RST emergency call processing option shall be provided only when specified by the owner in Item 6.1 of appendix B of this section.
(4)
Subscriber line test.
(i) Means shall be available on an optional basis to the maintenance personnel to make subscriber line tests from a common location for all subscriber lines including the RST.
(ii) If tests in paragraph (w)(4)(i) of this section are not requested by the owner for a particular installation, a subscriber loop test set (see paragraph (o)(2)(iii)(A) of this section) shall be supplied at the RST with a means to access all lines.
(5)
Housing.
When housed in a building supplied by the owner, a complete floor plan including ceiling height, power outlets, cable entrances, equipment entry and travel, type of construction, and other pertinent dimensions shall be supplied with this section.
(6)
Power
—(i)
Chargers.
A single charger meeting the requirements of paragraph (s)(3) of this section (with the exception of paragraph (s)(3)(viii) of this section) is required. An additional charger capable of carrying the full load or a combination of three chargers each capable of carrying half the load shall be supplied if redundant chargers are specified in appendix B of this section.
(ii)
Ringing equipment provisioning.
(A) Ringing sources shall be supplied in duplicate.
(B) An exception to the duplicated ringing source requirement permits nonduplicated ringing source(s) to be utilized where there is full compliance with the following service criteria.
(
1
) In a remote switching terminal (RST) of 400 or more equipped lines, a single nonduplicated ringing source failure shall not cause the complete loss of ringing capability to more than 100 lines.
(
2
) In a remote switching terminal (RST) of less than 400 equipped lines, a single nonredundant ringing source failure shall not cause the complete loss of ringing capability to more than 25 percent of the total equipped lines.
(iii)
Power converter.
(A) Power converters required for the purpose of providing various operating voltages to printed circuit boards or similar equipment employing electronic components shall be provided in duplicate with each unit capable of immediately assuming the full operating load upon failure of a unit.
(B) An exception to the duplicate power converter requirement permits nonduplicated power converter(s) to be utilized where there is full compliance with the following criteria.
(
1
) The failure of any single nonduplicated power converter shall not reduce the grade of service of common control and service circuits to any individual line or trunk by more than 50 percent.
(
2
) The failure of any single nonduplicated power converter shall not reduce the traffic carrying capacity of any trunk group or service links to a host office by more than 50 percent.
(
3
) In a remote switching terminal (RST) of 400 or more equipped lines, any single nonduplicated power converter failure shall not cause a complete loss of service to more than 100 equipped lines.
(
4
) In a remote switching terminal (RST) of less than 400 equipped lines, any single nonduplicated power converter failure shall not cause a complete loss of service to more than 25 percent of the total equipped lines.
(7)
Alarm.
Sufficient system alarm points shall be provided from the RST to report conditions to the host alarm system.
(x)
Responsibilities of the bidder
—(1)
Central office layout.
(i) The successful bidder shall furnish tentative floor plan layout drawings showing the arrangement of the equipment and the dimensions of major equipment units. These drawings shall include minimum door dimensions and ceiling heights required for installation, maintenance and ventilation. If requested by the owner, the floor plan shall be such that the battery, charger, power board, main distributing frame and wire chief's test equipment are isolated from the other equipment by a partition.
(ii) The layout drawings shall also show provision for the ultimate capacity of the central office as specified by the owner.
(iii) After approval by the owner of the tentative floor plan, and within 10 calendar days after approval of the contract by the Administrator, the owner shall furnish the bidder the necessary data on the actual floor plan. Within 20 calendar days after receiving the necessary building data, the bidder shall then supply floor plan drawings showing exact locations of all equipment, both initial and ultimate, including points where connection to commercial power are required, with voltage and wattage indicated at each point. Within 20 calendar days after receiving the floor plan drawings from the bidder, the owner shall approve these drawings or take the necessary steps to have the drawings changed to meet his approval. The layout planning must be so coordinated between the owner and the bidder as not to delay the scheduled equipment installation date.
(2)
Shipment of main distributing frame (MDF).
The bidder shall ship the MDF equipment, with all necessary instructions to permit its installation by the owner, at the time requested by the owner in writing, provided such time is not earlier than 90 days prior to the date specified for the shipment of the rest of the central office equipment. If the owner or the owner's agent installs the main distributing frame, the owner shall assume the responsibility and the expense of proper installation according to information furnished by the bidder.
(3)
Drawings and printed material.
(i) The bidder shall supply instructional material for each exchange involved at the time of delivery of the equipment. It is not the intent of this section to require system documentation necessary for the repair of individual circuit boards. The bidder shall supply three complete sets of legible drawings, each set to include all of the following drawings and documentation:
(A) A floor plan showing exact dimensions and location of each equipment frame or item to a convenient scale;
(B) A block schematic drawing showing the various equipment components in the system, and their identifying circuit number (e.g., MDF, line circuits, memory, trunks, etc.);
(C) Drawings of major equipment items such as frames, with the location of major component items of equipment shown;
(D) Individual functional drawings for electrical circuits in the system;
(E) A detailed description of the operation of each circuit down to a circuit package level;
(F) Wiring diagrams indicating the specific method of wiring used on each item of equipment and interconnection wiring between items of equipment;
(G) Sufficient software documentation to maintain and service the system, including drawings showing principal aspects of the software architecture;
(H) Individual maintenance drawings covering each equipment item that contains replaceable parts, appropriately identifying each part by name and part number, or, complete ordering instructions for all replaceable parts if individual item drawings are not provided; and
(I) Job drawings including all drawings that are individual to the particular office involved, such as main frame, power panel, test board, etc.
(ii) The following information shall also be furnished:
(A) Complete index of the required drawings;
(B) Explanation of electrical principles of operation of the overall switching system;
(C) List of tests which can be performed with each piece of test equipment furnished, and explanation of the method of performing each test;
(D) Sample of each form recommended for use in keeping records of tests;
(E) Criteria for analyzing results of tests and determining appropriate corrective action;
(F) General notes on the methods of isolating equipment faults to specific printed circuit cards in the equipment;
(G) List of typical troubles which might be encountered, together with general indications as to the probable location of each trouble;
(H) Special office grounding requirements;
(I) A site specific central office ground system acceptance checklist that is consistent with industry practice; and
(J) A site specific layout of the master ground bar (MGB) showing assignment of P, A, N, and I equipment areas.
(4)
Distributing frame wire.
The bidder shall provide sufficient tinned copper conductor distributing frame wire for the initial installation. The insulation of this wire shall be such that it will not support combustion. The insulation shall have good abrasion resistance and cut-through properties, exhibit good solder heat resistance, and be suitable for wire wrap connections or insulation displacement connections.
(5)
Technical assistance service.
A technical assistance service shall be made available to assist the owner and its maintenance personnel on a 24-hour, 7 days a week basis. There is to be assistance available for both hardware and software problems. The necessary interface devices shall be supplied by the bidder.
(6)
Spare parts.
