If you meet all the requirements for qualification listed in § 408.202 and if none of the conditions listed in § 408.204 exist, we will ask you for documents and information to establish your residence outside the United States. If you establish that you are residing outside the United States, we will send you a letter telling you that you are entitled to SVB and the first month for which SVB payments can be made to you. The letter will also tell you the amount of your monthly benefit payments, whether your payments are reduced because of your other benefit income, and what rights you have to a reconsideration of our determination.

# Age
§ 408.214
Are you age 65?
You become age 65 on the first moment of the day before the anniversary of your birth corresponding to age 65. Thus, you must have been born on or before December 15, 1934 to be at least age 65 on December 14, 1999 and to qualify for SVB.

# Military Service
§ 408.216
Are you a World War II veteran?
(a)
Service requirements.
For SVB purposes, you are a World War II veteran if you:
(1) Served in the active military, naval or air service of the United States during World War II at any time
during the period beginning on September 16, 1940 and ending on July 24, 1947; or
(2) Served in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines, while the forces were in the service of the U.S. Armed Forces pursuant to the military order of the President dated July 26, 1941, including among the military forces organized guerrilla forces under commanders appointed, designated, or subsequently recognized by the Commander in Chief, Southwest Pacific Area, or other competent authority in the U.S. Army. This service must have been rendered at any time during the period beginning July 26, 1941 and ending on December 30, 1946.
(b)
Discharge requirements.
You must have been discharged or released from this service under conditions other than dishonorable after service of 90 days or more or, if your service was less than 90 days, because of a disability or injury incurred or aggravated in the line of active duty.

# SSI Eligibility
§ 408.218
Do you meet the SSI eligibility requirements?
For SVB purposes, you are eligible for SSI for a given month if all of the following are met:
(a) You have been determined to be eligible for SSI (except as noted in paragraph (c) of this section); you do not have to actually receive a payment for that month;
(b) Your SSI eligibility has not been terminated for that month; and
(c) Your SSI benefits are not subject to a penalty under § 416.1340 of this chapter. This includes months in which a penalty has been imposed, as well as months in which a penalty cannot be imposed because you are in SSI nonpay status for some other reason.

# Other Benefit Income
§ 408.220
Do you have other benefit income?
(a)
Description of other benefit income.
Other benefit income is any regular periodic payment (such as an annuity, pension, retirement or disability benefit) that you receive. For other benefit income to affect your SVB eligibility, you must have been receiving the other benefit income in any part of the 12-month period before the month in which you filed your application for SVB. Payments received after you become entitled to SVB can be included as other benefit income only if you received a similar payment from the same or a related source during any part of the 12-month period before the month in which you filed your application for SVB.
(b)
When other benefit payments are considered to be similar payments from the same or a related source.
Payments are similar payments from the same or a related source if they are received from sources substantially related to the sources of income received before you became entitled to SVB. For example, if you received U.S. Social Security spouse's benefits in the 12-month period before you filed your application for SVB and these were changed to widower's benefits after you became entitled to SVB, we would consider this to be from the same or a related source.
(c)
Examples of other benefit income.
Other benefit income can come from a source inside or outside the United States. It includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
(1) Veterans' compensation or pension,
(2) Workers' compensation,
(3) U.S. or foreign Social Security benefits (not including SSI payments from the U.S.),
(4) Railroad retirement annuity or pension,
(5) Retirement or disability pension,
(6) Individual Retirement Account (IRA) payments, and
(7) Unemployment insurance benefit.
(d)
If you receive a lump-sum payment.
Regular periodic payments can also include lump-sum payments made at your request or as an administrative convenience or practice in place of more frequent payments. See § 408.224(e) for an explanation of how we determine the monthly amount of your benefit income if you receive a lump-sum payment.
§ 408.222
How does your other benefit income affect your SVB?
(a)
Income began before you qualify for SVB.
If, at the time you file your application for SVB, your other benefit income is equal to, or more than, the maximum SVB payment possible (see § 408.505), we will deny your SVB claim. If it is less, we will reduce any monthly SVB payments you become entitled to by the amount of your other benefit income (see § 408.510 for a description of how we make the reduction).
(b)
Income begins after you qualify for SVB.
If you have been determined to be qualified for SVB, we will reduce any monthly SVB payments you become entitled to by the amount of your other benefit income (see § 408.510 for a description of how we make the reduction).
§ 408.224
How do we determine the monthly amount of your other benefit income?
If your other benefit income is paid in other than monthly amounts, we will compute the equivalent monthly amount as follows:
(a)
Weekly payments.
We multiply the amount of the weekly payment by 52 and divide by 12 to determine the equivalent monthly payment amount.
(b)
Bi-weekly payments.
We multiply the amount of the bi-weekly payment by 26 and divide by 12 to determine the equivalent monthly payment amount.
(c)
Quarterly payments.
We multiply the amount of the quarterly payment by 4 and divide by 12 to determine the equivalent monthly payment amount.
(d)
Semi-annual payments.
We multiply the amount of the semi-annual payment by 2 and divide by 12 to determine the equivalent monthly payment amount.
(e)
Lump sum payment.
If the paying agency will not prorate the lump sum to determine the monthly amount, we will compute the amount as follows:
(1)
If the payment is for a specific period.
We divide the lump sum by the number of months in the period for which the payment was made to determine the equivalent monthly payment amount.
(2)
If the payment is for a lifetime or for an unspecified period.
We divide the lump sum amount by your life expectancy in months at the time the lump sum is paid.
§ 408.226
What happens if you begin receiving other benefit income after you become entitled to SVB?
If you begin receiving other benefit income after you become entitled to SVB, we will reduce your SVB by the amount of those payments only if you were receiving similar benefits from the same or a related source during the 12-month period before you filed for SVB. (See § 408.220(b) for a description of when we consider other benefit income to be from the same or a related source.)

# Residence Outside the United States
§ 408.228
When do we consider you to be residing outside the United States?
(a)
Effect of residency on SVB eligibility.
You can be paid SVB only for those months in which you are residing outside the United States but you can not be paid for a month that is earlier than the month in which you filed your application for SVB. You are residing outside the United States in a month only if you reside outside the United States on the first day of that month. For SVB purposes, you can be a resident of only one country at a time. You cannot, for example, maintain a residence in the United States and a residence outside the United States at the same time.
(b)
Definition of residing outside the United States.
We consider you to be residing outside the United States if you:
(1) Have established an actual dwelling place outside the United States; and
(2) Intend to continue to live outside the United States.
(c)
When we will assume you intend to continue living outside the United States.
If you tell us, or the evidence shows, that you intend to reside outside the United States for at least 6 months, we will assume you meet the intent requirement in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Otherwise we will assume, absent convincing evidence to the contrary, that your stay is temporary and that you are not residing outside the United States.
§ 408.230
When must you begin residing outside the United States?
(a)
4-month rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, you must begin residing outside the United States by the end of the fourth calendar month after the month in which the notice explaining that you are qualified for SVB is dated, as explained in § 408.206. If you do not establish residence outside the United States within this 4-month period, we will deny your claim for SVB. You will have to file a new application and meet all the requirements for qualification and entitlement based on the new application to become entitled to SVB.
(b)
When we will extend the 4-month period.
We will extend the 4-month period for establishing residence outside the United States if you are in the United States and are appealing either:
(1) A determination that we made on your SVB claim, or
(2) A determination that we made on a title II and/or a title XVI claim but only if the determination affects your SVB qualification.
(c)
How we extend the 4-month period.
If the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section are met, the 4-month period begins with the month after the month in which your notice of our decision on your appeal is dated or the month in which your appeal rights have expired.
§ 408.232
When do you lose your foreign resident status?
(a)
General rule.
We consider you to have lost or abandoned your residence outside the United States if you:
(1) Enter the United States and stay for more than 1 full calendar month (see § 408.234 for exceptions to this rule);
(2) Tell us that you no longer consider yourself to be residing outside the United States; or
(3) Become eligible (as defined by title XVI) for SSI benefits.
(b)
Resumption of SVB following a period of U.S. residence.
Once you lose or abandon your residence outside the United States, you cannot receive SVB again until you meet all the requirements for SVB qualification and reestablish your residence outside the United States.

# Example:
You leave your home outside the United States on June 15 to visit your son in the United States and return to your home abroad on August 15. Your SVB payments will continue for the months of June and July. However, because you were in the United States for the entire calendar month of July (
i.e.,
all of the first day through all of the last day of July), you are not entitled to an SVB payment for the month of August. Your SVB payments resume with September, the month you reestablished your residence outside the United States.
§ 408.234
Can you continue to receive SVB payments if you stay in the United States for more than 1 full calendar month?
(a)
When we will consider your foreign residence to continue.
We will continue to consider you to be a foreign resident and will continue to pay you SVB payments even if you have been in the United States for more than 1 full calendar month if you—
(1) Made a good faith effort to return to your home abroad within that 1-month period but were prevented from doing so by circumstances beyond your control (e.g., sickness, a death in the family, a transportation strike, etc.); or
(2) Are exercising your option to be personally present in the United States to present testimony and other evidence in the appeal of an SSA decision on a claim filed under any SSA-administered program. This extension applies only as long as you are participating in activities where you are providing testimony and other evidence in connection with a determination or decision at a specific level of the appeals process (e.g., a hearing before an administrative law judge).
(b)
When you must return to your home abroad.
When the circumstance/event that was the basis for the continuation of your SVB payments ceases to exist, you must return to your home abroad within 1 full calendar month. If you do not return to your home abroad within this 1-calendar-month period, we will consider you to have lost or abandoned your foreign resident status for SVB purposes and we will stop your SVB payments with the first day of the month following the first full calendar month you remain in the United States.

# Subpart C—Filing Applications

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 802, 806, and 810 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1102, 1106 and 1110); Sec. 251, Pub. L. 106-169, 113 Stat. 1844.

# Filing Your Application
§ 408.301
What is this subpart about?
This subpart contains our rules about filing applications for SVB. It explains what an application is, who may sign it, where and when it must be signed and filed, the period of time it is in effect, and how it may be withdrawn. This subpart also explains when a written statement or an oral inquiry may be considered to establish your application filing date.
§ 408.305
Why do you need to file an application to receive benefits?
In addition to meeting other requirements, you must file an application to become entitled to SVB. If you believe you may be entitled to SVB, you should file an application. Filing an application will—
(a) Permit us to make a formal decision on whether you qualify for SVB;
(b) Assure that you receive SVB for any months you are entitled to receive payments; and
(c) Give you the right to appeal if you are dissatisfied with our determination.
§ 408.310
What makes an application a claim for SVB?
To be considered a claim for SVB, an application must generally meet all of the following conditions:
(a) It must be on the prescribed SVB application form (SSA-2000-F6, Application for Special Benefits for World War II Veterans).
(b) It must be completed and filed with SSA as described in § 408.325.
(c) It must be signed by you or by someone who may sign an application for you as described in § 408.315.
(d) You must be alive at the time it is filed.
§ 408.315
Who may sign your application?
(a)
When you must sign.
If you are mentally competent, and physically able to do so, you must sign your own application.
(b)
When someone else may sign for you.
(1) If you are mentally incompetent, or physically unable to sign, your application may be signed by a court-appointed representative or a person who is responsible for your care, including a relative. If you are in the care of an institution, the manager or principal officer of the institution may sign your application.
(2) If it is necessary to protect you from losing benefits and there is good cause why you could not sign the application, we may accept an application signed by someone other than you or a person described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

# Example:
Mr. Smith comes to a Social Security office a few days before the end of a month to file an application for SVB for his neighbor, Mr. Jones. Mr. Jones, a 68-year-old widower, just suffered a heart attack and is in the hospital. He asked Mr. Smith to file the application for him. We will accept an application signed by Mr. Smith because it would not be possible to have Mr. Jones sign and file the application until the next calendar month and a loss of one month's benefits would result.
§ 408.320
What evidence shows that a person has authority to sign an application for you?
(a) A person who signs an application for you will be required to give us evidence of his or her authority to sign the application for you under the following rules:
(1) If the person who signs is a court-appointed representative, he or she must give us a certificate issued by the court showing authority to act for you.
(2) If the person who signs is not a court-appointed representative, he or she must give us a statement describing his or her relationship to you. The statement must also describe the extent to which the person is responsible for your care.
(3) If the person who signs is the manager or principal officer of an institution which is responsible for your care, he or she must give us a statement indicating the person's position of responsibility at the institution.
(b) We may, at any time, require additional evidence to establish the authority of a person to sign an application for you.
§ 408.325
When is your application considered filed?
(a)
General rule.
We consider an application for SVB filed on the day it is received by an SSA employee at one of our offices, by an SSA employee who is authorized to receive it at a place other than one of our offices, or by any office of the U.S. Foreign Service or by the Veterans Affairs Regional Office in the Philippines.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) When we receive an application that is mailed, we will use the date shown by the United States postmark as the filing date if using the date we receive it would result in your entitlement to additional benefits. If the postmark is unreadable, or there is no United States postmark, we will use the date the application is signed (if dated) or 5 days before the day we receive the signed application, whichever date is later.
(2) We consider an application to be filed on the date of the filing of a written statement or the making of an oral inquiry under the conditions in §§ 408.340 and 408.345.
(3) We will establish a deemed filing date of an application in a case of misinformation under the conditions described in § 408.351. The filing date of the application will be a date determined under § 408.351(b).
§ 408.330
How long will your application remain in effect?
Your application for SVB will remain in effect from the date it is filed until we make a final determination on it, unless there is a hearing decision on your application. If there is a hearing decision, your application will remain in effect until the hearing decision is issued.

# Filing Date Based on Written Statement or Oral Inquiry
§ 408.340
When will we use a written statement as your filing date?
If you file with us under the rules stated in § 408.325 a written statement, such as a letter, indicating your intent to claim SVB, we will use the filing date of the written statement as the filing date of your application. If the written statement is mailed, we will use the date the statement was mailed to us as shown by the United States postmark. If the postmark is unreadable or there is no United States postmark, we will use the date the statement is signed (if dated) or 5 days before the day we receive the written statement, whichever date is later, as the filing date. In order for us to use your written statement to protect your filing date, the following requirements must be met:
(a) The statement indicates your intent to file for benefits.
(b) The statement is signed by you, your spouse, or a person described in § 408.315.
(c) You file an application with us on an application form as described in § 408.310(a), or one is filed for you by a person described in § 408.315, within 60 days after the date of a notice we will send advising of the need to file an application. The notice will say that we will make an initial determination of your qualification if an application form is filed within 60 days after the date of the notice. We will send the notice to you. However, if it is clear from the information we receive that you are mentally incompetent, we will send the notice to the person who submitted the written statement.
(d) You are alive when the application is filed.
§ 408.345
When will we use the date of an oral inquiry as your application filing date?
We will use the date of an oral inquiry about SVB as the filing date of your application for SVB if the following requirements are met:
(a) The inquiry asks about your entitlement to SVB.
(b) The inquiry is made by you, your spouse, or a person who may sign an application on your behalf as described in § 408.315.
(c) The inquiry, whether in person or by telephone, is directed to an office or an official described in § 408.325(a).
(d) You, or a person on your behalf as described in § 408.315, file an application on a prescribed form within 60 days
after the date of the notice we will send telling of the need to file an application. The notice will say that we will make an initial determination on whether you qualify for SVB if an application form is filed within 60 days after the date of the notice. However, if it is clear from the information we receive that you are mentally incompetent, we will send the notice to the person who made the inquiry.
(e) You are alive when the prescribed application is filed.

# Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
§ 408.351
What happens if we give you misinformation about filing an application?
(a)
General rule.
You may have considered applying for SVB, for yourself or another person and you may have contacted us in writing, by telephone or in person to inquire about filing an application for SVB. It is possible that in responding to your inquiry, we may have given you misinformation about qualification for such benefits that caused you not to file an application at that time. If this happened and use of that date will result in entitlement to additional benefits, and you later file an application for SVB with us, we may establish an earlier filing date as explained in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.
(b)
Deemed filing date of an application based on misinformation.
Subject to the requirements and conditions in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section, we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for SVB under the following provisions.
(1) If we determine that you failed to apply for SVB because we gave you misinformation about qualification for or entitlement to such benefits, we will deem an application for such benefits to have been filed with us on the later of—
(i) The date on which we gave you the misinformation; or
(ii) The date on which all of the requirements for qualification to SVB were met, other than the requirement of filing an application.
(2) Before we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for SVB under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you or a person described in § 408.315 must file an application for such benefits.
(c)
Requirements concerning the misinformation.
We apply the following requirements for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The misinformation must have been provided to you by one of our employees while he or she was acting in his or her official capacity as our employee. For purposes of this section, an employee includes an officer of SSA, an employee of a U.S. Foreign Service office, and an employee of the SSA Division of the Veterans Affairs Regional Office in the Philippines who is authorized to take and develop Social Security claims.
(2) Misinformation is information which we consider to be incorrect, misleading, or incomplete in view of the facts which you gave to the employee, or of which the employee was aware or should have been aware, regarding your particular circumstances. In addition, for us to find that the information you were given was incomplete, the employee must have failed to provide you with the appropriate, additional information which he or she would be required to provide in carrying out his or her official duties.
(3) The misinformation may have been provided to you orally or in writing.
(4) The misinformation must have been provided to you in response to a specific request by you to us for information about your qualification for SVB.
(d)
Evidence that misinformation was provided.
We will consider the following evidence in making a determination under paragraph (b) of this section.
(1)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence is written evidence which relates directly to your inquiry about your qualification for SVB and which shows that we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. Preferred evidence includes, but is not limited to, the following—
(i) A notice, letter or other document which was issued by us and addressed to you; or
(ii) Our record of your telephone call, letter or in-person contact.
(2)
Other evidence.
In the absence of preferred evidence, we will consider other evidence, including your statements about the alleged misinformation, to determine whether we gave you misinformation, which caused you not to file an application. We will not find that we gave you misinformation, however, based solely on your statements. Other evidence which you provide or which we obtain must support your statements. Evidence which we will consider includes, but is not limited to, the following—
(i) Your statements about the alleged misinformation, including statements about—
(A) The date and time of the alleged contact(s);
(B) How the contact was made, e.g., by telephone or in person;
(C) The reason(s) the contact was made;
(D) Who gave the misinformation; and
(E) The questions you asked and the facts you gave us, and the questions we asked and the information we gave you, at the time of the contact;
(ii) Statements from others who were present when you were given the alleged misinformation, e.g., a neighbor who accompanied you to our office;
(iii) If you can identify the employee or the employee can recall your inquiry about benefits—
(A) Statements from the employee concerning the alleged contact, including statements about the questions you asked, the facts you gave, the questions the employee asked, and the information provided to you at the time of the alleged contact; and
(B) Our assessment of the likelihood that the employee provided the alleged misinformation;
(iv) An evaluation of the credibility and the validity of your allegations in conjunction with other relevant information; and
(v) Any other information regarding your alleged contact.
(e)
Information which does not constitute satisfactory proof that misinformation was given.
Certain kinds of information will not be considered satisfactory proof that we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. Examples of such information include—
(1) General informational pamphlets that we issue to provide basic program information;
(2) General information which we review or prepare but which is disseminated by the media, e.g., radio, television, magazines, and newspapers; and
(3) Information provided by other governmental agencies, e.g., the Department of Veterans Affairs (except for certain employees of the SSA Division of the Veterans Affairs Regional Office in the Philippines as provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section), the Department of Defense, State unemployment agencies, and State and local governments.
(f)
Claim for benefits based on misinformation.
You may make a claim for SVB based on misinformation at any time. Your claim must contain information that will enable us to determine if we did provide misinformation to you about qualification for SVB which caused you not to file an application. Specifically, your claim must be in writing and it must explain what information was provided, how, when and where it was provided and by whom, and why the information caused you not to file an application. If you give us this information, we will make a determination on such a claim for benefits if all of the following conditions are also met.
(1) An application for SVB is filed with us by you or someone described in § 408.315 who may file. The application must be filed after the alleged misinformation was provided. This application may be—
(i) An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision awarding SVB, but only if the claimant continues to be entitled to benefits based on that application;
(ii) An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision denying the benefits, but only if such determination or decision is reopened; or
(iii) A new application on which we have not made a final determination or decision.
(2) The establishment of a deemed filing date of an application for benefits based on misinformation could result
in entitlement to benefits or payment of additional benefits.
(3) We have not made a previous final determination or decision to which you were a party on a claim for benefits based on alleged misinformation involving the same facts and issues. This provision does not apply, however, if the final determination or decision may be reopened.

# Withdrawal of Application
§ 408.355
Can you withdraw your application?
(a) Request for withdrawal filed before a determination is made. You may withdraw your application for SVB before we make a determination on it if—
(1) You, or a person who may sign an application for you under § 408.315, file a written request for withdrawal at a place described in § 408.325; and
(2) You are alive at the time the request is filed.
(b)
Request for withdrawal filed after a determination is made.
An application may be withdrawn after we make a determination on it if you repay all benefits already paid based on the application being withdrawn or we are satisfied that the benefits will be repaid.
(c)
Effect of withdrawal.
If we approve your request to withdraw your application, we consider that the application was never filed. If we disapprove your request for withdrawal, we treat your application as though you did not file a request for withdrawal.
§ 408.360
Can you cancel your request to withdraw your application?
You may request to cancel your request to withdraw your application and have your application reinstated if all of the following requirements are met:
(a) You, or someone who may sign an application for you under § 408.315, file a written request for cancellation at a place described in § 408.325;
(b) You are alive at the time you file your request for cancellation; and
(c) A cancellation request received after we have approved your withdrawal must be filed no later than 60 days after the date of the notice of approval.

# Subpart D—Evidence Requirements

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 806, and 810 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1006, and 1010); sec. 251, Pub. L. 106-169, 113 Stat. 1844.

# General Information
§ 408.401
What is this subpart about?
We cannot determine your entitlement to SVB based solely on your statements about your qualification for benefits or other facts concerning payments to you. We will ask you for specific evidence or additional information. We may verify the evidence you give us with other sources to ensure that it is correct. This subpart contains our rules about the evidence you need to give us when you claim SVB.
§ 408.402
When do you need to give us evidence?
When you apply for SVB, we will ask you for any evidence we need to make sure that you meet the SVB qualification and entitlement requirements. After you begin receiving SVB, we may ask you for evidence showing whether your SVB payments should be reduced or stopped. We will help you get any documents you need but do not have. If your evidence is a foreign-language record or document, we can have it translated for you. The evidence you give us will be kept confidential and not disclosed to anyone but you except under the rules set out in part 401 of this chapter. You should also be aware that section 811 of the Act provides criminal penalties for misrepresenting the facts or for making false statements to obtain SVB payments for yourself or someone else, or to continue entitlement to benefits.
§ 408.403
Where should you give us your evidence?
You should give your evidence to the people at a Social Security Administration office. In the Philippines, you should give your evidence to the people at the Veterans Affairs Regional Office. Elsewhere outside the United States, you should give your evidence to the
people at the nearest U.S. Social Security office or a United States Foreign Service Office.
§ 408.404
What happens if you fail to give us the evidence we ask for?
(a)
You have not yet qualified for SVB.
Generally, we will ask you to give us specific evidence or information by a certain date to prove that you qualify for SVB or to prove your foreign residence. If we do not receive the evidence or information by that date, we may decide that you do not qualify for SVB or may not receive SVB and deny your claim.
(b)
You have qualified for or become entitled to SVB.
If you have already qualified for or become entitled to SVB, we may ask you to give us information by a specific date to decide whether you should receive benefits or, if you are already receiving benefits, whether your benefits should be stopped or reduced. If you do not give us the requested evidence or information by the date given, we may decide that you are no longer entitled to benefits or that your benefits should be stopped or reduced.
(c)
If you need more time.
You should let us know if you are unable to give us the evidence or information within the specified time and explain why there will be a delay. If this delay is due to illness, failure to receive timely evidence you have asked for from another source, or a similar circumstance, we will give you additional time to give us the evidence.
§ 408.405
When do we require original records or copies as evidence?
(a)
General rule.
To prove your qualification for or continuing entitlement to SVB, you may be asked to show us an original document or record. These original documents or records will be returned to you after we have photocopied them. We will also accept copies of original records that are properly certified and some uncertified birth certifications. These types of records are described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Certified copies of original records.
You may give us copies of original records or extracts from records if they are certified as true and exact copies by:
(1) The official custodian of the record;
(2) A Social Security Administration employee authorized to certify copies;
(3) A Veterans Affairs employee if the evidence was given to that agency to obtain veteran's benefits;
(4) An employee of the Veterans Affairs Regional Office, Manila, Philippines who is authorized to certify copies; or
(5) A U.S. Consular Officer or employee of the Department of State authorized to certify evidence received outside the United States.
(c)
Uncertified copies of original birth records.
You may give us an uncertified photocopy of a birth registration notification as evidence of age where it is the practice of the local birth registrar to issue them in this way.
§ 408.406
How do we evaluate the evidence you give us?
When you give us evidence, we examine it to see if it is convincing evidence. This means that unless we have information in our records that raises a doubt about the evidence, other evidence of the same fact will not be needed. If the evidence you give us is not convincing by itself, we may ask you for additional evidence. In evaluating whether the evidence you give us is convincing, we consider such things as whether:
(a) The information contained in the evidence was given by a person in a position to know the facts;
(b) There was any reason to give false information when the evidence was created;
(c) The information in the evidence was given under oath, or with witnesses present, or with the knowledge that there was a penalty for giving false information;
(d) The evidence was created at the time the event took place or shortly thereafter;
(e) The evidence has been altered or has any erasures on it; and
(f) The information contained in the evidence agrees with other available evidence including our records.

# Age
§ 408.410
When do you need to give us evidence of your age?
To qualify for SVB you must establish that you were age 65 or older on December 14, 1999, the date on which Public Law 106-169 was enacted into law. If we have already established your age or date of birth in connection with your claim for other benefit programs that we administer, you will not have to give us evidence of your age for your SVB claim. If we have not established your age or date of birth, you must give us evidence of your age or date of birth. In the absence of information to the contrary, we generally will not ask for additional evidence of your age or date of birth if you state that you are at least age 68, and you submit documentary evidence that is at least 3 years old when the application is filed and supports your statement.
§ 408.412
What kinds of evidence of age do you need to give us?
For a description of the kinds of evidence of age you may need to give us, see § 416.802 of this chapter.
§ 408.413
How do we evaluate the evidence of age you give us?
In evaluating the evidence of age you give us, we use the rules in § 416.803 of this chapter.

# Military Service
§ 408.420
What evidence of World War II military service do you need to give us?
(a)
Kinds of evidence you can give us.
To show that you are a World War II veteran as defined in § 408.216, you can give us any of the documents listed in § 404.1370(b)(1) through (5) of this chapter that were issued by a U.S. Government agency. However, depending on the type of document you give us and what the document shows, we may verify your military service, or the dates of your service, with the National Personnel Records Center (NPRC) in St. Louis, Missouri. If we do, we will use the information in NPRC's records to determine whether you meet the military service requirements for SVB.
(b)
What the evidence must show.
When you file an application for SVB, you must give us evidence of your World War II military service. The evidence you give us must show:
(1) Your name;
(2) The branch of service in which you served;
(3) The dates of your military service;
(4) Your military service serial number;
(5) The character of your discharge; and
(6) If your service was in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines (including the organized guerrilla forces), the period of your service that was under the control of U.S. Armed Forces.

# SSI Eligibility
§ 408.425
How do we establish your eligibility for SSI?
To qualify for SVB, you must have been eligible for SSI for the month of December 1999, the month in which Public Law 106-169 was enacted, and for the month in which you filed your application for SVB. You do not have to submit evidence of this. We will use our SSI record of your eligibility to determine if you meet these requirements.

# Other Benefit Income
§ 408.430
When do you need to give us evidence of your other benefit income?
If you tell us or if we have information indicating that you are receiving other benefit income that could affect your qualification for or the amount of your SVB payments, we will ask you to give us evidence of that income as explained in § 408.432.
§ 408.432
What kind of evidence of your other benefit income do you need to give us?
As evidence of your other benefit income, we may require a document such as an award notice or other letter from the paying agency or written notification from the former employer, insurance company, etc. The evidence should show the benefit payable, the
current amount of the payment, and the date the payment began.

# Residence
§ 408.435
How do you prove that you are residing outside the United States?
(a)
General rule.
To establish that you are residing outside the United States for SVB purposes, you must give us all of the following:
(1) Evidence of the date on which you arrived in the country in which you are residing;
(2) A statement signed by you showing the address at which you are living and that you intend to continue living there; and
(3) Evidence that you are actually living at the address given in your signed statement.
(b)
Evidence of the date you entered the foreign country.
To establish the date you arrived in the country in which you are residing, you can give us evidence such as:
(1) A visa or passport showing the date you entered that country;
(2) Your plane ticket showing the date you arrived in that country; or
(3) An entry permit showing the date you entered that country.
(c)
Evidence of your actual place of residence.
To establish your actual place of residence, you can give us evidence such as:
(1) A lease agreement showing where you live;
(2) Rental or mortgage receipts;
(3) Utility or other bills addressed to you at the address where you live;
(4) A signed statement from a local official showing that he or she knows where you live, when you began living there and how he or she knows this information; or
(5) A Standard Form 1199A, Direct Deposit Sign-Up Form, showing your address abroad and signed by an official of the financial institution after the date you arrived in the country in which you will be residing.
§ 408.437
How do you prove that you had good cause for staying in the United States for more than 1 full calendar month?
(a)
General rule.
If you believe that you meet the requirements in § 408.234 and that you should continue to receive SVB payments even though you have been in the United States for more than 1 full calendar month, you must give us evidence that you had good cause for staying in the United States.
(b)
Circumstances prevent you from returning to your home abroad.
To prove that you had good cause for staying in the United States for more than 1 full calendar month, you must give us evidence of your good faith effort to return to your home abroad before the 1-month period had elapsed and of the circumstances/event which prevented your return to your home abroad.
(1)
Evidence of your good faith effort to return to your home abroad.
Evidence of your plans to return to your home abroad can include, but is not limited to:
(i) A plane ticket showing that you intended to return to your home abroad before the expiration of 1 full calendar month; or
(ii) Notice from a travel agency or airline confirming the cancellation of your reservation to return to your home abroad on a date within 1 full calendar month.
(2)
Evidence of the circumstances preventing your return to your home abroad.
The evidence we will accept from you to support the circumstance or event that prevented you from returning to your home abroad will depend on the reason you are staying in the United States. It can include, but is not limited to, a:
(i) Newspaper article or other publication describing the event or natural disaster which prevented your return; or
(ii) Doctor's statement, etc. showing that you are unable to travel; or
(iii) Death certificate or notice if you are staying in the United States to attend the funeral of a member of your family.
(c)
You are appealing a decision we made.
To establish that you had good cause to stay in the United States for more than 1 full calendar month because you want to appear in person at the appeal of a decision on a claim filed under a program administered by the Social Security Administration, you
must submit evidence of this. The evidence must identify the appeal proceeding and the dates you are scheduled to attend.
(d)
When we may ask for more evidence.
If you stay in the United States for several months, we may ask you to give us more evidence to prove that you are still unable to return to your home abroad.

# Subpart E—Amount and Payment of Benefits

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 801, 805, and 810 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1001, 1005, and 1010); Sec. 251, Pub. L. 106-169, 113 Stat. 1844.
§ 408.501
What is this subpart about?
This subpart explains how we compute the amount of your monthly SVB payment, including how we reduce your payments if you receive other benefit income. It also explains how we pay benefits under the SVB program.
§ 408.505
How do we determine the amount of your SVB payment?
(a)
Maximum SVB payment.
The maximum monthly SVB payment is equal to 75% of the FBR for an individual under title XVI of the Act. See § 416.410 of this chapter.
(b)
Cost-of-living adjustments in the FBR.
The maximum SVB amount will increase whenever there is a cost-of-living increase in the SSI FBR under the provisions of § 416.405 of this chapter. The basic SVB amount following such an increase is equal to 75 percent of the increased FBR.
(c)
When we will reduce the amount of your basic benefit.
We will reduce your basic benefit by the amount of the other benefit income you receive in that month, as explained in § 408.510.
§ 408.510
How do we reduce your SVB when you receive other benefit income?
(a)
Amount of the reduction.
If you receive other benefit income as defined in § 408.220, we will reduce your SVB payment by the amount of the other benefit income you receive in that month. The reduction is on a dollar-for-dollar and cents-for-cents basis. We do not round SVB payment amounts except as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Minimum benefit amount.
If the reduction described in paragraph (a) of this section results in a benefit amount that is greater than zero but less than $1.00, we will pay you a benefit of $1.00 for that month.
§ 408.515
When do we make SVB payments?
SVB payments are made on the first day of each month and represent payment for that month. If the first day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday, payment will be made on the first day preceding such day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday.

# Subpart F—Representative Payment

# Authority:
Secs. 205(j)(1)(C), 702(a)(5), 807, and 810 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(j)(1)(C), 902(a)(5), 1007, and 1010).

# Source:
69 FR 60235, Oct. 7, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 408.601
What is this subpart about?
(a)
Explanation of representative payment.
This subpart explains the policies and procedures we follow to determine whether to pay your benefits to a representative payee and to select a representative payee for you. It also explains the responsibilities your representative payee has for using the funds he or she receives on your behalf. A representative payee may be either an individual or an organization. We will select a representative payee to receive your benefits if we believe your interests will be better served by paying a representative payee than by paying you directly. Generally, we appoint a representative payee if we determine you are unable to manage or direct the management of your own benefit payments. Because the representative payment policies and procedures we use for the title VIII program closely parallel our title II policies and procedures, we provide cross-references to the appropriate material in our title II representative payment rules in subpart U of part 404 of this chapter.
(b)
Policy we use to determine whether to make representative payment.
For an
explanation of the policy we use to determine whether to pay your SVB to a representative payee, see § 404.2001(b) of this chapter.
§ 408.610
When will we send your SVB payments to a representative payee?
In determining when we will pay your benefits to a representative payee, we follow the rules in § 404.2010(a) of this chapter.
§ 408.611
What happens to your monthly benefits while we are finding a suitable representative payee for you?
For an explanation of the policy we use to determine what happens to your monthly benefits while we are finding a suitable representative payee for you, see § 404.2011 of this chapter.
§ 408.615
What information do we consider in determining whether we will pay your benefits to a representative payee?
We determine whether to pay your benefits to a representative payee after considering the information listed in § 404.2015 of this chapter.
§ 408.618
Advance designation of representative payees.
For information about advance designation, how to designate representative payees in advance, how to make changes to advance designations, how we consider an advance designation when we select a representative payee, how we consider an advance designation when we select a subsequent representative payee, and other relevant information, see §§ 404.2018, 404.2020, and 404.2021 of this chapter.
[85 FR 7665, Feb. 11, 2020]
§ 408.620
What information do we consider in selecting the proper representative payee for you?
To select a proper representative payee for you, we consider the information listed in § 404.2020 of this chapter.
§ 408.621
What is our order of preference in selecting a representative payee for you?
We use the preference list in § 404.2021(a) of this chapter as a guide in selecting the proper representative payee for you.
§ 408.622
Who may not serve as a representative payee?
For a list of individuals who may not serve as a representative payee,
see
§ 404.2022 of this chapter.
§ 408.624
How do we investigate a representative payee applicant?
Before selecting an individual or organization as your representative payee, we investigate him or her following the rules in § 404.2024 of this chapter.
§ 408.625
What information must a representative payee report to us?
Your representative payee must report to us information as described in § 404.2025 of this chapter.
§ 408.626
How do we investigate an appointed representative payee?
After we select an individual as your representative payee, we investigate him or her following the rules in § 404.2026 of this chapter.
[84 FR 4325, Feb. 15, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 57319, Oct. 25, 2019]
§ 408.630
How will we notify you when we decide you need a representative payee?
(a) We notify you in writing of our determination to make representative payment. If you are legally incompetent, our written notice is sent to your legal guardian or legal representative. The notice explains that we have determined that representative payment is in your interest, and it provides the name of the representative payee we have selected. The notice:
(1) Contains language that is easily understandable to the reader.
(2) Identifies the person designated as your representative payee.
(3) Explains that you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative can appeal our determination that you need a representative payee.
(4) Explains that you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative can appeal our designation of a particular person to serve as representative payee.
(b) If you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative objects to representative payment or to the designated payee, you can file a formal appeal.
§ 408.635
What are the responsibilities of your representative payee?
For a list of your representative payee's responsibilities, see § 404.2035 of this chapter.
§ 408.640
How must your representative payee use your benefits?
Your representative payee must use your benefits in accordance with the rules in § 404.2040 of this chapter.
§ 408.641
Who is liable if your representative payee misuses your benefits?
For the rules we follow to determine who is liable for repayment of misused benefits, see § 404.2041 of this chapter.
§ 408.645
What must your representative payee do with unused benefits?
If your representative payee has accumulated benefits for you, he or she must conserve or invest them as provided in § 404.2045 of this chapter.
§ 408.650
When will we select a new representative payee for you?
We follow the rules in § 404.2050 of this chapter to determine when we will select a new representative payee for you.
§ 408.655
When will we stop making your payments to a representative payee?
To determine when we will stop representative payment for you, we follow the rules in § 404.2055 of this chapter.
§ 408.660
What happens to your accumulated funds when your representative payee changes?
For a description of what happens to your accumulated funds (including the interest earned on the funds) when we change your representative payee or when you begin receiving benefits directly, see § 404.2060 of this chapter.
§ 408.665
How does your representative payee account for the use of your SVB payments?
(a) Your representative payee must account for the use of your benefits. We require written reports from your representative payee at least once a year.
(b) Your representative payee is exempt from the accounting requirement when your representative payee is the spouse of an individual eligible for SVB payments.
(c) We may verify how your representative payee used your benefits. Your representative payee should keep records of how benefits were used in order to provide accounting reports and must make those records available upon our request. If your representative payee fails to provide an annual accounting of benefits or other required report, we may require your payee to appear in person at the local Social Security field office or a United States Government facility that we designate serving the area in which you reside. The decision to have your representative payee receive your benefits in person may be based on a variety of reasons. Some of these reasons may include the payee's history of past performance or our past difficulty in contacting the payee. We may ask your representative payee to give us the following information:
(1) Where you lived during the accounting period;
(2) Who made the decisions on how your benefits were spent or saved;
(3) How your benefit payments were used; and
(4) How much of your benefit payments were saved and how the savings were invested.
[87 FR 35653, June 13, 2022]

# Subpart G—Reporting Requirements

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 802, 803, 804, 806, 807, and 810 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1002, 1003, 1004, 1006, 1007, and 1010).

# Source:
69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 408.701
What is this subpart about?
To achieve efficient administration of the Special Veterans Benefit (SVB) program, we require you (or your representative) to report certain events to us. It is important for us to know about these events because they may affect your right to receive SVB or the amount of your benefits. This subpart tells you what events you must report; what your reports must include; how you should make your report; and when reports are due.
§ 408.704
Who must make reports?
(a) If you receive your own benefits, you are responsible for making required reports to us.
(b) If you have a representative payee, and you have not been legally adjudged incompetent, either you or your representative payee must make the required reports.
(c) If you have a representative payee and you have been legally adjudged incompetent, you are not responsible for making reports to us; however, your representative payee is responsible for making required reports to us.
§ 408.708
What events must you report to us?
This section describes the events that you must report to us. They are—
(a)
A change of address or residence.
You must report to us any change in your mailing address and any change in your residence,
i.e.
, the address where you live.
(b)
A change in your other benefit income.
You must report to us any increase or decrease in your other benefit income as described in § 408.220.
(c)
Certain deaths.
(1) If you are a representative payee, you must report the death of the entitled individual.
(2) If you have a representative payee, you must report the death of your representative payee.
(d)
Entry into the United States.
You must report to us if you enter the United States to visit or live even if you have no intention of abandoning your residence outside the United States.
(e)
Removal (including deportation) from the United States.
You must report to us if you are removed (including deported) from the United States under section 237(a) or 212(a)(6)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
(f)
Fleeing to avoid criminal prosecution or custody or confinement after conviction, or violating probation or parole.
You must report to us that you are—
(1) Fleeing to avoid prosecution, under the laws of the United States or the jurisdiction within the United States from which you flee, for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State);
(2) Fleeing to avoid custody or confinement after conviction under the laws of the United States or the jurisdiction within the United States from which you flee, for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); or
(3) Violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.
§ 408.710
What must your report include?
When you make a report, you must tell us—
(a) The name and social security number of the person to whom the report applies;
(b) The event you are reporting and the date it happened; and
(c) Your name if you are not the person to whom the report applies.
§ 408.712
How should you make your report?
You should make your report in any of the ways described in this section.
(a)
Written reports.
You may write a report on your own paper or on a printed form supplied by us. You may mail a written report or bring it to one of our offices.
(b)
Oral reports.
You may report to us by telephone, or you may come to one of our offices and tell one of our employees what you are reporting.
(c)
Other methods of reporting.
You may use any other suitable method of
reporting—for example, a telegram or a cable.
§ 408.714
When are reports due?
(a)
A reportable event happens.
You should report to us as soon as an event listed in § 408.708 happens.
(b)
We request a report.
We may request a report from you if we need information to determine continuing entitlement or the correct amount of your SVB payments. If you do not make the report within 30 days of our written request, we may determine that you may not continue to receive SVB. We will suspend your benefits effective with the month following the month in which we determine that you are not entitled to receive SVB because of your failure to give us necessary information (
see
§ 408.803).

# Subpart H—Suspensions and Terminations

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5) and 810(d) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5) and 1010(d)).

# Source:
69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 408.801
What is this subpart about?
This subpart explains the circumstances that will result in suspension of your SVB payments or termination of your SVB entitlement.

# Suspension
§ 408.802
When will we suspend your SVB payments?
(a)
When suspension is proper.
Suspension of SVB payments is required when you no longer meet the SVB qualification requirements (
see
subpart B of this part) and termination in accordance with §§ 408.814 through 408.818 does not apply. (This subpart does not cover suspension of payments for administrative reasons, as, for example, when mail is returned as undeliverable by the Postal Service and we do not have a valid mailing address for you or when your representative payee dies and a search is underway for a substitute representative payee.)
(b)
Effect of suspension.
When we correctly suspend your SVB payments, we will not resume them until you again meet all qualification requirements except the filing of a new application. If you request reinstatement, you are required to submit the evidence necessary to establish that you again meet all requirements for eligibility under this part. Your SVB payments will be reinstated effective with the first month in which you meet all requirements for eligibility except the filing of a new application.
§ 408.803
What happens to your SVB payments if you fail to comply with our request for information?
(a)
Effective date of suspension.
We will suspend your SVB payments effective with the month following the month in which we determine in accordance with § 408.714(b) that you may no longer receive SVB payments because you failed to comply with our request for necessary information.
(b)
Resumption of payments.
When we have information to establish that SVB is again payable, your benefit payments will be reinstated for any previous month for which you continue to meet the requirements of § 408.202.
(c)
When we will not suspend your payments.
We will not suspend your payments for failing to comply with our request for information for any month we can determine your eligibility for or the amount of your payment based on information on record. If we cannot determine your eligibility or the amount of your payment based on the information on record, we will send you a notice of suspension of payment because you failed to comply with our request for information in accordance with §§ 408.820 and 408.1005.
§ 408.806
What happens to your SVB payments if you are no longer residing outside the United States?
(a)
Suspension effective date.
We will suspend your SVB payments effective the first full calendar month you are no longer residing outside the United States.
(b)
Resumption of payments.
If otherwise payable, we will resume your SVB payments effective with the first full calendar month you are again residing outside the United States.
§ 408.808
What happens to your SVB payments if you begin receiving additional benefit income?
(a)
Suspension effective date.
We will suspend your SVB payments for any month your other benefit income (as described in § 408.220(a)) exceeds the maximum SVB amount payable for a month (see § 408.505(a)).
(b)
Resumption of payments.
If otherwise payable, we will resume your SVB payments effective with the first month your other benefit income is less than the maximum SVB amount payable for a month.
§ 408.809
What happens to your SVB payments if you are removed (including deported) from the United States?
(a)
Suspension effective date.
We will suspend your SVB payments effective with the month after the month in which we receive notice from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Service that you have been removed (including deported) from the United States under section 237(a) or 212(a)(6)(A) of the Immigration and Nationality Act.
(b)
Resumption of payments.
If otherwise payable, we will resume your SVB effective with the first month after the month of your removal that you were granted the status of a lawful permanent resident of the United States.
§ 408.810
What happens to your SVB payments if you are fleeing to avoid criminal prosecution or custody or confinement after conviction, or because you violate a condition of probation or parole?
(a)
Basis for suspension.
You may not receive SVB for any month during which you are—
(1) Fleeing to avoid prosecution under the laws of the United States or the jurisdiction within the United States from which you flee for a crime, or attempt to commit a crime, that is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or that, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); or
(2) Fleeing to avoid custody or confinement after conviction under the laws of the United States or the jurisdiction within the United States from which you flee, for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, that is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or that, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); or
(3) Violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.
(b)
Suspension effective date.
Suspension of SVB payments because you are a fugitive as described in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section or a probation or parole violator as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section is effective with the first day of whichever of the following months is earlier—
(1) The month in which a warrant or order for your arrest or apprehension, an order requiring your appearance before a court or other appropriate tribunal (e.g., a parole board), or similar order is issued by a court or other duly authorized tribunal in the United States on the basis of an appropriate finding that you—
(i) Are fleeing, or have fled, to avoid prosecution as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(ii) Are fleeing, or have fled, to avoid custody or confinement after conviction as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section;
(iii) Are violating, or have violated, a condition of your probation or parole as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section; or
(2) The first month during which you fled to avoid such prosecution, fled to avoid such custody or confinement after conviction, or violated a condition of your probation or parole, if indicated in such warrant or order, or in a decision by a court or other appropriate tribunal in the United States.
(c)
Resumption of payments.
If otherwise payable, we will resume your SVB payments beginning with the first month throughout which you are determined to be no longer fleeing to avoid prosecution, fleeing to avoid custody or confinement after conviction, or violating a condition of your probation or parole.
§ 408.812
What happens to your SVB payments if you are not a citizen or national of the United States and you begin residing in a Treasury-restricted country?
(a)
Suspension effective date.
If you are not a citizen or national of the United States, we will suspend your SVB payments effective with the first full calendar month you are residing in a country to which the Treasury Department restricts payments under 31 U.S.C. 3329.
(b)
Resumption of payments.
If benefits are otherwise payable, they will be resumed effective with the first day of the first month in which you are not residing in a Treasury-restricted country.

# Termination
§ 408.814
Can you request termination of your SVB entitlement?
You, your legal guardian, or your representative payee, may voluntarily terminate your SVB entitlement by filing a written request for termination. If your representative payee requests termination, it must be shown that no hardship would result to you if the request is processed. When a termination request is filed, your SVB entitlement ends effective with the month following the month you file your request with us unless you specify some other month. However, we will not terminate your entitlement for any month for which payment has been or will be made unless you repay (or there is an assurance you will repay) any amounts paid for those months. When we process a voluntary request for termination of your SVB entitlement, we will send you a notice of our determination in accordance with § 408.1005. Once terminated, your entitlement can be reestablished only if you file a new application, except as provided by § 408.1009.
§ 408.816
When does SVB entitlement end due to death?
Your SVB entitlement ends with the month in which you die. Payments are terminated effective with the month after the month of death.
§ 408.818
When does SVB entitlement terminate if your benefit payments have been in suspense for 12 consecutive months?
We will terminate your SVB entitlement following 12 consecutive months of benefit suspension for any reason beginning with the first month you were no longer entitled to SVB. We will count the 12-month suspension period from the start of the first month that you are no longer entitled to SVB (
see
§ 408.802(a)). This termination is effective with the first day of the 13th month after the suspension began.
§ 408.820
Will we send you a notice of intended action affecting your SVB payment status?
(a)
Advance written notice requirement.
Before we suspend, reduce (
see
subpart E of this part), or terminate your SVB payments, we will send you a written notice explaining our intention to do so, except where we have factual information confirming your death, e.g., as specified in § 404.704(b) of this chapter, or a report by a surviving spouse, a legal guardian, a parent or other close relative, or a landlord.
(b)
Continuation of payment pending an appeal.
The written notice of our intent to suspend, reduce, or terminate payments will give you 60 days after the date you receive the notice to request the appropriate appellate review. If your benefit payments are reduced or suspended and you file an appeal within 10 days after you receive the notice, payments will be continued or reinstated at the previously established payment level (subject to the effects of intervening events on the payment which are not appealed within 10 days of receipt of a required advance notice or which do not require advance notice, e.g., an increase in the benefit amount) until a decision on your initial appeal is issued, unless you specifically waive in writing your right to continuation of payment at the previously established level in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Where the request for the appropriate appellate review is filed more than 10 days after the notice is received but within the 60-day period specified in § 408.1009 of this part, you have no right to continuation or reinstatement of payment at the
previously established level unless you establish good cause under the criteria specified in § 408.1011 of this part for failure to appeal within 10 days after receipt of the notice. For purposes of this paragraph, we will presume you received our notice of intent to suspend, reduce, or terminate payments 5 days after the date on the face of the notice, unless there is a reasonable showing to the contrary.
(c)
Waiver of right to continued payment.
In order to avoid the possibility of an overpayment of benefits, you may waive continuation of payment at the previously established level (subject to intervening events which would have increased the benefit for the month in which the incorrect payment was made, in which case the higher amount shall be paid), after you receive a full explanation of your rights. Your request for waiver of continuation of payment must be in writing, state that waiver action is being initiated solely at your request, and state that you understand your right to receive continued payment at the previously established level.

# Subpart I—Underpayments and Overpayments

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 808, and 1147 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1008, and 1320b-17); 31 U.S.C. 3716; 31 U.S.C. 3720A.

# Source:
69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# General Rules
§ 408.900
What is this subpart about?
This subpart explains what happens when you receive less or more than the correct amount of SVB than you are entitled to receive. Sections 408.901 through 408.903 define overpayment and underpayment and describe how we determine the amount of the overpayment or underpayment. When you receive less than the correct amount of SVB (which we refer to as an underpayment), we will take the actions described in §§ 408.904 and 408.905. Waiver of recovery of overpayments (payments of more than the correct amount) is discussed in §§ 408.910 through 408.914, and the methods we use to recover overpayments are discussed in §§ 408.920 through 408.946. In § 408.950, we explain when we will accept a compromise settlement of an overpayment or suspend or terminate collection of an overpayment.
§ 408.901
What is an underpayment?
(a) An underpayment can occur only with respect to a period for which you filed an application for benefits and met all conditions of eligibility for benefits.
(b) An underpayment is:
(1) Nonpayment, where payment was due but was not made; or
(2) Payment of less than the amount due for a period.
(c) For purposes of this section, payment has been made when certified by the Social Security Administration to the Department of the Treasury. Payment is not considered to have been made where payment has not been received by the designated payee, or where payment was returned.
§ 408.902
What is an overpayment?
(a) As used in this subpart, the term overpayment means payment of more than the amount due for any period. For purposes of this section, payment has been made when certified by the Social Security Administration to the Department of the Treasury. Payment is not considered to have been made where payment has not been received by the designated payee, or where payment was returned.
(b) As used in this subpart, the term
pandemic period
for the purposes of the waiver authority in § 408.910 refers exclusively to the period of time beginning on March 1, 2020, and ending on September 30, 2020.
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 52914, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 408.903
How do we determine the amount of an underpayment or overpayment?
(a)
General.
The amount of an underpayment or overpayment is the difference between the amount you are paid and the amount you are due for a given period. An underpayment or overpayment period begins with the first month for which there is a difference between the amount paid and
the amount actually due for that month. The period ends with the month in which we make the initial determination of the overpayment or underpayment. With respect to the period established, there can be no underpayment to you if we paid you more than the correct amount of SVB, even though we waived recovery of any overpayment to you for that period under the provisions of §§ 408.910 through 408.914. A later initial determination of an overpayment will require no change with respect to a prior determination of overpayment or to the period relating to such prior determination to the extent that the basis of the prior overpayment remains the same.
(b)
Limited delay in payment of an underpayment.
Where we have detected a potential overpayment but we have not made a determination of the overpayment (
see
§ 408.918(a)), we will not delay making a determination of underpayment and paying you unless we can make an overpayment determination before the close of the month following the month in which we discovered the potential underpayment.
(c)
Delay in payment of underpayment to ineligible individual.
If you are no longer entitled to SVB, we will delay a determination and payment of an underpayment that is otherwise due you so that we can resolve all overpayments, incorrect payments, and adjustments.
§ 408.904
How will you receive an underpayment?
We will pay you the amount of any underpayment due you in a separate payment or by increasing the amount of your monthly payment. If you die before we pay you all or any part of an underpayment, the balance of the underpayment reverts to the general fund of the U.S. Treasury.
§ 408.905
Will we withhold or adjust an underpayment to reduce an overpayment if that overpayment occurred in a different period?
We will withhold or adjust any underpayment due you to reduce any overpayment to you that we determine for a different period, unless we have waived recovery of the overpayment under the provisions of §§ 408.910 through 408.914.

# Waiver of Recovery of SVB Overpayments
§ 408.910
When will we waive recovery of an SVB overpayment?
We will waive recovery of an overpayment when:
(a) You are without fault in connection with the overpayment, and
(b) Recovery of such overpayment would either:
(1) Defeat the purpose of the title VIII program, or
(2) Be against equity and good conscience.
(c) We will apply the procedures in this paragraph (c) when an individual requests waiver of all or part of a qualifying overpayment.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph (c), a qualifying overpayment is one that accrued during the
pandemic period
(see § 408.902(b)) because of the actions that we took in response to the COVID-19 national public health emergency, including the suspension of certain of our manual workloads that would have processed actions identifying and stopping certain overpayments.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, we will presume that an individual who requests waiver of a qualifying overpayment is without fault in causing the overpayment (see § 408.912) unless we determine that the qualifying overpayment made to a beneficiary or a representative payee was the result of fraud or similar fault or involved misuse of benefits by a representative payee (see § 408.641).
(3) If we determine under paragraph (c)(2) of this section that an individual or a representative payee is without fault in causing a qualifying overpayment, we will also determine that recovery of the qualifying overpayment would be against equity and good conscience. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3) only, “against equity and good conscience” is not limited to the meaning used in § 408.914 but means a broad concept of fairness that takes into account all of the facts and circumstances of the case.
(4) The provisions of this paragraph (c) will apply to a qualifying overpayment identified by December 31, 2020.
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 52914, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 408.911
What happens when we waive recovery of an SVB overpayment?
Waiver of recovery of an overpayment from you (or, after your death, from your estate) frees you and your estate from the obligation to repay the amount of the overpayment covered by the waiver.
Example:
You filed for waiver of recovery of a $600 overpayment. We found that you are eligible for waiver of recovery of $260 of that amount. Only $340 of the overpayment would be recoverable from you or your estate.
§ 408.912
When are you without fault regarding an overpayment?
(a)
General—when fault is relevant.
If you request waiver of recovery of an overpayment, we must determine whether you were without fault. You are not relieved of liability and are not without fault solely because we may have been at fault in making the overpayment.
(b)
The factors we consider to determine whether you were without fault.
When we determine whether you were without fault, we consider all the pertinent circumstances relating to the overpayment. We consider your understanding of your obligation to give us information affecting your payments, your agreement to report events, your knowledge of the occurrence of events that should have been reported, the efforts you made to comply with the reporting requirements, the opportunities you had to comply with the reporting requirements, your ability to comply with the reporting requirements (e.g., your age, comprehension, memory, physical and mental condition), and your understanding of the obligation to return payments that were not due. In determining whether you are without fault based on these factors, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or language limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) you may have. We will determine that you were at fault if, after considering all of the circumstances, we find that the overpayment resulted from one of the following:
(1) Your failure to furnish information which you knew or should have known was material;
(2) An incorrect statement you made which you knew or should have known was incorrect (this includes furnishing your opinion or conclusion when you were asked for facts), or
(3) You did not return a payment, which you knew, or could have been expected to know, was incorrect.
(c)
Special rule for qualifying overpayments.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, we will not determine any overpaid individual to be at fault in causing a qualifying overpayment (see § 408.910(c)(1)) unless we determine that the qualifying overpayment made to an individual or a representative payee during the pandemic period (see § 408.902(b)) was the result of fraud or similar fault or involved misuse of benefits by a representative payee (see § 408.641).
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 85 FR 52914, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 408.913
When would overpayment recovery defeat the purpose of the title VIII program?
We will waive recovery of an overpayment when you are without fault (as defined in § 408.912) and recovery of the overpayment would defeat the purpose of the title VIII program. Recovery of an overpayment would defeat the purpose of the title VIII program to the extent that our recovery action would deprive you of income and resources you need to meet your ordinary and necessary living expenses as described in § 404.508(a) of this chapter.
§ 408.914
When would overpayment recovery be against equity and good conscience?
We will waive recovery of an overpayment when you are without fault (as defined in § 408.912) and recovery would be against equity and good conscience. Recovery would be against equity and good conscience if you changed your position for the worse or gave up a valuable right in reliance on our notice that payment would be
made or because of the incorrect payment itself.
Example:
Upon our notice that you are eligible for SVB payments, you signed a lease on an apartment renting for $15 a month more than the one you previously occupied. You were subsequently found ineligible for SVB and no benefits are payable. In this case, recovery of the overpayment would be considered “against equity and good conscience.”

# Notices
§ 408.918
What notices will you receive if you are overpaid or underpaid?
(a)
Notice of overpayment or underpayment determination.
Whenever we determine that you were overpaid or underpaid for a given period, as defined in § 408.903, we will send you a written notice of the correct and incorrect amounts you received for each month in the period, even if part or all of the underpayment must be withheld in accordance with § 408.905. The notice of overpayment will advise you about recovery of the overpayment, as explained in §§ 408.920-408.923, and your rights to appeal the determination and to request waiver of recovery of the overpayment under the provisions of § 408.910.
(b)
Notice of waiver determination.
Written notice of an initial determination regarding waiver of recovery will be mailed to you in accordance with § 408.1005 unless you were not given notice of the overpayment in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.

# Refund of Overpayments
§ 408.920
When will we seek refund of an SVB overpayment?
We will seek refund of an SVB overpayment in every case in which we have not waived recovery. An overpayment may be refunded by you or by anyone on your behalf. If you are receiving SVB currently and you have not refunded the overpayment, adjustment as set forth in § 408.922 will be proposed. If you die before we recover the full overpayment, we will seek refund of the balance from your estate.

# Adjustment of SVB
§ 408.922
When will we adjust your SVB payments to recover an overpayment?
If you do not refund your overpayment to us, and waiver of recovery is not applicable, we will adjust any SVB payments due you to recover the overpayment. Adjustment will generally be accomplished by withholding each month the amount set forth in § 408.923 from the benefit payable to you.
§ 408.923
Is there a limit on the amount we will withhold from your SVB payments to recover an overpayment?
(a)
Amount of the withholding limit.
Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the amount we will withhold from your monthly SVB payment to recover an overpayment is limited to the lesser of (1) the amount of your Federal SVB payment or (2) an amount equal to 10 percent of the maximum SVB monthly payment amount as defined in § 408.505(a).
(b)
Your right to request a different rate of withholding.
When we notify you of the rate we propose to withhold from your monthly SVB payment, we will give you the opportunity to request a higher or lower rate of withholding than that proposed. If you request a rate of withholding that is lower than the one established under paragraph (a) of this section, we will set a rate that is appropriate to your financial condition after we evaluate all the pertinent facts. An appropriate rate is one that will not deprive you of income required for ordinary and necessary living expenses. We will evaluate your income, resources, and expenses as described in § 404.508 of this chapter.
(c)
Fraud, misrepresentation or concealment of material information.
If we determine that there was fraud, willful misrepresentation, or concealment of material information by you in connection with the overpayment, the limits in paragraph (a)(2) of this section do not apply and we will not lower the rate of withholding under paragraph (b) of this section. Concealment of material information means an intentional, knowing, and purposeful delay in making or in failing to make a report that will affect your SVB payment amount
and/or eligibility. It does not include a mere omission on your part; it is an affirmative act to conceal.

# Adjustment of Title II Benefits
§ 408.930
Are title II and title XVI benefits subject to adjustment to recover title VIII overpayments?
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Cross-program recovery.
Cross-program recovery is the process that we will use to collect title VIII overpayments from benefits payable to you under title II or title XVI of the Social Security Act.
(2)
Benefits payable.
For purposes of this section, benefits payable means the amount of title II or title XVI benefits you actually would receive. For title II benefits, it includes your monthly benefit and your past-due benefits after any reductions or deductions listed in § 404.401(a) and (b) of this chapter. For title XVI benefits, it includes your monthly benefit and your past-due benefits as described in § 416.420 of this chapter.
(b)
When may we collect title VIII overpayments using cross-program recovery?
We may use cross-program recovery to collect a title VIII overpayment you owe when benefits are payable to you under title II, title XVI, or both.
[70 FR 15, Jan. 3, 2004]
§ 408.931
How much will we withhold from your title II and title XVI benefits to recover a title VIII overpayment?
(a) If past-due benefits are payable to you, we will withhold the lesser of the entire overpayment balance or the entire amount of past-due benefits.
(b)(1) We will collect the overpayment from current monthly benefits due in a month under title II and title XVI by withholding the lesser of the amount of the entire overpayment balance or:
(i) 10 percent of the monthly title II benefits payable for that month and
(ii) in the case of title XVI benefits, an amount no greater than the lesser of the benefit payable for that month or an amount equal to 10 percent of your income for that month (including such monthly benefit but excluding payments under title II when recovery is also made from title II benefits and excluding income excluded pursuant to §§ 416.1112 and 416.1124 of this chapter).
(2) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply if:
(i) You request and we approve a different rate of withholding, or
(ii) You or your spouse willfully misrepresented or concealed material information in connection with the overpayment.
(c) In determining whether to grant your request that we withhold less than the amount described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, we will use the criteria applied under § 408.923 to similar requests about withholding from title VIII benefits.
(d) If you or your spouse willfully misrepresented or concealed material information in connection with the overpayment, we will collect the overpayment by withholding the lesser of the overpayment balance or the entire amount of title II benefits and title XVI benefits payable to you. We will not collect at a lesser rate. (See § 408.923 for what we mean by concealment of material information.)
[70 FR 16, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 408.932
Will you receive notice of our intention to apply cross-program recovery?
Before we collect an overpayment from you using cross-program recovery, we will send you a written notice that tells you the following information:
(a) We have determined that you owe a specific overpayment balance that can be collected by cross-program recovery;
(b) We will withhold a specific amount from the title II or title XVI benefits (see § 408.931(b));
(c) You may ask us to review this determination that you still owe this overpayment balance;
(d) You may request that we withhold a different amount from your current monthly benefits (the notice will not include this information if § 408.931(d) applies); and
(e) You may ask us to waive collection of this overpayment balance.
[70 FR 16, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 408.933
When will we begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits?
(a) We will begin collecting the overpayment balance by cross-program recovery from your title II and title XVI current monthly benefits no sooner than 30 calendar days after the date of the notice described in § 408.932. If within that 30-day period you pay us the full overpayment balance stated in the notice, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits.
(b) If within that 30-day period you ask us to review our determination that you still owe us this overpayment balance, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits before we review the matter and notify you of our decision in writing.
(c) If within that 30-day period you ask us to withhold a different amount than the amount stated in the notice, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits until we determine the amount we will withhold. This paragraph does not apply when § 408.931(d) applies.
(d) If within that 30-day period you ask us to waive recovery of the overpayment balance, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits before we review the matter and notify you of our decision in writing. See §§ 408.910 through 408.914.
[70 FR 16, Jan. 3, 2005]

# Tax Refund Offset
§ 408.940
When will we refer an SVB overpayment to the Department of the Treasury for tax refund offset?
(a)
General.
The standards we will apply and the procedures we will follow before requesting the Department of the Treasury to offset income tax refunds due you to recover outstanding overpayments are set forth in §§ 408.940 through 408.946 of this subpart. These standards and procedures are authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3720A, as implemented through Department of the Treasury regulations at 31 CFR 285.2.
(b) We will use the Department of the Treasury tax refund offset procedure to collect overpayments that are certain in amount, past due and legally enforceable and eligible for tax refund offset under regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury. We will use these procedures to collect overpayments from you only when you are not currently entitled to monthly SVB under title VIII of the Act, and we are not recovering your SVB overpayment from your monthly benefits payable under title II of the Act. We refer overpayments to the Department of the Treasury for offset against Federal tax refunds regardless of the amount of time the debts have been outstanding.
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 65108, Oct. 20, 2011]
§ 408.941
Will we notify you before we refer an SVB overpayment for tax refund offset?
Before we request that an overpayment be collected by reduction of Federal and State income tax refunds, we will send a written notice of our action to the overpaid person. In our notice of intent to collect an overpayment through tax refund offset, we will state:
(a) The amount of the overpayment; and
(b) That we will collect the overpayment by requesting that the Department of the Treasury reduce any amounts payable to the overpaid person as refunds of Federal and State income taxes by an amount equal to the amount of the overpayment unless, within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice, the overpaid person:
(1) Repays the overpayment in full; or
(2) Provides evidence to us at the address given in our notice that the overpayment is not past due or legally enforceable; or
(3) Asks us to waive collection of the overpayment under section 204(b) of the Act.
(c) The conditions under which we will waive recovery of an overpayment under section 808(c) of the Act;
(d) That we will review any evidence presented that the overpayment is not past due or not legally enforceable;
(e) That you have the right to inspect and copy our records related to the overpayment as determined by us and you will be informed as to where and
when the inspection and copying can be done after we receive notice from you requesting inspection and copying.
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 65108, Oct. 20, 2011]
§ 408.942
Will you have a chance to present evidence showing that the overpayment is not past due or is not legally enforceable?
(a)
Notification.
If you receive a notice as described in § 408.941 of this subpart, you have the right to present evidence that all or part of the overpayment is not past due or not legally enforceable. To exercise this right, you must notify us and present evidence regarding the overpayment within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice.
(b)
Submission of evidence.
You may submit evidence showing that all or part of the debt is not past due or not legally enforceable as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. Failure to submit the notification and evidence within 60 calendar days will result in referral of the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury, unless, within this 60-day time period, you ask us to waive collection of the overpayment under § 408.910 and we have not yet determined whether we can grant the waiver request. If you ask us to waive collection of the overpayment, we may ask you to submit evidence to support your request.
(c)
Review of the evidence.
If you submit evidence on a timely basis, we will consider all available evidence related to the overpayment. We will make findings based on a review of the written record, unless we determine that the question of indebtedness cannot be resolved by a review of the documentary evidence.
(d)
Written findings.
We will issue our written findings including supporting rationale to you, your attorney or other representative. The findings will be our final action with respect to the past-due status and enforceability of the overpayment.
§ 408.943
What happens after we make our determination on your request for review or your request for waiver?
(a) If we make a determination that all or part of the overpayment is past due and legally enforceable and/or your waiver request cannot be granted, we will refer the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury for recovery from any Federal income tax refund due you. We will not suspend our referral of the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury under § 408.945 of this subpart pending any further administrative review of the waiver determination that you may seek.
(b) We will not refer the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury if we reverse our prior finding that the overpayment is past due and legally enforceable or, upon consideration of a waiver request, we determine that waiver of recovery of the overpayment is appropriate.
§ 408.944
How can you review our records related to an SVB overpayment?
(a)
What you must do.
If you intend to inspect or copy our records related to the overpayment, you must notify us stating your intention to inspect or copy.
(b)
What we will do.
If you notify us that you intend to inspect or copy our records related to the overpayment as described in paragraph (a) of this section, we will notify you of the location and time when you may do so. We may also, at our discretion, mail copies of the overpayment-related records to you.
§ 408.945
When will we suspend tax refund offset?
If, within 60 days of the date of the notice described in § 408.941 of this subpart, you notify us that you are exercising a right described in § 408.942(a) of this subpart and submit evidence pursuant to § 408.942(b) of this subpart or request a waiver under § 408.910 of this subpart, we will suspend any notice to the Department of the Treasury until we have issued written findings that affirm that an overpayment is past due and legally enforceable and, if applicable, make a determination that a waiver request cannot be granted.
§ 408.946
What happens if your tax refund is insufficient to cover the amount of your SVB overpayment?
If your tax refund is insufficient to recover an overpayment in a given year, the case will remain with the Department of the Treasury for succeeding years, assuming that all criteria for certification are met at that time.

# Compromise Settlements, or Suspensions or Termination of Collection
§ 408.950
Will we accept a compromise settlement of an overpayment debt or suspend or terminate collection of an overpayment?
(a)
General.
If we find that you do not, or your estate does not, have the present or future ability to pay the full amount of the overpayment within a reasonable time or the cost of collection is likely to exceed the amount of recovery, we may take any of the following actions, as appropriate.
(1) We may accept a compromise settlement (payment of less than the full amount of the overpayment) to discharge the entire overpayment debt.
(2) We may suspend our efforts to collect the overpayment.
(3) We may terminate our efforts to collect the overpayment.
(b)
Rules we apply.
In deciding whether to take any of the actions described in paragraph (a) of this section, we will apply the rules in § 404.515(b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) of this chapter and other applicable rules, including the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR 900.3 and parts 902 and 903).
(c)
Effect of compromise, suspension or termination.
When we suspend or terminate collection of the overpayment debt, we may take collection action in the future in accordance with provisions of the Social Security Act, other laws, and the standards set forth in 31 CFR chapter IX. A compromise settlement satisfies the obligation to repay the overpayment if you or your estate comply with the terms of the settlement. Failure to make payment in the manner and within the time that we require in the settlement will result in reinstatement of our claim for the full amount of the overpayment less any amounts paid.

# Subpart J—Determinations and the Administrative Review Process

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5) and 809 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5) and 1009).

# Source:
69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Introduction, Definitions, and Initial Determinations
§ 408.1000
What is this subpart about?
(a)
Explanation of the administrative review process.
This subpart explains the procedures we follow in determining your appeal rights under title VIII of the Social Security Act. The regulations describe the process of administrative review and explain your right to judicial review after you have taken all the necessary administrative steps. The administrative review process consists of several steps, which usually must be requested within certain time periods and in the following order:
(1)
Initial determination.
This is a determination we make about whether you qualify for and can become entitled to SVB or whether your SVB entitlement can continue. It can also be about any other matter, as discussed in § 408.1003, that gives you a right to further review.
(2)
Reconsideration.
If you are dissatisfied with an initial determination, you may ask us to reconsider it.
(3)
Hearing before an administrative law judge.
If you are dissatisfied with the reconsideration determination, you may request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
(4)
Appeals Council review.
If you are dissatisfied with the decision of the administrative law judge, you may request that the Appeals Council review the decision.
(5)
Federal court review.
When you have completed the steps of the administrative review process listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, we will have made our final decision. If you are dissatisfied with our final decision, you may request judicial review by filing an action in a Federal district court.
(6)
Expedited appeals process.
At some time after your initial determination has been reviewed, if you have no dispute with our findings of fact and our application and interpretation of the controlling laws, but you believe that a part of the law is unconstitutional, you may use the expedited appeals process. This process permits you to go directly to a Federal district court so that the constitutional issue may be resolved.
(b)
Nature of the administrative review process.
In making a determination or decision in your case, we conduct the administrative review process in an informal, nonadversary manner. In each step of the review process, you may present any information you feel is helpful to your case. Subject to the limitations on Appeals Council consideration of additional evidence, we will consider at each step of the review process any information you present as well as all the information in our records. You may present the information yourself or have someone represent you, including an attorney. If you are dissatisfied with our decision in the review process, but do not take the next step within the stated time period, you will lose your right to further administrative review and your right to judicial review, unless you can show us that there was good cause for your failure to make a timely request for review.
§ 408.1001
Definitions.
As used in this subpart:
Date you receive notice
means 5 days after the date on the notice, unless you show us that you did not receive it within the 5-day period.
Decision
means the decision made by an administrative law judge or the Appeals Council.
Determination
means the initial determination or the reconsidered determination.
Mass change
means a State-initiated change in the level(s) of federally administered State recognition payments applicable to all recipients of such payments due, for example, to State legislative or executive action.
Preponderance of the evidence
means such relevant evidence that as a whole shows that the existence of the fact to be proven is more likely than not.
Remand
means to return a case for further review.
SVB
, for purposes of this subpart, includes qualification for SVB, entitlement to SVB and payments of SVB.
Vacate
means to set aside a previous action.
Waive
means to give up a right knowingly and voluntarily.
We, us,
or
our
refers to the Social Security Administration.
You
or
your
refers to any person claiming or receiving SVB.
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 76944, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 408.1002
What is an initial determination?
Initial determinations are the determinations we make that are subject to administrative and judicial review. The initial determination will state the important facts and give the reasons for our conclusions. We will base our initial determination on the preponderance of the evidence.
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 76944, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 408.1003
Which administrative actions are initial determinations?
Initial determinations regarding SVB include, but are not limited to, determinations about—
(a) Whether you qualify for SVB;
(b) Whether you are entitled to receive SVB payments on the basis of your residence outside the United States;
(c) The amount of your SVB payments;
(d) Suspension or reduction of your SVB payments;
(e) Termination of your SVB entitlement;
(f) Whether an overpayment of benefits must be repaid to us;
(g) Whether payments will be made, on your behalf, to a representative payee, unless you are legally incompetent;
(h) Who will act as your payee if we determine that representative payment will be made;
(i) A claim for benefits under § 408.351 based on alleged misinformation; and
(j) Our calculation of the amount of change in your federally administered State recognition payment amount
(
i.e.,
a reduction, suspension, or termination) which results from a mass change as defined in § 408.1001.
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004; 69 FR 45586, July 30, 2004]
§ 408.1004
Which administrative actions are not initial determinations?
Administrative actions that are not initial determinations may be reviewed by us, but they are not subject to the administrative review process provided by this subpart and they are not subject to judicial review. These actions include, but are not limited to, an action about—
(a) Denial of a request to be made your representative payee;
(b) Denial of your request to use the expedited appeals process;
(c) Denial of your request to reopen a determination or a decision;
(d) Disqualifying or suspending a person from acting as your representative in a proceeding before us;
(e) Denial of your request to extend the time period for requesting review of a determination or a decision;
(f) Denial of your request to readjudicate your claim and apply an Acquiescence Ruling;
(g) Declining under § 408.351(f) to make a determination on a claim for benefits based on alleged misinformation because one or more of the conditions specified in § 408.351(f) are not met;
(h) Findings on whether we can collect an overpayment by using the Federal income tax refund offset procedure. (See § 408.943).
(i) The determination to reduce, suspend, or terminate your federally administered State recognition payments due to a State-initiated mass change, as defined in § 408.1001, in the levels of such payments, except as provided in § 408.1003(h).
§ 408.1005
Will we mail you a notice of the initial determination?
(a) We will mail a written notice of the initial determination to you at your last known address. Generally, we will not send a notice if your benefits are stopped because of your death, or if the initial determination is a redetermination that your eligibility for benefits and the amount of your benefits have not changed.
(b) The notice that we send will tell you—
(1) What our initial determination is;
(2) The reasons for our determination; and
(3) What rights you have to a reconsideration of the determination.
(c) If our initial determination is that we must suspend, reduce your SVB payments or terminate your SVB entitlement, the notice will also tell you that you have a right to a reconsideration before the determination takes effect (see § 408.820).
§ 408.1006
What is the effect of an initial determination?
An initial determination is binding unless you request a reconsideration within the stated time period, or we revise the initial determination.

# Reconsideration
§ 408.1007
What is reconsideration?
Reconsideration is the first step in the administrative review process that we provide if you are dissatisfied with the initial determination. If you are dissatisfied with our reconsideration determination, you may request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
§ 408.1009
How do you request reconsideration?
(a)
When you must file your request.
We will reconsider an initial determination if you file a written request within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the initial determination (or within the extended time period if we extend the time as provided in paragraph (c) of this section).
(b)
Where to file your request.
You can file your request for reconsideration at:
(1) Any of our offices;
(2) The Veterans Affairs Regional Office in the Philippines;
(3) An office of the Railroad Retirement Board if you have 10 or more years of service in the railroad industry; or
(4) A competent authority or agency of a country with which the United States has a totalization agreement (see § 404.1927 of this chapter).
(c)
When we will extend the time period to request a reconsideration.
If you want a reconsideration of the initial determination but do not request one within 60 days after the date you receive notice of the initial determination, you may ask us for more time to request a reconsideration. You must make your request in writing and explain why it was not filed within the stated time period. If you show us that you had good cause for missing the deadline, we will extend the time period. To determine whether good cause exists, we use the standards explained in § 408.1011.
§ 408.1011
How do we determine whether you had good cause for missing the deadline to request review?
(a) In determining whether you have shown that you have good cause for missing a deadline to request review we consider—
(1) What circumstances kept you from making the request on time;
(2) Whether our action misled you;
(3) Whether you did not understand the requirements of the Act resulting from amendments to the Act, other legislation, or court decisions; and
(4) Whether you had any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which prevented you from filing a timely request or from understanding or knowing about the need to file a timely request for review.
(b) Examples of circumstances where good cause may exist include, but are not limited to, the following situations:
(1) You were seriously ill and were prevented from contacting us in person, in writing, or through a friend, relative, or other person.
(2) There was a death or serious illness in your immediate family.
(3) Important records were destroyed or damaged by fire or other accidental cause.
(4) You were trying very hard to find necessary information to support your claim but did not find the information within the stated time periods.
(5) You asked us for additional information explaining our action within the time limit, and within 60 days of receiving the explanation you requested reconsideration or a hearing, or within 30 days of receiving the explanation you requested Appeals Council review or filed a civil suit.
(6) We gave you incorrect or incomplete information about when and how to request administrative review or to file a civil suit.
(7) You did not receive notice of the initial determination or decision.
(8) You sent the request to another Government agency in good faith within the time limit and the request did not reach us until after the time period had expired.
(9) Unusual or unavoidable circumstances exist, including the circumstances described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, which show that you could not have known of the need to file timely, or which prevented you from filing timely.
§ 408.1013
What are the methods for reconsideration?
If you request reconsideration, we will give you a chance to present your case. How you can present your case depends upon the issue involved and whether you are asking us to reconsider an initial determination on an application or an initial determination on an SVB suspension, reduction or termination action. The methods of reconsideration include the following:
(a)
Case review.
We will give you an opportunity to review the evidence in our files and then to present oral and written evidence to us. We will then make a decision based on all of this evidence. The official who reviews the case will make the reconsidered determination.
(b)
Informal conference.
In addition to following the procedures of a case review, an informal conference allows you an opportunity to present witnesses. A summary record of this proceeding will become part of the case record. The official who conducts the informal conference will make the reconsidered determination.
(c)
Formal conference.
In addition to following the procedures of an informal conference, a formal conference allows you an opportunity to request us to subpoena adverse witnesses and relevant documents and to cross-examine adverse witnesses. A summary record
of this proceeding will become a part of the case record. The official who conducts the formal conference will make the reconsidered determination.
§ 408.1014
What procedures apply if you request reconsideration of an initial determination on your application for SVB?
When you appeal an initial determination on your application for benefits, we will offer you a case review, and will make our determination on the basis of that review.
§ 408.1015
What procedures apply if you request reconsideration of an initial determination that results in suspension, reduction, or termination of your SVB?
If you have been entitled to SVB and we notify you that we are going to suspend, reduce or terminate your benefit payments, you can appeal our determination within 60 days of the date you receive our notice. The 60-day period may be extended if you have good cause for an extension of time under the conditions stated in § 408.1011(b). If you appeal, you have the choice of a case review, informal conference or formal conference.
§ 408.1016
What happens if you request a conference?
(a) As soon as we receive a request for a formal or informal conference, we will set the time, date and place for the conference. Formal and informal conferences are held only in the United States.
(b) We will send you a written notice about the conference (either by mailing it to your last known address or by personally serving you with it) at least 10 days before the conference. However, we may hold the conference sooner if we all agree. We will not send written notice of the time, date, and place of the conference if you waive your right to receive it.
(c) We will schedule the conference within 15 days after you request it, but, at our discretion or at your request, we will delay the conference if we think the delay will ensure that the conference is conducted efficiently and properly.
(d) We will hold the conference at one of our offices in the United States, by telephone or in person, whichever you prefer. However, if you are outside the United States, we will hold the conference by telephone only if you request that we do so and time and language differences permit. We will hold the conference in person elsewhere in the United States if you show circumstances that make this arrangement reasonably necessary.
§ 408.1020
How do we make our reconsidered determination?
After you request a reconsideration, we will review the evidence considered in making the initial determination and any other evidence we receive. We will make our determination based on the preponderance of the evidence in the record. The person who makes the reconsidered determination will have had no prior involvement with the initial determination.
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 76944, Dec. 18, 2008]
§ 408.1021
How does the reconsidered determination affect you?
The reconsidered determination is binding unless—
(a) You request a hearing before an administrative law judge within the stated time period and a decision is made;
(b) The expedited appeals process is used; or
(c) The reconsidered determination is revised.
§ 408.1022
How will we notify you of our reconsidered determination?
We will mail a written notice of the reconsidered determination to you at your last known address. We will state the specific reasons for the determination and tell you about your right to a hearing. If it is appropriate, we will also tell you how to use the expedited appeals process.

# Expedited Appeals Process
§ 408.1030
When can you use the expedited appeals process?
(a)
General rules.
Under the expedited appeals process (EAP), you may go directly to a Federal District Court without first completing the administrative review process. For purposes of this
part, we use the same EAP rules we use in the title XVI program (see §§ 416.1423-416.1428 of this chapter) except as noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
In § 416.1425, the words “one of our offices” in paragraph (b) are deemed to read “any of the offices listed in § 408.1009(b)” and the reference in the last sentence of paragraph (c) to “§ 416.1411” is deemed to read “§ 408.1011.”

# Hearing Before an Administrative Law Judge
§ 408.1040
When can you request a hearing before an administrative law judge (ALJ)?
(a)
General rules.
For purposes of this part, we use the same rules on hearings before an administrative law judge (ALJ) that we use in the title XVI program (
see
§§ 416.1429-1416.1440 of this chapter), except as noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
In § 416.1433, the words “one of our offices” in paragraph (b) are deemed to read “any of the offices listed in § 408.1009(b)” and the reference in the last sentence of § 416.1433(c) to “§ 416.1411” is deemed to read “§ 408.1011.”

# Administrative Law Judge Hearing Procedures
§ 408.1045
What procedures apply if you request an ALJ hearing?
(a)
General rules.
For purposes of this part, we use the same rules on ALJ hearing procedures that we use in the title XVI program (see §§ 416.1444-416.1461 of this chapter), except as noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) In § 416.1446(b)(1), the last sentence does not apply under this part.
(2) In § 416.1452(a)(1)(i), the words “supplemental security income” are deemed to read “SVB.”
(3) In § 416.1457, the provisions of paragraph (c)(4) do not apply under this part.

# Appeals Council Review
§ 408.1050
When can you request Appeals Council review of an ALJ hearing decision or dismissal of a hearing request?
(a)
General rules.
For purposes of this part, we use the same rules on Appeals Council review that we use in the title XVI program (see §§ 416.1467-416.1482 of this chapter), except as noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) In § 416.1468(b), the words “one of our offices” in the third sentence are deemed to read “any of the offices listed in § 408.1009(b).”
(2) In § 416.1469(d), the last sentence does not apply under this part.
(3) In § 416.1471, paragraph (b) does not apply under this part.
(4) In § 416.1482, the reference to “§ 416.1411” in the last sentence is deemed to read “§ 408.1011.”

# Court Remand Cases
§ 408.1060
What happens if a Federal Court remands your case to the Commissioner?
For purposes of this part, we use the same rules on court remand cases that we use in the title XVI program (see §§ 416.1483-416.1485 of this chapter).

# Reopening and Revising Determinations and Decisions
§ 408.1070
When will we reopen a final determination?
(a)
General rules.
For purposes of this part, we use the same rules on reopening and revising determinations and decisions that we use in the title XVI program (see §§ 416.1487-416.1494 of this chapter), except as noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) In addition to the rule stated in § 416.1488, a determination, revised determination, or revised decision may be reopened at any time if it was fully or partially unfavorable to you, but only to correct—
(i) A clerical error; or
(ii) An error that appears on the face of the evidence that we considered when we made the determination or decision.
(2) In § 416.1492(b), the parenthetical clause is deemed to read “(see
§ 408.820),” and paragraph (d) does not apply to this part.
(3) In § 416.1494, the words “one of our offices” in the first sentence are deemed to read “any of the offices listed in § 408.1009(b).”
[69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, as amended at 75 FR 44138, July 28, 2010]

# Subpart K—Representation of Parties

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5) and 810(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5) and 1010(a)).

# Source:
69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 408.1101
Can you appoint someone to represent you?
(a)
General rules.
You may appoint someone to represent you in any of your dealings with us. For purposes of this part, the rules on representation of parties in §§ 416.1500-416.1505, 416.1507-416.1515 and 416.1540-416.1599 of this chapter apply except as noted in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Exceptions.
For purposes of this part:
(1) In § 416.1500, paragraph (c) does not apply.
(2) The last sentence of § 416.1503 is deemed to read: “You refers to any person claiming or receiving SVB.”
(3) In § 416.1507(c), the words “one of our offices” are deemed to read “any of the offices listed in § 408.1009(b).”
(4) In § 416.1510(b), the reference to “title XVI of the Act” is deemed to read “title VIII of the Act,” and the reference to “§ 416.315” is deemed to read “§ 408.315.”
(5) In § 416.1540, the parenthetical clause in paragraph (b), the second sentences in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2), and paragraph (c)(2) do not apply, and the references to “§ 416.1411(b)” in paragraphs (c)(4) and (c)(7)(i) are deemed to read “§ 408.1011(b).”
(6) In § 416.1545, paragraph (c) does not apply.
(7) In § 416.1599, paragraph (d) is deemed to read: “The Appeals Council will not grant the request unless it is reasonably satisfied that the person will in the future act according to the provisions of our regulations.”

# Subpart L—Federal Administration of State Recognition Payments

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5) and 810A of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5) and 1010a).

# Source:
69 FR 25955, May 10, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 408.1201
What are State recognition payments?
(a)
State recognition payments; defined.
State recognition payments are any payments made by a State or one of its political subdivisions to an individual who is entitled to SVB, if the payments are made:
(1) As a supplement to monthly SVB payments; and
(2) Regularly, on a periodic recurring, or routine basis of at least once a quarter; and
(3) In cash, which may be actual currency, or any negotiable instrument convertible into cash upon demand.
(b)
State; defined.
For purposes of this subpart, State means a State of the United States or the District of Columbia.
§ 408.1205
How can a State have SSA administer its State recognition payment program?
A State (or political subdivision) may enter into a written agreement with SSA, under which SSA will make recognition payments on behalf of the State (or political subdivision). The regulations in effect for the SVB program also apply in the Federal administration of State recognition payments except as necessary for the effective and efficient administration of both the SVB program and the State's recognition payment program.
§ 408.1210
What are the essential elements of an administration agreement?
(a)
Payments.
The agreement must provide that recognition payments can only be made to individuals who are receiving SVB payments.
(b)
Administrative costs
—(1)
General rule.
SSA will assess each State that elects Federal administration of its recognition payments an administration fee for administering those payments.
(2)
Determining the administration fee.
The administration fee is assessed and paid monthly and is derived by multiplying the number of State recognition payments we make on behalf of a State for any month in a fiscal year by the applicable dollar rate for the fiscal year. The number of recognition payments we make in a month is the total number of checks we issue, and direct deposits we make, to recipients in that month, that are composed in whole or in part of State recognition funds. The dollar amounts are as follows:
(i) For fiscal year 2001, $8.10;
(ii) For fiscal year 2002, $8.50; and
(iii) For fiscal year 2003 and each succeeding fiscal year—
(A) The applicable rate in the preceding fiscal year, increased by the percentage, if any, by which the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year of the increase exceeds the Consumer Price Index for the month of June of the calendar year preceding the calendar year of the increase, and rounded to the nearest whole cent; or
(B) A different rate if the Commissioner determines the different rate is appropriate for the State considering the complexity of administering the State's recognition payment program.
(c)
Agreement period.
The agreement period for a State that has elected Federal administration of its recognition payments extends for one year from the date the agreement was signed unless otherwise designated in the agreement. The agreement will be automatically renewed for a period of one year unless either the State or SSA gives written notice not to renew, at least 90 days before the beginning of the new period. For a State to elect Federal administration of its recognition payment program, it must notify SSA of its intent to enter into an agreement, furnishing the necessary payment specifications, at least 120 days before the first day of the month for which it wishes Federal administration to begin, and have executed such agreement at least 30 days before such day.
(d)
Modification or termination.
The agreement may be modified at any time by mutual consent. The State or SSA may terminate the agreement upon 90 days' written notice to the other party, provided the effective date of the termination is the last day of a quarter. However, the State may terminate the agreement upon 45 days written notice to SSA if: (1) The State does not wish to comply with a regulation promulgated by SSA after the execution of the agreement; and (2) the State provides its written notice within 30 days of the effective date of the regulation. The Commissioner is not precluded from terminating the agreement in less than 90 days if the State has failed to materially comply with the provisions of § 408.1235 on State transfer of funds to SSA.
§ 408.1215
How do you establish eligibility for Federally administered State recognition payments?
(a)
Applications.
When you file an application for SVB under subpart C of this part, you are deemed to have filed an application for any Federally administered State recognition payments for which you may be eligible unless you waive your right to such payments as provided for in § 408.1230. However, you will be required to give us a supplemental statement if additional information is necessary to establish your eligibility or to determine the correct amount of your State recognition payment.
(b)
Evidence requirements.
The evidence requirements and developmental procedures of this part also apply with respect to Federally administered State recognition payments.
(c)
Determination.
Where not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart, we determine your eligibility for and the amount of your State recognition payment using the rules in subparts A through K of this part.
§ 408.1220
How do we pay Federally administered State recognition payments?
(a)
Payment procedures.
We make Federally administered State recognition payments on a monthly basis and we include them in the same check as your SVB payment. The State recognition payment is for the same month as your SVB payment.
(b)
Maximum amount.
Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, there is no restriction on the amount
of a State recognition payment that SSA will administer on behalf of a State.
(c)
Minimum amount.
SSA will not administer State recognition payments in amounts less than $1 per month. Hence, recognition payment amounts of less than $1 will be raised to a dollar.
§ 408.1225
What happens if you receive an overpayment?
If we determine that you received an overpayment, we will adjust future Federally administered State recognition payments you are entitled to. Our rules and requirements (see §§ 408.910 through 408.941) that apply to recovery (or waiver) of SVB overpayments also apply to the recovery (or waiver) of Federally administered State recognition overpayments. If your entitlement to State recognition payments ends before you have repaid the overpayment, we will annotate your record (specifying the amount of the overpayment) to permit us to recoup the overpaid amount if you become reentitled to recognition payments from the same State.
§ 408.1226
What happens if you are underpaid?
If we determine that you are due an underpayment of State recognition payments, we will pay the amount you were underpaid directly to you, or to your representative.
§ 408.1230
Can you waive State recognition payments?
(a)
Waiver request in writing.
You may waive your right to receive State recognition payments if you make a written request. If you make your request before you become entitled to SVB, you will not be entitled to State recognition payments. If you make your request after you become entitled to SVB, your request will be effective with the month we receive your request, or with an earlier month if you refund to us the amount of any recognition payment(s) we made to you for the earlier period.
(b)
Cancelling your waiver.
You may cancel your waiver of State recognition payments at any time by making a written request with us. The cancellation will be effective the month in which it is filed. The date your request is received in a Social Security office or the postmarked date, if the written request was mailed, will be the filing date, whichever is earlier.
§ 408.1235
How does the State transfer funds to SSA to administer its recognition payment program?
(a)
Payment transfer and adjustment.
(1) Any State that has entered into an agreement with SSA which provides for Federal administration of such State's recognition payments will transfer to SSA:
(i) An amount of funds equal to SSA's estimate of State recognition payments for any month which will be made by SSA on behalf of such State; and
(ii) An amount of funds equal to SSA's estimate of administration fees for any such month determined in the manner described in § 408.1210(b).
(3) In order for SSA to make State recognition payments on behalf of a State for any month as provided by the agreement, the estimated amount of State funds referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section together with the estimated amount of administration fees referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, for that month, must be on deposit with SSA on the State recognition payment transfer date, which is:
(i) the business day preceding the date that the Commissioner pays such monthly recognition payments; or
(ii) with respect to such monthly payments paid for the month that is the last month of the State's fiscal year, the fifth business day following such date.
(b)
Accounting of State funds.
(1) As soon as feasible after the end of each calendar month, SSA will provide the State with a statement showing, cumulatively, the total amounts paid by SSA on behalf of the State during the current Federal fiscal year; the fees charged by SSA to administer such recognition payments; the State's total liability; and the end-of-month balance of the State's cash on deposit with SSA.
(2) SSA will provide the State with an accounting of State funds received
as State recognition payments and administration fees within three calendar months following the termination of an agreement under § 408.1210(d).
(3) Adjustments will be made because of State funds due and payable or amounts of State funds recovered for calendar months for which the agreement was in effect. Interest will be incurred by SSA and the States with respect to the adjustment and accounting of State recognition payments funds in accordance with applicable laws and regulations of the United States Department of the Treasury.
(c)
State audit.
Any State entering into an agreement with SSA which provides for Federal administration of the State's recognition payments has the right to an audit (at State expense) of the payments made by SSA on behalf of such State. The Commissioner and the State shall mutually agree upon a satisfactory audit arrangement to verify that recognition payments paid by SSA on behalf of the State were made in accordance with the terms of the administration agreement under § 408.1205. Audit findings will be resolved in accordance with the provisions of the State's agreement with SSA.
Pt. 411

# PART 411—THE TICKET TO WORK AND SELF-SUFFICIENCY PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Introduction
Sec.
411.100
Scope.
411.105
What is the purpose of the Ticket to Work program?
411.115
Definitions of terms used in this part.

# Subpart B—Tickets Under the Ticket to Work Program
411.120
What is a ticket under the Ticket to Work program?
411.125
Who is eligible to receive a ticket under the Ticket to Work program?
411.130
How will we distribute tickets under the Ticket to Work program?
411.135
What do I do when I receive a ticket?
411.140
When may I assign my ticket and how?
411.145
When can my ticket be taken out of assignment?
411.150
Can I reassign my ticket?
411.155
When does my ticket terminate?

# Subpart C—Suspension of Continuing Disability Reviews for Beneficiaries Who are Using a Ticket

# Introduction
411.160
What does this subpart do?
411.165
How does using a ticket under the Ticket to Work program affect my continuing disability reviews?
411.166
Glossary of terms used in this subpart.
411.167
What is an educational institution or a technical, trade or vocational school?
411.170
When does the period of using a ticket begin?
411.171
When does the period of using a ticket end?
411.175
What if a continuing disability review is begun before my ticket is in use?
411.180
What is timely progress toward self-supporting employment?
411.192
What choices do I have if I am unable to make timely progress toward self-supporting employment?
411.200
How will the PM conduct my progress reviews?
411.205
What if I disagree with the PM's decision about whether I am making timely progress toward self-supporting employment?

# Failure To Make Timely Progress
411.210
What happens if I do not make timely progress toward self-supporting employment?

# The Extension Period
411.220
What if my ticket is no longer assigned to an EN or State VR agency?
411.225
What if I reassign my ticket after the end of the extension period?
411.226
How will SSA determine if I am meeting the timely progress guidelines if I assign my ticket prior to July 21, 2008?

# Subpart D—Use of One or More Program Managers To Assist in Administration of the Ticket to Work Program
411.230
What is a PM?
411.235
What qualifications are required of a PM?
411.240
What limitations are placed on a PM?
411.245
What are a PM's responsibilities under the Ticket to Work program?

# Evaluation of Program Manager Performance
411.250
How will SSA evaluate a PM?

# Subpart E—Employment Networks
411.300
What is an EN?
411.305
Who is eligible to be an EN?
411.310
How does an entity other than a State VR agency apply to be an EN and who will determine whether an entity qualifies as an EN?
411.315
What are the minimum qualifications necessary to be an EN?
411.320
What are an EN's responsibilities as a participant in the Ticket to Work program?
411.321
Under what conditions will SSA terminate an agreement with an EN due to inadequate performance?
411.325
What reporting requirements are placed on an EN as a participant in the Ticket to Work program?
411.330
How will SSA evaluate an EN's performance?

# Subpart F—State Vocational Rehabilitation Agencies' Participation

# Participation in the Ticket to Work Program
411.350
Must a State VR agency participate in the Ticket to Work program?
411.355
What payment options does a State VR agency have?
411.365
How does a State VR agency notify us about its choice of a payment system for use when functioning as an EN?
411.375
Does a State VR agency continue to provide services under the requirements of the State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
), when functioning as an EN?

# Ticket Status
411.380
What does a State VR agency do if the State VR agency wants to determine whether a person seeking services has a ticket?
411.385
What does a State VR agency do if a beneficiary who is eligible for VR services has a ticket that is available for assignment or reassignment?
411.390
What does a State VR agency do if a beneficiary to whom it is already providing services has a ticket that is available for assignment?
411.395
Is a State VR agency required to provide periodic reports?

# Referrals by Employment Networks to State VR Agencies
411.400
Can an EN to which a beneficiary's ticket is assigned refer the beneficiary to a State VR agency for services?

# Agreements Between Employment Networks and State VR Agencies
411.405
When does an agreement between an EN and the State VR agency have to be in place?
411.410
Does each referral from an EN to a State VR agency require its own agreement?
411.415
Who will verify the establishment of agreements between ENs and State VR agencies?
411.420
What information should be included in an agreement between an EN and a State VR agency?
411.425
What should a State VR agency do if it gets an attempted referral from an EN and no agreement has been established between the EN and the State VR agency?
411.430
What should the PM do when it is informed that an EN has attempted to make a referral to a State VR agency without an agreement being in place?

# Resolving Disputes Arising Under Agreements Between Employment Networks and State VR Agencies
411.435
How will disputes arising under the agreements between ENs and State VR agencies be resolved?

# Subpart G—Requirements for Individual Work Plans
411.450
What is an Individual Work Plan?
411.455
What is the purpose of an IWP?
411.460
Who is responsible for determining what information is contained in the IWP?
411.465
What are the minimum requirements for an IWP?
411.470
When does an IWP become effective?

# Subpart H—Employment Network Payment Systems
411.500
Definitions of terms used in this subpart.
411.505
How is an EN paid?
411.510
How is the State VR agency paid under the Ticket to Work program?
411.515
Can the EN change its elected payment system?
411.520
How are beneficiaries whose tickets are assigned to an EN affected by a change in that EN's elected payment system?
411.525
What payments are available under each of the EN payment systems?
411.535
Under what circumstances will milestones be paid?
411.536
Under what circumstances can we make a reconciliation payment under the outcome-milestone payment system?
411.540
How are the payment amounts calculated for each of the milestones?
411.545
How are the outcome payments calculated under the outcome-milestone payment system?
411.550
How are the outcome payments calculated under the outcome payment system?
411.551
How are EN payments calculated for transition cases pending on July 21, 2008?
411.552
What effect will the subsequent entitlement to title II benefits have on EN payments for title XVI beneficiaries after they assign their ticket?
411.555
Can the EN keep the milestone and outcome payments even if the beneficiary does not achieve all outcome months?
411.560
Is it possible to pay a milestone or outcome payment to more than one EN?
411.565
What happens if two or more ENs qualify for payment on the same ticket but have elected different EN payment systems?
411.566
May an EN use outcome or milestone payments to make payments to the beneficiary?
411.570
Can an EN request payment from the beneficiary who assigned a ticket to the EN?
411.575
How does the EN request payment for milestones or outcome payment months achieved by a beneficiary who assigned a ticket to the EN?
411.580
Can an EN receive payments for milestones or outcome payment months that occur before the beneficiary assigns a ticket to the EN?
411.581
Can an EN receive milestone and outcome payments for months after a beneficiary takes his or her ticket out of assignment?
411.582
Can a State VR agency receive payment under the cost reimbursement payment system if a continuous 9-month period of substantial gainful activity is completed after the ticket is assigned to an EN?
411.585
Can a State VR agency and an EN both receive payment for serving the same beneficiary?
411.590
What can an EN do if the EN disagrees with our decision on a payment request?
411.595
What oversight procedures are planned for the EN payment systems?
411.597
Will SSA periodically review the outcome payment system and the outcome-milestone payment system for possible modifications?

# Subpart I—Ticket to Work Program Dispute Resolution

# Disputes Between Beneficiaries and Employment Networks
411.600
Is there a process for resolving disputes between beneficiaries and ENs that are not State VR agencies?
411.605
What are the responsibilities of the EN that is not a State VR agency regarding the dispute resolution process?
411.610
When should a beneficiary receive information on the procedures for resolving disputes?
411.615
How will a disputed issue be referred to the PM?
411.620
How long does the PM have to recommend a resolution to the dispute?
411.625
Can the beneficiary or the EN that is not a State VR agency request a review of the PM's recommendation?
411.630
Is SSA's decision final?
411.635
Can a beneficiary be represented in the dispute resolution process under the Ticket to Work program?

# Disputes Between Beneficiaries and State VR Agencies
411.640
Do the dispute resolution procedures of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
), apply to beneficiaries seeking services from the State VR agency?

# Disputes Between Employment Networks and Program Managers
411.650
Is there a process for resolving disputes between ENs that are not State VR agencies and PMs, other than disputes on a payment request?
411.655
How will the PM refer the dispute to us?
411.660
Is SSA's decision final?

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5) and 1148 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5) and 1320b-19); sec. 101(b)-(e), Public Law 106-170, 113 Stat. 1860, 1873 (42 U.S.C. 1320b-19 note).

# Source:
66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Introduction
§ 411.100
Scope.
The regulations in this part 411 relate to the provisions of section 1148 of the Social Security Act which establishes the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program (hereafter referred to as the “Ticket to Work program”). The regulations in this part are divided into ten subparts:
(a) Subpart A explains the scope of this part, explains the purpose and manner of implementation of the Ticket to Work program, and provides definitions of terms used in this part.
(b) Subpart B contains provisions relating to the ticket under the Ticket to Work program.
(c) Subpart C contains provisions relating to the suspension of continuing disability reviews for disabled beneficiaries who are considered to be using a ticket.
(d) Subpart D contains provisions relating to the use of one or more program managers to assist us in the administration of the Ticket to Work program.
(e) Subpart E contains provisions relating to employment networks in the Ticket to Work program.
(f) Subpart F contains provisions relating to State vocational rehabilitation agencies' participation in the Ticket to Work program.
(g) Subpart G contains provisions relating to individual work plans in the Ticket to Work program.
(h) Subpart H contains provisions establishing employment network payment systems.
(i) Subpart I contains provisions that establish a procedure for resolving disputes under the Ticket to Work program.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 83 FR 62459, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 411.105
What is the purpose of the Ticket to Work program?
The purpose of the Ticket to Work program is to expand the universe of service providers available to individuals who are entitled to Social Security benefits based on disability or eligible for Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits based on disability or blindness in obtaining the services necessary to find, enter and retain employment. Expanded employment opportunities for these individuals also will increase the likelihood that these individuals will reduce their dependency on Social Security and SSI cash benefits.
§ 411.115
Definitions of terms used in this part.
As used in this part:
(a)
The Act
means the Social Security Act, as amended.
(b)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security.
(c)
Cost reimbursement payment system
means the provisions for payment for vocational rehabilitation services under subpart V of part 404 and subpart V of part 416 of this chapter.
(d)
Disabled beneficiary
means a title II disability beneficiary or a title XVI disability beneficiary.
(e)
Employment network
or
EN
means a qualified public or private entity that has entered into an agreement with us to serve under the Ticket to Work program and that assumes responsibility for the coordination and delivery of employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, or other support services to beneficiaries assigning tickets to it. The rules on employment networks are described in subpart E of this part (§§ 411.300-411.330). A State vocational rehabilitation agency may choose, on a case-by-case basis, to function as an employment network with respect to a beneficiary under the Ticket to Work program. The rules on State vocational rehabilitation agencies' participation in the Ticket to Work program are described in subpart F of this part (§§ 411.350-411.435).
(f)
Employment plan
means an individual work plan described in paragraph (i) of this section, or an individualized plan for employment described in paragraph (j) of this section.
(g)
Federal SSI cash benefits
means a “Supplemental Security Income benefit under title XVI” based on blindness or disability as described in paragraphs (n) and (r) of this section.
(h)
I, my, you,
or
your
means the disabled beneficiary.
(i)
Individual work plan
or
IWP
means an employment plan under which an employment network (other than a State vocational rehabilitation agency) provides services to a disabled beneficiary under the Ticket to Work program. An individual work plan must be developed under, and meet the requirements of, the rules in subpart G of this part (§§ 411.450-411.470).
(j)
Individualized plan for employment
or
IPE
means an employment plan under which a State vocational rehabilitation agency provides services to individuals with disabilities (including beneficiaries assigning tickets to it under the Ticket to Work program) under a State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
). An individualized plan for employment must
be developed under, and meet the requirements of, 34 CFR 361.45 and 361.46.
(k)
Program manager
or
PM
means an organization in the private or public sector that has entered into a contract with us to assist us in administering the Ticket to Work program. The rules on the use of one or more program managers to assist us in administering the program are described in subpart D of this part (§§ 411.230-411.250).
(l)
Social Security disability benefits
means the benefits described in paragraph (q) of this section.
(m)
State vocational rehabilitation agency
or
State VR agency
means a State agency administering or supervising the administration of the State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
). In those States that have one agency that provides VR services to non-blind individuals and another agency that provides services to blind individuals, this term refers to either State agency.
(n)
Supplemental Security Income benefit under title XVI
means a cash benefit under section 1611 or 1619(a) of the Act, and does not include a State supplementary payment, administered Federally or otherwise.
(o)
Ticket
means a document described in § 411.120 which the Commissioner may issue to disabled beneficiaries for participation in the Ticket to Work program.
(p)
Ticket to Work program
or
program
means the Ticket to Work and Self-Sufficiency Program under section 1148 of the Act.
(q)
Title II disability beneficiary
means an individual entitled to disability insurance benefits under section 223 or to monthly insurance benefits under section 202 of the Act based on such individual's disability as defined in section 223(d) of the Act. (See § 404.1505 of this chapter.) An individual is a title II disability beneficiary for each month for which such individual is entitled to such benefits.
(r)
Title XVI disability beneficiary
means an individual eligible for Supplemental Security Income benefits under title XVI on the basis of blindness (within the meaning of section 1614(a)(2) of the Act) (see §§ 416.981 and 416.982 of this chapter) or disability (within the meaning of section 1614(a)(3) of the Act) (see § 416.905 of this chapter). An individual is a title XVI disability beneficiary for each month for which such individual is eligible for such benefits.
(s)
VR cost reimbursement option
means an arrangement under which your ticket is not assigned to the State VR agency but you do receive services pursuant to an individualized plan for employment where the State VR agency has chosen to receive payment under the cost reimbursement payment system.
(t)
We
or
us
means the Social Security Administration.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29338, May 20, 2008; 83 FR 62459, Dec. 4, 2018]

# Subpart B—Tickets Under the Ticket to Work Program
§ 411.120
What is a ticket under the Ticket to Work program?
(a) A ticket under the Ticket to Work program is a document which provides evidence of the Commissioner's agreement to pay, under the rules in subpart H of this part, an employment network (EN) or a State VR agency to which a disabled beneficiary's ticket is assigned, for providing employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, and other support services to the beneficiary.
(b) The left side of the ticket includes the beneficiary's name, ticket number, claim account number, and the date we issued the ticket. The ticket number is 12 characters and comprises the beneficiary's own social security number, the letters “TW,” and a number (1, 2, etc.) in the last position signifying that this is the first ticket, second ticket, etc., that the beneficiary has received.
(c) The right side of the ticket includes the signature of the Commissioner of Social Security and provides a description of the Ticket to Work program. The description of the program will tell you how you may offer
the ticket to an EN or State VR agency. The description will also tell you how the EN provides services to you.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29339, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.125
Who is eligible to receive a ticket under the Ticket to Work program?
(a) You will be eligible to receive a Ticket to Work in a month in which—
(1) You are age 18 or older and have not attained age 65; and
(2)(i)(A) You are a title II disability beneficiary (other than a beneficiary receiving benefit payments under § 404.316(c), § 404.337(c), § 404.352(d), or § 404.1597a of this chapter); and
(B) You are in current pay status for monthly title II cash benefits based on disability (see subpart E of part 404 of this chapter for our rules on nonpayment of title II benefits); or
(ii)(A) You are a title XVI disability beneficiary (other than a beneficiary receiving disability or blindness benefit payments under § 416.996 or § 416.1338 of this chapter);
(B) If you are an individual described in § 416.987(a)(1) of this chapter, you are eligible for benefits under title XVI based on disability under the standard for evaluating disability for adults following a redetermination of your eligibility under § 416.987 of this chapter; and
(C) Your monthly Federal cash benefits based on disability or blindness under title XVI are not suspended (see subpart M of part 416 of this chapter for our rules on suspension of title XVI benefit payments).
(b) You will not be eligible to receive more than one ticket during any period during which you are either—
(1) Entitled to title II benefits based on disability (see §§ 404.316(b), 404.337(b) and 404.352(b) of this chapter for when entitlement to title II disability benefits ends); or
(2) Eligible for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness and your eligibility has not terminated (see subpart M of part 416 of this chapter for our rules on when eligibility for title XVI benefits terminates).
(c) If your entitlement to title II benefits based on disability ends and/or your eligibility for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness terminates as described in § 411.155(b)(1) or (2), you will be eligible to receive a new ticket in a month in which—
(1) Your entitlement to title II benefits based on disability is reinstated under section 223(i) of the Act, or your eligibility for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness is reinstated under section 1631(p) of the Act; and
(2) You meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29339, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.130
How will we distribute tickets under the Ticket to Work program?
We may send you a ticket if you are eligible to receive one under § 411.125. All Ticket-eligible beneficiaries may receive a Ticket upon request.
[77 FR 1864, Jan. 12, 2012]
§ 411.135
What do I do when I receive a ticket?
Your participation in the Ticket to Work program is voluntary. When you receive your ticket, you are free to choose when and whether to assign it (see § 411.140 for information on assigning your ticket). If you want to participate in the program, you can take your ticket to any EN you choose or to your State VR agency. You may choose either to assign your ticket to an EN by signing an individual work plan (see §§ 411.450 through 411.470) or receive services from your State VR agency by entering into and signing an individualized plan for employment. If the State VR agency provides services to you, it will decide whether to accept your ticket. If it accepts your ticket, you will have assigned your ticket to the State VR agency and it will receive payment as an EN. If the State VR agency decides to be paid under the cost reimbursement payment system, you have not assigned your ticket and you may assign your ticket after the State VR agency has closed your case.
[73 FR 29339, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.140
When may I assign my ticket and how?
(a) You may assign your ticket during a month in which you meet the requirements of § 411.125(a)(1) and (a)(2). You may assign your ticket during the 90-day period after your case is closed by a State VR agency that elected the VR cost reimbursement option (see § 411.171(d)), without meeting the requirements of § 411.125(a)(2). You may assign your ticket to any EN which is serving under the program and is willing to provide you with services, or you may assign your ticket to a State VR agency acting as an EN if you are eligible to receive VR services under 34 CFR 361.42. You may not assign your ticket to more than one provider of services (
i.e.
, an EN or a State VR agency) at a time. You may not assign your ticket until after the State VR agency has closed your case if you are receiving VR services pursuant to an individualized plan for employment from a State VR agency which has elected the VR cost reimbursement option. You also may not assign your ticket to a State VR agency if that VR agency previously served you and elected the VR cost reimbursement option and closed your case.
(b)(1) In determining which EN you want to work with, you may discuss your rehabilitation and employment plans with as many ENs in your area as you wish. You also may discuss your rehabilitation and employment plans with the State VR agency.
(2) You can obtain a list of the approved ENs in your area from the program manager (PM) we have enlisted to assist in the administration of the Ticket to Work program. (See § 411.115(k) for a definition of the PM.)
(c) If you choose to work with an EN serving under the program, both you and the EN of your choice need to agree upon an individual work plan (IWP) (see § 411.115(i) for a definition of an IWP). If you choose to work with a State VR agency, you must develop an individualized plan for employment (IPE) and your State VR counselor must agree to the terms of the IPE, according to the requirements established in 34 CFR 361.45 and 361.46. (See § 411.115(j) for a definition of an IPE.) The IWP or IPE outlines the services necessary to assist you in achieving your chosen employment goal.
(d) In order for you to assign your ticket to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN, all of the following requirements must be met:
(1)(i) If you decide to work with an EN, you and a representative of the EN must agree to and sign an IWP; or
(ii) If you decide to work with a State VR agency, you and a representative of the State VR agency must agree to and sign both an IPE and a form that provides the information described in § 411.385(a)(1), (2) and (3).
(2) You must be eligible to assign your ticket under the rules in paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) A representative of the EN must submit a copy of the signed IWP to the PM, or a representative of the State VR agency, acting as an EN, must submit the completed and signed form (as described in § 411.385(a) and (b)) to the PM.
(4) The PM must receive the copy of the IWP or receive the required form, as appropriate.
(e) If all of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section are met, we will consider your ticket assigned to the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN. The effective date of the assignment of your ticket will be the first day on which the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section are met. See §§ 411.160 through 411.225 for an explanation of how assigning your ticket may affect medical reviews that we conduct to determine if you are still disabled under our rules.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29339, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.145
When can my ticket be taken out of assignment?
(a) If you assigned your ticket to an EN or a State VR agency acting as an EN, you may take your ticket out of assignment for any reason. You must notify the PM in writing that you wish to take your ticket out of assignment. The ticket will be no longer assigned to that EN or State VR agency acting as an EN, effective with the first day of the month following the month in which you notify the PM in writing that you wish to take your ticket out
of assignment. You will be sent a notice informing you that your ticket is no longer assigned to that EN or State VR agency. You may reassign your ticket under the rules in § 411.150.
(b) If your EN goes out of business or is no longer approved to participate as an EN in the Ticket to Work program, the PM will take your ticket out of assignment with that EN. The ticket will no longer be assigned to that EN effective on the first day of the month following the month in which the EN goes out of business or is no longer approved to participate in the Ticket to Work program. You will be sent a notice informing you that your ticket is no longer assigned to that EN. In addition, if your EN is no longer willing or able to provide you with services, or if your State VR agency acting as an EN stops providing services to you because you have been determined to be ineligible for VR services under 34 CFR 361.42, the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN may ask the PM to take your ticket out of assignment with that EN or State VR agency. The ticket will no longer be assigned to that EN or State VR agency acting as an EN effective on the first day of the month following the month in which the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN makes a request to the PM that the ticket be taken out of assignment. You will be sent a notice informing you that your ticket is no longer assigned to that EN or State VR agency acting as an EN. You may reassign your ticket under the rules in § 411.150.
(c) For information about how taking a ticket out of assignment may affect medical reviews that we conduct to determine if you are still disabled under our rules, see §§ 411.171(c) and 411.220.
[73 FR 29339, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.150
Can I reassign my ticket?
(a) If you previously assigned your ticket and your ticket is no longer assigned (see § 411.145), you may reassign your ticket, unless you are receiving benefit payments under § 404.316(c), § 404.337(c), § 404.352(d) or § 404.1597a of this chapter, or you are receiving disability or blindness benefit payments under § 416.996 or § 416.1338 of this chapter (the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section notwithstanding). If you previously assigned your ticket to an EN, you may reassign your ticket to a different EN which is serving under the program and is willing to provide you with services, or you may reassign your ticket to a State VR agency acting as an EN if you are eligible to receive VR services under 34 CFR 361.42. If you previously assigned your ticket to a State VR agency acting as an EN, you may reassign your ticket to an EN which is serving under the program and is willing to provide you with services, or to another State VR agency acting as an EN if you are eligible to receive VR services under 34 CFR 361.42.
(b) In order for you to reassign your ticket to an EN or State VR agency, all of the following requirements must be met:
(1) Your ticket must be unassigned. If your ticket is assigned to an EN or a State VR agency, you must first tell the PM in writing that you want to take your ticket out of assignment (see § 411.145).
(2)(i) You and a representative of the new EN must agree to and sign a new IWP; or
(ii) If you wish to reassign your ticket to a State VR agency, you and a representative of the State VR agency must agree to and sign both an IPE and a form that provides the information described in § 411.385(a)(1), (2) and (3).
(3) You must meet the requirements of § 411.125(a)(1) and (2) on or after the day you and a representative of the new EN sign your IWP or you and a representative of the State VR agency sign your IPE and the required form. You may reassign your ticket within 90 days of the effective date your ticket was no longer assigned, without meeting the requirements of § 411.125(a)(2).
(4) A representative of the EN must submit a copy of the signed IWP to the PM or a representative of the State VR agency must submit the completed and signed form (as described in § 411.385(a) and (b)) to the PM.
(5) The PM must receive the copy of the IWP or received the required form, as appropriate.
(c) If all of the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are met, we will consider your ticket reassigned to the new EN or State VR
agency. The effective date of the reassignment of your ticket will be the first day on which the requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b)(1), (2) and (3) of this section are met. See §§ 411.160 through 411.225 for an explanation of how reassigning your ticket may affect medical reviews that we conduct to determine if you are still disabled under our rules.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29340, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.155
When does my ticket terminate?
(a) Your ticket will terminate if and when you are no longer eligible to participate in the Ticket to Work program. If your ticket terminates, you may not assign or reassign it to an EN or State VR agency. We will not pay an EN (including a State VR agency) for milestones or outcomes achieved in or after the month in which your ticket terminates (see § 411.525(c)). Your eligibility to participate in the Ticket to Work program will end, and your ticket will terminate, in the earliest of the following months:
(1) The month in which your entitlement to title II benefits based on disability ends for reasons other than your work activity or earnings, or the month in which your eligibility for benefits under title XVI based on disability or blindness terminates for reasons other than your work activity or earnings, whichever is later;
(2) If you are entitled to widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability (see §§ 404.335 and 404.336 of this chapter), the month in which you attain full retirement age;
(3) If you are eligible for benefits under title XVI based on disability or blindness, the month following the month in which you attain age 65; or
(4) The month after the month in which your outcome payment period ends (see § 411.500(b)).
(b) The rules in paragraph (c) of this section apply in determining when your eligibility to participate in the Ticket to Work program will end and your ticket will terminate if—
(1) You were not a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary, and your entitlement to title II benefits based on disability ends or your eligibility for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness terminates because of your work activity or earnings; or
(2) You were a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary and—
(i) Your entitlement to title II benefits based on disability ends because of work activity or earnings and your eligibility for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness terminates for any reason; or
(ii) Your eligibility for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness terminates because of your work activity or earnings and your entitlement to title II benefits based on disability ends for any reason.
(c) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section, the ticket which you received in connection with the previous period during which you were either entitled to title II benefits based on disability or eligible for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness (as described in § 411.125(b)) will terminate, and your eligibility to participate in the Ticket to Work program based on that ticket will end, in the earliest of the following months:
(1) If we make a final determination or decision that you are not entitled to have title II benefits based on disability reinstated under section 223(i) of the Act or eligible to have title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness reinstated under section 1631(p) of the Act, the month in which we make that determination or decision;
(2) If we make a final determination or decision that you are not entitled to title II benefits based on disability or eligible for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness after you file an application for benefits, the month in which we make that determination or decision;
(3) The month you attain retirement age (as defined in section 216(l) of the Act);
(4) The month in which you die;
(5) The month in which you become entitled to a title II benefit that is not based on disability or eligible for a title XVI benefit that is not based on disability or blindness;
(6) The month in which you again become entitled to title II benefits based on disability, or eligible for title XVI
benefits based on disability or blindness, based on the filing of an application for such benefits;
(7) If your entitlement to title II benefits based on disability is reinstated under section 223(i) of the Act, or your eligibility for title XVI benefits based on disability or blindness is reinstated under section 1631(p) of the Act, the month in which you are eligible to receive a new ticket under § 411.125(c); or
(8) The month after the month in which your outcome payment period ends (see § 411.500(b)).
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29340, May 20, 2008]

# Subpart C—Suspension of Continuing Disability Reviews for Beneficiaries Who Are Using a Ticket

# Introduction
§ 411.160
What does this subpart do?
(a) This subpart explains our rules about continuing disability reviews for disability beneficiaries who are participating in the Ticket to Work program.
(b) Continuing disability reviews are reviews that we conduct to determine if you are still disabled under our rules (see §§ 404.1589, 416.989 and 416.989a of this chapter for the rules on when we may conduct continuing disability reviews). For the purposes of this subpart, continuing disability reviews include the medical reviews we conduct to determine if your medical condition has improved (see §§ 404.1594 and 416.994 of this chapter), but not any review to determine if your disability has ended under § 404.1594(d)(5) of this chapter because you have demonstrated your ability to engage in substantial gainful activity (SGA), as defined in §§ 404.1571-404.1576 of this chapter.
§ 411.165
How does using a ticket under the Ticket to Work program affect my continuing disability reviews?
We periodically review your case to determine if you are still disabled under our rules. However, we will not begin a continuing disability review during the period in which you are using a ticket. Sections 411.170 and 411.171 describe when the period of using a ticket begins and ends. You must meet certain requirements for us to consider you to be using a ticket.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29340, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.166
Glossary of terms used in this subpart.
(a)
Using a ticket
means you have assigned a ticket to an Employment Network (EN) or a State VR agency that has elected to serve you as an EN, and you are making timely progress toward self-supporting employment as defined in § 411.180; or you have a ticket that would otherwise be available for assignment and are receiving VR services pursuant to an individualized plan for employment (IPE) and the State VR agency has chosen to be paid for these services under the cost reimbursement payment system, and you are making timely progress toward self-supporting employment as defined in § 411.180. (See § 411.171 for when the period of using a ticket ends.)
(b)
Timely progress toward self-supporting employment
means you have completed the specified goals of work and earnings, or completed the specified post-secondary education credits at an educational institution (see § 411.167) in pursuit of a degree or certificate, or completed specified course requirements for a vocational or technical training program at an educational institution consisting of a technical, trade or vocational school (see § 411.167), or completed a certain percentage of the work requirement and a certain percentage of the post-secondary education requirement or vocational or technical training requirement and the sum of the two percentages equals 100 or more (see § 411.180(c)), or obtained a high school diploma or General Education Development (GED) certificate in the applicable progress certification period as described in § 411.180.
(c)
Timely progress guidelines
mean the guidelines we use to determine if you are making timely progress toward self-supporting employment (see § 411.180).
(d)
Progress certification period
means any 12-month progress certification period described in § 411.180(b).
(e)
Progress review
means the reviews the PM conducts to determine if you are meeting the timely progress guidelines described in § 411.180. We explain the method for conducting progress reviews in § 411.200.
(f)
Extension period
is a period of up to 90 days during which you may reassign a ticket without being subject to continuing disability reviews. You may be eligible for an extension period if the ticket is in use and no longer assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN (see § 411.220).
(g)
Inactive status
is a status in which you may place your ticket if you are temporarily or otherwise unable to make timely progress toward self-supporting employment during a progress certification period. See § 411.192 for the rules on placing your ticket in inactive status and on reactivating your ticket.
(h)
Variance tolerance
means the margin of flexibility whereby we will consider you to have met the requirement for completing a specified amount of post-secondary credit hours in an educational degree or certification program or the course requirements in a vocational or technical training program under § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period if your completion of credit hours or course requirements in this period is within 10% of the goal. Figures representing the number of credit hours required for the first and second progress certification periods as described in § 411.180 will be rounded by dropping any fractions. Under the variance tolerance, we also will consider you to have met the requirements in an applicable progress certification period if you complete a certain percentage of the work requirement and a certain percentage of the post-secondary education requirement or vocational or technical training requirement in the period and the sum of the two percentages is within 10% of the goal. See § 411.180(a) and (c).
(i)
VR cost reimbursement option
means an arrangement under which your ticket is not assigned to the State VR agency but you do receive services pursuant to an individualized plan for employment where the State VR agency has chosen to receive payment under the cost reimbursement payment system.
(j)
VR cost reimbursement status
means the status of your ticket under the arrangement described in paragraph (i) of this section. The period during which your ticket is in VR cost reimbursement status begins on the date described in § 411.170(b) and ends on the date your case is closed by the State VR agency.
[73 FR 29340, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.167
What is an educational institution or a technical, trade or vocational school?
(a)
Educational institution
means a school (including a technical, trade, or vocational school), junior college, college or university that is: operated or directly supported by the United States; operated or directly supported by any State or local government or by a political subdivision of any State or local government; or approved by a State agency or subdivision of the State, or accredited by a State-recognized or nationally recognized accrediting body.
(b)
Technical, trade or vocational school
is an educational institution that is approved by a State agency or subdivision of the State or accredited by a State-recognized or nationally recognized accrediting body to provide technical, trade or vocational training.
(c)
State-recognized accrediting body
means an entity designated or recognized by a State as the proper authority for accrediting schools, colleges or universities.
(d)
Nationally recognized accrediting body
means an entity determined to be such by the U.S. Department of Education.
(e)
Approval by a State agency or subdivision of the State
includes approval of a school, college or university as an educational institution, or approval of one or more of the courses offered by a school, college or university.
[73 FR 29341, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.170
When does the period of using a ticket begin?
(a) The period of using a ticket begins on the effective date of the assignment of your ticket to an EN or State VR agency under § 411.140.
(b) If you have a ticket that would otherwise be available for assignment and are receiving VR services pursuant to an individualized plan for employment (IPE) and the State VR agency has elected the VR cost reimbursement option, the period of using a ticket begins on the later of—
(1) The effective date of your IPE; or
(2) The first day your ticket would otherwise have been assignable if you had not been receiving services from a State VR agency that elected the VR cost reimbursement option.
[73 FR 29341, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.171
When does the period of using a ticket end?
The period of using a ticket ends with the earliest of the following—
(a) The last day of the month before the month in which the ticket terminates as a result of one of the events listed in § 411.155 (see § 411.155(a)(4) and (c)(8) for when your ticket terminates if your outcome payment period ends);
(b) The day before the effective date of a decision under § 411.200 or § 411.205 that you are no longer making timely progress toward self-supporting employment;
(c) The last day of the 90-day extension period which begins with the first day of the first month in which your ticket is no longer assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN (see § 411.145), unless you reassign your ticket within the 90-day extension period (see § 411.220 for an explanation of the 90-day extension period); or
(d) If your ticket was in VR cost reimbursement status as described in § 411.166(j), the 90th day following the date the State VR agency closes your case, unless you assign your ticket during this 90-day period.
[73 FR 29341, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.175
What if a continuing disability review is begun before my ticket is in use?
(a) If we begin a continuing disability review before the date on which your ticket is in use, you may still assign the ticket and receive services from an employment network or a State vocational rehabilitation agency acting as an employment network under the Ticket to Work program, or you may still receive services from a State vocational rehabilitation agency that elects the vocational rehabilitation cost reimbursement option. However, we will complete the continuing disability review. If in this review we determine that you are no longer disabled, in most cases you will no longer be eligible to receive benefit payments. However, if your ticket was in use before we determined that you are no longer disabled, in certain circumstances you may continue to receive benefit payments (see §§ 404.316(c), 404.337(c), 404.352(d), and 416.1338 of this chapter). If you appeal the decision that you are no longer disabled, you may also choose to have your benefits continued pending reconsideration or a hearing before a judge on the cessation determination (see §§ 404.1597a and 416.996 of this chapter).
(b) The date on which we begin the continuing disability review is the date on the notice we send you that tells you that we are beginning to review your disability case.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29341, May 20, 2008; 85 FR 73159, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 411.180
What is timely progress toward self-supporting employment?
(a)
General.
We consider you to be making timely progress toward self-supporting employment when you show progress as described below toward the ability to work at levels which will reduce your dependence on Social Security disability benefits or SSI benefits. We will also consider you to be making timely progress when you obtain a high school diploma or GED certificate in the first 12-month progress certification period, or if you show progress as described below toward obtaining an educational degree or certificate or vocational or technical training that will enhance your ability to return to work. In addition, if you complete a certain percentage of the work requirement and a certain percentage of the post-secondary education requirement or vocational or technical training requirement in the applicable progress certification period under the guidelines below, and the sum of the two percentages equals 100 or more, we will
consider you to have met the timely progress requirements for purposes of the progress review conducted at the end of the 12-month progress certification period. For example, if you complete 33.3 percent of the work requirement during the first 12-month progress certification period as described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section (
i.e.
, one month of work with earnings equal to or greater than the amount representing a trial work service month), and complete 66.7 percent of the requisite credit hours in an educational program during this period as described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section (
i.e.
, 40 percent of the post-secondary credit hours that are considered to represent an academic year of full-time study), we will consider you to have met the timely progress requirements for purposes of the progress review conducted at the end of the first 12-month progress certification period. In addition, we will apply the variance tolerance described in § 411.166(h) in determining whether you have met the requirements in paragraph (c)(1)(iii), (iv) or (v), paragraph (c)(2)(ii), (iii) or (iv), paragraph (c)(3)(iii) or (v), paragraph (c)(4)(ii) or (iii), or paragraph (c)(5)(ii) or (iii) of this section.
(b)
12-month progress certification periods.
The first 12-month progress certification period begins with the month following the month in which you first assigned your ticket, or with the month beginning after the date described in § 411.170(b) if you have a ticket that would otherwise be available for assignment and are receiving VR services under an IPE from a State VR agency which has chosen the VR cost reimbursement option. Any subsequent 12-month progress certification period will begin with the month following the end of the previous 12-month progress certification period. In computing any 12-month progress certification period, we do not count any month during which—
(1) Your ticket is not assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN and is not in VR cost reimbursement status (as described in § 411.166(j)); or
(2) Your ticket is in inactive status (see § 411.192).
(c)
Guidelines.
We will determine if you are making timely progress toward self-supporting employment by using the following guidelines:
(1) During the first 12-month progress certification period, you must be making timely progress as follows:
(i) You must have worked in at least three months within this 12-month period and have earnings in each of those three months that are equal to or greater than the amount representing a trial work service month (see § 404.1592(b) of this chapter); or
(ii) You must have obtained a high school diploma or GED certificate within this 12-month period; or
(iii) You must have been enrolled in a two- or four-year degree or certification program at an educational institution and have completed 60 percent of the post-secondary credit hours that are considered to represent an academic year of full-time study in the program by the end of this 12-month period; or
(iv) You must have been enrolled in a vocational or technical training program at an educational institution consisting of a technical, trade or vocational school and have completed 60 percent of the course requirements that are considered to represent a year of full-time study in the program by the end of this 12-month period; or
(v) You must have completed a percentage of the required number of months of work and earnings described in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section and a percentage of the specified amount of post-secondary credit hours or course requirements required under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) or (iv) of this section within this 12-month period so that the sum of the two percentages equals 100 or more.
(2) During the second 12-month progress certification period, at the conclusion of 24 months of ticket use, you must be making timely progress as follows:
(i) You must have worked in at least six months within this 12-month period and have earnings in each of those six months that are equal to or greater than the amount representing a trial work service month (see § 404.1592(b) of this chapter); or
(ii) You must have been enrolled in a two- or four-year degree or certification program at an educational institution and have completed an additional 75 percent of the post-secondary credit hours that are considered to represent an academic year of full-time study in the program by the end of this 12-month period; or
(iii) You must have been enrolled in a vocational or technical training program at an educational institution consisting of a technical, trade or vocational school and have completed an additional 75 percent of the course requirements that are considered to represent a year of full-time study in the program by the end of this 12-month period; or
(iv) You must have completed a percentage of the required number of months of work and earnings described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section and a percentage of the specified amount of post-secondary credit hours or course requirements required under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section within this 12-month period so that the sum of the two percentages equals 100 or more.
(3) During the third 12-month progress certification period, at the conclusion of 36 months of ticket use, you must be making timely progress as follows:
(i) You must have worked in at least nine months within this 12-month period and have gross earnings from employment (or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 404.1080 of this chapter) in each of those nine months that are more than the SGA threshold amount specified in § 404.1574(b)(2) of this chapter; or
(ii) You must have completed the course work and earned a degree or certificate from a two-year degree or certification program at an educational institution by the end of this 12-month period; or
(iii) You must have been enrolled in a four-year degree or certification program at an educational institution and completed additional post-secondary credit hours that are considered to represent an academic year of full-time study in the program by the end of this 12-month period; or
(iv) You must have been enrolled in a vocational or technical training program at an educational institution consisting of a technical, trade or vocational school and have completed the course requirements of the program by the end of this 12-month period; or
(v) You must have completed a percentage of the required number of months of work and earnings described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and a percentage of the specified amount of post-secondary credit hours required under paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section within this 12-month period so that the sum of the two percentages equals 100 or more.
(4) During the fourth 12-month progress certification period, at the conclusion of 48 months of ticket use, you must be making timely progress as follows:
(i) You must have worked in at least nine months within this 12-month period and have gross earnings from employment (or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 404.1080 of this chapter) in each of those nine months that are more than the SGA threshold amount specified in § 404.1574(b)(2) of this chapter; or
(ii) You must have been enrolled in a four-year degree or certification program at an educational institution and completed additional post-secondary credit hours that are considered to represent an academic year of full-time study in the program by the end of this 12-month period; or
(iii) You must have completed a percentage of the required number of months of work and earnings described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section and a percentage of the specified amount of post-secondary credit hours required under paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section within this 12-month period so that the sum of the two percentages equals 100 or more.
(5) During the fifth 12-month progress certification period, at the conclusion of 60 months of ticket use, you must be making timely progress as follows:
(i) You must have worked in at least six months within this 12-month period and have earnings in each of those six months that preclude payment of Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits; or
(ii) You must have been enrolled in a four-year degree or certification program at an educational institution and either completed additional post-secondary credit hours that are considered to represent an academic year of full-time study in the program or completed the course work and earned a degree or certificate from the program by the end of this 12-month period; or
(iii) You must have completed a percentage of the required number of months of work and earnings described in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section and a percentage of the specified amount of post-secondary credit hours required under paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section within this 12-month period so that the sum of the two percentages equals 100 or more.
(6) During the sixth 12-month progress certification period, at the conclusion of 72 months of ticket use, you must be making timely progress as follows:
(i) You must have worked in at least six months within this 12-month period and have earnings in each of those six months that preclude payment of Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits; or
(ii) You must have completed the course work and earned a degree or certificate from a four-year degree or certification program at an educational institution by the end of this 12-month period.
(7) During all subsequent 12-month progress certification periods, you must have worked in at least six months within the 12-month period and have earnings in each of those six months that preclude payment of Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits.
[73 FR 29341, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.192
What choices do I have if I am unable to make timely progress toward self-supporting employment?
(a) If you report to the PM that you are temporarily or otherwise unable to make timely progress toward self-supporting employment during a progress certification period, the PM will give you the choice of placing your ticket in inactive status or, if applicable, taking your ticket out of assignment with the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN. The choice of placing your ticket in inactive status applies whether your ticket is assigned or in VR cost reimbursement status (as described in § 411.166(j)).
(b) You may place your ticket in inactive status at any time by submitting a written request to the PM asking that your ticket be placed in inactive status. Your ticket will be placed in inactive status beginning with the first day of the month following the month in which you make your request. You are not considered to be using a ticket during months in which your ticket is in inactive status. Therefore, you will be subject to continuing disability reviews during those months. The months in which your ticket is in inactive status do not count toward the time limitations for making timely progress toward self-supporting employment.
(c) You may reactivate your ticket and return to in-use status if your ticket is still assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN. You may also reactivate your ticket and return to in-use status if you have a ticket which would otherwise be available for assignment, you were receiving services under an IPE from a State VR agency which chose the VR cost reimbursement option, and your VR case has not been closed by the State VR agency. You may reactivate your ticket by submitting a written request to the PM. Your ticket will be reactivated beginning with the first day of the month following the month in which the PM receives your request. The progress certification period will resume counting from the last month of in-use status, and the next progress review will be due when the progress certification period has been completed. Earnings from work, obtaining a high school diploma or GED certificate, or completion of post-secondary education credits in a two- or four-year degree or certification program or course requirements in a vocational or technical training program, as described in § 411.180, during the period your ticket is in inactive status may be counted toward meeting the requirements for the next progress review.
(d) You may take your ticket out of assignment under § 411.145(a) at any time.
[73 FR 29343, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.200
How will the PM conduct my progress reviews?
The PM will conduct a progress review at the end of each 12-month progress certification period.
(a) The PM will first review the available administrative records to determine if you completed the work requirements as specified in § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period.
(b) If the administrative records do not indicate that you met the work requirements, the PM will contact either you or your EN or State VR agency to request additional information to determine if you completed the work requirements or have met the educational or training requirements as specified in § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period.
(c) If the PM finds that you completed the work requirements or met the educational or training requirements as specified in § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period, the PM will find that you are making timely progress toward self-supporting employment. On the basis of that finding, we will consider you to be making timely progress toward self-supporting employment until your next scheduled progress review.
(d) If the PM finds that you did not complete the work requirements or meet the educational or training requirements as specified in § 411.180 in the applicable progress certification period, the PM will find that you are not making timely progress toward self-supporting employment. If the PM makes such a finding, the PM will send a written notice of the decision to you at your last known address. This notice will explain the reasons for the decision and inform you of the right to ask us to review the decision. This decision will be effective 30 days after the date on which the PM sends the notice of the decision to you, unless you request that we review the decision under § 411.205.
[73 FR 29343, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.205
What if I disagree with the PM's decision about whether I am making timely progress toward self-supporting employment?
If you disagree with the PM's decision, you may request that we review the decision. You must make the request before the 30th day after the date on which the PM sends the notice of its decision to you. We will consider you to be making timely progress toward self-supporting employment until we make a decision. We will send a written notice of our decision to you at your last known address. If we decide that you are no longer making timely progress toward self-supporting employment, our decision will be effective on the date on which we send the notice of the decision to you.

# Failure To Make Timely Progress
§ 411.210
What happens if I do not make timely progress toward self-supporting employment?
(a)
General.
If it is determined that you are not making timely progress toward self-supporting employment, we will find that you are no longer using a ticket. If this happens, you will once again be subject to continuing disability reviews. However, you may continue participating in the Ticket to Work program. Your EN (including a State VR agency which is serving you as an EN) also may receive any milestone or outcome payments for which it is eligible under § 411.500
et seq.
If you are working with a State VR agency which elected payment under the cost reimbursement payment system, your State VR agency may receive payment for which it is eligible under the cost reimbursement payment system (see subparts F and H of this part).
(b)
Re-entering in-use status.
If you failed to meet the timely progress guidelines for a 12-month progress certification period and you believe that you have now met the applicable requirements for that progress certification period as described in § 411.180, you may request that you be reinstated to in-use status. In order to do so, you must submit a written request to the PM asking that you be reinstated to in-use status and you must provide evidence showing that you have met the
applicable requirements for the progress certification period. The PM will decide whether you have satisfied the applicable requirements for the progress certification period and may be reinstated to in-use status. If the PM determines you have met the applicable requirements for the progress certification period, you will be reinstated to in-use status, provided that your ticket is assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN or in VR cost reimbursement status (as described in § 411.166(j)). See paragraph (c) of this section for when your reinstatement to in-use status will be effective. The month after you are reinstated to in-use status, your next 12-month progress certification period will begin.
(c)
Decisions on re-entering in-use status.
(1) After you have submitted a written request to the PM asking that you be reinstated to in-use status, the PM will decide whether you have satisfied the applicable requirements in this section for re-entering in-use status. The PM will send a written notice of the decision to you at your last known address. The notice will explain the reasons for the decision and inform you of the right to ask us to review the decision. If the PM decides that you have satisfied the requirements for re-entering in-use status (including the requirement that your ticket be assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN or in VR cost reimbursement status), you will be reinstated to in-use status effective with the date on which the PM sends the notice of the decision to you. If the PM decides that you have not satisfied the requirements for re-entering in-use status, you may request that we review the decision under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(2) If you disagree with the PM's decision, you may request that we review the decision. You must make the request before the 30th day after the date on which the PM sends the notice of its decision to you. We will send you a written notice of our decision at your last known address. If we decide that you have satisfied the requirements for re-entering in-use status (including the requirement that your ticket be assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN or in VR cost reimbursement status), you will be reinstated to in-use status effective with the date on which we send the notice of the decision to you.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29343, May 20, 2008]

# The Extension Period
§ 411.220
What if my ticket is no longer assigned to an EN or State VR agency?
(a) If your ticket was once assigned to an EN or State VR agency acting as an EN and is no longer assigned, you are eligible for an extension period of up to 90 days to reassign your ticket. You are eligible for an extension period if your ticket is in use and no longer assigned because—
(1) You retrieved your ticket because you were dissatisfied with the services being provided (see § 411.145(a)) or because you relocated to an area not served by your previous EN or State VR agency; or
(2) Your EN went out of business, is no longer approved to participate as an EN in the Ticket to Work program, or is no longer willing or able to provide you with services as described in § 411.145(b), or your State VR agency stopped providing services to you as described in § 411.145(b).
(b) During the extension period, the ticket will still be considered to be in use. This means that you will not be subject to continuing disability reviews during this period.
(c) Time spent in the extension period will not count toward the time limitations for the timely progress guidelines.
(d) The extension period—
(1) Begins on the first day on which the ticket is no longer assigned (see § 411.145); and
(2) Ends 90 days after it begins or when you assign your ticket to a new EN or State VR agency, whichever is sooner.
(e) If you do not assign your ticket by the end of the extension period, the ticket will no longer be in use and you will once again be subject to continuing disability reviews.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29344, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.225
What if I reassign my ticket after the end of the extension period?
(a)
General.
You may reassign your ticket after the end of the extension period under the conditions described in § 411.150. If you reassign your ticket after the end of the extension period, you will be reinstated to in-use status beginning on the day on which the reassignment of your ticket is effective under § 411.150(c).
(b)
Time limitations for the timely progress guidelines.
Any month during which your ticket is not assigned and not in VR cost reimbursement status (as described in § 411.166(j)), either during or after the extension period, will not count toward the time limitations for the timely progress guidelines.
(c)
If you reassign your ticket after the end of the extension period.
If you reassign your ticket after the end of the extension period, the period comprising the remaining months in the applicable 12-month progress certification period will begin with the first month beginning after the day on which the reassignment of your ticket is effective under § 411.150(c).
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29344, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.226
How will SSA determine if I am meeting the timely progress guidelines if I assign my ticket prior to July 21, 2008?
(a) If you assigned your ticket to an EN or State VR agency prior to July 21, 2008, we will determine which 12-month progress certification period in § 411.180 you are in as of July 21, 2008 using the rules in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. We will not conduct a progress review at the end of that progress certification period. We will conduct a progress review at the end of your next progress certification period as explained in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1) We will consider you to be in the first or a subsequent 12-month progress certification period under § 411.180 as of July 21, 2008. We will determine your applicable 12-month progress certification period and the number of months remaining in that period as of July 21, 2008 by counting all months during which your ticket was assigned and in use during the period—
(i) Beginning with the month following the month in which you first assigned your ticket under the rules in effect prior to July 21, 2008; and
(ii) Ending with the close of June 2008.
(2) We will use the timely progress guidelines in § 411.180(c) beginning with your next 12-month progress certification period. At the conclusion of that progress certification period, we will conduct a progress review to determine whether you are making timely progress toward self-supporting employment using the guidelines in § 411.180(c) that apply in that period.
(b) Prior to the conclusion of your applicable 12-month progress certification period determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, we will send you a notice telling you that we will not conduct a progress review at the end of that progress certification period, and that we will conduct a progress review at the conclusion of your next 12-month progress certification period using the guidelines in § 411.180(c). We will tell you in the notice when this next 12-month progress certification period will begin and will describe the specific timely progress guidelines you must meet in this 12-month period.
(c) Subsequent 12-month progress certification periods will follow the rules in § 411.180.
(d) If, on June 30, 2008, your ticket is in use and assigned to a State VR agency which chose to be paid for services it provides to you under the cost reimbursement payment system, your period of using a ticket may continue under the rules in this subpart, including the rules in paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section. While your ticket may still be considered in-use for the purpose of the suspension of continuing disability reviews, it will no longer be considered assigned to that State VR agency effective July 21, 2008. You may assign your ticket after the State VR agency has closed your case.
[73 FR 29344, May 20, 2008]

# Subpart D—Use of One or More Program Managers To Assist in Administration of the Ticket to Work Program
§ 411.230
What is a PM?
A program manager (PM) is an organization in the private or public sector that has entered into a contract to assist us in administering the Ticket to Work program. We will use a competitive bidding process to select one or more PMs.
§ 411.235
What qualifications are required of a PM?
A PM must have expertise and experience in the field of vocational rehabilitation or employment services.
§ 411.240
What limitations are placed on a PM?
A PM is prohibited from directly participating in the delivery of employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, or other support services to beneficiaries with tickets in the PM's designated service delivery area. A PM is also prohibited from holding a financial interest in an employment network (EN) or service provider that provides services under the Ticket to Work program in the PM's designated service delivery area.
§ 411.245
What are a PM's responsibilities under the Ticket to Work program?
A PM will assist us in administering the Ticket to Work program by conducting the following activities:
(a)
Recruiting, recommending, and monitoring ENs.
A PM must recruit and recommend for selection by us public and private entities to function as ENs under the program. A PM is also responsible for monitoring the ENs operating in its service delivery area. Such monitoring must be done to the extent necessary and appropriate to ensure that adequate choices of services are made available to beneficiaries with tickets. A PM may not limit the number of public or private entities being recommended to function as ENs.
(b)
Facilitating access by beneficiaries to ENs.
A PM must assist beneficiaries with tickets in accessing ENs.
(1) A PM must establish and maintain lists of the ENs available to beneficiaries with tickets in its service delivery area and make these lists generally available to the public.
(2) A PM must ensure that all information provided to beneficiaries with tickets about ENs is in accessible formats. For purposes of this section, accessible format means by media that is appropriate to a particular beneficiary's impairment(s).
(3) A PM must take necessary measures to ensure that sufficient ENs are available and that each beneficiary under the Ticket to Work program has reasonable access to employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, and other support services. The PM shall ensure that services such as the following are available in each service area, including rural areas: case management, work incentives planning, supported employment, career planning, career plan development, vocational assessment, job training, placement, follow-up services, and other services that we may require in an agreement with a PM.
(4) A PM must ensure that each beneficiary with a ticket is allowed to change ENs. When a change in the EN occurs, the PM must reassign the ticket based on the choice of the beneficiary.
(c)
Facilitating payments to ENs.
A PM must facilitate payments to the ENs in its service delivery area. Subpart H explains the EN payment systems and the PM's role in administering these systems.
(1) A PM must maintain documentation and provide regular assurances to us that payments to an EN are warranted. The PM shall ensure that an EN is complying with the terms of its agreement and applicable regulations.
(2) Upon the request of an EN, the PM shall make a determination of the allocation of the outcome or milestone payments due to an EN based on the services provided by the EN when a beneficiary has been served by more than one EN.
(d)
Administrative requirements.
A PM will perform such administrative tasks as are required to assist us in administering and implementing the Ticket to Work program. Administrative
tasks required for the implementation of the Program may include, but are not limited to:
(1) Reviewing individual work plans (IWPs) submitted by ENs for ticket assignment. These reviews will be conducted to ensure that the IWPs meet the requirements of § 411.465. (The PM will not review individualized plans for employment developed by State VR agencies and beneficiaries.)
(2) Reviewing amendments to IWPs to ensure that the amendments meet the requirements in § 411.465.
(3) Ensuring that ENs only refer an individual to a State VR agency for services pursuant to an agreement regarding the conditions under which such services will be provided.
(4) Resolving a dispute between an EN and a State VR agency with respect to agreements regarding the conditions under which services will be provided when an individual is referred by an EN to a State VR agency for services.

# Evaluation of Program Manager Performance
§ 411.250
How will SSA evaluate a PM?
(a) We will periodically conduct a formal evaluation of the PM. The evaluation will include, but not be limited to, an assessment examining the following areas:
(1) Quality of services;
(2) Cost control;
(3) Timeliness of performance;
(4) Business relations; and
(5) Customer satisfaction.
(b) Our Project Officer will perform the evaluation. The PM will have an opportunity to comment on the evaluation, and then the Contracting Officer will determine the PM's final rating.
(c) These performance evaluations will be made part of our database on contractor past performance to which any Federal agency may have access.
(d) Failure to comply with the standards used in the evaluation may result in early termination of our agreement with the PM.

# Subpart E—Employment Networks
§ 411.300
What is an EN?
An employment network (EN) is any qualified entity that has entered into an agreement with us to function as an EN under the Ticket to Work program and assume responsibility for the coordination and delivery of employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, or other support services to beneficiaries who have assigned their tickets to that EN.
§ 411.305
Who is eligible to be an EN?
Any qualified agency or instrumentality of a State (or political subdivision thereof) or a private entity that assumes responsibility for the coordination and delivery of services under the Ticket to Work program to disabled beneficiaries is eligible to be an EN. A single entity or an association of or consortium of entities combining their resources is eligible to be an EN. The entity may provide these services directly or by entering into an agreement with other organizations or individuals to provide the appropriate services or other assistance that a beneficiary with a ticket may need to find and maintain employment that reduces dependency on disability benefits. ENs may include, but are not limited to:
(a) Any public or private entity, including charitable and religious organizations, that can provide directly, or arrange for other organizations or entities to provide, employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, or other support services.
(b) State agencies administering or supervising the administration of the State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
) may choose, on a case-by-case basis, to be paid as an EN under the payment systems described in subpart H of this part. For the rules on State VR agencies' participation in the Ticket to Work program, see subpart F of this part. The rules in this subpart E apply to entities other than State VR agencies.
(c) One-stop delivery systems established under subtitle B of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2841
et seq.
).
(d) [Reserved]
(e) Organizations administering Vocational Rehabilitation Services Projects for American Indians with Disabilities authorized under section
121 of part C of title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 750
et seq.
).
(f) Public or private schools that provide VR or employment services, conduct job training programs, or make services or programs available that can assist students with disabilities in acquiring specific job skills that lead to employment. This includes transition programs that can help students acquire work skills.
(g) Employers that offer job training or other support services or assistance to help individuals with disabilities obtain and retain employment or arrange for individuals with disabilities to receive relevant services or assistance.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 83 FR 62459, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 411.310
How does an entity other than a State VR agency apply to be an EN and who will determine whether an entity qualifies as an EN?
(a) An entity other than a State VR agency applies by responding to our Request for Proposal (RFP), which we published in the Commerce Business Daily and which is available online through the Federal government's electronic posting system (
http://www.eps.gov
). This RFP also is available through SSA's website,
http://www.ssa.gov/work.
Since recruitment of ENs will be an ongoing process, the RFP is open and continuous. The entity must respond in a format prescribed in the RFP announcement. In its response, the entity must assure SSA that it is qualified to provide employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, or other support services to disabled beneficiaries, either directly or through arrangements with other entities.
(b) The PM will solicit service providers and other qualified entities to respond to the RFP on an ongoing basis. (See § 411.115(k) for a definition of the PM.) The PM will conduct a preliminary review of responses to the RFP from applicants located in the PM's service delivery area and make recommendations to the Commissioner regarding selection. The Commissioner will decide which applicants will be approved to serve as ENs under the program.
(c) State VR agencies must comply with the requirements in subpart F of this part to participate as an EN in the Ticket to Work program. (See §§ 411.360ff).
(d) One-stop delivery systems established under subtitle B of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2811
et seq.
) may participate in the Ticket to Work program as ENs and do not need to respond to the RFP. However, in order to participate in the Ticket to Work program, the one-stop delivery system must enter into an agreement with the Commissioner to be an EN and must maintain compliance with general and specific selection criteria as described in § 411.315 in order to remain an EN.
(e) Organizations administering Vocational Rehabilitation Services Projects for American Indians with Disabilities authorized under section 121 of part C of title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 741), may participate in the Ticket to Work program as ENs and do not need to respond to the RFP. However, in order to participate in the Ticket to Work program, the organization administering the project must enter into an agreement with the Commissioner to be an EN and must maintain compliance with general and specific selection criteria as described in § 411.315 in order to remain an EN.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29344, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.315
What are the minimum qualifications necessary to be an EN?
To serve as an EN under the Ticket to Work program, an entity must meet and maintain compliance with both general selection criteria and specific selection criteria.
(a) The general criteria include:
(1) having systems in place to protect the confidentiality of personal information about beneficiaries seeking or receiving services;
(2) being accessible, both physically and programmatically, to beneficiaries seeking or receiving services (examples of being programmatically accessible
include the capability of making documents and literature available in alternate media including Braille, recorded formats, enlarged print, and electronic media; and insuring that data systems available to clients are fully accessible for independent use by persons with disabilities);
(3) not discriminating in the provision of services based on a beneficiary's age, gender, race, color, creed, or national origin;
(4) having adequate resources to perform the activities required under the agreement with us or the ability to obtain them;
(5) complying with the terms and conditions in the agreement with us, including delivering or coordinating the delivery of employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, and other support services; and
(6) implementing accounting procedures and control operations necessary to carry out the Ticket to Work program.
(b) The specific criteria that an entity must meet to qualify as an EN include:
(1)(i) Using staff who are qualified under applicable certification, licensing, or registration standards that apply to their profession including certification or accreditation by national accrediting or certifying organizations; or
(ii) Using staff that are otherwise qualified based on education or experience, such as by using staff with experience or a college degree in a field related to the services the EN wants to provide, such as vocational counseling, human relations, teaching, or psychology; and
(2) Taking reasonable steps to assure that if any medical and related health services are provided, such medical and health related services are provided under the formal supervision of persons licensed to prescribe or supervise the provision of these services in the State in which the services are performed.
(c) Any entity must have applicable certificates, licenses or other credentials if such documentation is required by State law to provide vocational rehabilitation services, employment services or other support services.
(d) We will not use the following as an EN:
(1) any entity that has had its license, accreditation, certification, or registration suspended or revoked for reasons concerning professional competence or conduct or financial integrity;
(2) any entity that has surrendered a license, accreditation, certification, or registration with a disciplinary proceeding pending; or
(3) any entity that is precluded from Federal procurement or non-procurement programs.
(e) One-stop delivery systems established under subtitle B of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 U.S.C. 2811
et seq.
) are qualified to be ENs. A one-stop delivery system must enter into an agreement with the Commissioner to be an EN and must maintain compliance with general and specific selection criteria of this section and § 411.305 in order to remain an EN.
(f) Organizations administering Vocational Rehabilitation Services Projects for American Indians with Disabilities authorized under section 121 of part C of title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 741), are qualified to be ENs. An organization administering such a project must enter into an agreement with the Commissioner to be an EN and must maintain compliance with general and specific selection criteria of this section and § 411.305 in order to remain an EN.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29344, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.320
What are an EN's responsibilities as a participant in the Ticket to Work program?
An EN must—
(a) Enter into an agreement with us.
(b) Serve a prescribed service area. The EN must designate the geographic area in which it will provide services. This will be designated in the EN's agreement with us.
(c) Provide services directly, or enter into agreements with other entities to provide employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, or other support services to beneficiaries with tickets.
(d) Ensure that employment services, vocational rehabilitation services, and other support services provided under the Ticket to Work program are provided under appropriate individual work plans (IWPs).
(e) Elect a payment system at the time of signing an agreement with us (see § 411.505).
(f) Develop and implement each IWP in partnership with each beneficiary receiving services in a manner that affords the beneficiary the opportunity to exercise informed choice in selecting an employment goal and specific services needed to achieve that employment goal. Each IWP must meet the requirements described in § 411.465.
§ 411.321
Under what conditions will SSA terminate an agreement with an EN due to inadequate performance?
We will terminate our agreement with an EN if it does not comply with the requirements under §§ 411.320, § 411.325, or the conditions in the agreement between SSA and the EN, including minimum performance standards relating to beneficiaries achieving self-supporting employment and leaving the benefit rolls.
§ 411.325
What reporting requirements are placed on an EN as a participant in the Ticket to Work program?
An EN must:
(a) Report to the PM in writing each time the EN accepts a ticket for assignment or the EN no longer wants a ticket assigned to it;
(b) Submit a copy of each signed IWP to the PM;
(c) Submit to the PM copies of amendments to a beneficiary's IWP;
(d) Submit to the PM a copy of any agreement the EN has established with a State VR agency regarding the conditions under which the State VR agency will provide services to beneficiaries who are referred by the EN under the Ticket to Work program;
(e) Submit information to assist the PM conducting the reviews necessary to assess a beneficiary's timely progress towards self-supporting employment to determine if a beneficiary is using a ticket for purposes of suspending continuing disability reviews (see subpart C of this part);
(f) Report to the PM the specific outcomes achieved with respect to specific services the EN provided or secured on behalf of beneficiaries whose tickets it accepted for assignment. Such reports shall conform to a national model prescribed by us and shall be submitted to the PM at least annually;
(g) Provide a copy of its most recent annual report on outcomes to each beneficiary considering assigning a ticket to it and assure that a copy of its most recent report is available to the public while ensuring that personal information on beneficiaries is kept confidential;
(h) Meet our financial reporting requirements. These requirements will be described in the agreements between ENs and the Commissioner, and will include submitting a financial report to the program manager on an annual basis;
(i) Collect and record such data as we shall require, in a form prescribed by us; and
(j) Adhere to all requirements specified in the agreement with the Commissioner and all regulatory requirements in this part 411.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29345, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.330
How will SSA evaluate an EN's performance?
(a) We will periodically review the results of the work of each EN to ensure effective quality assurance in the provision of services by ENs.
(b) In conducting such a review, we will solicit and consider the views of the individuals the EN serves and the PM which monitors the EN.
(c) ENs must make the results of these periodic reviews available to disabled beneficiaries to assist them in choosing among available ENs.

# Subpart F—State Vocational Rehabilitation Agencies' Participation

# Participation in the Ticket to Work Program
§ 411.350
Must a State VR agency participate in the Ticket to Work program?
A State VR agency may elect, but is not required, to participate in the Ticket to Work program as an EN. The State VR agency may elect on a case-by-case basis to participate in the Ticket to Work program as an EN, or it may elect to provide services to beneficiaries under the VR cost reimbursement option. (See § 411.115(s) for a definition of the VR cost reimbursement option.)
[73 FR 29345, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.355
What payment options does a State VR agency have?
(a) The Ticket to Work program provides different payment options that are available to a State VR agency for providing services to disabled beneficiaries who have a ticket. A State VR agency participates in the program in one of two ways when providing services to a particular disabled beneficiary under the program. On a case-by-case basis, the State VR agency may participate either—
(1) As an employment network (EN); or
(2) Under the cost reimbursement payment system (see subpart V of part 404 and subpart V of part 416 of this chapter).
(b) When the State VR agency serves a beneficiary with a ticket as an EN, the State VR agency will use the EN payment system it has elected for this purpose, either the outcome payment system or the outcome-milestone payment system (described in subpart H of this part). The State VR agency will have periodic opportunities to change the payment system it uses when serving as an EN.
(c) The State VR agency may seek payment only under its elected EN payment system whenever it serves as an EN. When serving a beneficiary who does not have a ticket that can be assigned pursuant to § 411.140, the State VR agency may seek payment only under the cost reimbursement payment system.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29345, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.365
How does a State VR agency notify us about its choice of a payment system for use when functioning as an EN?
(a) The State VR agency must send us a letter telling us which EN payment system it will use when it functions as an EN with respect to a beneficiary who has a ticket.
(b) The director of the State agency administering or supervising the administration of the State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
), or the director's designee must sign the State VR agency's letter described in paragraph (a) of this section.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29345, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.375
Does a State VR agency continue to provide services under the requirements of the State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
), when functioning as an EN?
Yes. The State VR agency must continue to provide services under the requirements of the State plan approved under title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
), even when functioning as an EN.

# Ticket Status
§ 411.380
What does a State VR agency do if the State VR agency wants to determine whether a person seeking services has a ticket?
A State VR agency can contact the Program Manager (PM) to determine if a person seeking VR services has a ticket and, if so, whether the ticket may be assigned to the State VR agency (see § 411.140) or reassigned to the State VR agency (see § 411.150). (See § 411.115(k) for a definition of the PM.)
§ 411.385
What does a State VR agency do if a beneficiary who is eligible for VR services has a ticket that is available for assignment or reassignment?
(a) Once the State VR agency determines that a beneficiary is eligible for VR services, the beneficiary and a representative of the State VR agency must agree to and sign the individualized plan for employment (IPE) required under section 102(b) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 722(b)). The State VR agency must submit the following information to the PM in order for the beneficiary's ticket to be considered in use:
(1) A statement that an IPE has been agreed to and signed by both the beneficiary and a representative of the State VR agency;
(2) A statement of the vocational goal outlined in the beneficiary's IPE; and
(3) A statement of the State VR agency's selection of the payment system (either the cost reimbursement payment system or the previously elected EN payment system) under which the State VR agency will seek payment for providing services to the beneficiary.
(b) This information must be submitted to the PM in a format prescribed by us and must include the signatures of both the beneficiary, or a representative of the beneficiary, and a representative of the State VR agency.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29345, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.390
What does a State VR agency do if a beneficiary to whom it is already providing services has a ticket that is available for assignment?
If a beneficiary who is receiving services from the State VR agency under an existing IPE becomes eligible for a ticket that is available for assignment, the State VR agency must submit the information required in § 411.385(a) to the PM. We require this information in order for the beneficiary's ticket to be considered in use. If a beneficiary who is receiving services from the State VR agency under an existing IPE becomes eligible for a ticket that is available for assignment, the State VR agency is limited to the cost reimbursement payment system, unless both the beneficiary and the State VR agency agree to have the ticket assigned to the State VR agency.
[73 FR 29345, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.395
Is a State VR agency required to provide periodic reports?
(a) For cases where a State VR agency provided services functioning as an EN, the State VR agency will be required to prepare periodic reports on the specific outcomes achieved with respect to the specific services the State VR agency provided to or secured for disabled beneficiaries whose tickets it accepted for assignment. These reports must be submitted to the PM at least annually.
(b) Regardless of the payment method selected, a State VR agency must submit information to assist the PM conducting the reviews necessary to assess a beneficiary's timely progress toward self-supporting employment to determine if a beneficiary is using a ticket for purposes of suspending continuing disability reviews (see §§ 411.190, 411.195 and 411.200).

# Referrals by Employment Networks to State VR Agencies
§ 411.400
Can an EN to which a beneficiary's ticket is assigned refer the beneficiary to a State VR agency for services?
Yes. An EN may refer a beneficiary it is serving under the Ticket to Work program to a State VR agency for services. However, a referral can be made only if the State VR agency and the EN have an agreement that specifies the conditions under which services will be provided by the State VR agency. This agreement must be in writing and signed by the State VR agency and the EN prior to the EN referring any beneficiary to the State VR agency for services.

# Agreements Between Employment Networks and State VR Agencies
§ 411.405
When does an agreement between an EN and the State VR agency have to be in place?
Each EN must have an agreement with the State VR agency prior to referring a beneficiary it is serving under
the Ticket to Work program to the State VR agency for specific services.
§ 411.410
Does each referral from an EN to a State VR agency require its own agreement?
No. The agreements between ENs and State VR agencies should be broad-based and apply to all beneficiaries who may be referred by the EN to the State VR agency for services, although an EN and a State VR agency may want to enter into an individualized agreement to meet the needs of a single beneficiary.
§ 411.415
Who will verify the establishment of agreements between ENs and State VR agencies?
The PM will verify the establishment of these agreements. Each EN is required to submit a copy of the agreement it has established with the State VR agency to the PM.
§ 411.420
What information should be included in an agreement between an EN and a State VR agency?
The agreement between an EN and a State VR agency should state the conditions under which the State VR agency will provide services to a beneficiary when the beneficiary is referred by the EN to the State VR agency for services. Examples of this information include-
(a) Procedures for making referrals and sharing information that will assist in providing services;
(b) A description of the financial responsibilities of each party to the agreement;
(c) The terms and procedures under which the EN will pay the State VR agency for providing services; and
(d) Procedures for resolving disputes under the agreement.
§ 411.425
What should a State VR agency do if it gets an attempted referral from an EN and no agreement has been established between the EN and the State VR agency?
The State VR agency should contact the EN to discuss the need to establish an agreement. If the State VR agency and the EN are not able to negotiate acceptable terms for an agreement, the State VR agency should notify the PM that an attempted referral has been made without an agreement.
§ 411.430
What should the PM do when it is informed that an EN has attempted to make a referral to a State VR agency without an agreement being in place?
The PM will contact the EN to explain that a referral cannot be made to the State VR agency unless an agreement has been established that sets out the conditions under which services will be provided when a beneficiary's ticket is assigned to the EN and the EN is referring the beneficiary to the State VR agency for specific services.

# Resolving Disputes Arising Under Agreements Between Employment Networks and State VR Agencies
§ 411.435
How will disputes arising under the agreements between ENs and State VR agencies be resolved?
Disputes arising under agreements between ENs and State VR agencies must be resolved using the following steps:
(a) When procedures for resolving disputes are spelled out in the agreement between the EN and the State VR agency, those procedures must be used.
(b) If procedures for resolving disputes are not included in the agreement between the EN and the State VR agency and procedures for resolving disputes under contracts and interagency agreements are provided for in State law or administrative procedures, the State procedures must be used to resolve disputes under agreements between ENs and State VR agencies.
(c) If procedures for resolving disputes are not spelled out in the agreement or in State law or administrative procedures, the EN or the State VR agency may request that the PM recommend a resolution to the dispute.
(1) The request must be in writing and include:
(i) a copy of the agreement;
(ii) information on the issue(s) in dispute; and
(iii) information on the position of both the EN and the State VR agency regarding the dispute.
(2) The PM has 20 calendar days after receiving a written request to recommend a resolution to the dispute. If either the EN or the State VR agency does not agree with the PM's recommended resolution to the dispute, the EN or the State VR agency has 30 calendar days after receiving the PM's recommendation to request a decision by us on the matter in dispute.

# Subpart G—Requirements For Individual Work Plans
§ 411.450
What is an Individual Work Plan?
An individual work plan (IWP) is a required written document signed by an employment network (EN) (other than a State VR agency) and a beneficiary, or a representative of a beneficiary, with a ticket. It is developed and implemented in partnership when a beneficiary and an EN have come to a mutual understanding to work together to pursue the beneficiary's employment goal under the Ticket to Work program.
§ 411.455
What is the purpose of an IWP?
The purpose of an IWP is to outline the specific employment services, vocational rehabilitation services and other support services that the EN and beneficiary have determined are necessary to achieve the beneficiary's stated employment goal. An IWP provides written documentation for both the EN and beneficiary. Both parties should develop and implement the IWP in partnership. The EN shall develop and implement the plan in a manner that gives the beneficiary the opportunity to exercise informed choice in selecting an employment goal. Specific services needed to achieve the designated employment goal are discussed and agreed to by both parties.
§ 411.460
Who is responsible for determining what information is contained in the IWP?
The beneficiary and the EN share the responsibility for determining the employment goal and the specific services needed to achieve that employment goal. The EN will present information and options in a way that affords the beneficiary the opportunity to exercise informed choice in selecting an employment goal and specific services needed to achieve that employment goal.
§ 411.465
What are the minimum requirements for an IWP?
(a) An IWP must include at least—
(1) A statement of the vocational goal developed with the beneficiary, including, as appropriate, goals for earnings and job advancement;
(2) A statement of the services and supports necessary for the beneficiary to accomplish that goal;
(3) A statement of any terms and conditions related to the provision of these services and supports;
(4) A statement that the EN may not request or receive any compensation for the costs of services and supports from the beneficiary;
(5) A statement of the conditions under which an EN may amend the IWP or terminate the relationship;
(6) A statement of the beneficiary's rights under the Ticket to Work program, including the right to retrieve the ticket at any time if the beneficiary is dissatisfied with the services being provided by the EN;
(7) A statement of the remedies available to the beneficiary, including information on the availability of advocacy services and assistance in resolving disputes through the State Protection and Advocacy (P
A) System;
(8) A statement of the beneficiary's rights to privacy and confidentiality regarding personal information, including information about the beneficiary's disability;
(9) A statement of the beneficiary's right to seek to amend the IWP (the IWP can be amended if both the beneficiary and the EN agree to the change); and
(10) A statement of the beneficiary's right to have a copy of the IWP made available to the beneficiary, including in an accessible format chosen by the beneficiary.
(b) The EN will be responsible for ensuring that each IWP contains this information.
§ 411.470
When does an IWP become effective?
(a) An IWP becomes effective if the following requirements are met—
(1) It has been signed by the beneficiary or the beneficiary's representative, and by a representative of the EN;
(2)(i) The beneficiary is eligible to assign his or her ticket under § 411.140(a); or
(ii) The beneficiary is eligible to reassign his or her ticket under § 411.150(a) and (b); and
(3) A representative of the EN submits a copy of the signed IWP to the PM and the PM receives the copy of the IWP.
(b) If all of the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section are met, the IWP will be effective on the first day on which the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section are met.

# Subpart H—Employment Network Payment Systems
§ 411.500
Definitions of terms used in this subpart.
(a)
Payment calculation base
means for any calendar year—
(1) In connection with a title II disability beneficiary (including a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary), the average monthly disability insurance benefit payable under section 223 of the Act for months during the preceding calendar year to all beneficiaries who are in current pay status for the month for which the benefit is payable; and
(2) In connection with a title XVI disability beneficiary (who is not concurrently a title II disability beneficiary), the average monthly payment of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) benefits based on disability payable under title XVI (excluding State supplementation) for months during the preceding calendar year to all beneficiaries who—
(i) Have attained age 18 but have not attained age 65;
(ii) Are not concurrent title II/title XVI beneficiaries; and
(iii) Are in current pay status for the month for which the payment is made.
(b)
Outcome payment period
means a period of 36 months for a title II disability beneficiary or a period of 60 months for a title XVI disability beneficiary who is not concurrently a title II disability beneficiary, not necessarily consecutive, for which Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the beneficiary because of the performance of substantial gainful activity (SGA) or by reason of earnings from work activity. The outcome payment period begins with the first month, ending after the date on which the ticket was first assigned to an EN (or to a State VR agency acting as an EN), for which such benefits are not payable to the beneficiary because of SGA or by reason of earnings from work activity. The outcome payment period ends as follows:
(1) For a title II disability beneficiary (including a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary), the outcome payment period ends with the 36th month, consecutive or otherwise, ending after the date on which the ticket was first assigned to an EN (or to a State VR agency acting as an EN), for which Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the beneficiary because of earnings from work activity (except as provided for in § 411.551).
(2) For a title XVI disability beneficiary who is not concurrently a title II disability beneficiary, the outcome payment period ends with the 60th month, consecutive or otherwise, ending after the date on which the ticket was first assigned to an EN (or to a State VR agency acting as an EN), for which Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the beneficiary by reason of earnings from work activity (except as provided for in § 411.551).
(c)
Outcome payment system
is a system providing a schedule of payments to an EN (or a State VR agency acting as an EN) for each month, during an individual's outcome payment period, for which Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the individual because of work or earnings.
(d)
Outcome payment
means the payment for an outcome payment month.
(e)
Outcome payment month
means a month, during the beneficiary's outcome payment period, for which Social
Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the beneficiary because of work or earnings.
(f)
Outcome-milestone payment system
is a system providing a schedule of payments to an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) that includes, in addition to any outcome payments which may be made during the individual's outcome payment period, payments for completion by a title II or title XVI disability beneficiary of up to four Phase 1 milestones; and up to eleven Phase 2 milestones for a title II disability beneficiary or a concurrent beneficiary or up to eighteen Phase 2 milestones for a title XVI disability beneficiary who is not a concurrent title II disability beneficiary.
(1)
Phase 1 milestones
are based on the beneficiary achieving a level of earnings that reflects initial efforts at self-supporting employment. They are based on the earnings threshold that we use to establish a trial work period service month as defined in § 404.1592(b) of this chapter. We use this threshold amount as defined in § 404.1592(b) of this chapter in order to measure whether the beneficiary's earnings level meets the milestone objective.
(2)
Phase 2 milestones
are based on the beneficiary achieving a level of earnings that reflects substantial efforts at self-supporting employment. They are based on the earnings threshold that we use to determine if work activity is SGA. We use the SGA earnings threshold amount in § 404.1574(b)(2) of this chapter. We use the SGA threshold amounts in order to measure whether the beneficiary's gross earnings level meets the milestone objective.
(g)
Transition case
is a case where milestones or outcomes had been attained before July 21, 2008 (that is, the work required to meet such a milestone or outcome had been completed by that date). Section 411.551 explains how subsequent payments will be made to the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) on a transition case.
(h)
Reconciliation payment
is a final payment equal to the milestone payments that are unpaid when the beneficiary enters the outcome payment period before all the milestone payments are paid (see §§ 411.525(c) and 411.536).
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29345, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.505
How is an EN paid?
An EN (including a State VR agency acting as an EN) can elect to be paid under either the outcome payment system or the outcome-milestone payment system. The EN will elect a payment system at the time the EN enters into an agreement with us. (For State VR agencies, see § 411.365.) The EN (or State VR agency) may periodically change its elected EN payment system as described in § 411.515.
[73 FR 29346, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.510
How is the State VR agency paid under the Ticket to Work program?
(a) The State VR agency's payment choices are described in § 411.355.
(b) The State VR agency's decision to serve the beneficiary must be communicated to the program manager (PM). (See § 411.115(k) for a definition of the PM.) At the same time, the State VR agency must notify the PM of its selected payment system for that beneficiary.
(c) If a beneficiary who is receiving services from the State VR agency under an existing IPE becomes eligible for a ticket that is available for assignment, the State VR agency is limited to the cost reimbursement payment system, unless both the beneficiary and the State VR agency agree to have the ticket assigned to the State VR agency (see § 411.390).
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29346, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.515
Can the EN change its elected payment system?
(a) Yes. Any change by an EN in its elected EN payment system will apply to beneficiaries who assign their ticket to the EN after the EN's change in election becomes effective. A change in the EN's election will become effective with the first day of the month following the month in which the EN notifies us of the change. For beneficiaries who already assigned their ticket to the EN under the EN's earlier
elected payment system, the EN's earlier elected payment system will continue to apply. These rules also apply to a change by a State VR agency in its elected EN payment system for cases in which the State VR agency serves a beneficiary as an EN.
(b) After an EN (or a State VR agency) first elects an EN payment system, the EN (or State VR agency) can choose to make one change in its elected payment system in each calendar year (January-December) thereafter. The first EN payment system election constitutes the only election an EN may make for that calendar year.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29346, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.520
How are beneficiaries whose tickets are assigned to an EN affected by a change in that EN's elected payment system?
A change in an EN's (or State VR agency's) elected payment system has no effect upon the beneficiaries who have assigned their ticket to the EN (or State VR agency).
§ 411.525
What payments are available under each of the EN payment systems?
(a) For payments for outcome payment months, both EN payment systems use the payment calculation base as defined in § 411.500(a)(1) or (a)(2), as appropriate.
(1)(i) Under the outcome payment system, we can pay up to 36 outcome payments to the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) for a title II disability beneficiary (including a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary). We can pay up to 60 outcome payments to the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) for a title XVI disability beneficiary who is not concurrently a title II disability beneficiary. For each month during the beneficiary's outcome payment period for which Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the beneficiary because of the performance of SGA or by reason of earnings from work activity, the EN (or the State VR agency acting as an EN) is eligible for a monthly outcome payment. Payment for an outcome payment month under the outcome payment system is equal to 67% of the payment calculation base for the calendar year in which such month occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar (see § 411.550).
(ii) If a disabled beneficiary's entitlement to Social Security disability benefits ends (see §§ 404.316(b), 404.337(b) and 404.352(b) of this chapter) or eligibility for SSI benefits based on disability or blindness terminates (see § 416.1335 of this chapter) because of the performance of SGA or by reason of earnings from work activity, we will consider any month after the month with which such entitlement ends or eligibility terminates to be a month for which Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the individual because of work or earnings if—
(A) The individual has gross earnings from employment (or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 416.1110(b) of this chapter) in that month that are more than the SGA threshold amount in § 404.1574(b)(2) of this chapter (or in § 404.1584(d) of this chapter for an individual who is statutorily blind); and
(B) The individual is not entitled to any monthly benefits under title II or eligible for any benefits under title XVI for that month.
(2) Under the outcome-milestone payment system:
(i) We can pay the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) for up to four Phase 1 milestones attained within the required earnings period for a title II or title XVI disability beneficiary who has assigned his or her ticket to the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN). The first Phase 1 milestone is met when a beneficiary has worked in a month and earned at least 50% of the amount of earnings considered to represent a trial work period service month as defined in § 404.1592(b) of this chapter. The second Phase 1 milestone is met after a beneficiary has worked for three months within a six-month period and has gross earnings in each of those three months equal to or greater than a trial work period service amount as defined in § 404.1592(b) of this chapter. The third Phase 1 milestone is met after a beneficiary has worked for a total of six months within a twelve-
month period and had gross earnings in each of those six months equal to a trial work period service amount as defined in § 404.1592(b) of this chapter. The fourth Phase 1 milestone is met after a beneficiary has worked a total of nine months within an 18-month period and had gross earnings in each of those nine months equal to a trial work period service amount as defined in § 404.1592(b) of this chapter and the EN has substantially completed the services agreed to in the IWP/IPE, including any amendments. Earnings used to meet the first, second or third Phase 1 milestone may be counted again when determining if a later Phase 1 milestone is met, provided the earlier earnings fall within the relevant time period for meeting the later milestone.
(ii) We can also pay the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) up to eleven Phase 2 milestones achieved by a title II disability beneficiary (including a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary) or up to eighteen Phase 2 milestones achieved by a title XVI disability beneficiary (who is not concurrently a title II disability beneficiary) who has assigned his or her ticket to the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN). A Phase 2 milestone is met for each calendar month in which the beneficiary has worked and has gross earnings from employment (or net earnings from self-employment as defined in § 404.1080 of this chapter) in that month that are more than the SGA threshold amount as defined in § 404.1574 of this chapter.
(iii) We pay available milestone payments in sequence except when the beneficiary's outcome period begins before the beneficiary has achieved all Phase 1 and Phase 2 milestones. Example: The individual, in the first month of employment after assigning the ticket, earns above the SGA level. Despite having exceeded trial work period level earnings and earned above the SGA level as required for Phase 2 payments in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, based on the individual's earning we would pay the EN the sequentially available milestone, which in this case would be Phase 1, milestone 1.
(iv) In addition to the milestone payments, monthly outcome payments can be paid to the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) during the outcome payment period.
(b) The outcome-milestone payment system is designed so that the total payments to the EN (or the State VR agency acting as an EN) for a beneficiary are less than the total amount that would have been paid if the EN were paid under the outcome payment system. Under the outcome-milestone payment system, the total payment to the EN (or the State VR agency acting as an EN) is about 90% of the total that would have been potentially payable under the outcome payment system for the same beneficiary.
(c) Except as provided in § 411.536 (reconciliation payments) the milestones for which payments may be made must occur prior to the beginning of the beneficiary's outcome payment period.
(d) We will pay an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) to which the beneficiary has assigned a ticket for milestones or outcomes achieved only in months prior to the month in which the ticket terminates (see § 411.155). We will not pay a milestone or outcome payment to an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) based on a beneficiary's work or earnings activity in or after the month in which the ticket terminates.
(e) If a title XVI disability beneficiary becomes entitled to title II benefits after we authorize the first milestone or outcome payment, we will continue to calculate the EN payments using title XVI payment calculation base under the outcome payment system on the basis of paragraph (a)(1)(i) and under the outcome-milestone payment system on the basis of paragraph (a)(2). This applies even if the title XVI eligibility is subsequently terminated and the person becomes only a title II beneficiary.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29346, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.535
Under what circumstances will milestones be paid?
(a)(1)(i) Under the outcome-milestone payment system, an EN (or a State VR agency acting as an EN) can earn up to four Phase 1 milestone payments for serving beneficiaries whose gross earnings were less than the trial work level
in each of the 18 months before the ticket was first assigned to an EN. All work and earnings counted toward reaching the four Phase 1 milestones must occur after the ticket is assigned and before the beginning of the beneficiary's outcome payment period (see § 411.500(f)) except as provided in § 411.536 (reconciliation payments).
(ii) Significant work activity prior to ticket assignment will limit the availability of Phase 1 milestone payments. The PM will make this assessment of work activity prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket, irrespective of the EN's chosen payment system, in order to determine how many milestone payments may be available for serving an individual in the Ticket to Work program. The first Phase 1 milestone payment is not available to be made to an EN if the beneficiary has worked above the trial work level in the calendar month prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket in the Ticket to Work program. The second Phase 1 milestone payment is not available if the beneficiary has worked above the trial work level in three of the six months prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket in the Ticket to Work program. The third Phase 1 milestone is not available if the beneficiary has worked above the trial work level in six of the twelve months prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket in the Ticket to Work program. The fourth Phase 1 milestone is not available if the beneficiary has worked above the trial work level in nine of the 18 months prior to the first ticket assignment on each ticket in the Ticket to Work program.
(iii) If a beneficiary had a ticket that otherwise was available for assignment and chose to receive services under an IPE from a State VR agency that elected the VR cost reimbursement option, payment of Phase 1 milestones to an EN or a different VR agency acting as an EN with respect to the same ticket is precluded if the State VR Agency that elected the VR cost reimbursement option achieved an employment outcome (as described in 34 CFR 361.56) before case closure. An EN or a different VR agency acting as an EN can be paid Phase 2 milestones as described in paragraph (2) of this section with respect to this ticket.
(2) Under the outcome-milestone payment system, an EN can receive up to eleven Phase 2 milestone payments for work by a title II disability beneficiary (including a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary), or up to eighteen Phase 2 milestone payments for work by a title XVI disability beneficiary. Earnings prior to the first assignment of the ticket in the Ticket to Work program are not taken into account when determining whether sufficient earnings exist for payment of Phase 2 milestones.
(3) If the beneficiary's outcome payment period begins before the beneficiary has achieved all Phase 1 and Phase 2 milestones, then we will pay the EN a final payment in accordance with § 411.536 (reconciliation payments) to account for unpaid milestone payments that had been available when the ticket was first assigned.
(b) An EN can be paid for a milestone only if the milestone is attained after a beneficiary has assigned his or her ticket to the EN. See § 411.575 for other milestone payment criteria.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29347, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.536
Under what circumstances can we make a reconciliation payment under the outcome-milestone payment system?
When the beneficiary's outcome payment period begins before the beneficiary has attained all Phase 1 and Phase 2 milestones, we will pay the EN (or a State VR agency acting as an EN) a reconciliation payment. The reconciliation payment will equal the total amount of the milestone payments that were available with respect to that ticket, when the ticket was first assigned, but that have not yet been paid. The reconciliation payment will be based on the payment calculation base for the calendar year in which the first month of the beneficiary's outcome period occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar. The payment will be made after an EN has qualified for 12 outcome payments. Where multiple ENs had the ticket assigned at some time, the PM will apply the rule under § 411.560 to determine
the allocation of the reconciliation payment.
[73 FR 29347, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.540
How are the payment amounts calculated for each of the milestones?
(a) For both title II disability beneficiaries and title XVI disability beneficiaries, the payment amount for each of the Phase 1 milestone payments is equal to 120% of the payment calculation base for title II (as defined in § 411.500(a)(1)) for the calendar year in which the month of attainment of the milestone occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
(b) The payment amount for each of the Phase 2 milestones:
(1) For title II disability beneficiaries (including concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiaries) is equal to 36% of the payment calculation base as defined in § 411.500(a)(1) for the calendar year in which the month of attainment of the milestone occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar;
(2) For title XVI beneficiaries (who are not concurrently title II disability beneficiaries) is equal to 36% of the payment calculation base as defined in § 411.500(a)(2) for the calendar year in which the month of attainment of the milestone occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
[73 FR 29347, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.545
How are the outcome payments calculated under the outcome-milestone payment system?
The amount of each monthly outcome payment under the outcome-milestone payment system is calculated as follows:
(a) For title II disability beneficiaries (including concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiaries), an outcome payment is equal to 36 percent of the payment calculation base as defined in § 411.500(a)(1) for the calendar year in which the month occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar;
(b) For title XVI disability beneficiaries (who are not concurrently title II/title XVI disability beneficiaries), an outcome payment is equal to 36% of the payment calculation base as defined in § 411.500(a)(2) for the calendar year in which the month occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
(c) The following chart provides an example of how an EN could receive milestone and outcome payments:
Outcome-Milestone Payment Table
Chart I—New Outcome-Milestone Payment Table
[2008 figures for illustration only]
Payment type
Beneficiary earnings
Title II amount of payment
Title XVI amount of payment
Phase 1 (120% of Title II PCB)
Milestone 1
$335/mo. $670/mo. × 3 mo. work in a 6-month period
$1,177
$1,177
Milestone 2
$1,177
$1,177
Milestone 3
$670/mo. × 6 mo. work in a 12-month period
$1,177
$1,177
Milestone 4
$670/mo. × 9 mo. work in an 18-month period
$1,177
$1,177
Total Phase 1 milestones
$4,708
$4,708
Phase 2 (36% of PCB)
Gross Earnings
SGA
Title II milestones 1-11
$353 × 11 = $3,883
Title XVI milestones 1-18
$203 × 18 = $3,654
Total Phase 1 + 2
$8,591
$8,362
Outcome payments (36% of PCB)
Title II = 1-36
Monthly cash benefit not payable due to SGA
$353 × 36 = $12,708
Title XVI = 1-60
Sufficient earnings for federal cash benefits = “0”
203 × 60 = $12,180
Total milestone and outcome payments
$21,299
$20,542
Definitions and amounts:
Payment Calculation Base (PCB)—The average title II disability insurance benefit payable under section 223 of the Social Security Act for all beneficiaries for months during the preceding calendar year; and the average payment of supplemental security income benefits based on disability payable under title XVI (excluding State supplementation) for months during the preceding calendar year to all beneficiaries who have attained 18 years of age but have not attained 65 years of age. (2008 title II = $981.17, title XVI = $563.35).
Gross earnings requirements for Phase 1 are based on Trial Work level amounts.
For Phase 1 milestones only, the payments are calculated for both title XVI and title II beneficiaries using the higher title II payment calculation base. All other payments are based on a percentage of the Payment Calculation Base (PCB) for the respective program (title XVI or title II). See § 411.535 for a discussion of the circumstances under which we will pay milestones.
Phase 1 milestones = 120% of PCB.
Phase 2 milestones = 36% of PCB.
Outcome payments (under the outcome-milestone payment system) = 36% of PCB Earnings used to meet the first, second, or third Phase 1 milestone may be counted again when determining if a later milestone is met, provided the earlier earnings fall within the relevant time period for meeting the later Phase 1 milestone (see 411.525(a)(2) for the relevant time period for each milestone).
[73 FR 29348, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.550
How are the outcome payments calculated under the outcome payment system?
The amount of each monthly outcome payment under the outcome payment system is calculated as follows:
(1) For title II disability beneficiaries (including concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiaries), an outcome payment is equal to 67% of the payment calculation base as defined in § 411.500(a)(1) for the calendar year in which the month occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar;
(2) For title XVI disability beneficiaries (who are not concurrently title II/title XVI disability beneficiaries), an outcome payment is equal to 67% of the payment calculation base as defined in § 411.500(a)(2) for the calendar year in which the month occurs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
Chart II—New Outcome Payment System Table—Title II and Concurrent
[2008 figures for illustration only]
Payment type
Beneficiary earnings
Title II amount of monthly outcome payment
Title II total outcome payments
Outcome payments 1-36 (67% of PCB)
Monthly cash benefit not payable due to SGA
$657.00
$23,652
Chart III—New Outcome Payment System Table—Title XVI Only
[2008 figures for illustration only]
Payment type
Beneficiary earnings
Title XVI amount of monthly outcome payment
Title XVI total outcome payments
Outcome payments 1-60 (67% of PCB)
Earnings sufficient to “0” out Federal SSI cash benefits
$377.00
$22,620

# Note:
Outcome payment (outcome payment system) = 67% of PCB Individual payments are rounded to the nearest dollar amount.
2008 non-blind SGA level = $940.
2008 Blind SGA = $1570.
2008 TWP service amount = $670.
[73 FR 29348, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.551
How are EN payments calculated for transition cases pending on July 21, 2008?
A
Transition case
is a case where a ticket had been assigned and milestones or outcomes had been attained
as of June 30, 2008 (that is, the individual has completed the necessary work to trigger a milestone or outcome payment before July 21, 2008 regardless of whether the payment has actually been made). We will pay outcome and milestone payments at the rate in effect when the work leading to such outcome or milestone is attained. Since milestone and outcome payments are numbered and attained in sequence, the EN must request the final payment for which it expects payment under the prior rules before we can determine the number of the milestone or outcome payment that represents the first payment after July 21, 2008. In addition, for cases on which an EN has attained an outcome payment before July 21, 2008 we must know the sum of the amount paid on the ticket before we can determine the remaining amount that can be paid in outcome payments on the ticket. Therefore, with respect to a ticket, we will only accept payment requests for milestones or outcomes attained under the prior rules until March 31, 2009 or until we make the first payment on the ticket under § 411.525. Payments to an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) after July 21, 2008 on a transition case will be made as follows:
(a) The four milestones under the prior rules will be equated with the four Phase 1 milestones available under the rules after July 21, 2008. For example, if a beneficiary had attained milestone 1 under our prior rules (1 month above the gross SGA level, e.g., $940 in 2008), then the next milestone to be achieved would be Phase 1 milestone 2 under these rules (work in three months with gross earnings in each of these months equal to a trial work period service month, e.g., $670 in 2008).
(b) If the beneficiary had attained all four of the milestones under the prior rules, the next milestone to be achieved would be the first Phase 2 milestone (a calendar month in which the beneficiary has worked and has gross earnings from employment or net earnings from self-employment that are more than the substantial gainful activity threshold level, e.g., $900 in 2007).
(c) The maximum number of outcome payments available to an EN with respect to a ticket for a transition case will be computed as follows:
(1) First, we will compute the total dollar amount already paid or payable with respect to a ticket, including all outcome and milestone payments.
(2) Then, we will subtract the total dollar amount already paid from the total value of the ticket under the new rules for the year when these rules take effect. The total value of the ticket will be calculated based on the elected payment system for the beneficiary,
i.e.
, the outcome or the outcome-milestone payment system, and on the appropriate payment calculation base for either a title II disability beneficiary (including a concurrent title II and title XVI disability) or a title XVI disability beneficiary (see §§ 411.500 and 411.505). For accounting purposes, we will use the payment calculation base for 2008 and assume that all payments could be earned in that year in calculating the total value of the ticket.
(3) We then will divide this amount by the applicable outcome payment amount (whether title II or title XVI) payable for 2008 and round the result in accordance with customary rounding principles. The resulting number represents the number of outcome payments available to be paid with respect to the ticket. In no case can this number exceed 60.
[73 FR 29349, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.552
What effect will the subsequent entitlement to title II benefits have on EN payments for title XVI beneficiaries after they assign their ticket?
If a beneficiary is only eligible for title XVI benefits when we authorize the first milestone or outcome for which an EN can be paid, but the beneficiary later becomes entitled to title II benefits, we will continue to make payments as though the beneficiary were only a title XVI beneficiary, up to the maximum number of milestone and outcome payments payable for that ticket for title XVI beneficiaries. If a beneficiary who is eligible for title XVI disability benefits becomes entitled to title II disability benefits before we authorize the first milestone or outcome payment, we will make payments to the EN pursuant to the rate, payment
calculation base and number of payments available for title II beneficiaries, as described in this subpart.
[73 FR 29349, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.555
Can the EN keep the milestone and outcome payments even if the beneficiary does not achieve all outcome months?
(a) Yes. The EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) can keep each milestone and outcome payment for which the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) is eligible, even though the title II beneficiary does not achieve all 36 outcome months or the title XVI beneficiary does not achieve all 60 outcome months.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, payments which we make or deny to an EN (or a State VR agency acting as an EN) may be subject to adjustment (including recovery, as appropriate) if we determine that more or less than the correct amount was paid. This may happen, for example, because we determine that the payment determination was in error or because of an allocation of payment under § 411.560.
(c) If we determine that an overpayment or underpayment to an EN has occurred, we will notify the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) of the adjustment. We will not seek an adjustment if a determination or decision about a beneficiary's right to benefits causes an overpayment to the EN. Any dispute which the EN (or State VR agency) has regarding the adjustment may be resolved under the rules in § 411.590(a) and (b).
[73 FR 29349, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.560
Is it possible to pay a milestone or outcome payment to more than one EN?
It is possible for more than one EN (including a State VR agency acting as an EN) to receive payment based on the same milestone or outcome. If the beneficiary has assigned the ticket to more than one EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) at different times, and more than one EN (or State VR agency) requests payment for the same milestone, outcome or reconciliation payment under its elected payment system, the PM will make a determination of the allocation of payment to each EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN). The PM will make this determination based upon the contribution of the services provided by each EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) toward the achievement of the outcomes or milestones. Outcome and milestone payments will not be increased because the payments are shared between two or more ENs (including a State VR agency acting as an EN).
[73 FR 29350, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.565
What happens if two or more ENs qualify for payment on the same ticket but have elected different EN payment systems?
We will pay each EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) according to its elected EN payment system in effect at the time the beneficiary assigned the ticket to the EN (or the State VR agency acting as an EN).
[73 FR 29350, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.566
May an EN use outcome or milestone payments to make payments to the beneficiary?
Yes, an EN may use milestone or outcome payments to make payments to a beneficiary.
[73 FR 29350, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.570
Can an EN request payment from the beneficiary who assigned a ticket to the EN?
No. Section 1148(b)(4) of the Act prohibits an EN from requesting or receiving compensation from the beneficiary for the services of the EN.
§ 411.575
How does the EN request payment for milestones or outcome payment months achieved by a beneficiary who assigned a ticket to the EN?
The EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) will send its request for payment, evidence of the beneficiary's work or earnings, and other information to the PM. In addition, we or the PM may require a summary of the services provided as described in the IWP/IPE.
(a)
Milestone payments.
(1) We will pay the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) for milestones only if—
(i) The outcome-milestone payment system was the EN's (or State VR agency's) elected payment system in effect at the time the beneficiary assigned a ticket to the EN (or the State VR agency acting as an EN);
(ii) The milestones occur prior to the outcome payment period (see § 411.500(b));
(iii) The requirements in § 411.535 are met; and
(iv) The ticket has not terminated for any of the reasons listed in § 411.155.
(2) The EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) must request payment for each milestone attained by a beneficiary who has assigned a ticket to the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN). The request must include evidence that the milestone was attained after ticket assignment and other information as we may require to evaluate the EN's (or State VR agency's) request. If the EN is requesting payment for months after the ticket is no longer assigned to it, the payment request shall include evidence that the services agreed to in the IWP/IPE were provided and those services contributed to the employment milestones or outcomes that the beneficiary attained in months after the ticket had been assigned to the EN. We do not have to stop monthly benefit payments to the beneficiary before we can pay the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) for milestones attained by the beneficiary.
(b)
Outcome payments.
(1) We will pay an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) an outcome payment for a month if—
(i)(A) Social Security disability benefits and Federal SSI cash benefits are not payable to the individual for that month due to work or earnings; or
(B) The requirements of § 411.525(a)(1)(ii) are met in a case where the beneficiary's entitlement to Social Security disability benefits has ended or eligibility for SSI benefits based on disability or blindness has terminated because of work activity or earnings; and
(ii) We have not already paid for 36 outcome payment months for a title II disability beneficiary (or a concurrent title II/title XVI disability beneficiary), or paid for 60 outcome payment months for a title XVI disability beneficiary who is not concurrently a title II disability beneficiary, on the same ticket; and
(iii) The ticket has not terminated for any of the other reasons listed in § 411.155.
(2) The EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) must request payment for outcome payment months. In its initial request, the EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) must submit evidence of the beneficiary's work or earnings (e.g., a statement of monthly earnings from the employer or the employer's designated payroll preparer, or an unaltered copy of the beneficiary's pay stub). After we have started paying outcome payments to an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) based on evidence of the beneficiary's earnings, the EN (or State VR agency) must provide documentation of the beneficiary's continued work or earnings in such a manner or form and at such time or times as we may require. Exception: If the EN (or State VR agency) does not currently hold the ticket because it is assigned to another EN (or State VR agency), the EN (or State VR agency) must request payment, but is not required to submit evidence of the beneficiary's work or earnings. However, if the payment request is for work the beneficiary attained in a month in which the EN no longer held the ticket, the payment request should include evidence that the services agreed to in the IWP/IPE were provided and those services contributed to the beneficiary's work.
(c)
Evidence requirements for payment.
As primary evidence, we require original pay slips, or oral or written statements from an employer or the employer's designated payroll preparer. In lieu of primary evidence, we accept two sources of secondary evidence, such as photocopies of pay slips, a signed beneficiary statement, State unemployment records or federal/state tax returns. The evidence must be clear and legible and include the beneficiary's name, gross earnings or net earnings from self employment, pay date and pay period of wages or monthly net earnings of self-employment earnings.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29350, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.580
Can an EN receive payments for milestones or outcome payment months that occur before the beneficiary assigns a ticket to the EN?
No. An EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) may be paid only for milestones or outcome payment months that are achieved after the month in which the ticket is assigned to the EN or State VR agency acting as an EN (except as provided for in § 411.536).
[73 FR 29351, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.581
Can an EN receive milestone and outcome payments for months after a beneficiary takes his or her ticket out of assignment?
Yes. If an individual whose ticket is assigned to an EN (or State VR agency acting as an EN) takes his or her ticket out of assignment (see § 411.145), the EN (or State VR agency) can receive payments under its elected payment system for milestones or outcome payment months that occur after the ticket is taken out of assignment, provided the ticket has not terminated for any of the reasons listed in § 411.155. The PM will make a determination about eligibility for a payment based upon the contribution of services provided by an EN toward the achievement of the outcome or milestones. See § 411.560 for situations in which payment may be made to more than one EN or State VR agency based on the same milestone or outcome.
[73 FR 29351, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.582
Can a State VR agency receive payment under the cost reimbursement payment system if a continuous 9-month period of substantial gainful activity is completed after the ticket is assigned to an EN?
Yes. If a State VR agency provides services to a beneficiary under 34 CFR part 361, and elects payment under the cost reimbursement payment system under subpart V of part 404 (or subpart V of part 416) of this chapter, the State VR agency can receive payment under the cost reimbursement payment system for services provided to the beneficiary if all the requirements under subpart V of part 404 (or subpart V of part 416) of this chapter and § 411.585 are met even when these requirements are met after the ticket has been assigned to the EN. The EN can be paid during this period in accordance with §§ 411.525 and 411.535.
[73 FR 29351, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.585
Can a State VR agency and an EN both receive payment for serving the same beneficiary?
Yes. A State VR agency and an EN can both receive payment for serving the same beneficiary, but the ticket can only be assigned to one EN, including a State VR agency acting as an EN, at a time. It also cannot be assigned to an EN and placed in the VR cost reimbursement status at the same time.
(a) A State VR agency may act as an EN and serve a beneficiary. In this case, both the State VR agency acting as an EN and another EN may be eligible for payment based on the same ticket (see § 411.560).
(b) If a State VR agency is paid by us under the VR cost reimbursement option, such payment does not preclude payment by us to an EN or to another State VR agency acting as an EN under its elected EN payment system. A subsequent VR agency also may choose to be paid under the VR cost reimbursement option.
(c) If an EN or a State VR agency acting as an EN is paid by us under one of the EN payment systems, that does not preclude payment by us to a different State VR agency under the VR cost reimbursement option. The subsequent State VR agency also may choose to be paid under its elected EN payment system.
[73 FR 29351, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.590
What can an EN do if the EN disagrees with our decision on a payment request?
(a) If an EN other than a State VR agency has a payment dispute with us, the dispute shall be resolved under the dispute resolution procedures contained in the EN's agreement with us.
(b) If a State VR agency serving a beneficiary as an EN has a dispute with us regarding payment under an EN payment system, the State VR agency may, within 60 days of receiving notice of our decision, request reconsideration in writing. The State VR agency must
send the request for reconsideration to the PM. The PM will forward to us the request for reconsideration and a recommendation. We will notify the State VR agency of our reconsidered decision in writing.
(c) An EN (including a State VR agency) cannot appeal determinations we make about an individual's right to benefits (e.g. determinations that disability benefits should be suspended, terminated, continued, denied, or stopped or started on a different date than alleged). Only the beneficiary or applicant or his or her representative can appeal these determinations. See §§ 404.900
et seq.
and 416.1400
et seq.
of this chapter.
(d) Determinations or decisions we make about a beneficiary's right to benefits may cause payments we have already made to an EN (or denial of payment to an EN) to be incorrect, resulting in an underpayment or overpayment to the EN. If this happens, we will make any necessary adjustments to future payments (see § 411.555). See § 411.555(c) for when we will not make an adjustment in a case in which an overpayment results from a determination or decision we make about a beneficiary's right to benefits.) While an EN cannot appeal our determination about an individual's right to benefits, the EN may furnish any evidence the EN has which relates to the issue(s) to be decided on appeal if the individual appeals our determination.
[66 FR 67420, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 73 FR 29351, May 20, 2008]
§ 411.595
What oversight procedures are planned for the EN payment systems?
We use audits, reviews, studies and observation of daily activities to identify areas for improvement. Internal reviews of our systems security controls are regularly performed. These reviews provide an overall assurance that our business processes are functioning as intended. The reviews also ensure that our management controls and financial management systems comply with the standards established by the Federal Managers' Financial Integrity Act and the Federal Financial Management Improvement Act. These reviews operate in accordance with the Office of Management and Budget Circulars A-123, A-127 and Appendix III to A-130. Additionally, our Executive Internal Control Committee meets periodically and provides further oversight of program and management control issues.
§ 411.597
Will SSA periodically review the outcome payment system and the outcome-milestone payment system for possible modifications?
(a) Yes. We will periodically review the system of payments and their programmatic results to determine if they provide an adequate incentive for ENs to assist beneficiaries to enter the work force, while providing for appropriate economies.
(b) We will specifically review the limitation on monthly outcome payments as a percentage of the payment calculation base, the difference in total payments between the outcome-milestone payment system and the outcome payment system, the length of the outcome payment period, and the number and amount of milestone payments, as well as the benefit savings and numbers of beneficiaries going to work. We will consider altering the payment system conditions based upon the information gathered and our determination that an alteration would better provide for the incentives and economies noted above.

# Subpart I—Ticket to Work Program Dispute Resolution

# Disputes Between Beneficiaries and Employment Networks
§ 411.600
Is there a process for resolving disputes between beneficiaries and ENs that are not State VR agencies?
Yes. After an IWP is signed, a process is available which will assure each party a full, fair and timely review of a disputed matter. This process has three steps.
(a) The beneficiary can seek a solution through the EN's internal grievance procedures.
(b) If the EN's internal grievance procedures do not result in an agreeable solution, either the beneficiary or the EN may seek a resolution from the PM. (See § 411.115(k) for a definition of the PM.)
(c) If either the beneficiary or the EN is dissatisfied with the resolution proposed by the PM, either party may request a decision from us.
§ 411.605
What are the responsibilities of the EN that is not a State VR agency regarding the dispute resolution process?
The EN must:
(a) Have grievance procedures that a beneficiary can use to seek a resolution to a dispute under the Ticket to Work program;
(b) Give each beneficiary seeking services a copy of its internal grievance procedures;
(c) Inform each beneficiary seeking services of the right to refer a dispute first to the PM for review, and then to us for a decision; and
(d) Inform each beneficiary of the availability of assistance from the State P
A system.
§ 411.610
When should a beneficiary receive information on the procedures for resolving disputes?
Each EN that is not a State VR agency must inform each beneficiary seeking services under the Ticket to Work program of the procedures for resolving disputes when—
(a) The EN and the beneficiary complete and sign the IWP;
(b) Services in the beneficiary's IWP are reduced, suspended or terminated; and
(c) A dispute arises related to the services spelled out in the beneficiary's IWP or to the beneficiary's participation in the program.
§ 411.615
How will a disputed issue be referred to the PM?
The beneficiary or the EN that is not a State VR agency may ask the PM to review a disputed issue. The PM will contact the EN to submit all relevant information within 10 working days. The information should include:
(a) A description of the disputed issue(s);
(b) A summary of the beneficiary's position, prepared by the beneficiary or a representative of the beneficiary, related to each disputed issue;
(c) A summary of the EN's position related to each disputed issue; and
(d) A description of any solutions proposed by the EN when the beneficiary sought resolution through the EN's grievance procedures, including the reasons the beneficiary rejected each proposed solution.
§ 411.620
How long does the PM have to recommend a resolution to the dispute?
The PM has 20 working days to provide a written recommendation. The recommendation should explain the reasoning for the proposed resolution.
§ 411.625
Can the beneficiary or the EN that is not a State VR agency request a review of the PM's recommendation?
(a) Yes. After receiving the PM's recommendation, either the beneficiary or the EN may request a review by us. The request must be in writing and received by the PM within 15 working days of the receipt of the PM's recommendation for resolving the dispute.
(b) The PM has 10 working days to refer the request for a review to us. The request for a review must include:
(1) A copy of the beneficiary's IWP;
(2) Information and evidence related to the disputed issue(s); and
(3) The PM's conclusion(s) and recommendation(s).
§ 411.630
Is SSA's decision final?
Yes. Our decision is final. If either the beneficiary or the EN that is not a State VR agency is unwilling to accept our decision, either has the right to terminate its relationship with the other.
§ 411.635
Can a beneficiary be represented in the dispute resolution process under the Ticket to Work program?
Yes. Both the beneficiary and the EN that is not a State VR agency may use an attorney or other individual of their choice to represent them at any step in the dispute resolution process. The P
A system in each State and U.S. Territory is available to provide assistance and advocacy services to beneficiaries seeking or receiving services under the Ticket to Work program, including assistance in resolving issues at any stage in the dispute resolution process.

# Disputes Between Beneficiaries and State VR Agencies
§ 411.640
Do the dispute resolution procedures of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
), apply to beneficiaries seeking services from the State VR agency?
Yes. The procedures in the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
) apply to any beneficiary who has assigned a ticket to a State VR agency. ENs that are State VR agencies are subject to the provisions of the Rehabilitation Act. The Rehabilitation Act requires the State VR agency to provide each person seeking or receiving services with a description of the services available through the Client Assistance Program authorized under section 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 732). It also provides the opportunity to resolve disputes using formal mediation services or the impartial hearing process in section 102(c) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 722(c)). ENs that are not State VR agencies are not subject to the provisions of Title I of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 720
et seq.
).

# Disputes Between Employment Networks and Program Managers
§ 411.650
Is there a process for resolving disputes between ENs that are not State VR agencies and PMs, other than disputes on a payment request?
Yes. Under the agreement to assist us in administering the Ticket to Work program, a PM is required to have procedures to resolve disputes with ENs that do not involve an EN's payment request. (See § 411.590 for the process for resolving disputes on EN payment requests.) This process must ensure that:
(a) The EN can seek a solution through the PM's internal grievance procedures; and
(b) If the PM's internal grievance procedures do not result in a mutually agreeable solution, the PM shall refer the dispute to us for a decision.
§ 411.655
How will the PM refer the dispute to us?
The PM has 20 working days from the failure to come to a mutually agreeable solution with an EN to refer the dispute to us with all relevant information. The information should include:
(a) A description of the disputed issue(s);
(b) A summary of the EN's and PM's position related to each disputed issue; and
(c) A description of any solutions proposed by the EN and PM when the EN sought resolution through the PM's grievance procedures, including the reasons each party rejected each proposed solution.
§ 411.660
Is SSA's decision final?
Yes. Our decision is final.
Pt. 416

# PART 416—SUPPLEMENTAL SECURITY INCOME FOR THE AGED, BLIND, AND DISABLED

# Subpart A—Introduction, General Provisions and Definitions
Sec.
416.101
Introduction.
416.105
Administration.
416.110
Purpose of program.
416.120
General definitions and use of terms.
416.121
Receipt of aid or assistance for December 1973 under an approved State plan under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act.

# Subpart B—Eligibility

# General
416.200
Introduction.
416.201
General definitions and terms used in this subpart.
416.202
Who may get SSI benefits.
416.203
Initial determinations of SSI eligibility.
416.204
Redeterminations of SSI eligibility.

# Reasons Why You May Not Get SSI Benefits for Which You Are Otherwise Eligible
416.207
You do not give us permission to contact financial institutions.
416.210
You do not apply for other benefits.
416.211
You are a resident of a public institution.
416.212
Continuation of full benefits in certain cases of medical confinement.
416.214
You are disabled and drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
416.215
You leave the United States.
416.216
You are a child of armed forces personnel living overseas.

# Eligibility for Increased Benefits Because of Essential Persons
416.220
General.
416.221
Who is a qualified individual.
416.222
Who is an essential person.
416.223
What happens if you are a qualified individual.
416.250
Experimental, pilot, and demonstration projects in the SSI program.

# Special Provisions for People Who Work Despite a Disabling Impairment
416.260
General.
416.261
What are special SSI cash benefits and when are they payable.
416.262
Eligibility requirements for special SSI cash benefits.
416.263
No additional application needed.
416.264
When does the special SSI eligibility status apply.
416.265
Requirements for the special SSI eligibility status.
416.266
Continuation of SSI status for Medicaid.
416.267
General.
416.268
What is done to determine if you must have Medicaid in order to work.
416.269
What is done to determine whether your earnings are too low to provide comparable benefits and services you would receive in the absence of those earnings.

# Subpart C—Filing of Applications

# General Provisions
416.301
Introduction.
416.302
Definitions.
416.305
You must file an application to receive supplemental security income benefits.

# Applications
416.310
What makes an application a claim for benefits.
416.315
Who may sign an application.
416.320
Evidence of authority to sign an application for another.
416.325
When an application is considered filed.
416.327
Pilot program for photographic identification of disability benefit applicants in designated geographic areas.

# Effective Filing Period of Application
416.330
Filing before the first month you meet the requirements for eligibility.
416.335
Filing in or after the month you meet the requirements for eligibility.

# Filing Date Based Upon a Written Statement or Oral Inquiry
416.340
Use of date of written statement as application filing date.
416.345
Use of date of oral inquiry as application filing date.
416.350
Treating a title II application as an oral inquiry about SSI benefits.

# Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
416.351
Deemed filing date in a case of misinformation.

# Withdrawal of Application
416.355
Withdrawal of an application.
416.360
Cancellation of a request to withdraw.

# Subpart D—Amount of Benefits
416.401
Scope of subpart.
416.405
Cost-of-living adjustments in benefits.
416.410
Amount of benefits; eligible individual.
416.412
Amount of benefits; eligible couple.
416.413
Amount of benefits; qualified individual.
416.414
Amount of benefits; eligible individual or eligible couple in a medical treatment facility.
416.415
Amount of benefits; eligible individual is disabled child under age 18.
416.420
Determination of benefits; general.
416.421
Determination of benefits; computation of prorated benefits.
416.426
Change in status involving an individual; ineligibility occurs.
416.428
Eligible individual without an eligible spouse has an essential person in his home.
416.430
Eligible individual with eligible spouse; essential person(s) present.
416.432
Change in status involving a couple; eligibility continues.
416.435
Change in status involving a couple; ineligibility occurs.

# Subpart E—Payment of Benefits, Overpayments, and Underpayments
416.501
Payment of benefits: General.
416.502
Manner of payment.
416.503
Minimum monthly benefit amount.
416.520
Emergency advance payments.
416.525
Reimbursement to States for interim assistance payments.
416.532
Method of payment when the essential person resides with more than one eligible person.
416.533
Transfer or assignment of benefits.
416.534
Garnishment of payments after disbursement.
416.535
Underpayments and overpayments.
416.536
Underpayments—defined.
416.537
Overpayments—defined.
416.538
Amount of underpayment or overpayment.
416.542
Underpayments—to whom underpaid amount is payable.
416.543
Underpayments—applied to reduce overpayments.
416.544
Paying benefits in installments: Drug addiction or alcoholism.
416.545
Paying large past-due benefits in installments.
416.546
Payment into dedicated accounts of past-due benefits for eligible individuals under age 18 who have a representative payee.
416.550
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—when applicable.
416.551
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—effect of.
416.552
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—without fault.
416.553
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—defeat the purpose of the supplemental security income program.
416.554
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—against equity and good conscience.
416.555
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—impede administration.
416.556
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—countable resources in excess of the limits prescribed in § 416.1205 by $50 or less.
416.557
Personal conference.
416.558
Notice relating to overpayments and underpayments.
416.560
Recovery—refund.
416.570
Adjustment.
416.571
10-percent limitation of recoupment rate—overpayment.
416.572
Are title II and title VIII benefits subject to adjustment to recover title XVI overpayments?
416.573
How much will we withhold from your title II and title VIII benefits to recover a title XVI overpayment?
416.574
Will you receive notice of our intention to apply cross-program recovery?
416.575
When will we begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits?
416.580
Referral of overpayments to the Department of the Treasury for tax refund offset—General.
416.581
Notice to overpaid person.
416.582
Review within SSA that an overpayment is past due and legally enforceable.
416.583
Findings by SSA.
416.584
Review of our records related to the overpayment.
416.585
Suspension of offset.
416.586
Tax refund insufficient to cover amount of overpayment.
416.590
Are there additional methods for recovery of title XVI benefit overpayments?

# Subpart F—Representative Payment
416.601
Introduction.
416.610
When payment will be made to a representative payee.
416.611
What happens to your monthly benefits while we are finding a suitable representative payee for you?
416.615
Information considered in determining whether to make representative payment.
416.618
Advance designation of representative payees.
416.620
Information considered in selecting a representative payee.
416.621
What is our order of preference in selecting a representative payee for you?
416.622
Who may not serve as a representative payee?
416.624
How do we investigate a representative payee applicant?
416.625
What information must a representative payee report to us?
416.626
How do we investigate an appointed representative payee?
416.630
How will we notify you when we decide you need a representative payee?
416.635
What are the responsibilities of your representative payee?
416.640
Use of benefit payments.
416.640a
Compensation for qualified organizations serving as representative payees.
416.641
Who is liable if your representative payee misuses your benefits?
416.645
Conservation and investment of benefit payments.
416.650
When will we select a new representative payee for you?
416.655
When representative payment will be stopped.
416.660
Transfer of accumulated benefit payments.
416.665
How does your representative payee account for the use of benefits?

# Subpart G—Reports Required

# Introduction
416.701
Scope of subpart.
416.702
Definitions.

# Report Provisions
416.704
Who must make reports.
416.708
What you must report.
416.709
Reduced reporting requirements when you authorize us to obtain your information from payroll data providers.
416.710
What reports must include.
416.712
Form of the report.
416.714
When reports are due.

# Penalty Deductions
416.722
Circumstances under which we make a penalty deduction.
416.724
Amounts of penalty deductions.
416.726
Penalty period: First failure to report.
416.728
Penalty period: Second failure to report.
416.730
Penalty period: Three or more failures to report.
416.732
No penalty deduction if you have good cause for failure to report timely.

# Subpart H—Determination of Age
416.801
Evidence as to age—when required.
416.802
Type of evidence to be submitted.
416.803
Evaluation of evidence.
416.804
Certified copy in lieu of original.
416.805
When additional evidence may be required.
416.806
Expedited adjudication based on documentary evidence of age.

# Subpart I—Determining Disability and Blindness

# General
416.901
Scope of subpart.
416.902
Definitions for this subpart.

# Determinations
416.903
Who makes disability and blindness determinations.
416.903a
Program integrity.
416.903b
Evidence from excluded medical sources of evidence.
416.904
Decisions by other governmental agencies and nongovernmental entities.

# Definition of Disability
416.905
Basic definition of disability for adults.
416.906
Basic definition of disability for children.
416.907
Disability under a State plan.
416.908
[Reserved]
416.909
How long the impairment must last.
416.910
Meaning of substantial gainful activity.
416.911
Definition of disabling impairment.

# Evidence
416.912
Responsibility for evidence.
416.913
Categories of evidence.
416.913a
Evidence from our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants.
416.914
When we will purchase existing evidence.
416.915
Where and how to submit evidence.
416.916
If you fail to submit medical and other evidence.
416.917
Consultative examination at our expense.
416.918
If you do not appear at a consultative examination.

# Standards To Be Used in Determining When a Consultative Examination Will Be Obtained in Connection With Disability Determinations
416.919
The consultative examination.
416.919a
When we will purchase a consultative examination and how we will use it.
416.919b
When we will not purchase a consultative examination.

# Standards for the Type of Referral and for Report Content
416.919f
Type of purchased examinations.
416.919g
Who we will select to perform a consultative examination.
416.919h
Your medical source.
416.919i
Other sources for consultative examinations.
416.919j
Objections to the medical source designated to perform the consultative examination.
416.919k
Purchase of medical examinations, laboratory tests, and other services.
416.919m
Diagnostic tests or procedures.
416.919n
Informing the medical source of examination scheduling, report content, and signature requirements.
416.919o
When a properly signed consultative examination report has not been received.
416.919p
Reviewing reports of consultative examinations.
416.919q
Conflict of interest.

# Authorizing and Monitoring the Referral Process
416.919s
Authorizing and monitoring the consultative examination.

# Procedures To Monitor the Consultative Examination
416.919t
Consultative examination oversight.

# Evaluation of Disability
416.920
Evaluation of disability of adults, in general.
416.920a
Evaluation of mental impairments.
416.920b
How we consider evidence.
416.920c
How we consider and articulate medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings for claims filed on or after March 27, 2017.
416.921
Establishing that you have a medically determinable impairment(s).
416.922
What we mean by an impairment(s) that is not severe in an adult.
416.923
Multiple impairments.
416.924
How we determine disability for children.
416.924a
Considerations in determining disability for children.
416.924b
Age as a factor of evaluation in the sequential evaluation process for children.

# Medical Considerations
416.925
Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
416.926
Medical equivalence for adults and children.
416.926a
Functional equivalence for children.
416.927
Evaluating opinion evidence for claims filed before March 27, 2017.
416.928
[Reserved]
416.929
How we evaluate symptoms, including pain.
416.930
Need to follow prescribed treatment.

# Presumptive Disability and Blindness
416.931
The meaning of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness.
416.932
When presumptive payments begin and end.
416.933
How we make a finding of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness.
416.934
Impairments that may warrant a finding of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness.

# Drug Addiction and Alcoholism
416.935
How we will determine whether your drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
416.936
Treatment required for individuals whose drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
416.937
What we mean by appropriate treatment.
416.938
What we mean by approved institutions or facilities.
416.939
How we consider whether treatment is available.
416.940
Evaluating compliance with the treatment requirements.
416.941
Establishment and use of referral and monitoring agencies.

# Residual Functional Capacity
416.945
Your residual functional capacity.
416.946
Responsibility for assessing your residual functional capacity.

# Vocational Considerations
416.960
When we will consider your vocational background.
416.962
Medical-vocational profiles showing an inability to make an adjustment to other work.
416.963
Your age as a vocational factor.
416.964
Your education as a vocational factor.
416.965
Your work experience as a vocational factor.
416.966
Work which exists in the national economy.
416.967
Physical exertion requirements.
416.968
Skill requirements.
416.969
Listing of Medical-Vocational Guidelines in appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
416.969a
Exertional and nonexertional limitations.

# Substantial Gainful Activity
416.971
General.
416.972
What we mean by substantial gainful activity.
416.973
General information about work activity.
416.974
Evaluation guides if you are an employee.
416.974a
When and how we will average your earnings.
416.975
Evaluation guides if you are self-employed.
416.976
Impairment-related work expenses.

# Blindness
416.981
Meaning of blindness as defined in the law.
416.982
Blindness under a State plan.
416.983
How we evaluate statutory blindness.
416.984
If you are statutorily blind and still working.
416.985
How we evaluate other visual impairments.
416.986
Why and when we will find that you are no longer entitled to benefits based on statutory blindness.

# Disability Redeterminations for Individuals Who Attain Age 18
416.987
Disability redeterminations for individuals who attain age 18.

# Continuing or Stopping Disability or Blindness
416.988
Your responsibility to tell us of events that may change your disability or blindness status.
416.989
We may conduct a review to find out whether you continue to be disabled.
416.989a
We may conduct a review to find out whether you continue to be blind.
416.990
When and how often we will conduct a continuing disability review.
416.991
If your medical recovery was expected and you returned to work.
416.992
What happens if you fail to comply with our request for information.
416.992a
[Reserved]
416.993
Medical evidence in continuing disability review cases.
416.994
How we will decide whether your disability continues or ends, disabled adults.
416.994a
How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends, and whether you are and have been receiving treatment that is medically necessary and available, disabled children.
416.995
If we make a determination that your physical or mental impairment(s) has ceased, did not exist or is no longer disabling (Medical Cessation Determination).
416.996
Continued disability or blindness benefits pending appeal of a medical cessation determination.
416.998
If you become disabled by another impairment(s).
416.999
What is expedited reinstatement?
416.999a
Who is eligible for expedited reinstatement?
416.999b
How do I request reinstatement?
416.999c
How do we determine provisional benefits?
416.999d
How do we determine reinstated benefits?

# Subpart J—Determinations of Disability

# General Provisions
416.1001
Purpose and scope.
416.1002
Definitions.
416.1003
Basic responsibilities for us and the State.

# Responsibilities for Performing the Disability Determination Function
416.1010
How a State notifies us that it wishes to perform the disability determination function.
416.1011
How we notify a State whether it may perform the disability determination function.
416.1013
Disability determinations the State makes.
416.1014
Responsibilities for obtaining evidence to make disability determinations.
416.1015
Making disability determinations.
416.1016
Medical consultants and psychological consultants.
416.1017
Reasonable efforts to obtain review by a physician, psychiatrist, and psychologist.
416.1018
Notifying claimant of the disability determination.

# Quick Disability Determinations
416.1019
Quick disability determination process.

# Administrative Responsibilities and Requirements
416.1020
General administrative requirements.
416.1021
Personnel.
416.1022
Training.
416.1023
Facilities.
416.1024
Medical and other purchased services.
416.1025
Records and reports.
416.1026
Fiscal.
416.1027
Audits.
416.1028
Property.
416.1029
Participation in research and demonstration projects.
416.1030
Coordination with other agencies.
416.1031
Confidentiality of information and records.
416.1032
Other Federal laws and regulations.
416.1033
Policies and operating instructions.

# Performance Standards
416.1040
General.
416.1041
Standards of performance.
416.1042
Processing time standards.
416.1043
Performance accuracy standard.
416.1044
How and when we determine whether the processing time standards are met.
416.1045
How and when we determine whether the performance accuracy standard is met.
416.1050
Action we will take if a State agency does not meet the standards.

# Performance Monitoring and Support
416.1060
How we will monitor.
416.1061
When we will provide performance support.
416.1062
What support we will provide.

# Substantial Failure
416.1070
General.
416.1071
Good cause for not following the Act, our regulations, or other written guidelines.
416.1075
Finding of substantial failure.

# Hearings and Appeals
416.1080
Notice of right to hearing on proposed finding of substantial failure.
416.1081
Disputes on matters other than substantial failure.
416.1082
Who conducts the hearings.
416.1083
Hearings and appeals process.

# Assumption of Disability Determination Function
416.1090
Assumption when we make a finding of substantial failure.
416.1091
Assumption when State no longer wishes to perform the disability determination function.
416.1092
Protection of State employees.
416.1093
Limitation on State expenditures after notice.
416.1094
Final accounting by the State.

# Subpart K—Income

# General
416.1100
Income and SSI eligibility.
416.1101
Definition of terms.
416.1102
What is income?
416.1103
What is not income?
416.1104
Income we count.

# Earned Income
416.1110
What is earned income.
416.1111
How we count earned income.
416.1112
Earned income we do not count.

# Unearned Income
416.1120
What is unearned income.
416.1121
Types of unearned income.
416.1123
How we count unearned income.
416.1124
Unearned income we do not count.

# In-Kind Support and Maintenance
416.1130
Introduction.
416.1131
The one-third reduction rule.
416.1132
What we mean by “living in another person's household”.
416.1133
What is a pro rata share of household operating expenses.
416.1140
The presumed value rule.
416.1141
When the presumed value rule applies.
416.1142
If you live in a public assistance household.
416.1143
If you live in a noninstitutional care situation.
416.1144
If you live in a nonprofit retirement home or similar institution.
416.1145
How the presumed value rule applies in a nonmedical for-profit institution.

# In-Kind Support and Maintenance in Special Circumstances
416.1147
How we value in-kind support and maintenance for a couple.
416.1147a
Income rules in change-of-status situations involving in-kind support and maintenance.
416.1148
If you have both in-kind support and maintenance and income that is deemed to you.

# Temporary Absence
416.1149
What is a temporary absence from your living arrangement.

# Disasters
416.1150
How we treat income received because of a major disaster.
416.1151
How we treat the repair or replacement of lost, damaged, or stolen resources.

# Home Energy Assistance
416.1157
Support and maintenance assistance.

# Deeming of Income
416.1160
What is deeming of income?
416.1161
Income of an ineligible spouse, ineligible parent, and essential person for deeming purposes.
416.1161a
Income for deeming purposes where Medicaid eligibility is affected.
416.1163
How we deem income to you from your ineligible spouse.
416.1165
How we deem income to you from your ineligible parent(s).
416.1166
How we deem income to you and your eligible child from your ineligible spouse.
416.1166a
How we deem income to you from your sponsor if you are an alien.
416.1167
Temporary absences and deeming rules.
416.1168
How we deem income to you from your essential person.
416.1169
When we stop deeming income from an essential person.

# Alternative Income Counting Rules for Certain Blind Individuals
416.1170
General.
416.1171
When the alternative rules apply.

# Rules for Helping Blind and Disabled Individuals Achieve Self-Support
416.1180
General.
416.1181
What is a plan to achieve self-support (PASS)?
416.1182
When we begin to count the income excluded under the plan.
Appendix to Subpart K of Part 416—List of Types of Income Excluded Under the SSI Program as Provided by Federal Laws Other Than the Social Security Act

# Subpart L—Resources and Exclusions
416.1201
Resources; general.
416.1202
Deeming of resources.
416.1203
Deeming of resources of an essential person.
416.1204
Deeming of resources of the sponsor of an alien.
416.1204a
Deeming of resources where Medicaid eligibility is affected.
416.1205
Limitation on resources.
416.1207
Resources determinations.
416.1208
How funds held in financial institution accounts are counted.
416.1210
Exclusions from resources; general.
416.1212
Exclusion of the home.
416.1216
Exclusion of household goods and personal effects.
416.1218
Exclusion of the automobile.
416.1220
Property essential to self-support; general.
416.1222
How income-producing property essential to self-support is counted.
416.1224
How nonbusiness property used to produce goods or services essential to self-support is counted.
416.1225
An approved plan to achieve self-support; general.
416.1226
What is a plan to achieve self-support(PASS)?
416.1227
When the resources excluded under a plan to achieve self-support begin to count.
416.1228
Exclusion of Alaskan natives' stock in regional or village corporations.
416.1229
Exclusion of payments received as compensation for expenses incurred or losses suffered as a result of a crime.
416.1230
Exclusion of life insurance.
416.1231
Burial spaces and certain funds set aside for burial expenses.
416.1232
Replacement of lost, damaged, or stolen excluded resources.
416.1233
Exclusion of certain underpayments from resources.
416.1234
Exclusion of Indian lands.
416.1235
Exclusion of certain payments related to tax credits.
416.1236
Exclusions from resources; provided by other statutes.
416.1237
Assistance received on account of major disaster.
416.1238
Exclusion of certain housing assistance.
416.1239
Exclusion of State or local relocation assistance payments.
416.1240
Disposition of resources.
416.1242
Time limits for disposing of resources.
416.1244
Treatment of proceeds from disposition of resources.
416.1245
Exceptions to required disposition of real property.
416.1246
Disposal of resources at less than fair market value.
416.1247
Exclusion of a dedicated account in a financial institution.
416.1248
Exclusion of gifts to children with life-threatening conditions.
416.1249
Exclusion of payments received as restitution for misuse of benefits by a representative payee.
416.1250
How we count grants, scholarships, fellowships or gifts.
416.1260
Special resource provision for recipients under a State plan.
416.1261
Application of special resource provision.
416.1262
Special resource provision applicable in cases involving essential persons.
416.1264
Spouse ineligible under a State plan in December 1973.
416.1266
Individual under special resource provision dies after December 1973.

# Subpart M—Suspensions and Terminations
416.1320
Suspensions; general.
416.1321
Suspension for not giving us permission to contact financial institutions.
416.1322
Suspension due to failure to comply with request for information.
416.1323
Suspension due to excess income.
416.1324
Suspension due to excess resources.
416.1325
Suspension due to status as a resident of a public institution.
416.1326
Suspension for failure to comply with treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism.
416.1327
Suspension due to absence from the United States.
416.1329
Suspension due to loss of United States residency, United States citizenship, or status as an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence or otherwise permanently residing in the United States under color of law.
416.1330
Suspension due to failure to apply for and obtain other benefits.
416.1331
Termination of your disability or blindness payments.
416.1332
Termination of benefit for disabled individual: Exception.
416.1333
Termination at the request of the recipient.
416.1334
Termination due to death of recipient.
416.1335
Termination due to continuous suspension.
416.1336
Notice of intended action affecting recipient's payment status.
416.1337
Exceptions to the continuation of previously established payment level.
416.1338
If you are participating in an appropriate program of vocational rehabilitation services, employment services, or other support services.
416.1339
Suspension due to flight to avoid criminal prosecution or custody or confinement after conviction, or due to violation of probation or parole.
416.1340
Penalty for making false or misleading statements or withholding information.

# Subpart N—Determinations, Administrative Review Process, and Reopening of Determinations and Decisions

# Introduction, Definitions, and Initial Determinations
416.1400
Introduction.
416.1401
Definitions.
416.1402
Administrative actions that are initial determinations.
416.1403
Administrative actions that are not initial determinations.
416.1404
Notice of the initial determination.
416.1405
Effect of an initial determination.
416.1406
Testing modifications to the disability determination procedures.

# Reconsideration
416.1407
Reconsideration—general.
416.1408
Parties to a reconsideration.
416.1409
How to request reconsideration.
416.1411
Good cause for missing the deadline to request review.
416.1413
Reconsideration procedures.
416.1413a
Reconsiderations of initial determinations on applications.
416.1413b
Reconsideration procedures for post-eligibility claims.
416.1413c
Arrangement for conferences.
416.1414
Disability hearing—general.
416.1415
Disability hearing—disability hearing officers.
416.1416
Disability hearing—procedures.
416.1417
Disability hearing—disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination.
416.1418
Disability hearing—review of the disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination before it is issued.
416.1419
Notice of another person's request for reconsideration.
416.1420
Reconsidered determination.
416.1421
Effect of a reconsidered determination.
416.1422
Notice of a reconsidered determination.

# Expedited Appeals Process
416.1423
Expedited appeals process—general.
416.1424
When the expedited appeals process may be used.
416.1425
How to request expedited appeals process.
416.1426
Agreement in expedited appeals process.
416.1427
Effect of expedited appeals process agreement.
416.1428
Expedited appeals process request that does not result in agreement.

# Hearing Before an Administrative Law Judge
416.1429
Hearing before an administrative law judge—general.
416.1430
Availability of a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1432
Parties to a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1433
How to request a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1435
Submitting evidence prior to a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1436
Time, place, and manner of appearance for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1437
Protecting the safety of the public and our employees in our hearing process.
416.1438
Notice of a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1439
Objections to the issues.
416.1440
Disqualification of the administrative law judge.
416.1441
Prehearing case review.
416.1442
Prehearing proceedings and decisions by attorney advisors.
416.1443
Responsibilities of the adjudication officer.

# Administrative Law Judge Hearing Procedures
416.1444
Administrative law judge hearing procedures—general.
416.1446
Issues before an administrative law judge.
416.1448
Deciding a case without an oral hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1449
Presenting written statements and oral arguments.
416.1450
Presenting evidence at a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1451
When a record of a hearing before an administrative law judge is made.
416.1452
Consolidated hearings before an administrative law judge.
416.1453
The decision of an administrative law judge.
416.1455
The effect of a hearing decision.
416.1456
Removal of a hearing request to the Appeals Council.
416.1457
Dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1458
Notice of dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1459
Effect of dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1460
Vacating a dismissal of a request for a hearing before an administrative law judge.
416.1461
Prehearing and posthearing conferences.
416.1465
[Reserved]

# Appeals Council Review
416.1466
[Reserved]
416.1467
Appeals Council review—general.
416.1468
How to request Appeals Council review.
416.1469
Appeals Council initiates review.
416.1470
Cases the Appeals Council will review.
416.1471
Dismissal by Appeals Council.
416.1472
Effect of dismissal of request for Appeals Council review.
416.1473
Notice of Appeals Council review.
416.1474
Obtaining evidence from Appeals Council.
416.1475
Filing briefs with the Appeals Council.
416.1476
Procedures before the Appeals Council.
416.1477
Case remanded by Appeals Council.
416.1479
Decision of Appeals Council.
416.1481
Effect of Appeals Council's decision or denial of review.
416.1482
Extension of time to file action in Federal district court.

# Court Remand Cases
416.1483
Case remanded by a Federal court.
416.1484
Appeals Council review of hearing decision in a case remanded by a Federal court.
416.1485
Application of circuit court law.

# Reopening and Revising Determinations and Decisions
416.1487
Reopening and revising determinations and decisions.
416.1488
Conditions for reopening.
416.1489
Good cause for reopening.
416.1491
Late completion of timely investigation.
416.1492
Notice of revised determination or decision.
416.1493
Effect of revised determination or decision.
416.1494
Time and place to request further review or a hearing on revised determination or decision.

# Payment of Certain Travel Expenses
416.1495
Payment of certain travel expenses—general.
416.1496
Who may be reimbursed.
416.1498
What travel expenses are reimbursable.
416.1499
When and how to claim reimbursement.

# Subpart O—Representation of Parties
416.1500
Introduction.
416.1503
Definitions.
416.1505
Who may be your representative.
416.1506
Notification of options for obtaining attorney representation.
416.1507
Appointing a representative.
416.1510
Authority of a representative.
416.1513
Mandatory use of electronic services.
416.1515
Notice or request to a representative.
416.1517
Direct payment of fees to eligible non-attorney representatives.
416.1520
Fee for a representative's services.
416.1525
Request for approval of a fee.
416.1528
Proceedings before a State or Federal court.
416.1530
Payment of fees.
416.1535
[Reserved]
416.1540
Rules of conduct and standards of responsibility for representatives.
416.1545
Violations of our requirements, rules, or standards.
416.1550
Notice of charges against a representative.
416.1555
Withdrawing charges against a representative.
416.1565
Hearing on charges.
416.1570
Decision by hearing officer.
416.1575
Requesting review of the hearing officer's decision.
416.1576
Assignment of request for review of the hearing officer's decision.
416.1580
Appeals Council's review of hearing officer's decision.
416.1585
Evidence permitted on review.
416.1590
Appeals Council's decision.
416.1595
When the Appeals Council will dismiss a request for review.
416.1597
Reinstatement after suspension—period of suspension expired.
416.1599
Reinstatement after suspension or disqualification—period of suspension not expired.

# Subpart P—Residence and Citizenship
416.1600
Introduction.
416.1601
Definitions and terms used in this subpart.
416.1603
How to prove you are a resident of the United States.
416.1610
How to prove you are a citizen or a national of the United States.
416.1615
How to prove you are lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States.
416.1618
When you are considered permanently residing in the United States under color of law.
416.1619
When you cannot be considered permanently residing in the United States under color of law.

# Subpart Q—Referral of Persons Eligible for Supplemental Security Income to Other Agencies

# General
416.1701
Scope of subpart.
416.1705
Definitions.

# Referral for Vocational Rehabilitation Services
416.1710
Whom we refer and when.

# Referral for Treatment of Alcoholism or Drug Addiction
416.1720
Whom we refer.
416.1725
Effect of your failure to comply with treatment requirements for your drug addiction or alcoholism.

# Subpart R—Relationship
416.1801
Introduction.

# Who Is Considered Your Spouse
416.1802
Effects of marriage on eligibility and amount of benefits.
416.1806
Whether you are married and who is your spouse.
416.1816
Information we need concerning marriage when you apply for SSI.
416.1821
Showing that you are married when you apply for SSI.
416.1826
Showing that you are not married when you apply for SSI.
416.1830
When we stop considering you and your spouse an eligible couple.
416.1832
When we consider your marriage ended.
416.1835
Information we need about separation or end of marriage after you become eligible for SSI.

# Who Is Considered a Child
416.1851
Effects of being considered a child.
416.1856
Who is considered a child.
416.1861
Deciding whether you are a child: Are you a student?
416.1866
Deciding whether you are a child: Are you the head of a household?

# Who Is Considered a Student for Purposes of the Student Earned Income Exclusion
416.1870
Effect of being considered a student.
416.1872
Who is considered a student.
416.1874
When we need evidence that you are a student.

# Who Is Considered Your Parent
416.1876
Effects a parent (or parents) can have on the child's benefits.
416.1881
Deciding whether someone is your parent or stepparent.

# Subpart S—Interim Assistance Provisions

# Introduction
416.1901
Scope of subpart S.
416.1902
Definitions.

# Authorizations
416.1904
Authorization to withhold SSI benefits.
416.1906
When your authorization is in effect.
416.1908
When we need another authorization.

# Interim Assistance Agreements
416.1910
Requirements for interim assistance agreement.

# Appeals
416.1920
Your appeal rights in the State.
416.1922
Your appeal rights in SSA.

# Subpart T—State Supplementation Provisions; Agreement; Payments
416.2001
State supplementary payments; general.
416.2005
Administration agreements with SSA.
416.2010
Essentials of the administration agreements.
416.2015
Establishing eligibility.
416.2020
Federally administered supplementary payments.
416.2025
Optional supplementation: Countable income.
416.2030
Optional supplementation: Variations in payments.
416.2035
Optional supplementation: Additional State options.
416.2040
Limitations on eligibility.
416.2045
Overpayments and underpayments; federally administered supplementation.
416.2047
Waiver of State supplementary payments.
416.2050
Mandatory minimum State supplementation.
416.2055
Mandatory minimum supplementation reduced.
416.2060
Mandatory minimum supplementary payments not applicable.
416.2065
Mandatory minimum State supplementation: Agreement deemed.
416.2070
Mandatory supplementation: State compliance not applicable.
416.2075
Monitoring of mandatory minimum supplementary payments.
416.2090
State funds transferred for supplementary payments.
416.2095
Pass-along of Federal benefit increases.
416.2096
Basic pass-along rules.
416.2097
Combined supplementary/SSI payment levels.
416.2098
Supplementary payment levels.
416.2099
Compliance with pass-along.

# Subpart U—Medicaid Eligibility Determinations
416.2101
Introduction.
416.2111
Conditions for our agreeing to make Medicaid eligibility determinations.
416.2116
Medicaid eligibility determinations.
416.2130
Effect of the agreement and responsibilities of States.
416.2140
Liability for erroneous Medicaid eligibility determinations.
416.2145
Services other than Medicaid determinations.
416.2161
Charges to States.
416.2166
Changing the agreement.
416.2171
Duration of agreement.
416.2176
Disagreements between a State and us.

# Subpart V—Payments for Vocational Rehabilitation Services

# General Provisions
416.2201
General.
416.2202
Purpose and scope.
416.2203
Definitions.
416.2204
Participation by State VR agencies.
416.2206
[Reserved]

# Payment Provisions
416.2208
Requirements for payment.
416.2209
Responsibility for making payment decisions.
416.2210
What we mean by “SGA” and by “a continuous period of 9 months”.
416.2211
Criteria for determining when VR services will be considered to have contributed to a continuous period of 9 months.
416.2212
Payment for VR services in a case where an individual continues to receive disability or blindness benefits based on participation in an approved VR program.
416.2214
Services for which payment may be made.
416.2215
When services must have been provided.
416.2216
When claims for payment for VR services must be made (filing deadlines).
416.2217
What costs will be paid.

# Administrative Provisions
416.2218
[Reserved]
416.2219
Method of payment.
416.2220
Audits.
416.2221
Validation reviews.
416.2222
Confidentiality of information and records.
416.2223
Other Federal laws and regulations.
416.2227
Resolution of disputes.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 416 appear at 68 FR 53509, Sept. 11, 2003.

# Subpart A—Introduction, General Provisions and Definitions

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5) and 1601-1635 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5) and 1381-1383d); sec. 212, Pub. L. 93-66, 87 Stat. 155 (42 U.S.C. 1382 note); sec. 502(a), Pub. L. 94-241, 90 Stat. 268 (48 U.S.C. 1681 note).

# Source:
39 FR 28625, Aug. 9, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 416.101
Introduction.
The regulations in this part 416 (Regulations No. 16 of the Social Security Administration) relate to the provisions of title XVI of the Social Security Act as amended by section 301 of Pub. L. 92-603 enacted October 30, 1972, and as may thereafter be amended. Title XVI (Supplemental Security Income For The Aged, Blind, and Disabled) of the Social Security Act, as amended, established a national program, effective January 1, 1974, for the purpose of providing supplemental security income to individuals who have attained age 65 or are blind or disabled. The regulations in this part are divided into the following subparts according to subject content:
(a) This subpart A contains this introduction, a statement of the general purpose underlying the supplemental security income program, general provisions applicable to the program and its administration, and definitions and use of terms occurring throughout this part.
(b) Subpart B of this part covers in general the eligibility requirements which must be met for benefits under the supplemental security income program. It sets forth the requirements regarding residence, citizenship, age, disability, or blindness, and describes the conditions which bar eligibility and generally points up other conditions of eligibility taken up in greater detail elsewhere in the regulations (e.g., limitations on income and resources, receipt of support and maintenance, etc.).
(c) Subpart C of this part sets forth the rules with respect to the filing of applications, requests for withdrawal of applications, cancellation of withdrawal requests and other similar requests.
(d) Subpart D of this part sets forth the rules for computing the amount of benefits payable to an eligible individual and eligible spouse.
(e) Subpart E of this part covers provisions with respect to periodic payment of benefits, joint payments, payment of emergency cash advances, payment of benefits prior to a determination of disability, prohibition against transfer or assignment of benefits, adjustment and waiver of overpayments, and payment of underpayments.
(f) Subpart F of this part contains provisions with respect to the selection of representative payees to receive benefits on behalf of and for the use of recipients and to the duties and responsibilities of representative payees.
(g) Subpart G of this part sets forth rules with respect to the reporting of events and circumstances affecting eligibility or the amount of benefits payable.
(h) Subpart H of this part sets forth rules and guidelines for the submittal and evaluation of evidence of age where age is pertinent to establishing eligibility or the amount of benefits payable.
(i) Subpart I of this part sets forth the rules for establishing disability or blindness where the establishment of disability or blindness is pertinent to eligibility.
(j) Subpart J of this part sets forth the standards, requirements and procedures for States making determinations of disability for the Commissioner. It also sets out the Commissioner's responsibilities in carrying out the disability determination function.
(k) Subpart K of this part defines
income, earned income,
and
unearned income
and sets forth the statutory exclusions applicable to earned and unearned income for the purpose of establishing eligibility for and the amount of benefits payable.
(l) Subpart L of this part defines the term
resources
and sets forth the statutory exclusions applicable to resources for the purpose of determining eligibility.
(m) Subpart M of this part deals with events or circumstances requiring suspension or termination of benefits.
(n) Subpart N of this part contains provisions with respect to procedures for making determinations with respect to eligibility, amount of benefits, representative payment, etc., notices of determinations, rights of appeal and procedures applicable thereto, and other procedural due process provisions.
(o) Subpart O of this part contains provisions applicable to attorneys and other individuals who represent applicants in connection with claims for benefits.
(p) Subpart P of this part sets forth the residence and citizenship requirements that are pertinent to eligibility.
(q) Subpart Q of this part contains provisions with respect to the referral of individuals for vocational rehabilitation, treatment for alcoholism and drug addiction, and application for other benefits to which an applicant may be potentially entitled.
(r) Subpart R of this part sets forth the rules for determining marital and other family relationships where pertinent to the establishment of eligibility for or the amount of benefits payable.
(s) Subpart S of this part explains interim assistance and how benefits may be withheld to repay such assistance given by the State.
(t) Subpart T of this part contains provisions with respect to the supplementation of Federal supplemental security income payments by States, agreements for Federal administration of State supplementation programs, and payment of State supplementary payments.
(u) Subpart U of this part contains provisions with respect to agreements with States for Federal determination of Medicaid eligibility of applicants for supplemental security income.
(v) Subpart V of this part explains when payments are made to State vocational rehabilitation agencies for vocational rehabilitation services.
[39 FR 28625, Aug. 9, 1974, as amended at 51 FR 11718, Apr. 7, 1986; 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997; 83 FR 62459, Dec. 4, 2018]
§ 416.105
Administration.
The Supplemental Security Income for the Aged, Blind, and Disabled program is administered by the Social Security Administration.
[51 FR 11718, Apr. 7, 1986, as amended at 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997]
§ 416.110
Purpose of program.
The basic purpose underlying the supplemental security income program is to assure a minimum level of income for people who are age 65 or over, or who are blind or disabled and who do not have sufficient income and resources to maintain a standard of living at the established Federal minimum income level. The supplemental security income program replaces the financial assistance programs for the aged, blind, and disabled in the 50 States and the District of Columbia for which grants were made under the Social Security Act. Payments are financed from the general funds of the United States Treasury. Several basic principles underlie the program:
(a)
Objective tests.
The law provides that payments are to be made to aged, blind, and disabled people who have income and resources below specified amounts. This provides objective measurable standards for determining each person's benefits.
(b)
Legal right to payments.
A person's rights to supplemental security income payments—how much he gets and under what conditions—are clearly defined in the law. The area of administrative discretion is thus limited. If an applicant disagrees with the decision on his claim, he can obtain an administrative review of the decision and if still not satisfied, he may initiate court action.
(c)
Protection of personal dignity.
Under the Federal program, payments are made under conditions that are as
protective of people's dignity as possible. No restrictions, implied or otherwise, are placed on how recipients spend the Federal payments.
(d)
Nationwide uniformity of standards.
The eligibility requirements and the Federal minimum income level are identical throughout the 50 States and the District of Columbia. This provides assurance of a minimum income base on which States may build supplementary payments.
(e)
Incentives to work and opportunities for rehabilitation.
Payment amounts are not reduced dollar-for-dollar for work income but some of an applicant's income is counted toward the eligibility limit. Thus, recipients are encouraged to work if they can. Blind and disabled recipients with vocational rehabilitation potential are referred to the appropriate State vocational rehabilitation agencies that offer rehabilitation services to enable them to enter the labor market.
(f)
State supplementation and Medicaid determinations.
(1) Federal supplemental security income payments lessen the variations in levels of assistance and provide a basic level of assistance throughout the nation. States are required to provide mandatory minimum State supplementary payments beginning January 1, 1974, to aged, blind, or disabled recipients of assistance for the month of December 1973 under such State's plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Act in order for the State to be eligible to receive title XIX funds (see subpart T of this part). These payments must be in an amount sufficient to ensure that individuals who are converted to the new program will not have their income reduced below what it was under the State program for December 1973. In addition, each State may choose to provide more than the Federal supplemental security income and/or mandatory minimum State supplementary payment to whatever extent it finds appropriate in view of the needs and resources of its citizens or it may choose to provide no more than the mandatory minimum payment where applicable. States which provide State supplementary payments can enter into agreements for Federal administration of the mandatory and optional State supplementary payments with the Federal Government paying the administrative costs. A State which elects Federal administration of its supplementation program must apply the same eligibility criteria (other than those pertaining to income) applied to determine eligibility for the Federal portion of the supplemental security income payment, except as provided in sec. 1616(c) of the Act (see subpart T of this part). There is a limitation on the amount payable to the Commissioner by a State for the amount of the supplementary payments made on its behalf for any fiscal year pursuant to the State's agreement with the Secretary. Such limitation on the amount of reimbursement is related to the State's payment levels for January 1972 and its total expenditures for calendar year 1972 for aid and assistance under the appropriate State plan(s) (see subpart T of this part).
(2) States with Medicaid eligibility requirements for the aged, blind, and disabled that are identical (except as permitted by § 416.2111) to the supplemental security income eligibility requirements may elect to have the Social Security Administration determine Medicaid eligibility under the State's program for recipients of supplemental security income and recipients of a federally administered State supplementary payment. The State would pay half of Social Security Administration's incremental administrative costs arising from carrying out the agreement.
[39 FR 28625, Aug. 9, 1974, as amended at 53 FR 12941, Apr. 20, 1988; 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997]
§ 416.120
General definitions and use of terms.
(a)
Terms relating to acts and regulations.
As used in this part:
(1)
The Act
means the Social Security Act as amended (42 U.S.C. Chap. 7).
(2) Wherever a title is referred to, it means such title of the Act.
(3) Vocational Rehabilitation Act means the act approved June 2, 1920 (41 Stat. 735), 29 U.S.C. 31-42, as amended, and as may be amended from time to time hereafter.
(b)
Commissioner; Appeals Council; Administrative Law Judge; Administrative
Appeals Judge defined
—(1)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security.
(2)
Appeals Council
means the Appeals Council of the Office of Analytics, Review, and Oversight in the Social Security Administration or such member or members thereof as may be designated by the Chair of the Appeals Council.
(3)
Administrative Law Judge
means an Administrative Law Judge in the Office of Hearings Operations in the Social Security Administration.
(4)
Administrative Appeals Judge
means an Administrative Appeals Judge serving as a member of the Appeals Council.
(c)
Miscellaneous.
As used in this part unless otherwise indicated:
(1)
Supplemental security income benefit
means the amount to be paid to an eligible individual (or eligible individual and his eligible spouse) under title XVI of the Act.
(2)
Income
means the receipt by an individual of any property or service which he can apply, either directly or by sale or conversion, to meeting his basic needs (see subpart K of this part).
(3)
Resources
means cash or other liquid assets or any real or personal property that an individual owns and could convert to cash to be used for support and maintenance (see § 416.1201(a)).
(4)
Attainment of age.
An individual attains a given age on the first moment of the day preceding the anniversary of his birth corresponding to such age.
(5)
Couple
means an eligible individual and his eligible spouse.
(6)
Institution
(see § 416.201).
(7)
Public institution
(see § 416.201).
(8)
Resident of a public institution
(see § 416.201).
(9)
State,
unless otherwise indicated, means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, or effective January 9, 1978, the Northern Mariana Islands.
(10) The term
United States
when used in a geographical sense means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and effective January 9, 1978, the Northern Mariana Islands.
(11) Masculine gender includes the feminine, unless otherwise indicated.
(12)
Section
means a section of the regulations in part 416 of this chapter unless the context indicates otherwise.
(13)
Eligible individual
means an aged, blind, or disabled individual who meets all the requirements for eligibility for benefits under the supplemental security income program.
(14)
Eligible spouse
means an aged, blind, or disabled individual who is the husband or wife of another aged, blind, or disabled individual and who is living with that individual (see § 416.1801(c)).
(d)
Periods of limitation ending on nonwork days.
Pursuant to the Act, where any provision of title XVI, or any provision of another law of the United States (other than the Internal Revenue Code of 1954) relating to or changing the effect of title XVI, or any regulation of the Commissioner issued under title XVI, provides for a period within which an act is required to be done which affects eligibility for or the amount of any benefit or payment under title XVI or is necessary to establish or protect any rights under title XVI and such period ends on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal legal holiday or on any other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonworkday for Federal employees by statute or Executive Order, then such act shall be considered as done within such period if it is done on the first day thereafter which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday or any other day all or part of which is declared to be a nonworkday for Federal employees either by statute or Executive Order. For purposes of this paragraph, the day on which a period ends shall include the final day of any extended period where such extension is authorized by law or by the Commissioner pursuant to law. Such extension of any period of limitation does not apply to periods during which an application for benefits or payments may be accepted as such an application pursuant to subpart C of this part.
[39 FR 28625, Aug. 9, 1974, as amended at 43 FR 25091, June 9, 1978; 51 FR 11719, Apr. 7, 1986; 60 FR 16374, Mar. 30, 1995; 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997; 85 FR 73159, Nov. 16, 2020]
§ 416.121
Receipt of aid or assistance for December 1973 under an approved State plan under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act.
(a)
Recipient of aid or assistance defined.
As used in this part 416, the term
individual who was a recipient of aid or assistance for December 1973
under a State plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act means an individual who correctly received aid or assistance under such plan for December 1973 even though such aid or assistance may have been received subsequent to December 1973. It also includes an individual who filed an application prior to January 1974 and was otherwise eligible for aid or assistance for December 1973 under the provisions of such State plan but did not in fact receive such aid or assistance. It does not include an individual who received aid or assistance because of the provisions of 45 CFR 205.10(a) (pertaining to continuation of assistance until a fair hearing decision is rendered), as in effect in December 1973, and with respect to whom it is subsequently determined that such aid or assistance would not have been received without application of the provisions of such 45 CFR 205.10(a).
(b)
Aid or assistance defined.
As used in this part 416, the term
aid or assistance
means aid or assistance as defined in titles I, X, XIV, and XVI of the Social Security Act, as in effect in December 1973, and such aid or assistance is eligible for Federal financial participation in accordance with those titles and the provisions of 45 CFR chapter II as in effect in December 1973.
(c)
Determinations of receipt of aid or assistance for December 1973.
For the purpose of application of the provisions of this part 416, the determination as to whether an individual was a recipient of aid or assistance for December 1973 under a State plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act will be made by the Social Security Administration. In making such determination, the Social Security Administration may take into consideration a prior determination by the appropriate State agency as to whether the individual was eligible for aid or assistance for December 1973 under such State plan. Such prior determination, however, shall not be considered as conclusive in determining whether an individual was a recipient of aid or assistance for December 1973 under a State plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act for purposes of application of the provisions of this part 416.
(d)
Special provision for disabled recipients.
For purposes of § 416.907, the criteria and definitions enumerated in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section are applicable in determining whether an individual was a recipient of aid or assistance (on the basis of disability) under a State plan approved under title XIV or XVI of the Act for a month prior to July 1973. It is not necessary that the aid or assistance for December 1973 and for a month prior to July 1973 have been paid under the State plan of the same State.
[39 FR 32024, Sept. 4, 1974; 39 FR 33207, Sept. 16, 1974, as amended at 51 FR 11719, Apr. 7, 1986]

# Subpart B—Eligibility

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 1110(b), 1602, 1611, 1614, 1619(a), 1631, and 1634 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1310(b), 1381a, 1382, 1382c, 1382h(a), 1383, and 1383c); secs. 211 and 212, Pub. L. 93-66, 87 Stat. 154 and 155 (42 U.S.C. 1382 note); sec. 502(a), Pub. L. 94-241, 90 Stat. 268 (48 U.S.C. 1681 note); sec. 2, Pub. L. 99-643, 100 Stat. 3574 (42 U.S.C. 1382h
note
).

# Source:
47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 416.200
Introduction.
You are eligible for SSI benefits if you meet all the basic requirements listed in § 416.202. However, the first month for which you may receive SSI benefits is the month after the month in which you meet these eligibility requirements. (See § 416.501.) You must give us any information we request and show us necessary documents or other evidence to prove that you meet these requirements. We determine your eligibility for each month on the basis of your countable income in that month. You continue to be eligible unless you lose your eligibility because you no
longer meet the basic requirements or because of one of the reasons given in §§ 416.207 through 416.216.
[64 FR 31972, June 15, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 53508, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 416.201
General definitions and terms used in this subpart.
Any 9-month period
means any period of 9 full calendar months ending with any full calendar month throughout which (as defined in § 416.211) an individual is residing in a public emergency shelter for the homeless (as defined in this section) and including the immediately preceding 8 consecutive full calendar months. January 1988 is the earliest possible month in any 9-month period.
Educational or vocational training
means a recognized program for the acquisition of knowledge or skills to prepare an individual for gainful employment. For purposes of these regulations, educational or vocational training does not include programs limited to the acquisition of basic life skills including but not limited to eating and dressing.
Emergency shelter
means a shelter for individuals whose homelessness poses a threat to their lives or health.
Homeless individual
is one who is not in the custody of any public institution and has no currently usable place to live. By
custody
we mean the care and control of an individual in a mandatory residency where the individual's freedom to come and go as he or she chooses is restricted. An individual in a public institution awaiting discharge and placement in the community is in the custody of that institution until discharged and is not homeless for purposes of this provision.
Institution
means an establishment that makes available some treatment or services in addition to food and shelter to four or more persons who are not related to the proprietor.
Medical treatment facility
means an institution or that part of an institution that is licensed or otherwise approved by a Federal, State, or local government to provide inpatient medical care and services.
Public emergency shelter for the homeless
means a public institution or that part of a public institution used as an emergency shelter by the Federal government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State, primarily for making available on a temporary basis a place to sleep, food, and some services or treatment to homeless individuals. A medical treatment facility (as defined in § 416.201) or any holding facility, detoxification center, foster care facility, or the like that has custody of the individual is not a public emergency shelter for the homeless. Similarly, transitional living arrangements such as a halfway house that are part of an institution's plan to facilitate the individual's adjustment to community living are not public emergency shelters for the homeless.
Public institution
means an institution that is operated by or controlled by the Federal government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State such as a city or county. The term
public institution
does not include a publicly operated community residence which serves 16 or fewer residents.
Resident of a public institution
means a person who can receive substantially all of his or her food and shelter while living in a public institution. The person need not be receiving treatment and services available in the institution and is a resident regardless of whether the resident or anyone else pays for all food, shelter, and other services in the institution. A person is not a resident of a public institution if he or she is living in a public educational institution for the primary purpose of receiving educational or vocational training as defined in this section. A
resident
of a public institution means the same thing as an
inmate
of a public institution as used in section 1611(e)(1)(A) of the Social Security Act. (See § 416.211(b), (c), and (d) of this subpart for exceptions to the general limitation on the eligibility for Supplemental Security Income benefits of individuals who are residents of a public institution.)
SSI
means supplemental security income.
State assistance
means payments made by a State to an aged, blind, or disabled person under a State plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI (AABD) of the Social Security Act
which was in effect before the SSI Program.
We
or
Us
means the Social Security Administration.
You
or
Your
means the person who applies for or receives SSI benefits or the person for whom an application is filed.
[47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982, as amended at 49 FR 19639, May 19, 1984; 50 FR 48570, Nov. 26, 1985; 50 FR 51517, Dec. 18, 1985; 54 FR 19164, May 4, 1989; 72 FR 50874, Sept. 5, 2007]
§ 416.202
Who may get SSI benefits.
You are eligible for SSI benefits if you meet all of the following requirements:
(a) You are—
(1) Aged 65 or older (subpart H);
(2) Blind (subpart I); or
(3) Disabled (subpart I).
(b) You are a resident of the United States (§ 416.1603), and—
(1) A citizen or a national of the United States (§ 416.1610);
(2) An alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence in the United States (§ 416.1615);
(3) An alien permanently residing in the United States under color of law (§ 416.1618); or
(4) A child of armed forces personnel living overseas as described in § 416.216.
(c) You do not have more income than is permitted (subparts K and D).
(d) You do not have more resources than are permitted (subpart L).
(e) You are disabled, drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (see § 416.935), and you have not previously received a total of 36 months of Social Security benefit payments when appropriate treatment was available or 36 months of SSI benefits on the basis of disability where drug addiction or alcoholism was a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(f) You are not—
(1) Fleeing to avoid prosecution for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State);
(2) Fleeing to avoid custody or confinement after conviction for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); or
(3) Violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.
(g) You file an application for SSI benefits (subpart C).
[47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982, as amended at 58 FR 4897, Jan. 19, 1993; 60 FR 8149, Feb. 10, 1995; 61 FR 10277, Mar. 13, 1996; 65 FR 40495, June 30, 2000]
§ 416.203
Initial determinations of SSI eligibility.
(a)
What happens when you apply for SSI benefits.
When you apply for SSI benefits we will ask you for documents and any other information we need to make sure you meet all the requirements. We will ask for information about your income and resources and about other eligibility requirements and you must answer completely. We will help you get any documents you need but do not have.
(b)
How we determine your eligibility for SSI benefits.
We determine that you are eligible for SSI benefits for a given month if you meet the requirements in § 416.202 in that month. However, you cannot become eligible for payment of SSI benefits until the month after the month in which you first become eligible for SSI benefits (see § 416.501). In addition, we usually determine the amount of your SSI benefits for a month based on your income in an earlier month (see § 416.420). Thus, it is possible for you to meet the eligibility requirements in a given month but receive no benefit payment for that month.
[47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 48570, Nov. 26, 1985; 64 FR 31972, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.204
Redeterminations of SSI eligibility.
(a)
Redeterminations defined.
A redetermination is a review of your eligibility to make sure that you are still eligible and that you are receiving the right amount of SSI benefits. This review deals with the requirements for eligibility other than whether you are
still disabled or blind. Continuation of disability or blindness reviews are discussed in §§ 416.989 and 416.990.
(b)
When we make redeterminations.
(1) We redetermine your eligibility on a scheduled basis at periodic intervals. The length of time between scheduled redeterminations varies depending on the likelihood that your situation may change in a way that affects your benefits.
(2) We may also redetermine your eligibility when you tell us (or we otherwise learn) of a change in your situation which affects your eligibility or the amount of your benefit.
(c)
The period for which a redetermination applies:
(1) The first redetermination applies to—
(i) The month in which we make the redetermination;
(ii) All months beginning with the first day of the latest of the following:
(A) The month of first eligibility or re-eligibility; or
(B) The month of application; or
(C) The month of deferred or updated development; and
(iii) Future months until the second redetermination.
(2) All other redeterminations apply to—
(i) The month in which we make the redetermination;
(ii) All months beginning with the first day of the month the last redetermination was initiated; and
(iii) Future months until the next redetermination.
(3) If we made two redeterminations which cover the same month, the later redetermination is the one we apply to that month.
[47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 48570, Nov. 26, 1985; 58 FR 64893, Dec. 10, 1993]

# Reasons Why You May Not Get SSI Benefits for Which You Are Otherwise Eligible
§ 416.207
You do not give us permission to contact financial institutions.
(a) To be eligible for SSI payments you must give us permission to contact any financial institution and request any financial records that financial institution may have about you. You must give us this permission when you apply for SSI payments or when we ask for it at a later time. You must also provide us with permission from anyone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you,
i.e.,
deemors (
see
§§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204).
(b)
Financial institution
means any:
(1) Bank,
(2) Savings bank,
(3) Credit card issuer,
(4) Industrial loan company,
(5) Trust company,
(6) Savings association,
(7) Building and loan,
(8) Homestead association,
(9) Credit union,
(10) Consumer finance institution, or
(11) Any other financial institution as defined in section 1101(1) of the Right to Financial Privacy Act.
(c)
Financial record
means an original of, a copy of, or information known to have been derived from any record held by the financial institution pertaining to your relationship with the financial institution.
(d) We may ask any financial institution for information on any financial account concerning you. We may also ask for information on any financial accounts for anyone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you (
see
§§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204).
(e) We ask financial institutions for this information when we think that it is necessary to determine your SSI eligibility or payment amount.
(f) Your permission to contact financial institutions, and the permission of anyone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you,
i.e.,
a deemor (see §§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204), remains in effect until a terminating event occurs. The following terminating events only apply prospectively and do not invalidate the permission for past periods.
(1) You cancel your permission in writing and provide the writing to us.
(2) The deemor cancels their permission in writing and provides the writing to us.
(3) The basis on which we consider a deemor's income and resources available to you ends, e.g. when spouses separate or divorce or a child attains age 18.
(4) Your application for SSI is denied, and the denial is final. A denial is final when made, unless you appeal the denial timely as described in §§ 416.1400 through 416.1499.
(5) You are no longer eligible for SSI as described in §§ 416.1331 through 416.1335.
(g) If you don't give us permission to contact any financial institution and request any financial records about you when we think it is necessary to determine your SSI eligibility or payment amount, or if you cancel the permission, you cannot be eligible for SSI payments. Also, except as noted in paragraph (h), if anyone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you (
see
§§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204) doesn't give us permission to contact any financial institution and request any financial records about that person when we think it is necessary to determine your eligibility or payment amount, or if that person cancels the permission, you cannot be eligible for SSI payments. This means that if you are applying for SSI payments, you cannot receive them. If you are receiving SSI payments, we will stop your payments.
(h) You may be eligible for SSI payments if there is good cause for your being unable to obtain permission for us to contact any financial institution and request any financial records about someone whose income and resources we consider as being available to you (see §§ 416.1160, 416.1202, 416.1203, and 416.1204).
(1) Good cause exists if permission cannot be obtained from the individual and there is evidence that the individual is harassing you, abusing you, or endangering your life.
(2) Good cause may exist if an individual other than one listed in paragraph (h)(3) of this section refuses to provide permission and: you acted in good faith to obtain permission from the individual but were unable to do so through no fault of your own, or you cooperated with us in our efforts to obtain permission.
(3) Good cause does not apply if the individual is your representative payee and your legal guardian, if you are a minor child and the individual is your representative payee and your custodial parent, or if you are an alien and the individual is your sponsor or the sponsor's living-with spouse.
[68 FR 53508, Sept. 11, 2003]
§ 416.210
You do not apply for other benefits.
(a)
General rule.
You are not eligible for SSI benefits if you do not apply for all other benefits for which you may be eligible.
(b)
What “other benefits” includes.
“Other benefits” includes any payments for which you can apply that are available to you on an ongoing or one-time basis of a type that includes annuities, pensions, retirement benefits, or disability benefits. For example, “other benefits” includes veterans' compensation and pensions, workers' compensation payments, Social Security insurance benefits and unemployment insurance benefits. “Other benefits” for which you are required to apply do not include payments that you may be eligible to receive from a fund established by a State to aid victims of crime. (See § 416.1124(c)(17).)
(c)
Our notice to you.
We will give you a dated, written notice that will tell you about any other benefits that we think you are likely to be eligible for. In addition, the notice will explain that your eligibility for SSI benefits will be affected if you do not apply for those other benefits.
(d)
What you must do to apply for other benefits.
In order to apply for other benefits, you must file any required applications and do whatever else is needed so that your eligibility for the other benefits can be determined. For example, if any documents (such as a copy of a birth certificate) are required in addition to the application, you must submit them.
(e)
What happens if you do not apply for the other benefits.
(1) If you do not apply for the other benefits within 30 days from the day that you receive our written notice, you are not eligible for SSI benefits. This means that if you are applying for SSI benefits, you cannot receive them. If you are receiving
SSI benefits, your SSI benefits will stop. In addition, you will have to repay us for any SSI benefits that you received beginning with the month that you received our written notice. We assume (unless you prove otherwise) that you received our written notice 5 days after the date shown on the notice. We will also find that you are not eligible for SSI benefits if you file the required application for other benefits but do not take other necessary steps to obtain them.
(2) We will not find you ineligible for SSI benefits if you have a good reason for not applying for the other benefits within the 30-day period or taking other necessary steps to obtain them. In determining whether a good reason exists, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which may have caused you to fail to apply for other benefits. You may have a good reason if, for example—
(i) You are incapacitated (because of illness you were not able to apply); or
(ii) It would be useless for you to apply (you once applied for the benefits and the reasons why you were turned down have not changed).
[47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 5573, Feb. 11, 1985; 50 FR 14211, Apr. 11, 1985; 59 FR 1635, Jan. 12, 1994; 61 FR 1712, Jan. 23, 1996]
§ 416.211
You are a resident of a public institution.
(a)
General rule.
(1) Subject to the exceptions described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section and § 416.212, you are not eligible for SSI benefits for any month throughout which you are a resident of a public institution as defined in § 416.201. In addition, if you are a resident of a public institution when you apply for SSI benefits and meet all other eligibility requirements, you cannot be eligible for payment of benefits until the first day of the month following the day of your release from the institution.
(2) By
throughout a month
we mean that you reside in an institution as of the beginning of a month and stay the entire month. If you have been a resident of a public institution, you remain a resident if you are transferred from one public institution to another or if you are temporarily absent for a period of not more than 14 consecutive days. A person also is a resident of an institution throughout a month if he or she is born in the institution during the month and resides in the institution the rest of the month or resides in the institution as of the beginning of a month and dies in the institution during the month.
(b)
Exception—SSI benefits payable at a reduced rate.
You may be eligible for SSI benefits at a reduced rate described in § 416.414, if—
(1)(i) You reside throughout a month in a public institution that is a medical treatment facility where Medicaid (title XIX of the Social Security Act) pays a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care; you are a child under the age of 18 residing throughout a month in a public institution that is a medical treatment facility where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care is paid under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider of such insurance; or, you are a child under the age of 18 residing throughout a month in a public institution that is a medical treatment facility where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care is paid by a combination of Medicaid payments and payments made under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider of such insurance; or
(ii) You reside for part of a month in a public institution and the rest of the month in a public institution or private medical treatment facility where Medicaid pays a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care; you are a child under the age of 18 residing for part of a month in a public institution and the rest of the month in a public institution or private medical treatment facility where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care is paid under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider of such insurance; or you are a child under the age of 18 residing for part of a month in a public institution and the rest of the month in a public institution or private medical treatment facility where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of
your care is paid by a combination of Medicaid payments and payments made under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider; and
(2) You are ineligible in that month for a benefit described in § 416.212 that is payable to a person temporarily confined in a medical treatment facility.
(c)
Exception for publicly operated community residences which serve no more than 16 residents
—(1)
General rule.
If you are a resident of a publicly operated community residence which serves no more than 16 residents, you may be eligible for SSI benefits.
(2)
Services that a facility must provide in order to be a community residence.
To be a community residence, a facility must provide food and shelter. In addition, it must make available some other services. For example, the other services could be—
(i) Social services;
(ii) Help with personal living activities;
(iii) Training in socialization and life skills; or
(iv) Providing occasional or incidental medical or remedial care.
(3)
Serving no more than 16 residents.
A community residence serves no more than 16 residents if—
(i) It is designed and planned to serve no more than 16 residents, or the design and plan were changed to serve no more than 16 residents; and
(ii) It is in fact serving 16 or fewer residents.
(4)
Publicly operated.
A community residence is publicly operated if it is operated or controlled by the Federal government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State such as a city or county.
(5)
Facilities which are not a publicly operated community residence.
If you live in any of the following facilities, you are not a resident of a publicly operated community residence:
(i) A residential facility which is on the grounds of or next to a large institution or multipurpose complex;
(ii) An educational or vocational training institution whose main function is to provide an approved, accredited, or recognized program to some or all of those who live there;
(iii) A jail or other facility where the personal freedom of anyone who lives there is restricted because that person is a prisoner, is being held under court order, or is being held until charges against that person are disposed of; or
(iv) A medical treatment facility (defined in § 416.201).
(d)
Exception for residents of public emergency shelters for the homeless.
For months after December 1987, if you are a resident of a public emergency shelter for the homeless (defined in § 416.201) you may be eligible for SSI benefits for any 6 months throughout which you reside in a shelter in any 9-month period (defined in § 416.201). The 6 months do not need to be consecutive and we will not count as part of the 6 months any prior months throughout which you lived in the shelter but did not receive SSI benefits. We will also not count any months throughout which you lived in the shelter and received SSI benefits prior to January 1988.

# Example:
You are receiving SSI benefits when you lose your home and enter a public emergency shelter for the homeless on March 10, 1988. You remain a resident of a shelter until October 10, 1988. Since you were not in the shelter throughout the month of March, you are eligible to receive your benefit for March without having this month count towards the 6-month period. The last full month throughout which you reside in the shelter is September 1988. Therefore, if you meet all eligibility requirements, you will also be paid benefits for April through September (6 months during the 9-month period September 1988 back through January 1988). If you are otherwise eligible, you will receive your SSI benefit for October when you left the shelter, since you were not a resident of the shelter throughout that month.
[47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 51518, Dec. 18, 1985; 51 FR 13492, Apr. 21, 1986; 51 FR 17332, May 12, 1986; 51 FR 34464, Sept. 29, 1986; 54 FR 19164, May 4, 1989; 61 FR 10277, Mar. 13, 1996; 62 FR 1055, Jan. 8, 1997; 64 FR 31972, June 15, 1999; 72 FR 50874, Sept. 5, 2007]
§ 416.212
Continuation of full benefits in certain cases of medical confinement.
(a)
Benefits payable under section 1611(e)(1)(E) of the Social Security Act.
Subject to eligibility and regular computation rules (see subparts B and D of this part), you are eligible for the benefits payable under section 1611(e)(1)(E)
of the Social Security Act for up to 2 full months of medical confinement during which your benefits would otherwise be suspended because of residence in a public institution or reduced because of residence in a public or private institution where Medicaid pays a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care or, if you are a child under age 18, reduced because of residence in a public or private institution which receives payments under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider, or a combination of Medicaid and a health insurance policy issued by a private provider, pay a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care if—
(1) You were eligible under either section 1619(a) or section 1619(b) of the Social Security Act in the month before the first full month of residence in an institution;
(2) The institution agrees that no portion of these benefits will be paid to or retained by the institution excepting nominal sums for reimbursement of the institution for any outlay for a recipient's personal needs (e.g., personal hygiene items, snacks, candy); and
(3) The month of your institutionalization is one of the first 2 full months of a continuous period of confinement.
(b)
Benefits payable under section 1611(e)(1)(G) of the Social Security Act.
(1) Subject to eligibility and regular computation rules (see subparts B and D of this part), you are eligible for the benefits payable under section 1611(e)(1)(G) of the Social Security Act for up to 3 full months of medical confinement during which your benefits would otherwise be suspended because of residence in a public institution or reduced because of residence in a public or private institution where Medicaid pays a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care or, if you are a child under age 18, reduced because of residence in a public or private institution which receives payments under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider, or a combination of Medicaid and a health insurance policy issued by a private provider, pay a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of your care if—
(i) You were eligible for SSI cash benefits and/or federally administered State supplementary payments for the month immediately prior to the first full month you were a resident in such institution;
(ii) The month of your institutionalization is one of the first 3 full months of a continuous period of confinement;
(iii) A physician certifies, in writing, that you are not likely to be confined for longer than 90 full consecutive days following the day you entered the institution, and the certification is submitted to SSA no later than the day of discharge or the 90th full day of confinement, whichever is earlier; and
(iv) You need to pay expenses to maintain the home or living arrangement to which you intend to return after institutionalization and evidence regarding your need to pay these expenses is submitted to SSA no later than the day of discharge or the 90th full day of confinement, whichever is earlier.
(2) We will determine the date of submission of the evidence required in paragraphs (b)(1) (iii) and (iv) of this section to be the date we receive it or, if mailed, the date of the postmark.
(c)
Prohibition against using benefits for current maintenance.
If the recipient is a resident in an institution, the recipient or his or her representative payee will not be permitted to pay the institution any portion of benefits payable under section 1611(e)(1)(G) excepting nominal sums for reimbursement of the institution for any outlay for the recipient's personal needs (e.g., personal hygiene items, snacks, candy). If the institution is the representative payee, it will not be permitted to retain any portion of these benefits for the cost of the recipient's current maintenance excepting nominal sums for reimbursement for outlays for the recipient's personal needs.
[61 FR 10277, Mar. 13, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 1055, Jan. 8, 1997; 72 FR 50874, Sept. 5, 2007]
§ 416.214
You are disabled and drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(a)
If you do not comply with treatment requirements.
If you receive benefits because you are disabled and drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing
factor material to the determination of disability (see § 416.935), you must avail yourself of any appropriate treatment for your drug addiction or alcoholism at an approved institution or facility when this treatment is available and make progress in your treatment. You are not eligible for SSI benefits beginning with the month after the month you are notified in writing that we determined that you have failed to comply with the treatment requirements. If your benefits are suspended because you failed to comply with treatment requirements, you will not be eligible to receive benefits until you have demonstrated compliance with treatment for a period of time, as specified in § 416.1326. The rules regarding treatment for drug addiction and alcoholism are in subpart I of this part.
(b)
If you previously received 36 months of SSI or Social Security benefits.
You are not eligible for SSI benefits by reason of disability on the basis of drug addiction or alcoholism as described in § 416.935 if—
(1) You previously received a total of 36 months of SSI benefits on the basis of disability and drug addiction or alcoholism was a contributing factor material to the determination of disability for months beginning March 1995, as described in § 416.935. Not included in these 36 months are months before March 1995 and months for which your benefits were suspended for any reason. The 36-month limit is no longer effective for months beginning after September 2004; or
(2) You previously received a total of 36 months of Social Security benefits counted in accordance with the provisions of §§ 404.316, 404.337, and 404.352 by reason of disability on the basis of drug addiction or alcoholism as described in § 404.1535.
[60 FR 8149, Feb. 10, 1995. Redesignated at 61 FR 10277, Mar. 13, 1996]
§ 416.215
You leave the United States.
You lose your eligibility for SSI benefits for any month during all of which you are outside of the United States. If you are outside of the United States for 30 days or more in a row, you are not considered to be back in the United States until you are back for 30 days in a row. You may again be eligible for SSI benefits in the month in which the 30 days end if you continue to meet all other eligibility requirements.
By
United States,
we mean the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
[47 FR 3103, Jan. 22, 1982. Redesignated at 61 FR 10277, Mar. 13, 1996]
§ 416.216
You are a child of armed forces personnel living overseas.
(a)
General rule.
For purposes of this part,
overseas
means any location outside the United States as defined in § 416.215;
i.e.
, the 50 States, the District of Columbia and the Northern Mariana Islands. You may be eligible for SSI benefits if you live overseas and if—
(1) You are a child as described in § 416.1856;
(2) You are a citizen of the United States; and
(3) You are living with a parent as described in § 416.1881 who is a member of the armed forces of the United States assigned to permanent duty ashore overseas.
(b)
Living with.
You are considered to be living with your parent who is a member of the armed forces if—
(1) You physically live with the parent who is a member of the armed forces overseas; or
(2) You are not living in the same household as the military parent but your presence overseas is due to his or her permanent duty assignment.
[58 FR 4897, Jan. 19, 1993; 58 FR 9597, Feb. 22, 1993, as amended at 59 FR 41400, Aug. 12, 1994. Redesignated at 61 FR 10277, Mar. 13, 1996; 70 FR 61366, Oct. 24, 2005]

# Eligibility for Increased Benefits Because of Essential Persons
§ 416.220
General.
If you are a
qualified
individual and have an essential person you may be eligible for increased benefits. You may be a qualified individual and have an essential person only if you received benefits under a State assistance plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI (AABD) of the Act for December 1973. Definitions and rules that apply to qualified individuals and essential persons are discussed in §§ 416.221 through 416.223.
§ 416.221
Who is a qualified individual.
You are a qualified individual if—
(a) You received aid or assistance for the month of December 1973 under a State plan approved under title I, X, XIV, or XVI (AABD) of the Act;
(b) The State took into account the needs of another person in deciding your need for the State assistance for December 1973;
(c) That other person was living in your home in December 1973; and
(d) That other person was not eligible for State assistance for December 1973.
§ 416.222
Who is an essential person.
(a)
General rule.
A person is an essential person if—
(1) That person has continuously lived in the home of the same qualified individual since December 1973;
(2) That person was not eligible for State assistance for December 1973;
(3) That person was never eligible for SSI benefits in his or her own right or as an eligible spouse; and
(4) There are State records which show that under a State plan in effect for June 1973, the State took that person's needs into account in determining the qualified individual's need for State assistance for December 1973.
Any person who meets these requirements is an essential person. This means that the qualified individual can have more than one essential person.
(b)
Absence of an essential person from the home of a qualified individual.
An essential person may be temporarily absent from the house of a qualified individual and still be an essential person. For example, the essential person could be hospitalized. We consider an absence to temporary if—
(1) The essential person intends to return;
(2) The facts support this intention;
(3) It is likely that he or she will return; and
(4) The absence is not longer than 90 days.
(c)
Absence of a qualified individual from his or her home.
You may be temporarily absent from your home and still have an essential person. For example, you could be hospitalized. We consider an absence to be temporary if—
(1) You intend to return;
(2) The facts support your intention;
(3) It is likely that you will return; and
(4) Your absence does not exceed six months.
(d)
Essential person becomes eligible for SSI benefits.
If an essential person becomes eligible for SSI benefits, he or she will no longer be an essential person beginning with the month that he or she becomes eligible for the SSI benefits.
§ 416.223
What happens if you are a qualified individual.
(a)
Increased SSI benefits.
We may increase the amount of your SSI benefits if—
(1) You are a qualified individual; and
(2) You have one or more essential persons in your home.
In subpart D, we explain how these increased benefits are calculated.
(b)
Income and resource limits.
If you are a qualified individual, we consider the income and resources of an essential person in your home to be yours. You are eligible for increased SSI benefits if—
(1) Your resources which are counted do not exceed the limit for SSI eligibility purposes (see subpart L); and
(2) Your income which is counted for SSI eligibility purposes (see subpart K) does not exceed the sum of—
(i) The SSI Federal benefit rate (see subpart D); and
(ii) The proper number of essential person increments (for the value of an essential person increment see subpart D). One essential person increment is added to the SSI Federal benefit rate for each essential person in your home.
(c)
Excluding the income and resources of an essential person.
(1) While an essential person increment increases your SSI Federal benefit rate, that person's income which we consider to be yours may actually result in a lower monthly payment to you. We will discuss this with you and explain how an essential person affects your benefit. If you choose to do so, you may ask us in writing to determine your eligibility without your essential person or, if you have more than one essential person, without one or more of your essential persons. We will then figure the amount of your SSI benefits without
counting as your own income and resources of the essential persons that you specify and we will end the essential person increment for those essential persons. You should consider this carefully because once you make the request, you cannot withdraw it. We will make the change beginning with the month following the month that you make the request.
(2) We will not include the income and resources of the essential person if the person's income or resources would cause you to lose your eligibility. The loss of the essential person increment will be permanent.
§ 416.250
Experimental, pilot, and demonstration projects in the SSI program.
(a)
Authority and purpose.
Section 1110(b) of the Act authorizes the Commissioner to develop and conduct experimental, pilot, and demonstration projects to promote the objectives or improve the administration of the SSI program. These projects will test the advantages of altering certain requirements, conditions, or limitations for recipients and test different administrative methods that apply to title XVI applicants and recipients.
(b)
Altering benefit requirements, limitations or conditions.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, the Commissioner is authorized to waive any of the requirements, limitations or conditions established under title XVI of the Act and impose additional requirements, limitations or conditions for the purpose of conducting experimental, pilot, or demonstration projects. The projects will alter the provisions that currently apply to applicants and recipients to test their effect on the program. If, as a result of participation in a project under this section, a project participant becomes ineligible for Medicaid benefits, the Commissioner shall make arrangements to extend Medicaid coverage to such participant and shall reimburse the States for any additional expenses incurred due to such continued participation.
(c)
Applicability and scope
—(1)
Participants and nonparticipants.
If you are selected to participate in an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project, we may temporarily set aside one or more current requirements, limitations or conditions of eligibility and apply alternative provisions to you. We may also modify current methods of administering title XVI as part of a project and apply alternative procedures or policies to you. The alternative provisions or methods of administration used in the projects will not substantially reduce your total income or resources as a result of your participation or disadvantage you in comparison to current provisions, policies, or procedures. If you are not selected to participate in the experimental, or pilot, or demonstration projects (or if you are placed in a control group which is not subject to the alternative requirements, limitations, or conditions) we will continue to apply the current requirements, limitations or conditions of eligibility to you.
(2)
Alternative provisions or methods of administration.
The alternative requirements, limitations or conditions that apply to you in an experimental, pilot, or demonstration project may include any of the factors needed for aged, blind, or disabled persons to be eligible for SSI benefits. Experiments that we conduct will include, to the extent feasible, applicants and recipients who are under age 18 as well as adults and will include projects to ascertain the feasibility of treating drug addicts and alcoholics.
(d)
Selection of participants.
Participation in the SSI project will be on a voluntary basis. The voluntary written consent necessary in order to participate in any experimental, pilot, or demonstration project may be revoked by the participant at any time.
(e)
Duration of experimental, pilot, and demonstration projects.
A notice describing each experimental, pilot, or demonstration project will be published in the
Federal Register
before each project is placed in operation. Each experimental, pilot and demonstration project will have a termination date (up to 10 years from the start of the project).
[48 FR 7576, Feb. 23, 1983, as amended at 52 FR 37605, Oct. 8, 1987; 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997]

# Special Provisions for People Who Work Despite a Disabling Impairment
§ 416.260
General.
The regulations in §§ 416.260 through 416.269 describe the rules for determining eligibility for special SSI cash benefits and for special SSI eligibility status for an individual who works despite a disabling impairment. Under these rules an individual who works despite a disabling impairment may qualify for special SSI cash benefits and in most cases for Medicaid benefits when his or her gross earned income exceeds the applicable dollar amount which ordinarily represents SGA described in § 416.974(b)(2). The calculation of this gross earned income amount, however, is not to be considered an actual SGA determination. Also, for purposes of determining eligibility or continuing eligibility for Medicaid benefits, a blind or disabled individual (no longer eligible for regular SSI benefits or for special SSI cash benefits) who, except for earnings, would otherwise be eligible for SSI cash benefits may be eligible for a special SSI eligibility status under which he or she is considered to be a blind or disabled individual receiving SSI benefits. We explain the rules for eligibility for special SSI cash benefits in §§ 416.261 and 416.262. We explain the rules for the special SSI eligibility status in §§ 416.264 through 416.269.
[59 FR 41403, Aug. 12, 1994]
§ 416.261
What are special SSI cash benefits and when are they payable.
Special SSI cash benefits are benefits that we may pay you in lieu of regular SSI benefits because your gross earned income in a month of initial eligibility for regular SSI benefits exceeds the amount ordinarily considered to represent SGA under § 416.974(b)(2). You must meet the eligibility requirements in § 416.262 in order to receive special SSI cash benefits. Special SSI cash benefits are not payable for any month in which your countable income exceeds the limits established for the SSI program (see subpart K of this part). If you are eligible for special SSI cash benefits, we consider you to be a disabled individual receiving SSI benefits for purposes of eligibility for Medicaid. We compute the amount of special SSI cash benefits according to the rules in subpart D of this part. If your State makes supplementary payments which we administer under a Federal-State agreement, and if your State elects to supplement the special SSI cash benefits, the rules in subpart T of this part will apply to these payments.
[47 FR 15324, Apr. 9, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 46763, Nov. 13, 1985; 59 FR 41403, Aug. 12, 1994]
§ 416.262
Eligibility requirements for special SSI cash benefits.
You are eligible for special SSI cash benefits if you meet the following requirements—
(a) You were eligible to receive a regular SSI benefit or a federally administered State supplementary payment (see § 416.2001) in a month before the month for which we are determining your eligibility for special SSI cash benefits as long as that month was not in a prior period of eligibility which has terminated according to §§ 416.1331 through 416.1335;
(b) In the month for which we are making the determination, your gross earned income exceeds the amount ordinarily considered to represent SGA under § 416.974(b)(2);
(c) You continue to have a disabling impairment;
(d) If your disability is based on a determination that drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability as described in § 416.935, you have not yet received SSI cash benefits, special SSI cash benefits, or special SSI eligibility status for a total of 36 months, or Social Security benefit payments when treatment was available for a total of 36 months; and
(e) You meet all the nondisability requirements for eligibility for SSI benefits (see § 416.202).
We will follow the rules in this subpart in determining your eligibility for special SSI cash benefits.
[47 FR 15324, Apr. 9, 1982, as amended at 59 FR 41404, Aug. 12, 1994; 60 FR 8149, Feb. 10, 1995; 64 FR 31972, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.263
No additional application needed.
We do not require you to apply for special cash benefits nor is it necessary
for you to apply to have the special SSI eligibility status determined. We will make these determinations automatically.
[47 FR 15324, Apr. 9, 1982]
§ 416.264
When does the special SSI eligibility status apply.
The special SSI eligibility status applies for the purposes of establishing or maintaining your eligibility for Medicaid. For these purposes we continue to consider you to be a blind or disabled individual receiving benefits even though you are in fact no longer receiving regular SSI benefits or special SSI cash benefits. You must meet the eligibility requirements in § 416.265 in order to qualify for the special SSI eligibility status. Special SSI eligibility status also applies for purposes of reacquiring status as eligible for regular SSI benefits or special SSI cash benefits.
[59 FR 41404, Aug. 12, 1994]
§ 416.265
Requirements for the special SSI eligibility status.
In order to be eligible for the special SSI eligibility status, you must have been eligible to receive a regular SSI benefit or a federally administered State supplementary payment (see § 416.2001) in a month before the month for which we are making the special SSI eligibility status determination. The month you were eligible for a regular SSI benefit or a federally administered State supplementary payment may not be in a prior period of eligibility which has been terminated according to §§ 416.1331 through 416.1335. For periods prior to May 1, 1991, you must be under age 65. Also, we must establish that:
(a) You are blind or you continue to have a disabling impairment which, if drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability as described in § 416.935, has not resulted in your receiving SSI cash benefits, special SSI cash benefits, or special SSI eligibility status for a total of 36 months, or Social Security benefit payments when treatment was available for a total of 36 months;
(b) Except for your earnings, you meet all the nondisability requirements for eligibility for SSI benefits (see § 416.202);
(c) The termination of your eligibility for Medicaid would seriously inhibit your ability to continue working (see § 416.268); and
(d) Your earnings after the exclusions in § 416.1112(c) (6), (8), and (9) are not sufficient to allow you to provide yourself with a reasonable equivalent of the benefits (SSI benefits, federally administered State supplementary payments, Medicaid, and publicly-funded attendant care services, including personal care assistance under § 416.269(d)) which would be available to you if you did not have those earnings (see § 416.269).
[47 FR 15324, Apr. 9, 1982, as amended at 59 FR 41404, Aug. 12, 1994; 59 FR 49291, Sept. 27, 1994; 60 FR 8149, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.266
Continuation of SSI status for Medicaid
If we stop your benefits because of your earnings and you are potentially eligible for the special SSI eligibility status you will continue to be considered an SSI recipient for purposes of eligibility for Medicaid during the time it takes us to determine whether the special eligibility status applies to you.
[47 FR 15324, Apr. 9, 1982]
§ 416.267
General.
We determine whether the special SSI eligibility status applies to you by verifying that you continue to be blind or have a disabling impairment by applying the rules in subpart I of this part, and by following the rules in this subpart to determine whether you meet the requirements in § 416.265(b). If you do not meet these requirements we determine that the special eligibility status does not apply. If you meet these requirements, then we apply special rules to determine if you meet the requirements of § 416.265 (c) and (d). If for the period being evaluated, you meet all of the requirements in § 416.265 we determine that the special status applies to you.
[47 FR 15324, Apr. 9, 1982]
§ 416.268
What is done to determine if you must have Medicaid in order to work.
For us to determine that you need Medicaid benefits in order to continue to work, you must establish:
(a) That you are currently using or have received services which were paid for by Medicaid during the period which began 12 months before our first contact with you to discuss this use; or
(b) That you expect to use these services within the next 12 months; or
(c) That you would need Medicaid to pay for unexpected medical expenses in the next 12 months.
[59 FR 41404, Aug. 12, 1994]
§ 416.269
What is done to determine whether your earnings are too low to provide comparable benefits and services you would receive in the absence of those earnings.
(a)
What we determine.
We must determine whether your earnings are too low to provide you with benefits and services comparable to the benefits and services you would receive if you did not have those earnings (see § 416.265(d)).
(b)
How the determination is made.
In determining whether your earnings are too low to provide you with benefits and services comparable to the benefits and services you would receive if you did not have those earnings, we compare your anticipated gross earnings (or a combination of anticipated and actual gross earnings, as appropriate) for the 12-month period beginning with the month for which your special SSI eligibility status is being determined to a threshold amount for your State of residence. This threshold amount consists of the sum for a 12-month period of two items, as follows:
(1) The amount of gross earnings including amounts excluded under § 416.1112(c) (4), (5) and (7) that would reduce to zero the Federal SSI benefit and the optional State supplementary payment for an individual with no other income living in his or her own household in the State where you reside. This amount will vary from State to State depending on the amount of the State supplementary payment; and
(2) The average expenditures for Medicaid benefits for disabled and blind SSI cash recipients, including recipients of federally administered State supplementary payments only, in your State of residence.
(c)
How the eligibility requirements are met.
(1) You meet the requirements in § 416.265(d) if the comparison shows that your gross earnings are equal to or less than the applicable threshold amount for your State, as determined under paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section. However, if the comparison shows that these earnings exceed the applicable threshold amount for your State, we will establish (and use in a second comparison) an individualized threshold taking into account the total amount of:
(i) The amount determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section that would reduce to zero the Federal SSI benefit and State supplementary payment for your actual living arrangement;
(ii) The average Medicaid expenditures for your State of residence under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or, if higher, your actual medical expenditures in the appropriate 12-month period;
(iii) Any amounts excluded from your income as impairment-related work expenses (see § 416.1112(c)(6)), work expenses of the blind (see § 416.1112(c)(8)), and income used or set aside for use under an approved plan for achieving self support (see § 416.1112(c)(9)); and
(iv) the value of any publicly-funded attendant care services as described in paragraph (d) of this section (including personal care assistance).
(2) If you have already completed the 12-month period for which we are determining your eligibility, we will consider only the expenditures made in that period.
(d)
Attendant care services.
Expenditures for attendant care services (including personal care assistance) which would be available to you in the absence of earnings that make you ineligible for SSI cash benefits will be considered in the individualized threshold (as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section) if we establish that they are:
(1) Provided by a paid attendant;
(2) Needed to assist with work-related and/or personal functions; and
(3) Paid from Federal, State, or local funds.
(e)
Annual update of information.
The threshold amounts used in determinations of sufficiency of earnings will be based on information and data updated no less frequently than annually.
[59 FR 41404, Aug. 12, 1994; 59 FR 49291, Sept. 27, 1994]

# Subpart C—Filing of Applications

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 1611, and 1631 (a), (d), and (e) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1382, and 1383 (a), (d), and (e)).

# Source:
45 FR 48120, July 18, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General Provisions
§ 416.301
Introduction.
This subpart contains the rules for filing a claim for supplemental security income (SSI) benefits. It tells you what an application is, who may sign it, who must file one to be eligible for benefits, the period of time it is in effect, and how it may be withdrawn. It also tells you when a written statement or an oral inquiry may be considered to establish an application filing date.
§ 416.302
Definitions.
For the purpose of this subpart—
Benefits
means any payments made under the SSI program. SSI benefits also include any federally administered State supplementary payments.
Claimant
means the person who files an application for himself or herself or the person on whose behalf an application is filed.
We
or
us
means the Social Security Administration (SSA).
You
or
your
means the person who applies for benefits, the person for whom an application is filed or anyone who may consider applying for benefits.
§ 416.305
You must file an application to receive supplemental security income benefits.
(a)
General rule.
In addition to meeting other requirements, you must file an application to become eligible to receive benefits. If you believe you may be eligible, you should file an application as soon as possible. Filing an application will—
(1) Permit us to make a formal determination whether or not you are eligible to receive benefits;
(2) Assure that you receive benefits for any months you are eligible to receive payment; and
(3) Give you the right to appeal if you disagree with the determination.
(b)
Exceptions.
You need not file a new application if—
(1) You have been receiving benefits as an eligible spouse and are no longer living with your husband or wife;
(2) You have been receiving benefits as an eligible spouse of an eligible individual who has died;
(3) You have been receiving benefits because you are disabled or blind and you are 65 years old before the date we determine that you are no longer blind or disabled.
(4) A redetermination of your eligibility is being made and it is found that you were not eligible for benefits during any part of a period for which we are making a redetermination but you currently meet the requirements for eligibility;
(5) You are notified that your payments of SSI benefits will be stopped because you are no longer eligible and you again meet the requirements for eligibility before your appeal rights are exhausted.
[45 FR 48120, July 18, 1980, as amended at 60 FR 16374, Mar. 30, 1995; 64 FR 31972, June 15, 1999]

# Applications
§ 416.310
What makes an application a claim for benefits.
An application will be considered a claim for benefits, if the following requirements are met:
(a) An application form prescribed by us must be filled out.
(b) be filed at a social security office, at another Federal or State office we have designated to receive applications for us, or with a person we have authorized to receive applications for us. See § 416.325.
(c) The claimant or someone who may sign an application for the claimant must sign the application. See §§ 416.315 and 416.320.
(d) The claimant must be alive at the time the application is filed. See §§ 416.340, 416.345, and 416.351 for exceptions.
[45 FR 48120, July 18, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 44926, Aug. 31, 1994]
§ 416.315
Who may sign an application.
We will determine who may sign an application according to the following rules:
(a) If you are 18 years old or over, mentally competent, and physically able, you must sign your own application. If you are 16 years old or older and under age 18, you may sign the application if you are mentally competent, have no court appointed representative, and are not in the care of any other person or institution.
(b) If the claimant is under age 18, or is mentally incompetent, or is physically unable to sign the application, a court appointed representative or a person who is responsible for the care of the claimant, including a relative, may sign the application. If the claimant is in the care of an institution, the manager or principal officer of the institution may sign the application.
(c) To prevent a claimant from losing benefits because of a delay in filing an application when there is a good reason why the claimant cannot sign an application, we may accept an application signed by someone other than a person described in this section.

# Example:
Mr. Smith comes to a Social Security office to file an application for SSI disability benefits for Mr. Jones. Mr. Jones, who lives alone, just suffered a heart attack and is in the hospital. He asked Mr. Smith, whose only relationship is that of a neighbor and friend, to file the application for him. We will accept an application signed by Mr. Smith since it would not be possible to have Mr. Jones sign and file the application at this time. SSI benefits can be paid starting with the first day of the month following the month the individual first meets all eligibility requirements for such benefits, including having filed an application. If Mr. Smith could not sign an application for Mr. Jones, a loss of benefits would result if it is later determined that Mr. Jones is in fact disabled.
[45 FR 48120, July 18, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 13492, Apr. 21, 1986; 64 FR 31972, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.320
Evidence of authority to sign an application for another.
(a) A person who signs an application for someone else will be required to provide evidence of his or her authority to sign the application for the person claiming benefits under the following rules:
(1) If the person who signs is a court appointed representative, he or she must submit a certificate issued by the court showing authority to act for the claimant.
(2) If the person who signs is not a court appointed representative, he or she must submit a statement describing his or her relationship to the claimant. The statement must also describe the extent to which the person is responsible for the care of the claimant. This latter information will not be requested if the application is signed by a parent for a child with whom he or she is living. If the person signing is the manager or principal officer of an institution he or she should show his or her title.
(b) We may, at any time, require additional evidence to establish the authority of a person to sign an application for someone else.
[45 FR 48120, July 18, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 13493, Apr. 21, 1986]
§ 416.325
When an application is considered filed.
(a)
General rule.
We consider an application for SSI benefits filed on the day it is received by an employee at any social security office, by someone at another Federal or State office designated to receive applications for us, or by a person we have authorized to receive applications for us.
(b)
Exceptions.
(1) When we receive an application that is mailed, we will use the date shown by the United States postmark as the filing date if using the date the application is received will result in a loss of benefits. If the postmark is unreadable or there is no postmark, we will use the date the application is signed (if dated) or 5 days before
the day we receive the signed application, whichever date is later.
(2) We consider an application to be filed on the date of the filing of a written statement or the making of an oral inquiry under the conditions in §§ 416.340, 416.345 and 416.350.
(3) We will establish a “deemed” filing date of an application in a case of misinformation under the conditions described in § 416.351. The filing date of the application will be a date determined under § 416.351(b).
[45 FR 48120, July 18, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 13493, Apr. 21, 1986; 59 FR 44926, Aug. 31, 1994]
§ 416.327
Pilot program for photographic identification of disability benefit applicants in designated geographic areas.
(a) To be eligible for SSI disability or blindness benefits in the designated pilot geographic areas during the time period of the pilot, you or a person acting on your behalf must give SSA permission to take your photograph and make this photograph a part of the claims folder. You must give us this permission when you apply for benefits and/or when we ask for it at a later time. Failure to cooperate will result in denial of benefits. We will permit an exception to the photograph requirement when an individual has a sincere religious objection. This pilot will be in effect for a six-month period after these final rules become effective.
(b)
Designated pilot geographic areas
means:
(1) All SSA field offices in the State of South Carolina.
(2) The Augusta, Georgia SSA field office.
(3) All SSA field offices in the State of Kansas.
(4) Selected SSA field offices located in New York City.
[68 FR 23195, May 1, 2003]

# Effective Filing Period of Application
§ 416.330
Filing before the first month you meet the requirements for eligibility.
If you file an application for SSI benefits before the first month you meet all the other requirements for eligibility, the application will remain in effect from the date it is filed until we make a final determination on your application, unless there is a hearing decision on your application. If there is a hearing decision, your application will remain in effect until the hearing decision is issued.
(a) If you meet all the requirements for eligibility while your application is in effect, the earliest month for which we can pay you benefits is the month following the month that you first meet all the requirements.
(b) If you first meet all the requirements for eligibility after the period for which your application was in effect, you must file a new application for benefits. In this case, we can pay you benefits only from the first day of the month following the month that you meet all the requirements based on the new application.
[64 FR 31973, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.335
Filing in or after the month you meet the requirements for eligibility.
When you file an application in the month that you meet all the other requirements for eligibility, the earliest month for which we can pay you benefits is the month following the month you filed the application. If you file an application after the month you first meet all the other requirements for eligibility, we cannot pay you for the month in which your application is filed or any months before that month. See §§ 416.340, 416.345 and 416.350 on how a written statement or an oral inquiry made before the filing of the application form may affect the filing date of the application.
[64 FR 31973, June 15, 1999]

# Filing Date Based Upon a Written Statement or Oral Inquiry
§ 416.340
Use of date of written statement as application filing date.
We will use the date a written statement, such as a letter, an SSA questionnaire or some other writing, is received at a social security office, at another Federal or State office designated by us, or by a person we have authorized to receive applications for us as the filing date of an application
for benefits, only if the use of that date will result in your eligibility for additional benefits. If the written statement is mailed, we will use the date the statement was mailed to us as shown by a United States postmark. If the postmark is unreadable or there is no postmark, we will use the date the statement is signed (if dated) or 5 days before the day we receive the written statement, whichever date is later, as the filing date of an application for benefits. In order for us to use your written statement to protect your filing date, the following requirements must be met:
(a) The written statement shows an intent to claim benefits for yourself or for another person.
(b) You, your spouse or a person who may sign an application for you signs the statement.
(c) An application form signed by you or by a person who may sign an application for you is filed with us within 60 days after the date of a notice we will send telling of the need to file an application. The notice will say that we will make an initial determination of eligibility for SSI benefits if an application form is filed within 60 days after the date of the notice. (We will send the notice to the claimant, or where he or she is a minor or incompetent, to the person who gave us the written statement.)
(d)(1) The claimant is alive when the application is filed on a prescribed form, or
(2) If the claimant dies after the written statement is filed, the deceased claimant's surviving spouse or parent(s) who could be paid the claimant's benefits under § 416.542(b), or someone on behalf of the surviving spouse or parent(s) files an application form. If we learn that the claimant has died before the notice is sent or within 60 days after the notice but before an application form is filed, we will send a notice to such a survivor. The notice will say that we will make an initial determination of eligibility for SSI benefits only if an application form is filed on behalf of the deceased within 60 days after the date of the notice to the survivor.
[45 FR 48120, July 18, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 13493, Apr. 21, 1986; 58 FR 52912, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 416.345
Use of date of oral inquiry as application filing date.
We will use the date of an oral inquiry about SSI benefits as the filing date of an application for benefits only if the use of that date will result in your eligibility for additional benefits and the following requirements are met:
(a) The inquiry asks about the claimant's eligibility for SSI benefits.
(b) The inquiry is made by the claimant, the claimant's spouse, or a person who may sign an application on the claimant's behalf as described in § 416.315.
(c) The inquiry, whether in person or by telephone, is directed to an office or an official described in § 416.310(b).
(d) The claimant or a person on his or her behalf as described in § 416.315 files an application on a prescribed form within 60 days after the date of the notice we will send telling of the need to file an application. The notice will say that we will make an initial determination of eligibility for SSI benefits if an application form is filed within 60 days after the date of the notice. (We will send the notice to the claimant or, where he or she is a minor or incompetent, to the person who made the inquiry.)
(e)(1) The claimant is alive when the application is filed on a prescribed form, or
(2) If the claimant dies after the oral inquiry is made, the deceased claimant's surviving spouse or parent(s) who could be paid the claimant's benefits under § 416.542(b), or someone on behalf of the surviving spouse or parent(s) files an application form. If we learn that the claimant has died before the notice is sent or within 60 days after the notice but before an application form is filed, we will send a notice to such a survivor. The notice will say that we will make an initial determination of eligibility for SSI benefits only if an application form is filed on behalf of the deceased within 60 days
after the date of the notice to the survivor.
[45 FR 48120, July 18, 1980, as amended at 51 FR 13493, Apr. 21, 1986; 58 FR 52912, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 416.350
Treating a title II application as an oral inquiry about SSI benefits.
(a) When a person applies for benefits under title II (retirement, survivors, or disability benefits) we will explain the requirements for receiving SSI benefits and give the person a chance to file an application for them if—
(1) The person is within 2 months of age 65 or older or it looks as if the person might qualify as a blind or disabled person, and
(2) It is not clear that the person's title II benefits would prevent him or her from receiving SSI or any State supplementary benefits handled by the Social Security Administration.
(b) If the person applying for title II benefits does not file an application for SSI on a prescribed form when SSI is explained to him or her, we will treat his or her filing of an application for title II benefits as an oral inquiry about SSI, and the date of the title II application form may be used to establish the SSI application date if the requirements of § 416.345 (d) and (e) are met.

# Deemed Filing Date Based on Misinformation
§ 416.351
Deemed filing date in a case of misinformation.
(a)
General.
You may have considered applying for SSI benefits for yourself or for another person, and you may have contacted us in writing, by telephone or in person to inquire about filing an application for these benefits. It is possible that in responding to your inquiry, we may have given you misinformation about your eligibility for such benefits, or the eligibility of the person on whose behalf you were considering applying for benefits, which caused you not to file an application at that time. If this happened, and later an application for such benefits is filed with us, we may establish an earlier filing date under this section.

# Example 1:
Ms. Jones calls a Social Security office to inquire about filing an application for SSI benefits. During her conversation with an SSA employee, she tells the employee about her resources. The SSA employee tells Ms. Jones that because her countable resources are above the allowable limit, she would be ineligible for SSI benefits. The employee fails to consider certain resource exclusions under the SSI program which would have reduced Ms. Jones' countable resources below the allowable limit, making her eligible for benefits. Because Ms. Jones thought that she would be ineligible, she decides not to file an application for SSI benefits. Ms. Jones later reads about resource exclusions under the SSI program. She recontacts the Social Security office to file an SSI application, and alleges that she had been previously misinformed about her eligibility for SSI benefits. She files an application for SSI benefits, provides the information required under paragraph (f) of this section to show that an SSA employee provided misinformation, and requests a deemed filing date based upon her receipt of misinformation.

# Example 2:
Mr. Adams resides in a State which provides State supplementary payments that are administered by SSA under the SSI program. He telephones a Social Security office and tells an SSA employee that he does not have enough income to live on and wants to file for SSI benefits. Mr. Adams states that his only income is his monthly Social Security benefit check. The SSA employee checks Mr. Adams' Social Security record and advises him that he is ineligible for SSI benefits based on the amount of his monthly Social Security benefit. The employee does not consider whether Mr. Adams would be eligible for State supplementary payments. Because Mr. Adams was told that he would not be eligible for benefits under the SSI program, he does not file an application. The employee does not make a record of Mr. Adams' oral inquiry or take any other action. A year later, Mr. Adams speaks to a neighbor who receives the same Social Security benefit amount that Mr. Adams does, but also receives payments under the SSI program. Thinking the law may have changed, Mr. Adams recontacts a Social Security office and learns from an SSA employee that he would be eligible for State supplementary payments under the SSI program and that he could have received these payments earlier had he filed an application. Mr. Adams explains that he did not file an application earlier because he was told by an SSA employee that he was not eligible for SSI benefits. Mr. Adams files an application for the benefits, provides the information required under paragraph (f) of this section to show that an SSA employee provided misinformation, and requests a deemed filing date
based on the misinformation provided to him earlier.
(b)
Deemed filing date of an application based on misinformation.
Subject to the requirements and conditions in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section, we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for SSI benefits under the following provisions.
(1)(i) If we determine that you failed to apply for SSI benefits for yourself because we gave you misinformation about your eligibility for such benefits, we will deem an application for such benefits to have been filed with us on the later of—
(A) The date on which the misinformation was provided to you; or
(B) The date on which you met all of the requirements for eligibility for such benefits, other than the requirement of filing an application.
(ii) Before we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for benefits for you under paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, you or a person described in § 416.315 must file an application for such benefits. If you die before an application for the benefits is filed with us, we will consider establishing a deemed filing date of an application for such benefits only if a person who would be qualified under § 416.542(b) to receive any benefits due you, or someone on his or her behalf, files an application for the benefits.
(2)(i) If you had authority under § 416.315 to sign an application for benefits for another person, and we determine that you failed to apply for SSI benefits for that person because we gave you misinformation about that person's eligibility for such benefits, we will deem an application for such benefits to have been filed with us on the later of—
(A) The date on which the misinformation was provided to you; or
(B) The date on which the person met all of the requirements for eligibility for such benefits, other than the requirement of filing an application.
(ii) Before we may establish a deemed filing date of an application for benefits for the person under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, you, such person, or another person described in § 416.315 must file an application for such benefits. If the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section dies before an application for the benefits is filed with us, we will consider establishing a deemed filing date of an application for such benefits only if a person who would be qualified under § 416.542(b) to receive any benefits due the deceased person, or someone on his behalf, files an application for the benefits.
(c)
Requirements concerning the misinformation.
We apply the following requirements for purposes of paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The misinformation must have been provided to you by one of our employees while he or she was acting in his or her official capacity as our employee. For purposes of this section, an employee includes an officer of SSA.
(2) Misinformation is information which we consider to be incorrect, misleading, or incomplete in view of the facts which you gave to the employee, or of which the employee was aware or should have been aware, regarding your particular circumstances, or the particular circumstances of the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. In addition, for us to find that the information you received was incomplete, the employee must have failed to provide you with the appropriate, additional information which he or she would be required to provide in carrying out his or her official duties.
(3) The misinformation may have been provided to you orally or in writing.
(4) The misinformation must have been provided to you in response to a specific request by you to us for information about your eligibility for benefits or the eligibility for benefits of the person referred to in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section for which you were considering filing an application.
(d)
Evidence that misinformation was provided.
We will consider the following evidence in making a determination under paragraph (b) of this section.
(1)
Preferred evidence.
Preferred evidence is written evidence which relates directly to your inquiry about your eligibility for benefits or the eligibility of another person and which shows that we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application.
Preferred evidence includes, but is not limited to, the following—
(i) A notice, letter, or other document which was issued by us and addressed to you; or
(ii) Our record of your telephone call, letter, or in-person contact.
(2)
Other evidence.
In the absence of preferred evidence, we will consider other evidence, including your statements about the alleged misinformation, to determine whether we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. We will not find that we gave you misinformation, however, based solely on your statements. Other evidence which you provide or which we obtain must support your statements. Evidence which we will consider includes, but is not limited to, the following—
(i) Your statements about the alleged misinformation, including statements about—
(A) The date and time of the alleged contact(s);
(B) How the contact was made, e.g., by telephone or in person;
(C) The reason(s) the contact was made;
(D) Who gave the misinformation; and
(E) The questions you asked and the facts you gave us, and the questions we asked and the information we gave you at the time of the contact;
(ii) Statements from others who were present when you were given the alleged misinformation, e.g., a neighbor who accompanied you to our office;
(iii) If you can identify the employee or the employee can recall your inquiry about benefits—
(A) Statements from the employee concerning the alleged contact, including statements about the questions you asked, the facts you gave, the questions the employee asked, and the information provided to you at the time of the alleged contact; and
(B) Our assessment of the likelihood that the employee provided the alleged misinformation;
(iv) An evaluation of the credibility and the validity of your allegations in conjunction with other relevant information; and
(v) Any other information regarding your alleged contact.
(e)
Information which does not constitute satisfactory proof that misinformation was given.
Certain kinds of information will not be considered satisfactory proof that we gave you misinformation which caused you not to file an application. Examples of such information include—
(1) General informational pamphlets that we issue to provide basic program information;
(2) The SSI Benefit Estimate Letter that is based on an individual's reported and projected income and is an estimate which can be requested at any time;
(3) General information which we review or prepare but which is disseminated by the media, e.g., radio, television, magazines, and newspapers; and
(4) Information provided by other governmental agencies, e.g., the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, State unemployment agencies, and State and local governments.
(f)
Claim for benefits based on misinformation.
You may make a claim for benefits based on misinformation at any time. Your claim must contain information that will enable us to determine if we did provide misinformation to you about your eligibility for SSI benefits, or the eligibility of a person on whose behalf you were considering applying for benefits, which caused you not to file an application for the benefits. Specifically, your claim must be in writing and it must explain what information was provided; how, when, and where it was provided and by whom; and why the information caused you not to file an application. If you give us this information, we will make a determination on such a claim for benefits if all of the following conditions are also met.
(1) An application for the benefits described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(i) of this section is filed with us by someone described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section, as appropriate. The application must be filed after the alleged misinformation was provided. This application may be—
(i) An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision awarding the benefits, but
only if the claimant continues to be eligible for benefits (or again could be eligible for benefits) based on that application;
(ii) An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision denying the benefits, but only if such determination or decision is reopened under § 416.1488; or
(iii) A new application on which we have not made a final determination or decision.
(2) The establishment of a deemed filing date of an application for benefits based on misinformation could result in the claimant becoming eligible for benefits or for additional benefits.
(3) We have not made a previous final determination or decision to which you were a party on a claim for benefits based on alleged misinformation involving the same facts and issues. This provision does not apply, however, if the final determination or decision may be reopened under § 416.1488.
(g)
Effective date.
This section applies only to misinformation which we provided on or after December 19, 1989. In addition, this section is effective only for benefits payable for months after December 1989.
[59 FR 44926, Aug. 31, 1994]

# Withdrawal of Application
§ 416.355
Withdrawal of an application.
(a)
Request for withdrawal filed before we make a determination.
If you make a request to withdraw your application before we make a determination on your claim, we will approve the request if the following requirements are met:
(1) You or a person who may sign an application for you signs a written request to withdraw the application and files it at a place described in § 416.325.
(2) You are alive when the request is filed.
(b)
Request for withdrawal filed after a determination is made.
If you make a request to withdraw your application after we make a determination on your claim, we will approve the request if the following requirements are met:
(1) The conditions in paragraph (a) of this section are met.
(2) Every other person who may lose benefits because of the withdrawal consents in writing (anyone who could sign an application for that person may give the consent).
(3) All benefits already paid based on the application are repaid or we are satisfied that they will be repaid.
(c)
Effect of withdrawal.
If we approve your request to withdraw an application, we will treat the application as though you never filed it. If we disapprove your request for withdrawal, we will treat the application as though you never requested the withdrawal.
§ 416.360
Cancellation of a request to withdraw.
You may cancel your request to withdraw your application and your application will still be good if the following requirements are met:
(a) You or a person who may sign an application for you signs a written request for cancellation and files it at a place described in § 416.325.
(b) You are alive at the time the request for cancellation is filed.
(c) For a cancellation request received after we have approved the withdrawal, the cancellation request is filed no later than 60 days after the date of the notice of approval of the withdrawal request.

# Subpart D—Amount of Benefits

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 1611 (a), (b), (c), and (e), 1612, 1617, and 1631 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1382 (a), (b), (c), and (e), 1382a, 1382f, and 1383).
§ 416.401
Scope of subpart.
This subpart D sets forth basic guidelines for establishing the amount of monthly benefits payable to an eligible individual or couple (as defined in § 416.120(c)(5)). This subpart does not contain provisions with respect to establishing the amount of State supplementary payments payable in accordance with an agreement entered into between a State and the Administration under the provisions of subpart T of this part. Provisions with respect to determination and payment of State supplementary payments under such agreements will be administered by the Administration in accordance with the terms set forth in such agreements.
[39 FR 23053, June 26, 1974]
§ 416.405
Cost-of-living adjustments in benefits.
Whenever benefit amounts under title II of the Act (part 404 of this chapter) are increased by any percentage effective with any month as a result of a determination made under Section 215(i) of the Act, each of the dollar amounts in effect for such month under §§ 416.410, 416.412, and 416.413, as specified in such sections or as previously increased under this section or under any provision of the Act, will be increased. We will increase the unrounded yearly SSI benefit amount by the same percentage by which the title II benefits are being increased based on the Consumer Price Index, or, if greater, the percentage they would be increased if the rise in the Consumer Price Index were currently the basis for the title II increase. (See §§ 404.270-404.277 for an explanation of how the title II cost-of-living adjustment is computed.) If the increased annual SSI benefit amount is not a multiple of $12, it will be rounded to the next lower multiple of $12.
[51 FR 12606, Apr. 21, 1986; 51 FR 16016, Apr. 30, 1986]
§ 416.410
Amount of benefits; eligible individual.
The benefit under this part for an eligible individual (including the eligible individual receiving benefits payable under the § 416.212 provisions) who does not have an eligible spouse, who is not subject to either benefit suspension under § 416.1325 or benefit reduction under § 416.414, and who is not a qualified individual (as defined in § 416.221) shall be payable at the rate of $5,640 per year ($470 per month) effective for the period beginning January 1, 1996. This rate is the result of a 2.6 percent cost-of-living adjustment (see § 416.405) to the December 1995 rate. For the period January 1, through December 31, 1995, the rate payable, as increased by the 2.8 percent cost-of-living adjustment, was $5,496 per year ($458 per month). For the period January 1, through December 31, 1994, the rate payable, as increased by the 2.6 percent cost-of-living adjustment, was $5,352 per year ($446 per month). The monthly rate is reduced by the amount of the individual's income which is not excluded pursuant to subpart K of this part.
[61 FR 10278, Mar. 13, 1996]
§ 416.412
Amount of benefits; eligible couple.
The benefit under this part for an eligible couple (including couples where one or both members of the couple are receiving benefits payable under the § 416.212 provisions), neither of whom is subject to suspension of benefits based on § 416.1325 or reduction of benefits based on § 416.414 nor is a qualified individual (as defined in § 416.221) shall be payable at the rate of $8,460 per year ($705 per month), effective for the period beginning January 1, 1996. This rate is the result of a 2.6 percent cost-of-living adjustment (see § 416.405) to the December 1995 rate. For the period January 1, through December 31, 1995, the rate payable, as increased by the 2.8 percent cost-of-living adjustment, was $8,224 per year ($687 per month). For the period January 1, through December 31, 1994, the rate payable, as increased by the 2.6 percent cost-of-living adjustment, was $8,028 per year ($669 per month). The monthly rate is reduced by the amount of the couple's income which is not excluded pursuant to subpart K of this part.
[61 FR 10278, Mar. 13, 1996]
§ 416.413
Amount of benefits; qualified individual.
The benefit under this part for a qualified individual (defined in § 416.221) is payable at the rate for an eligible individual or eligible couple plus an increment for each essential person (defined in § 416.222) in the household, reduced by the amount of countable income of the eligible individual or eligible couple as explained in § 416.420. A qualified individual will receive an increment of $2,820 per year ($235 per month), effective for the period beginning January 1, 1996. This rate is the result of the 2.6 percent cost-of-living adjustment (see § 416.405) to the December 1995 rate, and is for each essential person (as defined in § 416.222) living in the household of a qualified individual. (See § 416.532.) For the period January 1, through December 31, 1995, the rate payable, as increased by the 2.8 percent
cost-of-living adjustment, was $2,748 per year ($229 per month). For the period January 1, through December 31, 1994, the rate payable, as increased by the 2.6 percent cost-of-living adjustment, was $2,676 per year ($223 per month). The total benefit rate, including the increment, is reduced by the amount of the individual's or couple's income that is not excluded pursuant to subpart K of this part.
[61 FR 10278, Mar. 13, 1996]
§ 416.414
Amount of benefits; eligible individual or eligible couple in a medical treatment facility.
(a)
General rule.
Except where the § 416.212 provisions provide for payment of benefits at the rates specified under §§ 416.410 and 416.412, reduced SSI benefits are payable to persons and couples who are in medical treatment facilities where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of their care is paid by a State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act (Medicaid). This reduced SSI benefit rate applies to persons who are in medical treatment facilities where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost would have been paid by an approved Medicaid State plan but for the application of section 1917(c) of the Social Security Act due to a transfer of assets for less than fair market value. This reduced SSI benefit rate also applies to children under age 18 who are in medical treatment facilities where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of their care is paid by a health insurance policy issued by a private provider of such insurance, or where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of their care is paid for by a combination of Medicaid payments and payments made under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider of such insurance. Persons and couples to whom these reduced benefits apply are—
(1) Those who are otherwise eligible and who are in the medical treatment facility throughout a month. (By
throughout a month
we mean that you are in the medical treatment facility as of the beginning of the month and stay the entire month. If you are in a medical treatment facility you will be considered to have continuously been staying there if you are transferred from one medical treatment facility to another or if you are temporarily absent for a period of not more than 14 consecutive days.); and
(2) Those who reside for part of a month in a public institution and for the rest of the month are in a public or private medical treatment facility where Medicaid pays or would have paid (but for the application of section 1917(c) of the Act) a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of their care; and
(3) Children under age 18 who reside for part of a month in a public institution and for the rest of the month are in a public or private medical treatment facility where a substantial part (more than 50 percent) of the cost of their care is being paid under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider or by a combination of Medicaid and payments under a health insurance policy issued by a private provider.
(b)
The benefit rates are
—(1)
Eligible individual.
For months after June 1988, the benefit rate for an eligible individual with no eligible spouse is $30 per month. The benefit payment is figured by subtracting the eligible individual's countable income (see subpart K) from the benefit rate as explained in § 416.420.
(2)
Eligible couple both of whom are temporarily absent from home in medical treatment facilities as described in § 416.1149(c)(1).
For months after June 1988, the benefit rate for a couple is $60 a month. The benefit payment is figured by subtracting the couple's countable income (see subpart K) from the benefit rate as explained in § 416.420.
(3)
Eligible couple with one spouse who is temporarily absent from home as described in § 416.1149(c)(1).
The couple's benefit rate equals:
(i) For months after June 1988, $30 per month for the spouse in the medical treatment facility; plus
(ii) The benefit rate for an eligible individual (see § 416.410) for the spouse who is not in the medical treatment facility. The benefit payment for each spouse is figured by subtracting each individual's own countable income in the appropriate month (see § 416.420) from his or her portion of the benefit
rate shown in paragraphs (b)(3) (i) and (ii).
(c)
Definition.
For purposes of this section, a
medical treatment facility
means an institution or that part of an institution that is licensed or otherwise approved by a Federal, State, or local government to provide inpatient medical care and services.
[47 FR 3106, Jan. 22, 1982, as amended at 50 FR 48571, Nov. 26, 1985; 50 FR 51514, Dec. 18, 1985; 54 FR 19164, May 4, 1989; 58 FR 64894, Dec. 10, 1993; 60 FR 16374, Mar. 30, 1995; 61 FR 10278, Mar. 13, 1996; 62 FR 1056, Jan. 8, 1997; 72 FR 50874, Sept. 5, 2007; 72 FR 54350, Sept. 25, 2007]
§ 416.415
Amount of benefits; eligible individual is disabled child under age 18.
(a) If you are a disabled child under age 18 and meet the conditions in § 416.1165(i) for waiver of deeming, your parents' income will not be deemed to you and your benefit rate will be $30 a month.
(b) If you are a disabled child under age 18 and do not meet the conditions in § 416.1165(i) only because your parents' income is not high enough to make you ineligible for SSI but deeming of your parents' income would result in an SSI benefit less than the amount payable if you received benefits as a child under § 416.1165(i), your benefit will be the amount payable if you received benefits as a child under § 416.1165(i).
[60 FR 361, Jan. 4, 1995]
§ 416.420
Determination of benefits; general.
Benefits shall be determined for each month. The amount of the monthly payment will be computed by reducing the benefit rate (see §§ 416.410, 416.412, 416.413, and 416.414) by the amount of countable income as figured under the rules in subpart K of this part. The appropriate month's countable income to be used to determine how much your benefit payment will be for the current month (the month for which a benefit is payable) will be determined as follows:
(a)
General rule.
We generally use the amount of your countable income in the second month prior to the current month to determine how much your benefit amount will be for the current month. We will use the benefit rate (see §§ 416.410 through 416.414), as increased by a cost-of-living adjustment, in determining the value of the one-third reduction or the presumed maximum value, to compute your SSI benefit amount for the first 2 months in which the cost-of-living adjustment is in effect. If you have been receiving an SSI benefit and a Social Security insurance benefit and the latter is increased on the basis of the cost-of-living adjustment or because your benefit is recomputed, we will compute the amount of your SSI benefit for January, the month of an SSI benefit increase, by including in your income the amount by which your Social Security benefit in January exceeds the amount of your Social Security benefit in November. Similarly, we will compute the amount of your SSI benefit for February by including in your income the amount by which your Social Security benefit in February exceeds the amount of your Social Security benefit in December.

# Example 1.
Mrs. X's benefit amount is being determined for September (the current month). Mrs. X's countable income in July is used to determine the benefit amount for September.

# Example 2.
Mr. Z's SSI benefit amount is being determined for January (the current month). There has been a cost-of-living increase in SSI benefits effective January. Mr. Z's countable income in November is used to determine the benefit amount for January. In November, Mr. Z had in-kind support and maintenance valued at the presumed maximum value as described in § 416.1140(a). We will use the January benefit rate, as increased by the COLA, to determine the value of the in-kind support and maintenance Mr. Z received in November when we determine Mr. Z's SSI benefit amount for January.

# Example 3.
Mr. Y's SSI benefit amount is being determined for January (the current month). Mr. Y has Social Security income of $100 in November, $100 in December, and $105 in January. We find the amount by which his Social Security income in January exceeds his Social Security income in November ($5) and add that to his income in November to determine the SSI benefit amount for January.
(b)
Exceptions to the general rule
—(1)
First month of initial eligibility for payment or the first month of eligibility after a month of ineligibility.
We use your
countable income in the current month to determine your benefit amount for the first month you are initially eligible for payment of SSI benefits (see § 416.501) or for the first month you again become eligible for SSI benefits after at least a month of ineligibility. Your payment for a first month of reeligibility after at least one-month of ineligibility will be prorated according to the number of days in the month that you are eligible beginning with the date on which you reattain eligibility.

# Example:
Mrs. Y applies for SSI benefits in September and meets the requirements for eligibility in that month. (We use Mrs. Y's countable income in September to determine if she is eligible for SSI in September.) The first month for which she can receive payment is October (see § 416.501). We use Mrs. Y's countable income in October to determine the amount of her benefit for October. If Mrs. Y had been receiving SSI benefits through July, became ineligible for SSI benefits in August, and again became eligible for such benefits in September, we would use Mrs. Y's countable income in September to determine the amount of her benefit for September. In addition, the proration rules discussed above would also apply to determine the amount of benefits in September in this second situation.
(2)
Second month of initial eligibility for payment or second month of eligibility after a month of ineligibility.
We use your countable income in the first month prior to the current month to determine how much your benefit amount will be for the current month when the current month is the second month of initial eligibility for payment or the second month of reeligibility following at least a month of ineligibility. However, if you have been receiving both an SSI benefit and a Social Security insurance benefit and the latter is increased on the basis of the cost-of-living adjustment or because your benefit is recomputed, we will compute the amount of your SSI benefit for January, the month of an SSI benefit increase, by including in your income the amount by which your Social Security benefit in January exceeds the amount of your Social Security benefit in December.

# Example:
Mrs. Y was initially eligible for payment of SSI benefits in October. Her benefit amount for November will be based on her countable income in October (first prior month).
(3)
Third month of initial eligibility for payment or third month of eligibility after a month of ineligibility.
We use your countable income according to the rule set out in paragraph (a) of this section to determine how much your benefit amount will be for the third month of initial eligibility for payment or the third month of reeligibility after at least a month of ineligibility.

# Example:
Mrs. Y was initially eligible for payment of SSI benefits in October. Her benefit amount for December will be based on her countable income in October (second prior month).
(4)
Income derived from certain assistance payments.
We use your income in the current month from the programs listed below to determine your benefit amount for that same month. The assistance programs are as follows:
(i) Aid to Families with Dependent Children under title IV-A of the Social Security Act (the Act);
(ii) Foster Care under title IV-E of the Act;
(iii) Refugee Cash Assistance pursuant to section 412(e) of the Immigration and Nationality Act;
(iv) Cuban and Haitian Entrant Assistance pursuant to section 501(a) of Pub. L. 96-422; and
(v) Bureau of Indian Affairs general assistance and child welfare assistance pursuant to 42 Stat. 208 as amended.
(c)
Reliable information which is currently available for determining benefits.
The Commissioner has determined that no reliable information exists which is currently available to use in determining benefit amounts.
(1)
Reliable information.
For purposes of this section
reliable information
means payment information that is maintained on a computer system of records by the government agency determining the payments (e.g., Department of Veterans Affairs, Office of Personnel Management for Federal civil service information and the Railroad Retirement Board).
(2)
Currently available information.
For purposes of this section
currently available information
means information that is available at such time that it
permits us to compute and issue a correct benefit for the month the information is pertinent.
(d)
Payment of benefits.
See subpart E of this part for the rules on payments and the minimum monthly benefit (as explained in § 416.503).
[50 FR 48571, Nov. 26, 1985; 50 FR 51514, Dec. 18, 1985, as amended at 54 FR 31657, Aug. 1, 1989; 62 FR 30751, June 5, 1997; 63 FR 33546, June 19, 1998; 64 FR 31973, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.421
Determination of benefits; computation of prorated benefits.
(a) In the month that you reacquire eligibility after a month or more of ineligibility (see § 416.1320(b)), your benefit will be prorated according to the number of days in the month that you are eligible beginning with the date on which you meet all eligibility requirements.
(b) In determining the amount of your benefit for a month in which benefits are to be prorated, we first compute the amount of the benefit that you would receive for the month as if proration did not apply. We then determine the date on which you meet all factors of eligibility. (The income limits must be met based on the entire month and the resource limit must be as of the first day of the month.) We then count the number of days in the month beginning with the day on which you first meet all factors of eligibility through the end of the month. We then multiply the amount of your unprorated benefit for the month by the number of days for which you are eligible for benefits and divide that figure by the number of days in the month for which your benefit is being determined. The result is the amount of the benefit that you are due for the month in which benefits are to be prorated.
[51 FR 13493, Apr. 14, 1986, as amended at 64 FR 31973, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.426
Change in status involving an individual; ineligibility occurs.
Whenever benefits are suspended or terminated for an individual because of ineligibility, no benefit is payable for that month.
[50 FR 48571, Nov. 26, 1985]
§ 416.428
Eligible individual without an eligible spouse has an essential person in his home.
When an eligible individual without an eligible spouse has an essential person (as defined in § 416.222 of this part) in his home, the amount by which his rate of payment is increased is determined in accordance with §§ 416.220 through 416.223 and with 416.413 of this part. The essential person's income is deemed to be that of the eligible individual, and the provisions of §§ 416.401 through 416.426 will apply in determining the benefit of such eligible individual.
[39 FR 23053, June 26, 1974, as amended at 51 FR 10616, Mar. 28, 1986; 65 FR 16814, Mar. 30, 2000]
§ 416.430
Eligible individual with eligible spouse; essential person(s) present.
(a) When an eligible individual with an eligible spouse has an essential person (§ 416.222) living in his or her home, or when both such persons each has an essential person, the increase in the rate of payment is determined in accordance with §§ 416.413 and 416.532. The income of the essential person(s) is included in the income of the couple and the payment due will be equally divided between each member of the eligible couple.
(b) When one member of an eligible couple is temporarily absent in accordance with § 416.1149(c)(1) and § 416.222(c) and either one or both individuals has an essential person, add the essential person increment to the benefit rate for the member of the couple who is actually residing with the essential person and include the income of the essential person in that member's income. See § 416.414(b)(3).
[60 FR 16375, Mar. 30, 1995]
§ 416.432
Change in status involving a couple; eligibility continues.
When there is a change in status which involves the formation or dissolution of an eligible couple (for example, marriage, divorce), a redetermination of the benefit amount shall be made for the months subsequent to
the month of such formation or dissolution of the couple in accordance with the following rules:
(a) When there is a dissolution of an eligible couple and each member of the couple becomes an eligible individual, the benefit amount for each person shall be determined individually for each month beginning with the first month after the month in which the dissolution occurs. This shall be done by determining the applicable benefit rate for an eligible individual with no eligible spouse according to §§ 416.410 or 416.413 and 416.414 and applying § 416.420(a). See § 416.1147a for the applicable income rules when in-kind support and maintenance is involved.
(b) When two eligible individuals become an eligible couple, the benefit amount will be determined for the couple beginning with the first month following the month of the change. This shall be done by determining which benefit rate to use for an eligible couple according to §§ 416.412 or 416.413 and 416.414 and applying the requirements in § 416.420(a).
[60 FR 16375, Mar. 30, 1995]
§ 416.435
Change in status involving a couple; ineligibility occurs.
Whenever benefits are suspended or terminated for both members of a couple because of ineligibility, no benefits are payable for that month. However, when benefits are suspended or terminated for one member of a couple because of ineligibility for a month, the member who remains eligible assumes the eligibility status of an eligible individual without an eligible spouse for such month and the benefit rate and payment amount will be determined as an eligible individual for the month.
[50 FR 48572, Nov. 26, 1985]

# Subpart E—Payment of Benefits, Overpayments, and Underpayments

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 1147, 1601, 1602, 1611(c) and (e), and 1631(a)-(d) and (g) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1320b-17, 1381, 1381a, 1382(c) and (e), and 1383(a)-(d) and (g)); 31 U.S.C. 3716; 31 U.S.C. 3720A.
§ 416.501
Payment of benefits: General.
Payment of SSI benefits will be made for the month after the month of initial eligibility and for each subsequent month provided all requirements for eligibility (see § 416.202) and payment (see § 416.420) are met. In the month the individual re-establishes eligibility after at least a month of ineligibility, benefits are paid for such a month beginning with the date in the month on which the individual meets all eligibility requirements. In some months, while the factors of eligibility based on the current month may be established, it is possible to receive no payment for that month if the factors of eligibility for payment are not met. Payment of benefits may not be made for any period that precedes the first month following the date on which an application is filed or, if later, the first month following the date all conditions for eligibility are met.
[64 FR 31973, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.502
Manner of payment.
For the month an individual reestablishes eligibility after a month of ineligibility, an SSI payment will be made on or after the day of the month on which the individual becomes reeligible to receive benefits. In all other months, a payment will be made on the first day of each month and represents payment for that month. If the first day of the month falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, payments will be made on the first day preceding such day which is not a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday. Unless otherwise indicated, the monthly amount for an eligible couple will be divided equally and paid separately to each individual. Section 416.520 explains emergency advance payments.
[55 FR 4422, Feb. 8, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 31974, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.503
Minimum monthly benefit amount.
If you receive an SSI benefit that does not include a State supplement the minimum monthly SSI benefit amount payable is $1. When an SSI
benefit amount of less than $1 is payable, the benefit amount will be increased to $1. If you receive an SSI benefit that does include a State supplement and the SSI benefit amount is less than $1 but when added to the State supplement exceeds $1, the SSI benefit amount will not be increased to $1. Rather, we pay the actual amount of the SSI benefit plus the State supplement.
[50 FR 48572, Nov. 26, 1985]
§ 416.520
Emergency advance payments.
(a)
General.
We may pay a one-time emergency advance payment to an individual initially applying for benefits who is presumptively eligible for SSI benefits and who has a financial emergency. The amount of this payment cannot exceed the Federal benefit rate (see §§ 416.410 through 416.414) plus the federally administered State supplementary payment, if any (see § 416.2020), which apply for the month for which the payment is made.
Emergency advance payment
is defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The actual payment amount is computed as explained in paragraph (c) of this section. An emergency advance payment is an advance of benefits expected to be due that is recoverable as explained in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(b)
Definition of terms.
For purposes of this subpart—
(1)
Emergency advance payment
means a direct, expedited payment by a Social Security Administration field office to an individual or spouse who is initially applying (see paragraph (b)(3) of this section), who is at least presumptively eligible (see paragraph (b)(4) of this section), and who has a financial emergency (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
(2)
Financial emergency
is the financial status of an individual who has insufficient income or resources to meet an immediate threat to health or safety, such as the lack of food, clothing, shelter, or medical care.
(3)
Initially applying
means the filing of an application (see § 416.310) which requires an initial determination of eligibility, such as the first application for SSI benefits or an application filed subsequent to a prior denial or termination of a prior period of eligibility for payment. An individual or spouse who previously received an emergency advance payment in a prior period of eligibility which terminated may again receive such a payment if he or she reapplies for SSI and meets the other conditions for an emergency advance payment under this section.
(4)
Presumptively eligible
is the status of an individual or spouse who presents strong evidence of the likelihood of meeting all of the requirements for eligibility including the income and resources tests of eligibility (see subparts K and L of this part), categorical eligibility (age, disability, or blindness), and technical eligibility (United States residency and citizenship or alien status—see subpart P of this part).
(c)
Computation of payment amount.
To compute the emergency advance payment amount, the maximum amount described in paragraph (a) of this section is compared to both the expected amount payable for the month for which the payment is made (see paragraph (c)(1) of this section) and the amount the applicant requested to meet the emergency. The actual payment amount is no more than the least of these three amounts.
(1) In computing the emergency advance payment amount, we apply the monthly income counting rules appropriate for the month for which the advance is paid, as explained in § 416.420. Generally, the month for which the advance is paid is the month in which it is paid. However, if the advance is paid in the month the application is filed, the month for which the advance is paid is considered to be the first month of expected eligibility for payment of benefits.
(2) For a couple, we separately compute each member's emergency advance payment amount.
(d)
Recovery of emergency advance payment where eligibility is established.
When an individual or spouse is determined to be eligible and retroactive payments are due, any emergency advance payment amounts are recovered in full from the first payment(s) certified to the United States Treasury. However, if no retroactive payments are due and benefits are only due in future months, any emergency advance
payment amounts are recovered through proportionate reductions in those benefits over a period of not more than 6 months. (See paragraph (e) of this section if the individual or spouse is determined to be ineligible.)
(e)
Disposition of emergency advance payments where eligibility is not established.
If a presumptively eligible individual (or spouse) or couple is determined to be ineligible, the emergency advance payment constitutes a recoverable overpayment. (See the exception in § 416.537(b)(1) when payment is made on the basis of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness.)
[55 FR 4422, Feb. 8, 1990; 55 FR 7411, Mar. 1, 1990, as amended at 64 FR 31974, June 15, 1999]
§ 416.525
Reimbursement to States for interim assistance payments.
Notwithstanding § 416.542, the Social Security Administration may, in accordance with the provisions of subpart S of this part, withhold supplemental security income benefits due with respect to an individual and may pay to a State (or political subdivision thereof, if agreed to by the Social Security Administration and the State) from the benefits withheld, an amount sufficient to reimburse the State (or political subdivision) for interim assistance furnished on behalf of the individual.
[41 FR 20872, May 21, 1976]
§ 416.532
Method of payment when the essential person resides with more than one eligible person.
(a) When an essential person lives with an eligible individual and an eligible spouse, the State may report that the person is essential to one or both members of the couple. In either event, the income and resources of the essential person will be considered to be available to the family unit. The payment increment attributable to the essential person will be added to the rate of payment for the couple, the countable income subtracted, and the resulting total benefit divided equally between the eligible individual and the eligible spouse.
(b) Where the essential person lives with two eligible individuals (as opposed to an eligible individual and eligible spouse), one of whom has been designated the qualified individual, the income and resources of the essential person will be considered to be available only to the qualified individual (as defined in § 416.221) and any increase in payment will be made to such qualified individual.
(c) In those instances where the State has designated the essential person as essential to two or more eligible individuals so that both are qualified individuals, the payment increment attributable to the essential person must be shared equally, and the income and resources of the essential person divided and counted equally against each qualified individual.
(d) When an essential person lives with an eligible individual and an eligible spouse (or two or more eligible individuals) only one of whom is the qualified individual, essential person status is not automatically retained upon the death of the qualified individual or upon the separation from the qualified individual. A review of the State records established on or before December 31, 1973, will provide the basis for a determination as to whether the remaining eligible individual or eligible spouse meets the definition of qualified individual. Payment in consideration of the essential person will be dependent on whether the essential person continues to live with a qualified individual. If the essential person does reside with a qualified individual, status as an essential person is retained.
[39 FR 33796, Sept. 20, 1974, as amended at 50 FR 48572, Nov. 26, 1985; 51 FR 10616, Mar. 28, 1986; 60 FR 16375, Mar. 30, 1995]
§ 416.533
Transfer or assignment of benefits.
Except as provided in § 416.525 and subpart S of this part, the Social Security Administration will not certify payment of supplemental security income benefits to a transferee or assignee of a person eligible for such benefits under the Act or of a person qualified for payment under § 416.542. The Social Security Administration shall not certify payment of supplemental security income benefits to any person claiming such payment by virtue of an execution, levy, attachment, garnishment, or other legal process or by virtue of any bankruptcy or insolvency
proceeding against or affecting the person eligible for benefits under the Act.
[41 FR 20873, May 21, 1976, as amended at 58 FR 52912, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 416.534
Garnishment of payments after disbursement.
(a) Payments that are covered by section 1631(d)(1) of the Social Security Act and made by direct deposit are subject to 31 CFR part 212, Garnishment of Accounts Containing Federal Benefit Payments.
(b) This section may be amended only by a rulemaking issued jointly by the Department of Treasury and the agencies defined as a “benefit agency” in 31 CFR 212.3.
[76 FR 9961, Feb. 23, 2011]
§ 416.535
Underpayments and overpayments.
(a)
General.
When an individual receives SSI benefits of less than the correct amount, adjustment is effected as described in §§ 416.542 and 416.543, and the additional rules in § 416.545 may apply. When an individual receives more than the correct amount of SSI benefits, adjustment is effected as described in § 416.570. Refund of overpayments is discussed in § 416.560 and waiver of recovery of overpayments is discussed in §§ 416.550 through 416.555.
(b)
Additional rules for individuals whose drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
When an individual whose drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability, as described in § 416.935, receives less than the correct amount of SSI benefits, adjustment is effected as described in §§ 416.542 and 416.543 and the additional rule described in § 416.544 applies.
(c)
Additional rules for eligible individuals under age 18 who have a representative payee.
When an eligible individual under age 18 has a representative payee and receives less than the correct amount of SSI benefits, the additional rules in § 416.546 may apply.
(d)
Additional rules for eligible aliens and for their sponsors.
When an individual who is an alien is overpaid SSI benefits during the 3-year period in which deeming from a sponsor applies (see § 416.1160(a)(3)), the sponsor and the alien may be jointly and individually liable for repayment of the overpayment. The sponsor is liable for the overpayment if he or she failed to report correct information that affected the alien's eligibility or payment amount. This means information about the income and resources of the sponsor and, if they live together, of the sponsor's spouse. However, the sponsor is not liable for repayment if the sponsor was without fault or had good cause for failing to report correctly. A special rule that applies to adjustment of other benefits due the alien and the sponsor to recover an overpayment is described in § 416.570(b).
(e)
Sponsor without fault or good cause exists for failure to report.
Without fault or good cause will be found to exist if the failure to report was not willful. To establish willful failure, the evidence must show that the sponsor knowingly failed to supply pertinent information regarding his or her income and resources.
[52 FR 8881, Mar. 20, 1987, as amended at 60 FR 8149, Feb. 10, 1995; 61 FR 67205, Dec. 20, 1996]
§ 416.536
Underpayments—defined.
An underpayment can occur only with respect to a period for which a recipient filed an application, if required, for benefits and met all conditions of eligibility for benefits. An underpayment, including any amounts of State supplementary payments which are due and administered by the Social Security Administration, is:
(a) Nonpayment, where payment was due but was not made; or
(b) Payment of less than the amount due. For purposes of this section, payment has been made when certified by the Social Security Administration to the Department of the Treasury, except that payment has not been made where payment has not been received by the designated payee, or where payment was returned.
[58 FR 52912, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 416.537
Overpayments—defined.
(a)
Overpayments.
As used in this subpart, the term
overpayment
means payment of more than the amount due for
any period, including any amounts of State supplementary payments which are due and administered by the Social Security Administration. For purposes of this section, payment has been made when certified by the Social Security Administration to the Department of the Treasury, except that payment has not been made where payment has not been received by the designated payee, or where payment was returned. When a payment of more than the amount due is made by direct deposit to a financial institution to or on behalf of an individual who has died, and the financial institution credits the payment to a joint account of the deceased individual and another person who is the surviving spouse of the deceased individual and was eligible for a payment under title XVI of the Act (including any State supplementation payment paid by the Commissioner) as an eligible spouse (or as either member of an eligible couple) for the month in which the deceased individual died, the amount of the payment in excess of the correct amount will be an overpayment to the surviving spouse.
(b)
Actions which are not overpayments
—(1)
Presumptive disability and presumptive blindness.
Any payment made for any month, including an advance payment of benefits under § 416.520, is not an overpayment to the extent it meets the criteria for payment under § 416.931. Payments made on the basis of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness will not be considered overpayments where ineligibility is determined because the individual or eligible spouse is not disabled or blind. However, where it is determined that all or a portion of the presumptive payments made are incorrect for reasons other than disability or blindness, these incorrect payments are considered overpayments (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section). Overpayments may occur, for example, when the person who received payments on the basis of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness is determined to be ineligible for all or any part of the payments because of excess resources or is determined to have received excess payment for those months based on an incorrect estimate of income.
(2)
Penalty.
The imposition of a penalty pursuant to § 416.724 is not an adjustment of an overpayment and is imposed only against any amount due the penalized recipient, or, after death, any amount due the deceased which otherwise would be paid to a survivor as defined in § 416.542.
(c)
Pandemic period.
As used throughout this subpart, the term
pandemic period
for the purposes of the waiver authority in § 416.550 refers exclusively to the period of time beginning on March 1, 2020, and ending on September 30, 2020.
[40 FR 47763, Oct. 10, 1975, as amended at 43 FR 17354, Apr. 24, 1978; 50 FR 48572, Nov. 26, 1985; 55 FR 7313, Mar. 1, 1990; 58 FR 52912, Oct. 13, 1993; 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997; 85 FR 52915, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 416.538
Amount of underpayment or overpayment.
(a)
General.
The amount of an underpayment or overpayment is the difference between the amount paid to a recipient and the amount of payment actually due such recipient for a given period. An underpayment or overpayment period begins with the first month for which there is a difference between the amount paid and the amount actually due for that month. The period ends with the month the initial determination of overpayment or underpayment is made. With respect to the period established, there can be no underpayment to a recipient or his or her eligible spouse if more than the correct amount payable under title XVI of the Act has been paid, whether or not adjustment or recovery of any overpayment for that period to the recipient or his or her eligible spouse has been waived under the provisions of §§ 416.550 through 416.556. A subsequent initial determination of overpayment will require no change with respect to a prior determination of overpayment or to the period relating to such determination to the extent that the basis of the prior overpayment remains the same.
(b)
Limited delay in payment of underpaid amount to recipient or eligible surviving spouse.
Where an apparent overpayment has been detected but determination of the overpayment has not
been made (see § 416.558(a)), a determination of an underpayment and payment of an underpaid amount which is otherwise due cannot be delayed to a recipient or eligible surviving spouse unless a determination with respect to the apparent overpayment can be made before the close of the month following the month in which the underpaid amount was discovered.
(c)
Delay in payment of underpaid amount to ineligible individual or survivor.
A determination of an underpayment and payment of an underpaid amount which is otherwise due an individual who is no longer eligible for SSI or is payable to a survivor pursuant to § 416.542(b) will be delayed for the resolution of all overpayments, incorrect payments, adjustments, and penalties.
(d)
Limited delay in payment of underpaid amount to eligible individual under age 18 who has a representative payee.
When the representative payee of an eligible individual under age 18 is required to establish a dedicated account pursuant to §§ 416.546 and 416.640(e), payment of past-due benefits which are otherwise due will be delayed until the representative payee has established the dedicated account as described in § 416.640(e). Once the account is established, SSA will deposit the past-due benefits payable directly to the account.
(e)
Reduction of underpaid amount.
Any underpayment amount otherwise payable to a survivor on account of a deceased recipient is reduced by the amount of any outstanding penalty imposed against the benefits payable to such deceased recipient or survivor under section 1631(e) of the Act (see § 416.537(b)(2)).
[58 FR 52912, Oct. 13, 1993, as amended at 61 FR 67205, Dec. 20, 1996]
§ 416.542
Underpayments—to whom underpaid amount is payable.
(a)
Underpaid recipient alive—underpayment payable.
(1) If an underpaid recipient is alive, the amount of any underpayment due him or her will be paid to him or her in a separate payment or by increasing the amount of his or her monthly payment. If the underpaid amount meets the formula in § 416.545 and one of the exceptions does not apply, the amount of any past-due benefits will be paid in installments.
(2) If an underpaid recipient whose drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 416.935) is alive, the amount of any underpayment due the recipient will be paid through his or her representative payee in installment payments. No underpayment may be paid directly to the recipient. If the recipient dies before we have paid all benefits due through his or her representative payee, we will follow the rules which apply to underpayments for the payment of any remaining amounts due to any eligible survivor of a deceased recipient as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(3) If an underpaid individual under age 18 is alive and has a representative payee and is due past-due benefits which meet the formula in § 416.546, SSA will pay the past-due benefits into the dedicated account described in § 416.640(e). If the underpaid individual dies before the benefits have been deposited into the account, we will follow the rules which apply to underpayments for the payment of any unpaid amount due to any eligible survivor of a deceased individual as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Underpaid recipient deceased—underpaid amount payable to survivor.
(1) If a recipient dies before we have paid all benefits due or before the recipient endorses the check for the correct payment, we may pay the amount due to the deceased recipient's surviving eligible spouse or to his or her surviving spouse who was living with the underpaid recipient within the meaning of section 202(i) of the Act (see § 404.347) in the month he or she died or within 6 months immediately preceding the month of death.
(2) If the deceased underpaid recipient was a disabled or blind child when the underpayment occurred, the underpaid amount may be paid to the natural or adoptive parent(s) of the underpaid recipient who lived with the underpaid recipient in the month he or she died or within the 6 months preceding death. We consider the underpaid recipient to have been living with the natural or adoptive parent(s) in the
period if the underpaid recipient satisfies the “living with” criteria we use when applying § 416.1165 or would have satisfied the criteria had his or her death not precluded the application of such criteria throughout a month.
(3) If the deceased individual was living with his or her spouse within the meaning of section 202(i) of the Act in the month of death or within 6 months immediately preceding the month of death, and was also living with his or her natural or adoptive parent(s) in the month of death or within 6 months preceding the month of death, we will pay the parent(s) any SSI underpayment due the deceased individual for months he or she was a blind or disabled child and we will pay the spouse any SSI underpayment due the deceased individual for months he or she no longer met the definition of “child” as set forth at § 416.1856. If no parent(s) can be paid in such cases due to death or other reason, then we will pay the SSI underpayment due the deceased individual for months he or she was a blind or disabled child to the spouse.
(4) No benefits may be paid to the estate of any underpaid recipient, the estate of the surviving spouse, the estate of a parent, or to any survivor other than those listed in paragraph (b) (1) through (3) of this section. Payment of an underpaid amount to an ineligible spouse or surviving parent(s) may only be made for benefits payable for months after May 1986. Payment to surviving parent(s) may be made only for months of eligibility during which the deceased underpaid recipient was a child. We will not pay benefits to a survivor other than the eligible spouse who requests payment of an underpaid amount more than 24 months after the month of the individual's death.
(c)
Underpaid recipient's death caused by an intentional act.
No benefits due the deceased individual may be paid to a survivor found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of intentionally causing the underpaid recipient's death.
[40 FR 47763, Oct. 10, 1975, as amended at 58 FR 52913, Oct. 13, 1993; 60 FR 8149, Feb. 10, 1995; 61 FR 67206, Dec. 20, 1996]
§ 416.543
Underpayments—applied to reduce overpayments.
We apply any underpayment due an individual to reduce any overpayment to that individual that we determine to exist (see § 416.558) for a different period, unless we have waived recovery of the overpayment under the provisions of §§ 416.550 through 416.556. Similarly, when an underpaid recipient dies, we first apply any amounts due the deceased recipient that would be payable to a survivor under § 416.542(b) against any overpayment to the survivor unless we have waived recovery of such overpayment under the provisions of §§ 416.550 through 416.556.

# Example:
A disabled child, eligible for payments under title XVI, and his parent, also an eligible individual receiving payments under title XVI, were living together. The disabled child dies at a time when he was underpaid $100. The deceased child's underpaid benefit is payable to the surviving parent. However, since the parent must repay an SSI overpayment of $225 on his own record, the $100 underpayment will be applied to reduce the parent's own overpayment to $125.
[58 FR 52913, Oct. 13, 1993]
§ 416.544
Paying benefits in installments: Drug addiction or alcoholism.
(a)
General.
For disabled recipients who receive benefit payments through a representative payee because drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability, certain amounts due the recipient for a past period will be paid in installments. The amounts subject to payment in installments include:
(1) Benefits due but unpaid which accrued prior to the month payment was effectuated;
(2) Benefits due but unpaid which accrued during a period of suspension for which the recipient was subsequently determined to have been eligible; and
(3) Any adjustment to benefits which results in an accrual of unpaid benefits.
(b)
Installment formula.
Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the amount of the installment payment in any month is limited so that the sum of (1) the amount due for a past period (and payable under paragraph (a) of this section) paid in such
month and (2) the amount of any current benefit due cannot exceed twice the Federal Benefit Rate plus any federally-administered State supplementation payable to an eligible individual for the preceding month.
(c)
Exception to installment limitation.
An exception to the installment payment limitation in paragraph (b) of this section can be granted for the first month in which a recipient accrues benefit amounts subject to payment in installments if the recipient has unpaid housing expenses which result in a high risk of homelessness for the recipient. In that case, the benefit payment may be increased by the amount of the unpaid housing expenses so long as that increase does not exceed the amount of benefits which accrued during the most recent period of nonpayment. We consider a person to be at risk of homelessness if continued nonpayment of the outstanding housing expenses is likely to result in the person losing his or her place to live or if past nonpayment of housing expenses has resulted in the person having no appropriate personal place to live. In determining whether this exception applies, we will ask for evidence of outstanding housing expenses that shows that the person is likely to lose or has already lost his or her place to live. For purposes of this section, homelessness is the state of not being under the control of any public institution and having no appropriate personal place to live. Housing expenses include charges for all items required to maintain shelter (for example, mortgage payments, rent, heating fuel, and electricity).
(d)
Payment through a representative payee.
If the recipient does not have a representative payee, payment of amounts subject to installments cannot be made until a representative payee is selected.
(e)
Underpaid recipient no longer eligible.
In the case of a recipient who is no longer currently eligible for monthly payments, but to whom amounts defined in paragraph (a) of this section are still owing, we will continue to make installment payments of such benefits through a representative payee.
(f)
Recipient currently not receiving SSI benefits because of suspension for noncompliance with treatment.
If a recipient is currently not receiving SSI benefits because his or her benefits have been suspended for noncompliance with treatment (as defined in § 416.936), the payment of amounts under paragraph (a) of this section will stop until the recipient has demonstrated compliance with treatment as described in § 416.1326 and will again commence with the first month the recipient begins to receive benefits.
(g)
Underpaid recipient deceased.
Upon the death of a recipient, any remaining unpaid amounts as defined in paragraph (a) of this section will be treated as underpayments in accordance with § 416.542(b).
[60 FR 8150, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.545
Paying large past-due benefits in installments.
(a)
General.
Except as described in paragraph (c) of this section, when an individual is eligible for past-due benefits in an amount which meets the formula in paragraph (b) of this section, payment of these benefits must be made in installments. If an individual becomes eligible for past-due benefits for a different period while installments are being made, we will notify the individual of the amount due and issue these benefits in the last installment payment. The amounts subject to payment in installments include:
(1) Benefits due but unpaid which accrued prior to the month payment was effectuated;
(2) Benefits due but unpaid which accrued during a period of suspension for which the recipient was subsequently determined to have been eligible; and
(3) Any adjustment to benefits which results in an accrual of unpaid benefits.
(b)
Installment formula.
Installment payments must be made if the amount of the past-due benefits, including any federally administered State supplementation, after applying § 416.525 (reimbursement to States for interim assistance) and applying § 416.1520 (payment of attorney fees), equals or exceeds 3 times the Federal Benefit Rate plus any federally administered State supplementation payable in a month to an eligible individual (or eligible individual and eligible spouse). These installment payments will be paid in not
more than 3 installments and made at 6-month intervals. Except as described in paragraph (d) of this section, the amount of each of the first and second installment payments may not exceed the threshold amount of 3 times the maximum monthly benefit payable as described in this paragraph.
(c)
Exception—When installments payments are not required.
Installment payments are not required and the rules in this section do not apply if, when the determination of an underpayment is made, the individual is (1) afflicted with a medically determinable impairment which is expected to result in death within 12 months, or (2) ineligible for benefits and we determine that he or she is likely to remain ineligible for the next 12 months.
(d)
Exception—Increased first and second installment payments.
(1) The amount of the first and second installment payments may be increased by the total amount of the following debts and expenses:
(i) Outstanding debt for food, clothing, shelter, or medically necessary services, supplies or equipment, or medicine; or
(ii) Current or anticipated expenses in the near future for medically necessary services, supplies or equipment, or medicine, or for the purchase of a home.
(2) The increase described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section only applies to debts or expenses that are not subject to reimbursement by a public assistance program, the Secretary of Health and Human Services under title XVIII of the Act, a State plan approved under title XIX of the Act, or any private entity that is legally liable for payment in accordance with an insurance policy, pre-paid plan, or other arrangement.
[61 FR 67206, Dec. 20, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 453, Jan. 5, 2011; 79 FR 33685, June 12, 2014]
§ 416.546
Payment into dedicated accounts of past-due benefits for eligible individuals under age 18 who have a representative payee.
For purposes of this section, amounts subject to payment into dedicated accounts (see § 416.640(e)) include the amounts described in § 416.545(a) (1), (2), and (3).
(a) For an eligible individual under age 18 who has a representative payee and who is determined to be eligible for past-due benefits (including any federally administered State supplementation) in an amount which, after applying § 416.525 (reimbursement to States for interim assistance) and § 416.1520 (payment of attorney fee), exceeds six times the Federal Benefit Rate plus any federally administered State supplementation payable in a month, this unpaid amount must be paid into the dedicated account established and maintained as described in § 416.640(e).
(b) After the account is established, the representative payee may (but is not required to) deposit into the account any subsequent funds representing past-due benefits under this title to the individual which are equal to or exceed the maximum Federal Benefit Rate (including any federally administered State supplementation).
(c) If the underpaid individual dies before all the benefits due have been deposited into the dedicated account, we will follow the rules which apply to underpayments for the payment of any unpaid amount due to any eligible survivor as described in § 416.542(b).
[61 FR 67206, Dec. 20, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 453, Jan. 5, 2011]
§ 416.550
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—when applicable.
Waiver of adjustment or recovery of an overpayment of SSI benefits may be granted when (EXCEPTION: This section does not apply to a sponsor of an alien):
(a) The overpaid individual was without fault in connection with an overpayment, and
(b) Adjustment or recovery of such overpayment would either:
(1) Defeat the purpose of title XVI, or
(2) Be against equity and good conscience, or
(3) Impede efficient or effective administration of title XVI due to the small amount involved.
(c) We will apply the procedures in this paragraph (c) when an individual requests waiver of all or part of a qualifying overpayment.
(1) For purposes of this paragraph (c), a qualifying overpayment is one that
accrued during the
pandemic period
(see § 416.537(c)) because of the actions that we took in response to the COVID-19 national public health emergency, including the suspension of certain of our manual workloads that would have processed actions identifying and stopping certain overpayments.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, we will presume that an individual who requests waiver of a qualifying overpayment is without fault in causing the overpayment (see § 416.552) unless we determine that the qualifying overpayment made to a beneficiary or a representative payee was the result of fraud or similar fault or involved misuse of benefits by a representative payee (see § 416.641).
(3) If we determine under paragraph (c)(2) of this section that an individual or a representative payee is without fault in causing a qualifying overpayment, we will also determine that recovery of the qualifying overpayment would be against equity and good conscience. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3) only, “against equity and good conscience” is not limited to the meaning used in § 416.554 but means a broad concept of fairness that takes into account all of the facts and circumstances of the case.
(4) The provisions of this paragraph (c)(4) will apply to a qualifying overpayment identified by December 31, 2020.
[52 FR 8882, Mar. 20, 1987, as amended at 53 FR 16543, May 10, 1988; 85 FR 52915, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 416.551
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—effect of.
Waiver of adjustment or recovery of an overpayment from the overpaid person himself (or, after his death, from his estate) frees him and his eligible spouse from the obligation to repay the amount of the overpayment covered by the waiver. Waiver of adjustment or recovery of an overpayment from anyone other than the overpaid person himself or his estate (e.g., a surviving eligible spouse) does not preclude adjustment or recovery against the overpaid person or his estate.

# Example:
The recipient was overpaid $390. It was found that the overpaid recipient was eligible for waiver of adjustment or recovery of $260 of that amount, and such action was taken. Only $130 of the overpayment remained to be recovered by adjustment, refund, or the like.
[40 FR 47763, Oct. 10, 1975]
§ 416.552
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—without fault.
Without fault
relates only to the situation of the individual seeking relief from adjustment or recovery of an overpayment. The overpaid individual (and any other individual from whom the Social Security Administration seeks to recover the overpayment) is not relieved of liability and is not
without fault
solely because the Social Security Administration may have been at fault in making the overpayment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, we will not determine any overpaid individual to be at fault in causing a qualifying overpayment (see § 416.550(c)(1)) unless we determine that the qualifying overpayment made to an individual or a representative payee during the pandemic period (see § 416.537(c)) was the result of fraud or similar fault or involved misuse of benefits by a representative payee (see § 416.641). In determining whether an individual is without fault, the
fault
of the overpaid person and the
fault
of the individual seeking relief under the waiver provision are considered. Whether an individual is
without fault
depends on all the pertinent circumstances surrounding the overpayment in the particular case. The Social Security Administration considers the individual's understanding of the reporting requirements, the agreement to report events affecting payments, knowledge of the occurrence of events that should have been reported, efforts to comply with the reporting requirements, opportunities to comply with the reporting requirements, understanding of the obligation to return checks which were not due, and ability to comply with the reporting requirements (e.g., age, comprehension, memory, physical and mental condition). In determining whether an individual is without fault based on a consideration of these factors, the Social Security Administration will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any
lack of facility with the English language) the individual may have. Although the finding depends on all of the circumstances in the particular case, an individual will be found to have been at fault in connection with an overpayment when an incorrect payment resulted from one of the following:
(a) Failure to furnish information which the individual knew or should have known was material;
(b) An incorrect statement made by the individual which he knew or should have known was incorrect (this includes the individual's furnishing his opinion or conclusion when he was asked for facts), or
(c) The individual did not return a payment which he knew or could have been expected to know was incorrect.
[40 FR 47763, Oct. 10, 1975, as amended at 59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994; 85 FR 52915, Aug. 27, 2020]
§ 416.553
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—defeat the purpose of the supplemental security income program.
We will waive adjustment or recovery of an overpayment when an individual on whose behalf waiver is being considered is without fault (as defined in § 416.552) and adjustment or recovery of the overpayment would defeat the purpose of the supplemental security income program.
(a)
General rule.
We consider adjustment or recovery of an overpayment to defeat the purpose of the supplemental security income (SSI) program if the individual's income and resources are needed for ordinary and necessary living expenses under the criteria set out in § 404.508(a) of this chapter
(b)
Alternative criteria for individuals currently eligible for SSI benefits.
We consider an individual or couple currently eligible for SSI benefits to have met the test in paragraph (a) of this section if the individual's or couple's current monthly income (that is, the income upon which the individual's or couple's eligibility for the current month is determined) does not exceed—
(1) The applicable Federal monthly benefit rate for the month in which the determination of waiver is made (see subpart D of this part); plus
(2) The $20 monthly general income exclusion described in §§ 416.1112(c)(3) and 416.1124(c)(10); plus
(3) The monthly earned income exclusion described in § 416.1112(c)(4); plus
(4) The applicable State supplementary payment, if any (see subpart T of this part) for the month in which determination of waiver is made.
For those SSI recipients whose income exceeds these criteria, we follow the general rule in paragraph (a) of this section.
[45 FR 72649, Nov. 3, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 48573, Nov. 26, 1985]
§ 416.554
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—against equity and good conscience.
We will waive adjustment or recovery of an overpayment when an individual on whose behalf waiver is being considered is without fault (as defined in § 416.552) and adjustment or recovery would be
against equity and good conscience.
Adjustment or recovery is considered to be
against equity and good conscience
if an individual changed his or her position for the worse or relinquished a valuable right because of reliance upon a notice that payment would be made or because of the incorrect payment itself. In addition, adjustment or recovery is considered to be
against equity and good conscience
for an individual who is a member of an eligible couple that is legally separated and/or living apart for that part of an overpayment not received, but subject to recovery under § 416.570.

# Example 1:
Upon being notified that he was eligible for supplemental security income payments, an individual signed a lease on an apartment renting for $15 a month more than the room he had previously occupied. It was subsequently found that eligibility for the payment should not have been established. In such a case, recovery would be considered “against equity and good conscience.”

# Example 2:
An individual fails to take advantage of a private or organization charity, relying instead on the award of supplemental security income payments to support himself. It was subsequently found that the money was improperly paid. Recovery would be considered “against equity and good conscience.”

# Example 3:
Mr. and Mrs. Smith—members of an eligible couple—separate in July. Later in July, Mr. Smith receives earned income
resulting in an overpayment to both. Mrs. Smith is found to be without fault in causing the overpayment. Recovery from Mrs. Smith of Mr. Smith's part of the couple's overpayment is waived as being
against equity and good conscience.
Whether recovery of Mr. Smith's portion of the couple's overpayment can be waived will be evaluated separately.
[60 FR 16375, Mar. 30, 1995]
§ 416.555
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—impede administration.
Waiver of adjustment or recovery is proper when the overpaid person on whose behalf waiver is being considered is without fault, as defined in § 416.552, and adjustment or recovery would impede efficient or effective administration of title XVI due to the small amount involved. The amount of overpayment determined to meet such criteria is measured by the current average administrative cost of handling such overpayment case through such adjustment or recovery processes. In determining whether the criterion is met, the overpaid person's financial circumstances are not considered.
[40 FR 47764, Oct. 10, 1975]
§ 416.556
Waiver of adjustment or recovery—countable resources in excess of the limits prescribed in § 416.1205 by $50 or less.
(a) If any overpayment with respect to an individual (or an individual and his or her spouse if any) is attributable solely to the ownership or possession by the individual (and spouse if any) of countable resources having a value which exceeds the applicable dollar figure specified in § 416.1205 by an amount of $50.00 or less, including those resources deemed to an individual in accordance with § 416.1202, such individual (and spouse if any) shall be deemed to have been without fault in connection with the overpayment, and waiver of adjustment or recovery will be made, unless the failure to report the value of the excess resources correctly and in a timely manner was willful and knowing.
(b) Failure to report the excess resources correctly and in a timely manner will be considered to be willful and knowing and the individual will be found to be at fault when the evidence clearly shows the individual (and spouse if any) was fully aware of the requirements of the law and of the excess resources and chose to conceal these resources. When an individual incurred a similar overpayment in the past and received an explanation and instructions at the time of the previous overpayment, we will generally find the individual to be at fault. However, in determining whether the individual is at fault, we will consider all aspects of the current and prior overpayment situations, and where we determine the individual is not at fault, we will waive adjustment or recovery of the subsequent overpayment. In making any determination or decision under this section concerning whether an individual is at fault, including a determination or decision of whether the failure to report the excess resources correctly and in a timely manner was willful and knowing, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) of the individual (and spouse if any).
[53 FR 16544, May 10, 1988, as amended at 59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994]
§ 416.557
Personal conference.
(a) If waiver cannot be approved (
i.e.
, the requirements in § 416.550 (a) and (b) are not met), the individual is notified in writing and given the dates, times and place of the file review and personal conference; the procedure for reviewing the claims file prior to the personal conference; the procedure for seeking a change in the scheduled date, time and/or place; and all other information necessary to fully inform the individual about the personal conference. The file review is always scheduled at least 5 days before the personal conference. We will offer to the individual the option of conducting the personal conference face-to-face at a place we designate, by telephone, or by video teleconference. The notice will advise the individual of the date and time of the personal conference.
(b) At the file review, the individual and the individual's representative have the right to review the claims file and applicable law and regulations with the decisionmaker or another of our representatives who is prepared to
answer questions. We will provide copies of material related to the overpayment and/or waiver from the claims file or pertinent sections of the law or regulations that are requested by the individual or the individual's representative.
(c) At the personal conference, the individual is given the opportunity to:
(1) Appear personally, testify, cross-examine any witnesses, and make arguments;
(2) Be represented by an attorney or other representative (see § 416.1500), although the individual must be present at the conference; and
(3) Submit documents for consideration by the decisionmaker.
(d) At the personal conference, the decisionmaker:
(1) Tells the individual that the decisionmaker was not previously involved in the issue under review, that the waiver decision is solely the decisionmaker's, and that the waiver decision is based only on the evidence or information presented or reviewed at the conference;
(2) Ascertains the role and identity of everyone present;
(3) Indicates whether or not the individual reviewed the claims file;
(4) Explains the provisions of law and regulations applicable to the issue;
(5) Briefly summarizes the evidence already in file which will be considered;
(6) Ascertains from the individual whether the information presented is correct and whether he/she fully understands it;
(7) Allows the individual and the individual's representative, if any, to present the individual's case;
(8) Secures updated financial information and verification, if necessary;
(9) Allows each witness to present information and allows the individual and the individual's representative to question each witness;
(10) Ascertains whether there is any further evidence to be presented;
(11) Reminds the individual of any evidence promised by the individual which has not been presented;
(12) Lets the individual and the individual's representative, if any, present any proposed summary or closing statement;
(13) Explains that a decision will be made and the individual will be notified in writing; and
(14) Explains repayment options and further appeal rights in the event the decision is adverse to the individual.
(e) SSA issues a written decision to the individual (and his or her representative, if any) specifying the findings of fact and conclusions in support of the decision to approve or deny waiver and advising of the individual's right to appeal the decision. If waiver is denied, adjustment or recovery of the overpayment begins even if the individual appeals.
(f) If it appears that the waiver cannot be approved, and the individual declines a personal conference or fails to appear for a second scheduled personal conference, a decision regarding the waiver will be made based on the written evidence of record. Reconsideration is the next step in the appeals process.
[73 FR 1973, Jan. 11, 2008]
§ 416.558
Notice relating to overpayments and underpayments.
(a)
Notice of overpayment and underpayment determination.
Whenever a determination concerning the amount paid and payable for any period is made and it is found that, with respect to any month in the period, more or less than the correct amount was paid, written notice of the correct and incorrect amounts for each such month in the period will be sent to the individual against whom adjustment or recovery of the overpayment as defined in § 416.537(a) may be effected or to whom the underpayment as defined in §§ 416.536 and any amounts subject to installment payments as defined in § 416.544 would be payable, notwithstanding the fact that part or all of the underpayment must be withheld in accordance with § 416.543. When notifying an individual of a determination of overpayment, the Social Security Administration will, in the notice, also advise the individual that adjustment or recovery is required, as set forth in § 416.571, except under certain specified conditions, and of his or her right to request waiver of adjustment or recovery of the overpayment under the provisions of § 416.550.
(b)
Notice of waiver determination.
Written notice of an initial determination of waiver shall be given the individual in accordance with § 416.1404 unless the individual was not given notice of the overpayment in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Notice relating to installment payments to individuals whose drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
Whenever a determination is made concerning the amount of any benefits due for a period that must be paid in installments, the written notice will also explain the amount of the installment payment and when an increased initial installment payment may be made (as described in § 416.544). This written notice will be sent to the individual and his or her representative payee.
[40 FR 47764, Oct. 10, 1975, as amended at 55 FR 33668, Aug. 17, 1990; 60 FR 8150, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.560
Recovery—refund.
An overpayment may be refunded by the overpaid recipient or by anyone on his or her behalf. Refund should be made in every case where the overpaid individual is not currently eligible for SSI benefits. If the individual is currently eligible for SSI benefits and has not refunded the overpayment, adjustment as set forth in § 416.570 will be proposed.
[55 FR 33669, Aug. 17, 1990]
§ 416.570
Adjustment.
(a)
General.
When a recipient has been overpaid, the overpayment has not been refunded, and waiver of adjustment or recovery is not applicable, any payment due the overpaid recipient or his or her eligible spouse (or recovery from the estate of either or both when either or both die before adjustment is completed) is adjusted for recovery of the overpayment. Adjustment will generally be accomplished by withholding each month the amount set forth in § 416.571 from the benefit payable to the individual except that, when the overpayment results from the disposition of resources as provided by §§ 416.1240(b) and 416.1244, the overpayment will be recovered by withholding any payments due the overpaid recipient or his or her eligible spouse before any further payment is made. Absent a specific request from the person from whom recovery is sought, no overpayment made under title XVIII of the Act will be recovered by adjusting SSI benefits. In no case shall an overpayment of SSI benefits be adjusted against title XVIII benefits. No funds properly deposited into a dedicated account (see §§ 416.546 and 416.640(e)) can be used to repay an overpayment while the overpaid individual remains subject to the provisions of those sections.
(b)
Overpayment made to representative payee after the recipient's death.
A representative payee or his estate is solely liable for repaying an overpayment made to the representative payee on behalf of a recipient after the recipient's death. In such case, we will recover the overpayment according to paragraph (a) of this section, except that:
(1) We will not adjust any other payment due to the eligible spouse of the overpaid representative payee to recover the overpayment, and
(2) If the overpaid representative payee dies before we complete adjustment, we will not seek to recover the overpayment from the eligible spouse or the estate of the eligible spouse.
[70 FR 16, Jan. 3, 2005, as amended at 73 FR 65543, Nov. 4, 2008]
§ 416.571
10-percent limitation of recoupment rate—overpayment.
Any adjustment or recovery of an overpayment for an individual in current payment status is limited in amount in any month to the lesser of (1) the amount of the individual's benefit payment for that month or (2) an amount equal to 10 percent of the individual's total income (countable income plus SSI and State supplementary payments) for that month. The countable income used is the countable income used in determining the SSI and State supplementary payments for that month under § 416.420. When the overpaid individual is notified of the proposed SSI and/or federally administered State supplementary overpayment adjustment or recovery, the individual will be given the opportunity to request that such adjustment or recovery be made at a higher or
lower rate than that proposed. If a lower rate is requested, a rate of withholding that is appropriate to the financial condition of the overpaid individual will be set after an evaluation of all the pertinent facts. An appropriate rate is one that will not deprive the individual of income required for ordinary and necessary living expenses. This will include an evaluation of the individual's income, resources, and other financial obligations. The 10-percent limitation does not apply where it is determined that the overpayment occurred because of fraud, willful misrepresentation, or concealment of material information committed by the individual or his or her spouse. Concealment of material information means an intentional, knowing, and purposeful delay in making or failure to make a report that will affect payment amount and/or eligibility. It does not include a mere omission on the part of the recipient; it is an affirmative act to conceal. The 10-percent limitation does not apply to the recovery of overpayments incurred under agreements to dispose of resources pursuant to § 416.1240. In addition, the 10-percent limitation does not apply to the reduction of any future SSI benefits as a consequence of the misuse of funds set aside in accordance with § 416.1231(b) to meet burial expenses. Adjustment or recovery will be suspended if the recipient is subject to a reduced benefit rate under § 416.414 because of residing in a medical treatment facility in which Medicaid is paying a substantial portion of the recipient's cost of care.
[55 FR 33669, Aug. 17, 1990, as amended at 72 FR 50874, Sept. 5, 2007]
§ 416.572
Are title II and title VIII benefits subject to adjustment to recover title XVI overpayments?
(a)
Definitions
—(1)
Cross-program recovery.
Cross-program recovery is the process that we will use to collect title XVI overpayments from benefits payable to you under title II or title VIII of the Social Security Act.
(2)
Benefits payable.
For purposes of this section, benefits payable means the amount of title II or title VIII benefits you actually would receive. For title II benefits, it includes your monthly benefit and your past-due benefits after any reductions or deductions listed in § 404.401(a) and (b) of this chapter. For title VIII benefits, it includes your monthly benefit and any past-due benefits after any reduction by the amount of income for the month as described in §§ 408.505 through 408.510 of this chapter.
(b)
When may we collect title XVI overpayments using cross-program recovery?
We may use cross-program recovery to collect a title XVI overpayment you owe when benefits are payable to you under title II, title VIII, or both.
[70 FR 16, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 416.573
How much will we withhold from your title II and title VIII benefits to recover a title XVI overpayment?
(a) If past-due benefits are payable to you, we will withhold the lesser of the entire overpayment balance or the entire amount of past-due benefits.
(b)(1) We will collect the overpayment from current monthly benefits due in a month by withholding the lesser of the amount of the entire overpayment balance or 10 percent of the monthly title II benefits and monthly title VIII benefits payable to you in the month.
(2) If we are already recovering a title II, title VIII or title XVI overpayment from your monthly title II benefit, we will figure your monthly withholding from title XVI payments (as described in § 416.571) without including your title II benefits in your total countable income.
(3) Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply if:
(i) You request and we approve a different rate of withholding, or
(ii) You or your spouse willfully misrepresented or concealed material information in connection with the overpayment.
(c) In determining whether to grant your request that we withhold less than the amount described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, we will use the criteria applied under § 416.571 to similar requests about withholding from title XVI benefits.
(d) If you or your spouse willfully misrepresented or concealed material information in connection with the
overpayment, we will collect the overpayment by withholding the lesser of the overpayment balance or the entire amount of title II benefits and title VIII benefits payable to you. We will not collect at a lesser rate. (See § 416.571 for what we mean by concealment of material information.)
[70 FR 16, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 416.574
Will you receive notice of our intention to apply cross-program recovery?
Before we collect an overpayment from you using cross-program recovery, we will send you a written notice that tells you the following information:
(a) We have determined that you owe a specific overpayment balance that can be collected by cross-program recovery;
(b) We will withhold a specific amount from the title II or title VIII benefits (see § 416.573);
(c) You may ask us to review this determination that you still owe this overpayment balance;
(d) You may request that we withhold a different amount from your current monthly benefits (the notice will not include this information if § 416.573(d) applies); and
(e) You may ask us to waive collection of this overpayment balance.
[70 FR 16, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 416.575
When will we begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits?
(a) We will begin collecting the overpayment balance by cross-program recovery from your current monthly title II and title VIII benefits no sooner than 30 calendar days after the date of the notice described in § 416.574. If within that 30-day period you pay us the full overpayment balance stated in the notice, we will not begin cross-program recovery.
(b) If within that 30-day period you ask us to review our determination that you still owe us this overpayment balance, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits before we review the matter and notify you of our decision in writing.
(c) If within that 30-day period you ask us to withhold a different amount from your current monthly benefits than the amount stated in the notice, we will not begin cross-program recovery until we determine the amount we will withhold. This paragraph does not apply when § 416.573(d) applies.
(d) If within that 30-day period you ask us to waive recovery of the overpayment balance, we will not begin cross-program recovery from your current monthly benefits before we review the matter and notify you of our decision in writing. See §§ 416.550 through 416.556.
[70 FR 16, Jan. 3, 2005]
§ 416.580
Referral of overpayments to the Department of the Treasury for tax refund offset—General.
(a) The standards we will apply and the procedures we will follow before requesting the Department of the Treasury to offset income tax refunds due taxpayers who have an outstanding overpayment are set forth in §§ 416.580 through 416.586 of this subpart. These standards and procedures are authorized by the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 [31 U.S.C. § 3720A], as implemented through Department of the Treasury regulations at 31 CFR 285.2.
(b) We will use the Department of the Treasury tax refund offset procedure to collect overpayments that are certain in amount, past due and legally enforceable, and eligible for tax refund offset under regulations issued by the Secretary of the Treasury. We will use these procedures to collect overpayments only from persons who are not currently entitled to monthly supplemental security income benefits under title XVI of the Act. We refer overpayments to the Department of the Treasury for offset against Federal tax refunds regardless of the amount of time the debts have been outstanding.
[62 FR 49439, Sept. 22, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 65108, Oct. 20, 2011]
§ 416.581
Notice to overpaid person.
We will make a request for collection by reduction of Federal and State income tax refunds only after we determine that a person owes an overpayment that is past due and provide the
overpaid person with written notice. Our notice of intent to collect an overpayment through tax refund offset will state:
(a) The amount of the overpayment; and
(b) That we will collect the overpayment by requesting that the Department of the Treasury reduce any amounts payable to the overpaid person as refunds of Federal and State income taxes by an amount equal to the amount of the overpayment unless, within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice, the overpaid person:
(1) Repays the overpayment in full; or
(2) Provides evidence to us at the address given in our notice that the overpayment is not past due or legally enforceable; or
(3) Asks us to waive collection of the overpayment under section 204(b) of the Act.
(c) The conditions under which we will waive recovery of an overpayment under section 1631(b)(1)(B) of the Act;
(d) That we will review any evidence presented that the overpayment is not past due or not legally enforceable;
(e) That the overpaid person has the right to inspect and copy our records related to the overpayment as determined by us and will be informed as to where and when the inspection and copying can be done after we receive notice from the overpaid person that inspection and copying are requested.
[62 FR 49439, Sept. 22, 1997, as amended at 76 FR 65109, Oct. 20, 2011]
§ 416.582
Review within SSA that an overpayment is past due and legally enforceable.
(a)
Notification by overpaid individual.
An overpaid individual who receives a notice as described in § 416.581 of this subpart has the right to present evidence that all or part of the overpayment is not past due or not legally enforceable. To exercise this right, the individual must notify us and present evidence regarding the overpayment within 60 calendar days from the date of our notice.
(b)
Submission of evidence.
The overpaid individual may submit evidence showing that all or part of the debt is not past due or not legally enforceable as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. Failure to submit the notification and evidence within 60 calendar days will result in referral of the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury, unless the overpaid individual, within this 60-day time period, has asked us to waive collection of the overpayment under section 1631(b)(1)(B) of the Act and we have not yet determined whether we can grant the waiver request. If the overpaid individual asks us to waive collection of the overpayment, we may ask that evidence to support the request be submitted to us.
(c)
Review of the evidence.
After a timely submission of evidence by the overpaid individual, we will consider all available evidence related to the overpayment. We will make findings based on a review of the written record, unless we determine that the question of indebtedness cannot be resolved by a review of the documentary evidence.
[62 FR 49439, Sept. 22, 1997]
§ 416.583
Findings by SSA.
(a) Following the review of the record, we will issue written findings which include supporting rationale for the findings. Issuance of these findings concerning whether the overpayment or part of the overpayment is past due and legally enforceable is the final Agency action with respect to the past-due status and enforceability of the overpayment. If we make a determination that a waiver request cannot be granted, we will issue a written notice of this determination in accordance with the regulations in subpart E of this part. Our referral of the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury will not be suspended under § 416.585 of this subpart pending any further administrative review of the waiver request that the individual may seek.
(b) Copies of the findings described in paragraph (a) of this section will be distributed to the overpaid individual and the overpaid individual's attorney or other representative, if any.
(c) If the findings referred to in paragraph (a) of this section affirm that all or part of the overpayment is past due and legally enforceable and, if waiver is requested and we determine that the
request cannot be granted, we will refer the overpayment to the Department of the Treasury. However, no referral will be made if, based on our review of the overpayment, we reverse our prior finding that the overpayment is past due and legally enforceable or, upon consideration of a waiver request, we determine that waiver of our collection of the overpayment is appropriate.
[62 FR 49439, Sept. 22, 1997]
§ 416.584
Review of our records related to the overpayment.
(a)
Notification by the overpaid individual.
An overpaid individual who intends to inspect or copy our records related to the overpayment as determined by us must notify us stating his or her intention to inspect or copy.
(b)
Our response.
In response to a notification by the overpaid individual as described in paragraph (a) of this section, we will notify the overpaid individual of the location and time when the overpaid individual may inspect or copy our records related to the overpayment. We may also, at our discretion, mail copies of the overpayment-related records to the overpaid individual.
[62 FR 49439, Sept. 22, 1997]
§ 416.585
Suspension of offset.
If, within 60 days of the date of the notice described in § 416.581 of this subpart, the overpaid individual notifies us that he or she is exercising a right described in § 416.582(a) of this subpart and submits evidence pursuant to § 416.582(b) of this subpart or requests a waiver under § 416.550 of this subpart, we will suspend any notice to the Department of the Treasury until we have issued written findings that affirm that an overpayment is past due and legally enforceable and, if applicable, make a determination that a waiver request cannot be granted.
[62 FR 49440, Sept. 22, 1997]
§ 416.586
Tax refund insufficient to cover amount of overpayment.
If a tax refund is insufficient to recover an overpayment in a given year, the case will remain with the Department of the Treasury for succeeding years, assuming that all criteria for certification are met at that time.
[62 FR 49440, Sept. 22, 1997]
§ 416.590
Are there additional methods for recovery of title XVI benefit overpayments?
(a)
General.
In addition to the methods specified in §§ 416.560, 416.570, 416.572 and 416.580, we may recover an overpayment under title XVI of the Act from you under the rules in subparts D and E of part 422 of this chapter. Subpart D of part 422 of this chapter applies only under the following conditions:
(1) The overpayment occurred after you attained age 18;
(2) You are no longer entitled to benefits under title XVI of the Act; and
(3) Pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, we have determined that the overpayment is otherwise unrecoverable under section 1631(b) of the Act.
(b)
When we consider an overpayment to be otherwise unrecoverable.
We consider an overpayment under title XVI of the Act to be otherwise unrecoverable under section 1631(b) of the Act if all of the following conditions are met:
(1) We have completed our billing system sequence (
i.e.
, we have sent you an initial notice of the overpayment, a reminder notice, and a past-due notice) or we have suspended or terminated collection activity under applicable rules, such as, the Federal Claims Collection Standards in 31 CFR 903.2 or 903.3.
(2) We have not entered into an installment payment arrangement with you or, if we have entered into such an arrangement, you have failed to make any payment for two consecutive months.
(3) You have not requested waiver pursuant to § 416.550 or § 416.582 or, after a review conducted pursuant to those sections, we have determined that we will not waive collection of the overpayment.
(4) You have not requested reconsideration of the initial overpayment determination pursuant to §§ 416.1407 and 416.1409 or, after a review conducted pursuant to § 416.1413, we have affirmed all or part of the initial overpayment determination.
(5) We cannot recover your overpayment pursuant to § 416.570 by adjustment of benefits payable to any individual other than you. For purposes of this paragraph, if you are a member of an eligible couple that is legally separated and/or living apart, we will deem unrecoverable from the other person that part of your overpayment which he or she did not receive.
[66 FR 67081, Dec. 28, 2001, as amended at 68 FR 74184, Dec. 23, 2003]

# Subpart F—Representative Payment

# Authority:
Secs. 205(j)(1)(C), 702(a)(5), 1631(a)(2) and (d)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 405(j)(1)(C), 902(a)(5), 1383(a)(2) and (d)(1)).

# Source:
47 FR 30475, July 14, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 416.601
Introduction.
(a)
Explanation of representative payment.
This subpart explains the principles and procedures that we follow in determining whether to make representative payment and in selecting a representative payee. It also explains the responsibilities that a representative payee has concerning the use of the funds he or she receives on behalf of a beneficiary. A representative payee may be either a person or an organization selected by us to receive benefits on behalf of a beneficiary. A representative payee will be selected if we believe that the interest of a beneficiary will be served by representative payment rather than direct payment of benefits. Generally, we appoint a representative payee if we have determined that the beneficiary is not able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments in his or her own interest.
(b)
Policy used to determine whether to make representative payment.
(1) Our policy is that every beneficiary has the right to manage his or her own benefits. However, some beneficiaries due to a mental or physical condition or due to their youth may be unable to do so. Under these circumstances, we may determine that the interests of the beneficiary would be better served if we certified benefit payments to another person as a representative payee. However, we must select a representative payee for an individual who is eligible for benefits solely on the basis of disability if drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(2) If we determine that representative payment is in the interest of a beneficiary, we will appoint a representative payee. We may appoint a representative payee even if the beneficiary is a legally competent individual. If the beneficiary is a legally incompetent individual, we may appoint the legal guardian or some other person as a representative payee.
(3) If payment is being made directly to a beneficiary and a question arises concerning his or her ability to manage or direct the management of benefit payments, we will, if the beneficiary is 18 years old or older and has not been adjudged legally incompetent, continue to pay the beneficiary until we make a determination about his or her ability to manage or direct the management of benefit payments and the selection of a representative payee.
[47 FR 30475, July 14, 1982, as amended at 60 FR 8150, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.610
When payment will be made to a representative payee.
(a) We pay benefits to a representative payee on behalf of a beneficiary 18 years old or older when it appears to us that this method of payment will be in the interest of the beneficiary. We do this if we have information that the beneficiary is—
(1) Legally incompetent or mentally incapable of managing benefit payments; or
(2) Physically incapable of managing or directing the management of his or her benefit payments; or
(3) Eligible for benefits solely on the basis of disability and drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(b) Generally, if a beneficiary is under age 18, we will pay benefits to a representative payee. However, in certain situations, we will make direct payments to a beneficiary under age 18 who shows the ability to manage the benefits. For example, we make direct
payment to a beneficiary under age 18 if the beneficiary is—
(1) A parent and files for himself or herself and/or his or her child and he or she has experience in handling his or her own finances; or
(2) Capable of using the benefits to provide for his or her current needs and no qualified payee is available; or
(3) Within 7 months of attaining age 18 and is initially filing an application for benefits.
[47 FR 30475, July 14, 1982, as amended at 54 FR 35483, Aug. 28, 1989; 60 FR 8150, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.611
What happens to your monthly benefits while we are finding a suitable representative payee for you?
(a)
We may pay you directly.
We will pay current monthly benefits directly to you while finding a suitable representative payee unless we determine that paying you directly would cause substantial harm to you. We determine substantial harm as follows:
(1) If you are receiving disability payments and we have determined that you have a drug addiction or alcoholism condition, or you are legally incompetent, or you are under age 15, we will presume that substantial harm exists. However, we will allow you to rebut this presumption by presenting evidence that direct payment would not cause you substantial harm.
(2) If you do not fit any of these categories, we make findings of substantial harm on a case-by-case basis. We consider all matters that may affect your ability to manage your benefits in your own best interest. We decide that substantial harm exists if both of the following conditions exist:
(i) Directly receiving benefits can be expected to cause you serious physical or mental injury.
(ii) The possible effect of the injury would outweigh the effect of having no income to meet your basic needs.
(b)
We may delay or suspend your payments.
If we find that direct payment will cause substantial harm to you, we may delay (in the case of initial eligibility for benefits) or suspend (in the case of existing eligibility for benefits) payments for as long as one month while we try to find a suitable representative payee. If we do not find a payee within one month, we will pay you directly. If you are receiving disability payments and we have determined that you have a drug addiction or alcoholism condition, or you are legally incompetent, or you are under age 15, we will withhold payment until a representative payee is appointed even if it takes longer than one month. We will, however, as noted in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, allow you to present evidence to rebut the presumption that direct payment would cause you substantial harm. See § 416.601(b)(3) for our policy on suspending the benefits if you are currently receiving benefits directly.

# Example 1: Substantial Harm Exists.
We are unable to find a representative payee for Mr. X, a 67 year old claimant receiving title XVI benefits based on age who is an alcoholic. Based on contacts with the doctor and beneficiary, we determine that Mr. X was hospitalized recently for his drinking. Paying him directly will cause serious injury, so we may delay payment for as long as one month based on substantial harm while we locate a suitable representative payee.

# Example 2: Substantial Harm Does Not Exist.
We approve a claim for Mr. Y, a title XVI claimant who suffers from a combination of mental impairments but who is not legally incompetent. We determine that Mr. Y needs assistance in managing benefits, but we have not found a representative payee. Although we believe that Mr. Y may not use the money wisely, there is no indication that receiving funds directly would cause him substantial harm (
i.e.
, serious physical or mental injury). We must pay current benefits directly to Mr. Y while we locate a suitable representative payee.
(c)
How we pay delayed or suspended benefits.
Payment of benefits, which were delayed or suspended pending appointment of a representative payee, can be made to you or your representative payee as a single sum or in installments when we determine that installments are in your best interest.
[69 FR 60236, Oct. 7, 2004]
§ 416.615
Information considered in determining whether to make representative payment.
In determining whether to make representative payment we consider the following information:
(a)
Court determinations.
If we learn that a beneficiary has been found to be
legally incompetent, a certified copy of the court's determination will be the basis of our determination to make representative payment.
(b)
Medical evidence.
When available, we will use medical evidence to determine if a beneficiary is capable of managing or directing the management of benefit payments. For example, a statement by a physician or other medical professional based upon his or her recent examination of the beneficiary and his or her knowledge of the beneficiary's present condition will be used in our determination, if it includes information concerning the nature of the beneficiary's illness, the beneficiary's chances for recovery and the opinion of the physician or other medical professional as to whether the beneficiary is able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments.
(c)
Other evidence.
We will also consider any statements of relatives, friends and other people in a position to know and observe the beneficiary, which contain information helpful to us in deciding whether the beneficiary is able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments.
§ 416.618
Advance designation of representative payees.
(a)
General.
An individual who:
(1) Is eligible for or an applicant for a benefit; and
(2) Has attained 18 years of age or is an emancipated minor, may designate in advance one or more individuals to possibly serve as a representative payee for the individual if we determine that payment will be made to a representative payee (see § 416.610(a)). An individual may not designate in advance possible representative payees if we have information that the individual is either legally incompetent or mentally incapable of managing his or her benefit payments; or physically incapable of managing or directing the management of his or her benefit payments.
(b)
How to designate possible representative payees in advance.
Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may designate in advance their choice(s) for possible representative payees by indicating their decision to designate a representative payee in advance and providing us with the required information. In addition to the required information, an individual may choose to provide us with the relationship of the advance designee to the individual. The information we require before we will consider an advance designee as a possible representative payee is:
(1) The name of the advance designee,
(2) A telephone number of the advance designee, and
(3) The order of priority in which the individual would like us to consider the advance designees if he or she designates more than one advance designee.
(c)
How to make changes to advance designation.
Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may change their advance designees by informing us of the change and providing the required information (see paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section) to us. Individuals who meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section may withdraw their advance designation by informing us of the withdrawal.
(d)
How we consider advance designation when we select a representative payee.
(1) If we determine that payment will be made to a representative payee, we will review advance designees in the order listed by the individual and select the first advance designee who meets the criteria for selection. To meet the criteria for selection—
(i) The advance designee must be willing and able to serve as a representative payee,
(ii) Appointment of the advance designee must comply with the requirements in section 205(j)(2) of the Social Security Act, and
(iii)There must be no other good cause (see §§ 416.620 and 416.621) to prevent us from selecting the advance designee.
(2) If none of the advance designees meet the criteria for selection, we will use our list of categories of preferred payees (see § 416.621), along with our other regulations in subpart F of this part, as a guide to select a suitable representative payee.
(e)
How we consider advance designation when we select a subsequent representative payee.
If an individual who
currently has a representative payee requires a change of representative payee, we will consider any other designees identified by the individual at a time in which that individual was eligible to make an advanced designation, under paragraph (d) of this section.
(f)
Organizations.
An individual may not designate in advance an organization to serve as his or her possible representative payee.
[85 FR 7665, Feb. 11, 2020]
§ 416.620
Information considered in selecting a representative payee.
In selecting a payee we try to select the person, agency, organization or institution that will best serve the interest of the beneficiary. In making our selection we consider—
(a) The relationship of the person to the beneficiary;
(b) The amount of interest that the person shows in the beneficiary;
(c) Any legal authority the person, agency, organization or institution has to act on behalf of the beneficiary;
(d) Whether the potential payee has custody of the beneficiary;
(e) Whether the potential payee is in a position to know of and look after the needs of the beneficiary;
(f) The potential payee's criminal history; and
(g) Whether the beneficiary made an advance designation (see § 416.618).
[47 FR 30475, July 14, 1982, as amended at 84 FR 4325, Feb. 15, 2019; 85 FR 7665, Feb. 11. 2020]
§ 416.621
What is our order of preference in selecting a representative payee for you?
As a guide in selecting a representative payee, we have established categories of preferred payees. These preferences are flexible. We will consider an individual's advance designees (see § 416.618) before we consider other potential representative payees in the categories of preferred payees listed in this section. When we select a representative payee, we will choose the designee of the beneficiary's highest priority, provided that the designee is willing and able to serve, is not prohibited from serving (see § 416.622), and supports the best interest of the beneficiary (see § 416.620). The preferences are:
(a) For beneficiaries 18 years old or older (except those described in paragraph (b) of this section), our preference is—
(1) A legal guardian, spouse (or other relative) who has custody of the beneficiary or who demonstrates strong concern for the personal welfare of the beneficiary;
(2) A friend who has custody of the beneficiary or demonstrates strong concern for the personal welfare of the beneficiary;
(3) A public or nonprofit agency or institution having custody of the beneficiary;
(4) A private institution operated for profit and licensed under State law, which has custody of the beneficiary; and
(5) Persons other than above who are qualified to carry out the responsibilities of a payee and who are able and willing to serve as a payee for the beneficiary; e.g., members of community groups or organizations who volunteer to serve as payee for a beneficiary.
(b) For individuals who are disabled and who have a drug addiction or alcoholism condition our preference is—
(1) A community-based nonprofit social service agency licensed by the State, or bonded;
(2) A Federal, State or local government agency whose mission is to carry out income maintenance, social service, or health care-related activities;
(3) A State or local government agency with fiduciary responsibilities;
(4) A designee of an agency (other than a Federal agency) referred to in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, if appropriate; or
(5) A family member.
(c) For beneficiaries under age 18, our preference is—
(1) A natural or adoptive parent who has custody of the beneficiary, or a guardian;
(2) A natural or adoptive parent who does not have custody of the beneficiary, but is contributing toward the beneficiary's support and is demonstrating strong concern for the beneficiary's well being;
(3) A natural or adoptive parent who does not have custody of the beneficiary and is not contributing toward his or her support but is demonstrating strong concern for the beneficiary's well being;
(4) A relative or stepparent who has custody of the beneficiary;
(5) A relative who does not have custody of the beneficiary but is contributing toward the beneficiary's support and is demonstrating concern for the beneficiary's well being;
(6) A relative or close friend who does not have custody of the beneficiary but is demonstrating concern for the beneficiary's well being; and
(7) An authorized social agency or custodial institution.
[47 FR 30475, July 14, 1982, as amended at 69 FR 60237, Oct. 7, 2004; 85 FR 7665, Feb. 11, 2020]
§ 416.622
Who may not serve as a representative payee?
A representative payee applicant may not serve if he/she:
(a) Has been convicted of a violation under section 208, 811 or 1632 of the Social Security Act.
(b) Has been convicted of an offense resulting in imprisonment for more than 1 year. However, we may make an exception to this prohibition, if the nature of the conviction is such that selection of the applicant poses no risk to the beneficiary and the exception is in the beneficiary's best interest.
(c) Receives title II, VIII, or XVI benefits through a representative payee.
(d) Previously served as a representative payee and was found by us, or a court of competent jurisdiction, to have misused title II, VIII or XVI benefits. However, if we decide to make an exception to the prohibition, we must evaluate the payee's performance at least every 3 months until we are satisfied that the payee poses no risk to the beneficiary's best interest. Exceptions are made on a case-by-case basis if all of the following are true:
(1) Direct payment of benefits to the beneficiary is not in the beneficiary's best interest.
(2) No suitable alternative payee is available.
(3) Selecting the payee applicant as representative payee would be in the best interest of the beneficiary.
(4) The information we have indicates the applicant is now suitable to serve as a representative payee.
(5) The payee applicant has repaid the misused benefits or has a plan to repay them.
(e) Is a creditor. A creditor is someone who provides you with goods or services for consideration. This restriction does not apply to the creditor who poses no risk to you and whose financial relationship with you presents no substantial conflict of interest, and is any of the following:
(1) A relative living in the same household as you do.
(2) Your legal guardian or legal representative.
(3) A facility that is licensed or certified as a care facility under the law of a State or a political subdivision of a State.
(4) A qualified organization authorized to collect a monthly fee from you for expenses incurred in providing representative payee services for you, under § 416.640a.
(5) An administrator, owner, or employee of the facility in which you live and we are unable to locate an alternative representative payee.
(6) Any other individual we deem appropriate based on a written determination.

# Example 1:
Sharon applies to be representative payee for Ron who we have determined needs assistance in managing his benefits. Sharon has been renting a room to Ron for several years and assists Ron in handling his other financial obligations, as needed. She charges Ron a reasonable amount of rent. Ron has no other family or friends willing to help manage his benefits or to act as representative payee. Sharon has demonstrated that her interest in and concern for Ron goes beyond her desire to collect the rent each month. In this instance, we may select Sharon as Ron's representative payee because a more suitable payee is not available, she appears to pose no risk to Ron and there is minimal conflict of interest. We will document this decision.

# Example 2:
In a situation similar to the one above, Ron's landlord indicates that she is applying to be payee only to ensure receipt of her rent. If there is money left after payment of the rent, she will give it directly to Ron to manage on his own. In this situation, we would not select the landlord as Ron's
representative payee because of the substantial conflict of interest and lack of interest in his well being.
(f) Was convicted under Federal or State law of a felony for: Human trafficking, false imprisonment, kidnapping, rape or sexual assault, first-degree homicide, robbery, fraud to obtain access to government assistance, fraud by scheme, theft of government funds or property, abuse or neglect, forgery, or identity theft or identity fraud. We will also apply this provision to a representative payee applicant with a felony conviction of an attempt to commit any of these crimes or conspiracy to commit any of these crimes.
(1) If the representative payee applicant is the custodial parent of a minor child beneficiary, custodial parent of a beneficiary who is under a disability which began before the beneficiary attained the age of 22, custodial spouse of a beneficiary, custodial court-appointed guardian of a beneficiary, or custodial grandparent of the minor child beneficiary for whom the applicant is applying to serve as representative payee, we will not consider the conviction for one of the crimes, or of attempt or conspiracy to commit one of the crimes, listed in this paragraph (f), by itself, to prohibit the applicant from serving as a representative payee. We will consider the criminal history of an applicant in this category, along with the factors in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, when we decide whether it is in the best interest of the individual entitled to benefits to appoint the applicant as a representative payee.
(2) If the representative payee applicant is the parent who was previously the representative payee for his or her minor child who has since turned age 18 and continues to be eligible for benefits, we will not consider the conviction for one of the crimes, or of attempt or conspiracy to commit one of the crimes, listed in this paragraph (f), by itself, to prohibit the applicant from serving as a representative payee for that beneficiary. We will consider the criminal history of an applicant in this category, along with the factors in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, when we decide whether it is in the best interest of the individual entitled to benefits to appoint the applicant as a representative payee.
(3) If the representative payee applicant received a Presidential or gubernatorial pardon for the relevant conviction, we will not consider the conviction for one of the crimes, or of attempt or conspiracy to commit one of the crimes, listed in this paragraph (f), by itself, to prohibit the applicant from serving as a representative payee. We will consider the criminal history of an applicant in this category, along with the factors in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, when we decide whether it is in the best interest of the individual entitled to benefits to appoint the applicant as a representative payee.
[69 FR 60237, Oct. 7, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 61408, Oct. 18, 2006; 84 FR 4325, Feb. 15, 2019]
§ 416.624
How do we investigate a representative payee applicant?
Before selecting an individual or organization to act as your representative payee, we will perform an investigation.
(a)
Nature of the investigation.
As part of the investigation, we do the following:
(1) Conduct a face-to-face interview with the payee applicant unless it is impracticable as explained in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) Require the payee applicant to submit documented proof of identity, unless information establishing identity has recently been submitted with an application for title II, VIII or XVI benefits.
(3) Verify the payee applicant's Social Security account number or employer identification number.
(4) Determine whether the payee applicant has been convicted of a violation of section 208, 811 or 1632 of the Social Security Act.
(5) Determine whether the payee applicant has previously served as a representative payee and if any previous appointment as payee was revoked or terminated for misusing title II, VIII or XVI benefits.
(6) Use our records to verify the payee applicant's employment and/or direct receipt of title II, VIII, or XVI benefits.
(7) Verify the payee applicant's concern for the beneficiary with the beneficiary's custodian or other interested person.
(8) Require the payee applicant to provide adequate information showing his or her relationship to the beneficiary and to describe his or her responsibility for the care of the beneficiary.
(9) Determine whether the payee applicant is a creditor of the beneficiary (see § 416.622(e)).
(10) Conduct a criminal background check on the individual payee applicant.
(b)
Subsequent face-to-face interviews.
After holding a face-to-face interview with a payee applicant, subsequent face-to-face interviews are not required if that applicant continues to be qualified and currently is acting as a payee, unless we determine, within our discretion, that a new face-to-face interview is necessary. We base this decision on the payee's past performance and knowledge of and compliance with our reporting requirements.
(c)
Impracticable.
We may consider a face-to-face interview impracticable if it would cause the payee applicant undue hardship. For example, the payee applicant would have to travel a great distance to the field office. In this situation, we may conduct the investigation to determine the payee applicant's suitability to serve as a representative payee without a face-to-face interview.
[69 FR 60237, Oct. 7, 2004, as amended at 73 FR 66521, Nov. 10, 2008; 84 FR 4326, Feb. 15, 2018; 84 FR 57320, Oct. 25, 2019]
§ 416.625
What information must a representative payee report to us?
Anytime after we select a representative payee for you, we may ask your payee to give us information showing a continuing relationship with you, a continuing responsibility for your care, and how he/she used the payments on your behalf. If your representative payee does not give us the requested information within a reasonable period of time, we may stop sending your benefit payment to him/her—unless we determine that he/she had a satisfactory reason for not meeting our request and we subsequently receive the requested information. If we decide to stop sending your benefit payment to your representative payee, we will consider paying you directly (in accordance with § 416.611) while we look for a new payee.
[69 FR 60238, Oct. 7, 2004]
§ 416.626
How do we investigate an appointed representative payee?
After we select an individual to act as your representative payee, we will conduct a criminal background check on the appointed representative payee at least once every 5 years.
[84 FR 4326, Feb. 15, 2019, as amended at 84 FR 57320, Oct. 25, 2019]
§ 416.630
How will we notify you when we decide you need a representative payee?
(a) We notify you in writing of our determination to make representative payment. This advance notice explains that we have determined that representative payment is in your interest, and it provides the name of the representative payee we have selected. We provide this notice before we actually appoint the payee. If you are under age 15, an unemancipated minor under the age of 18, or legally incompetent, our written notice goes to your legal guardian or legal representative. The advance notice:
(1) Contains language that is easily understandable to the reader.
(2) Identifies the person designated as your representative payee.
(3) Explains that you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative can appeal our determination that you need a representative payee.
(4) Explains that you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative can appeal our designation of a particular person to serve as your representative payee.
(5) Explains that you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative can review the evidence upon which our designation of a particular representative payee is based and submit additional evidence.
(b) If you, your legal guardian, or your legal representative objects to representative payment or to the designated payee, we will handle the objection as follows:
(1) If you disagree with the decision and wish to file an appeal, we will process it under subpart N of this part.
(2) If you received your advance notice by mail and you protest or file your appeal within 10 days after you receive the notice, we will delay the action until we make a decision on your protest or appeal. (If you received and signed your notice while you were in the local field office, our decision will be effective immediately.)
[69 FR 60238, Oct. 7, 2004]
§ 416.635
What are the responsibilities of your representative payee?
A representative payee has a responsibility to—
(a) Use the benefits received on your behalf only for your use and benefit in a manner and for the purposes he or she determines under the guidelines in this subpart, to be in your best interests;
(b) Keep any benefits received on your behalf separate from his or her own funds and show your ownership of these benefits unless he or she is your spouse or natural or adoptive parent or stepparent and lives in the same household with you or is a State or local government agency for whom we have granted an exception to this requirement;
(c) Treat any interest earned on the benefits as your property;
(d) Notify us of any event or change in your circumstances that will affect the amount of benefits you receive, your right to receive benefits, or how you receive them;
(e) Submit to us, upon our request, a written report accounting for the benefits received on your behalf, and make all supporting records available for review if requested by us;
(f) Notify us of any change in his or her circumstances that would affect performance of his/her payee responsibilities; and
(g) Ensure that you are receiving treatment to the extent considered medically necessary and available for the condition that was the basis for providing benefits (see § 416.994a(i)) if you are under age 18 (including cases in which your low birth weight is a contributing factor material to our determination that you are disabled).
[71 FR 61408, Oct. 18, 2006]
§ 416.640
Use of benefit payments.
(a)
Current maintenance.
We will consider that payments we certify to a representative payee have been used for the use and benefit of the beneficiary if they are used for the beneficiary's current maintenance. Current maintenance includes costs incurred in obtaining food, shelter, clothing, medical care and personal comfort items.

# Example:
A Supplemental Security Income beneficiary is entitled to a monthly benefit of $264. The beneficiary's son, who is the representative payee, disburses the benefits in the following manner:
Rent and Utilities
$166
Medical
20
Food
60
Clothing
10
Miscellaneous
8
The above expenditures would represent proper disbursements on behalf of the beneficiary.
(b)
Institution not receiving Medicaid funds on beneficiary's behalf.
If a beneficiary is receiving care in a Federal, State, or private institution because of mental or physical incapacity, current maintenance will include the customary charges for the care and services provided by an institution, expenditures for those items which will aid in the beneficiary's recovery or release from the institution, and nominal expenses for personal needs (e.g., personal hygiene items, snacks, candy) which will improve the beneficiary's condition. Except as provided under § 416.212, there is no restriction in using SSI benefits for a beneficiary's current maintenance in an institution. Any payments remaining from SSI benefits may be used for a temporary period to maintain the beneficiary's residence outside of the institution unless a physician has certified that the beneficiary is not likely to return home.

# Example:
A hospitalized disabled beneficiary is entitled to a monthly benefit of $264. The beneficiary, who resides in a boarding home, has resided there for over 6 years. It is doubtful that the beneficiary will leave the boarding home in the near future. The boarding home charges $215 per month for the beneficiary's room and board.
The beneficiary's representative payee pays the boarding home $215 (assuming an unsuccessful effort was made to negotiate a lower rate during the beneficiary's absence) and uses the balance to purchase miscellaneous personal items for the beneficiary. There are no benefits remaining which can be conserved on behalf of the beneficiary. The payee's use of the benefits is consistent with our guidelines.
(c)
Institution receiving Medicaid funds on beneficiary's behalf.
Except in the case of a beneficiary receiving benefits payable under § 416.212, if a beneficiary resides throughout a month in an institution that receives more than 50 percent of the cost of care on behalf of the beneficiary from Medicaid, any payments due shall be used only for the personal needs of the beneficiary and not for other items of current maintenance.

# Example:
A disabled beneficiary resides in a hospital. The superintendent of the hospital receives $30 per month as the beneficiary's payee. The benefit payment is disbursed in the following manner, which would be consistent with our guidelines:
Miscellaneous canteen items
$10
Clothing
15
Conserved for future needs of the beneficiary
5
(d)
Claims of creditors.
A payee may not be required to use benefit payments to satisfy a debt of the beneficiary, if the debt arose prior to the first month for which payments are certified to a payee. If the debt arose prior to this time, a payee may satisfy it only if the current and reasonably foreseeable needs of the beneficiary are met.

# Example:
A disabled beneficiary was determined to be eligible for a monthly benefit payment of $208 effective April 1981. The benefits were certified to the beneficiary's brother who was appointed as the representative payee. The payee conserved $27 of the benefits received. In June 1981 the payee received a bill from a doctor who had treated the beneficiary in February and March 1981. The bill was for $175.
After reviewing the beneficiary's current needs and resources, the payee decided not to use any of the benefits to pay the doctor's bill. (Approximately $180 a month is required for the beneficiary's current monthly living expenses—rent, utilities, food, and insurance—and the beneficiary will need new shoes and a coat within the next few months.)
Based upon the above, the payee's decision not to pay the doctor's bill is consistent with our guidelines.
(e)
Dedicated accounts for eligible individuals under age 18.
(1) When past-due benefit payments are required to be paid into a separate dedicated account (see § 416.546), the representative payee is required to establish in a financial institution an account dedicated to the purposes described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. This dedicated account may be a checking, savings or money market account subject to the titling requirements set forth in § 416.645. Dedicated accounts may not be in the form of certificates of deposit, mutual funds, stocks, bonds or trusts.
(2) A representative payee shall use dedicated account funds, whether deposited on a mandatory or permissive basis (as described in § 416.546), for the benefit of the child and only for the following allowable expenses—
(i) Medical treatment and education or job skills training;
(ii) If related to the child's impairment(s), personal needs assistance; special equipment; housing modification; and therapy or rehabilitation; or
(iii) Other items and services related to the child's impairment(s) that we determine to be appropriate. The representative payee must explain why or how the other item or service relates to the impairment(s) of the child. Attorney fees related to the pursuit of the child's disability claim and use of funds to prevent malnourishment or homelessness could be considered appropriate expenditures.
(3) Representative payees must keep records and receipts of all deposits to and expenditures from dedicated accounts, and must submit these records to us upon our request, as explained in §§ 416.635 and 416.665.
(4) The use of funds from a dedicated account in any manner not authorized by this section constitutes a misapplication of benefits. These misapplied benefits are not an overpayment as defined in § 416.537; however, if we determine that a representative payee knowingly misapplied funds in a dedicated account, that representative payee shall be liable to us in an amount equal to the total amount of the misapplied funds. In addition, if a
recipient who is his or her own payee knowingly misapplies benefits in a dedicated account, we will reduce future benefits payable to that recipient (or to that recipient and his or her spouse) by an amount equal to the total amount of the misapplied funds.
(5) The restrictions described in this section and the income and resource exclusions described in §§ 416.1124(c)(20) and 416.1247 shall continue to apply until all funds in the dedicated account are depleted or eligibility for benefits terminates, whichever comes first. This continuation of the restrictions and exclusions applies in situations where funds remain in the account in any of the following situations—
(i) A child attains age 18, continues to be eligible and receives payments directly;
(ii) A new representative payee is appointed. When funds remaining in a dedicated account are returned to us by the former representative payee, the new representative payee must establish an account in a financial institution into which we will deposit these funds, even if the amount is less than that prescribed in § 416.546; or
(iii) During a period of suspension due to ineligibility as described in § 416.1320, administrative suspension, or a period of eligibility for which no payment is due.
[47 FR 30475, July 14, 1982, as amended at 61 FR 10278, Mar. 13, 1996; 61 FR 67206, Dec. 20, 1996; 76 FR 453, Jan. 5, 2011]
§ 416.640a
Compensation for qualified organizations serving as representative payees.
(a)
Organizations that can request compensation.
A qualified organization can request us to authorize it to collect a monthly fee from your benefit payment. A qualified organization is:
(1) Any State or local government agency with fiduciary responsibilities or whose mission is to carry out income maintenance, social service, or health care-related activities; or
(2) Any community-based nonprofit social service organization founded for religious, charitable or social welfare purposes, which is tax exempt under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code and which is bonded/insured to cover misuse and embezzlement by officers and employees and which is licensed in each State in which it serves as representative payee (if licensing is available in the State). The minimum amount of bonding or insurance coverage must equal the average monthly amount of supplemental security income payments received by the organization plus the amount of the beneficiaries' conserved funds (
i.e.
, beneficiaries' saved supplemental security income payments) plus interest on hand. For example, an organization that has conserved funds of $5,000 and receives an average of $12,000 a month in supplemental security income payments must be bonded/insured for a minimum of $17,000. The license must be appropriate under the laws of the State for the type of services the organization provides. An example of an appropriately licensed organization is a community mental health center holding a State license to provide community mental health services.
(b)
Requirements qualified organizations must meet.
Organizations that are qualified under paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section must also meet the following requirements before we can authorize them to collect a monthly fee.
(1) A qualified organization must regularly provide representative payee services concurrently to at least five beneficiaries. An organization which has received our authorization to collect a fee for representative payee services, but is temporarily (not more than 6 months) not a payee for at least five beneficiaries, may request our approval to continue to collect fees.
(2) A qualified organization must demonstrate that it is not a creditor of the beneficiary. See paragraph (c) of this section for exceptions to the requirement regarding creditors.
(c)
Creditor relationship.
On a case-by-case basis, we may authorize an organization to collect a fee for payee services despite the creditor relationship. (For example, the creditor is the beneficiary's landlord.) To provide this authorization, we will review all of the evidence submitted by the organization and authorize collection of a fee when:
(1) The creditor services (e.g., providing housing) provided by the organization help to meet the current needs of the beneficiary; and
(2) The amount the organization charges the beneficiary for these services is commensurate with the beneficiary's ability to pay.
(d)
Authorization process.
(1) An organization must request in writing and receive an authorization from us
before
it may collect a fee.
(2) An organization seeking authorization to collect a fee must also give us evidence to show that it is qualified, pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, to collect a fee.
(3) If the evidence provided to us by the organization shows that it meets the requirements of this section, and additional investigation by us proves it suitable to serve, we will notify the organization in writing that it is authorized to collect a fee. If we need more evidence, or if we are not able to authorize the collection of a fee, we will also notify the organization in writing that we have not authorized the collection of a fee.
(e)
Revocation and cancellation of the authorization.
(1) We will revoke an authorization to collect a fee if we have evidence which establishes that an organization no longer meets the requirements of this section. We will issue a written notice to the organization explaining the reason(s) for the revocation.
(2) An organization may cancel its authorization at any time upon written notice to us.
(f)
Notices.
The written notice we will send to an organization authorizing the collection of a fee will contain an effective date for the collection of a fee pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section. The effective date will be no earlier than the month in which the organization asked for authorization to collect a fee. The notice will be applicable to all beneficiaries for whom the organization was payee at the time of our authorization and all beneficiaries for whom the organization becomes payee while the authorization is in effect.
(g)
Limitation on fees.
(1) An organization authorized to collect a fee under this section may collect from a beneficiary a monthly fee for expenses (including overhead) it has incurred in providing payee services to a beneficiary. The limit on the fee a qualified organization may collect for providing payee services increases by the same percentage as the annual cost of living adjustment (COLA). The increased fee amount (rounded to the nearest dollar) is taken beginning with the payment for January.
(2) Any agreement providing for a fee in excess of the amount permitted shall be void and treated as misuse of your benefits by the organization under § 416.641.
(3) A fee may be collected for any month during which the organization—
(i) Provides representative payee services;
(ii) Receives a benefit payment for the beneficiary; and
(iii) Is authorized to receive a fee for representative payee services.
(4) Fees for services may not be taken from any funds conserved for the beneficiary by a payee in accordance with § 416.645.
(5) Generally, an organization may not collect a fee for months in which it does not receive a benefit payment. However, an organization will be allowed to collect a fee for months in which it did not receive a payment if we later issue payment for these months and the organization:
(i) Received our approval to collect a fee for the months for which payment is made;
(ii) Provided payee services in the months for which payment is made; and
(iii) Was the payee when the retroactive payment was paid by us.
(6) Fees for services may not be taken from beneficiary benefits for the months for which we or a court of competent jurisdiction determine(s) that the representative payee misused benefits. Any fees collected for such months will be treated as a part of the beneficiary's misused benefits.
(7) An authorized organization can collect a fee for providing representative payee services from another source if the total amount of the fee collected from both the beneficiary and the
other source does not exceed the amount authorized by us.
[69 FR 60238, Oct. 7, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 61408, Oct. 18, 2006]
§ 416.641
Who is liable if your representative payee misuses your benefits?
(a) A representative payee who misuses your benefits is responsible for paying back misused benefits. We will make every reasonable effort to obtain restitution of misused benefits so that we can repay these benefits to you.
(b) Whether or not we have obtained restitution from the misuser, we will repay benefits in cases when we determine that a representative payee misused benefits and the representative payee is an organization or an individual payee serving 15 or more beneficiaries. When we make restitution, we will pay you or your alternative representative payee an amount equal to the misused benefits less any amount we collected from the misuser and repaid to you.
(c) Whether or not we have obtained restitution form the misuser, we will repay benefits in cases when we determine that an individual representative payee serving 14 or fewer beneficiaries misused benefits and our negligent failure in the investigation or monitoring of that representative payee results in the misuse. When we make restitution, we will pay you or your alternative representative payee an amount equal to the misused benefits less any amount we collected from the misuser and repaid to you.
(d) The term “negligent failure” used in this subpart means that we failed to investigate or monitor a representative payee or that we did investigate or monitor a representative payee but did not follow established procedures in our investigation or monitoring. Examples of our negligent failure include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) We did not follow our established procedures in this subpart when investigating, appointing, or monitoring a representative payee;
(2) We did not investigate timely a reported allegation of misuse; or
(3) We did not take the steps necessary to prevent the issuance of payments to the representative payee after it was determined that the payee misused benefits.
(e) Our repayment of misused benefits under these provisions does not alter the representative payee's liability and responsibility as described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(f) Any amounts that the representative payee misuses and does not refund will be treated as an overpayment to that representative payee. See subpart E of this part.
[69 FR 60239, Oct. 7, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 61409, Oct. 18, 2006]
§ 416.645
Conservation and investment of benefit payments.
(a)
General.
If payments are not needed for the beneficiary's current maintenance or reasonably foreseeable needs, they shall be conserved or invested on behalf of the beneficiary. Conserved funds should be invested in accordance with the rules followed by trustees. Any investment must show clearly that the payee holds the property in trust for the beneficiary.

# Example:
A State institution for children with intellectual disability, which is receiving Medicaid funds, is representative payee for several beneficiaries. The checks the payee receives are deposited into one account which shows that the benefits are held in trust for the beneficiaries. The institution has supporting records which show the share each individual has in the account. Funds from this account are disbursed fairly quickly after receipt for the personal needs of the beneficiaries. However, not all those funds were disbursed for this purpose. As a result, several of the beneficiaries have significant accumulated resources in this account. For those beneficiaries whose benefits have accumulated over $150, the funds should be deposited in an interest-bearing account or invested relatively free of risk on behalf of the beneficiaries.
(b)
Preferred investments.
Preferred investments for excess funds are U.S. Savings Bonds and deposits in an interest or dividend paying account in a bank, trust company, credit union, or savings and loan association which is insured under either Federal or State law. The account must be in a form which shows clearly that the representative payee has only a fiduciary and not a personal interest in the funds. If the payee is the legally appointed
guardian or fiduciary of the beneficiary, the account may be established to indicate this relationship. If the payee is not the legally appointed guardian or fiduciary, the accounts may be established as follows:
(1) For U.S. Savings Bonds—
______ (Name of beneficiary) ___ (Social Security Number), for whom ______ (Name of payee) is representative payee for Supplemental Security Income benefits;
(2) For interest or dividend paying accounts—
______ (Name of beneficiary) by ______ (Name of payee), representative payee.
(c)
Interest and dividend payments.
The interest and dividends which result from an investment are the property of the beneficiary and may not be considered to be the property of the payee.
[47 FR 30475, July 14, 1982, as amended at 78 FR 46501, Aug. 1, 2013]
§ 416.650
When will we select a new representative payee for you?
When we learn that your interest is not served by sending your benefit payment to your present representative payee or that your present payee is no longer able or willing to carry out payee responsibilities, we will promptly stop sending your payment to the payee. We will then send your benefit payment to an alternative payee or directly to you, until we find a suitable payee. We may suspend payment as explained in § 416.611(c) if we find that paying you directly would cause substantial harm and we cannot find a suitable alternative representative payee before your next payment is due. We will terminate payment of benefits to your representative payee and find a new payee or pay you directly if the present payee:
(a) Has been found by us or a court of competent jurisdiction to have misused your benefits;
(b) Has not used the benefit payments on your behalf in accordance with the guidelines in this subpart;
(c) Has not carried out the other responsibilities described in this subpart;
(d) Dies;
(e) No longer wishes to be your payee;
(f) Is unable to manage your benefit payments; or
(g) Fails to cooperate, within a reasonable time, in providing evidence, accounting, or other information we request.
[69 FR 60239, Oct. 7, 2004]
§ 416.655
When representative payment will be stopped.
If a beneficiary receiving representative payment shows us that he or she is mentally and physically able to manage or direct the management of benefit payments, we will make direct payment. Information which the beneficiary may give us to support his or her request for direct payment include the following—
(a) A physician's statement regarding the beneficiary's condition, or a statement by a medical officer of the institution where the beneficiary is or was confined, showing that the beneficiary is able to manage or direct the management of his or her funds; or
(b) A certified copy of a court order restoring the beneficiary's rights in a case where a beneficiary was adjudged legally incompetent; or
(c) Other evidence which establishes the beneficiary's ability to manage or direct the management of benefits.
§ 416.660
Transfer of accumulated benefit payments.
A representative payee who has conserved or invested benefit payments shall transfer these funds and the interest earned from the invested funds to either a successor payee, to the beneficiary, or to us, as we will specify. If the funds and the earned interest are returned to us, we will recertify them to a successor representative payee or to the beneficiary.
[47 FR 30475, July 14, 1982, as amended at 75 FR 7552, Feb. 22, 2010]
§ 416.665
How does your representative payee account for the use of benefits?
(a) Your representative payee must account for the use of your benefits. We require written reports from your representative payee at least once a year (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section and for certain State institutions that participate in a separate onsite review program).
(b) Your representative payee is exempt from the accounting requirement when your representative payee is:
(1) A natural or adoptive parent of a minor child eligible for title XVI benefits who primarily resides in the same household as the beneficiary;
(2) A legal guardian of a minor child eligible for title XVI benefits who primarily resides in the same household as the beneficiary;
(3) A natural or adoptive parent of a disabled individual (as defined in section 1614(a)(3) of the Act) eligible for title XVI benefits who primarily resides in the same household as the beneficiary; or
(4) The spouse of an individual eligible for title XVI benefits.
(c) We may verify how your representative payee used your benefits. Your representative payee should keep records of how benefits were used in order to make accounting reports and must make those records available upon our request. If your representative payee fails to provide an annual accounting of benefits or other required reports, we may require your payee to receive your benefits in person at the local Social Security field office or a United States Government facility that we designate serving the area in which you reside. The decision to have your representative payee receive your benefits in person may be based on a variety of reasons. Some of these reasons may include the payee's history of past performance or our past difficulty in contacting the payee. We may ask your representative payee to give us the following information:
(1) Where you lived during the accounting period;
(2) Who made the decisions on how your benefits were spent or saved;
(3) How your benefit payments were used; and
(4) How much of your benefit payments were saved and how the savings were invested.
[87 FR 35654, June 13, 2022]

# Subpart G—Reports Required

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1320a-8a, 1320e-3, 1382, 1382a, 1382b, 1382c, and 1383; sec. 211, Pub. L. 93-66, 87 Stat. 154 (42 U.S.C. 1382 note); sec. 202, Pub. L. 108-203, 118 Stat. 509 (42 U.S.C. 902 note).

# Source:
46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, unless otherwise noted.

# Introduction
§ 416.701
Scope of subpart.
(a)
Report provisions.
The Social Security Administration, to achieve efficient administration of the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program for the Aged, Blind, and Disabled, requires that you (or your representative) must report certain events to us. It is important for us to know about these events because they may affect your continued eligibility for SSI benefits or the amount of your benefits.This subpart tells you what events you must report; what your reports must include; when reports are due; and when certain reporting requirements, and penalties relating to reporting requirements, do not apply. The rules regarding reports are in §§ 416.704 through 416.714.
(b)
Penalty deductions.
If you fail to make a required report when it is due, you may suffer a penalty. This subpart describes the penalties; discusses when we may impose them; and explains that we will not impose a penalty if you have good cause for failing to report timely. The rules regarding penalties are in §§ 416.722 through 416.732.
[46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 89 FR 107259, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 416.702
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart—
Essential person
means someone whose presence was believed to be necessary for your welfare under the State program that preceded the SSI program. (See §§ 416.220 through 416.223 of this part.)
Parent
means a natural parent, an adoptive parent, or the spouse of a natural or adoptive parent.
Participating payroll data provider
means a payroll data provider that has established an information exchange with us to provide wage and employment information.
Payroll data provider
means payroll providers, wage verification companies, and other commercial or non-commercial entities that collect and maintain
information regarding employment and wages.
Representative payee
means an individual, an agency, or an institution selected by us to receive and manage SSI benefits on your behalf. (See subpart F of this part for details describing when a representative payee is selected and a representative payee's responsibilities.)
Residence in the United States
means that your permanent home is in the United States.
United States
or
U.S.
means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the Northern Mariana Islands.
We, Us,
or
Our
means the Social Security Administration.
You
or
Your
means an applicant, an eligible individual, an eligible spouse, or an eligible child.
[46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 65 FR 16814, Mar. 30, 2000; 89 FR 107259, Dec. 31, 2024]

# Report Provisions
§ 416.704
Who must make reports.
(a) You are responsible for making required reports to us if you are—
(1) An eligible individual (see § 416.120(c)(13));
(2) An eligible spouse (see § 416.120(c)(14));
(3) An eligible child (see §§ 416.120(c)(13) and 416.1856); or
(4) An applicant awaiting a final determination upon an application.
(b) If you have a representative payee, and you have not been legally adjudged incompetent, either you or your representative payee must make the required reports.
(c) If you have a representative payee and you have been legally adjudged incompetent, you are not responsible for making reports to us; however, your representative payee is responsible for making required reports to us.
[46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 10616, Mar. 28, 1986]
§ 416.708
What you must report.
This section describes the events that you must report to us. They are—
(a)
A change of address.
You must report to us any change in your mailing address and any change in the address where you live.
(b)
A change in living arrangements.
You must report to us any change in the make-up of your household: That is, any person who comes to live in your household and any person who moves out of your household.
(c)
A change in income.
(1) Unless the circumstances in § 416.709(a) and (c) apply, you must report to us any increase or decrease in your income and any increase or decrease in the income of—
(i) Your ineligible spouse who lives with you;
(ii) Your essential person;
(iii) Your parent, if you are an eligible child and your parent lives with you; or
(iv) An ineligible child who lives with you.
(2) However, you need not report an increase in your Social Security benefits if the increase is only a cost-of-living adjustment. (For a complete discussion of what we consider income, see subpart K of this part. See § 416.1323 regarding suspension because of excess income.) If you receive benefits based on disability, when you or your representative report changes in your earned income, we will issue a receipt to you or your representative.
(d)
A change in resources.
You must report to us any resources you receive or part with, and any resources received or parted with by—
(1) Your ineligible spouse who lives with you;
(2) Your essential person; or
(3) Your parent, if you are an eligible child and your parent lives with you. (For a complete discussion of what we consider a resource, see subpart L. See subpart M, § 416.1324 regarding suspension because of excess resources.)
(e)
Eligibility for other benefits.
You must report to us your eligibility for benefits other than SSI benefits. See §§ 416.210 and 416.1330 regarding your responsibility to apply for any other benefits for which you may be eligible.
(f)
Certain deaths.
(1) If you are an eligible individual, you must report the death of your eligible spouse, the death of your ineligible spouse who was living with you, and the death of any other person who was living with you.
(2) If you are an eligible spouse, you must report the death of your spouse,
and the death of any other person who was living with you.
(3) If you are an eligible child, you must report the death of a parent who was living with you, and the death of any other person who was living with you.
(4) If you are a representative payee, you must report the death of an eligible individual, eligible spouse, or eligible child whom you represent; and the death of any other person who was living in the household of the individual you represent.
(5) If you have a representative payee, you must report the death of your representative payee.
(g)
A change in marital status.
You must report to us—
(1) Your marriage, your divorce, or the annulment of your marriage;
(2) The marriage, divorce, or annulment of marriage of your parent who lives with you, if you are an eligible child;
(3) The marriage of an ineligible child who lives with you, if you are an eligible child; and
(4) The marriage of an ineligible child who lives with you if you are an eligible individual living with an ineligible spouse.
(h)
Medical improvements.
If you are eligible for SSI benefits because of disability or blindness, you must report any improvement in your medical condition to us.
(i) [Reserved]
(j)
Refusal to accept treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism; discontinuance of treatment.
If you have been medically determined to be a drug addict or an alcoholic, and you refuse to accept treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism at an approved facility or institution, or if you discontinue treatment, you must report your refusal or discontinuance to us.
(k)
Admission to or discharge from a medical treatment facility, public institution, or private institution.
You must report to us your admission to or discharge from—
(1) A medical treatment facility; or
(2) A public institution (defined in § 416.201); or
(3) A private institution.
Private institution
means an institution as defined in § 416.201 which is not administered by or the responsibility of a governmental unit.
(l)
A change in school attendance.
You must report to us—
(1) A change in your school attendance if you are an eligible child;
(2) A change in school attendance of an ineligible child who is at least age 18 but less than 21 and who lives with you if you are an eligible child; and
(3) A change in school attendance of an ineligible child who is at least age 18 but less than 21 and who lives with you if you are an eligible individual living with an ineligible spouse.
(m)
A termination of residence in the U.S.
You must report to us if you leave the United States voluntarily with the intention of abandoning your residence in the United States or you leave the United States involuntarily (for example, you are deported).
(n)
Leaving the U.S. temporarily.
You must report to us if you leave the United States for 30 or more consecutive days or for a full calendar month (without the intention of abandoning your residence in the U.S.).
(o)
Fleeing to avoid criminal prosecution or custody or confinement after conviction, or violating probation or parole.
You must report to us that you are—
(1) Fleeing to avoid prosecution for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State);
(2) Fleeing to avoid custody or confinement after conviction for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, which is a felony under the laws of the place from which you flee (or which, in the case of the State of New Jersey, is a high misdemeanor under the laws of that State); or
(3) Violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law.
[46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 51 FR 10616, Mar. 14, 1986; 65 FR 40495, June 30, 2000; 68 FR 40124, July 7, 2003; 71 FR 66866, Nov. 17, 2006; 72 FR 50874, Sept. 5, 2007; 89 FR 107259, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 416.709
Reduced reporting requirements when you authorize us to obtain your information from payroll data providers.
(a)
Authorization to obtain data from a payroll data provider.
We will ask you for written authorization to obtain information about you from a payroll data provider whenever we determine the information is needed in connection with a determination of initial or ongoing eligibility for benefits.
(b)
Scope and duration.
When we ask for your authorization, we will explain the authorization's scope and duration.
(1) We will explain to you that we will use information obtained from a payroll data provider, when it is needed, in connection with a determination of eligibility or the amount of benefits under this title, or for the initial or ongoing entitlement to disability benefits under title II of the Social Security Act, and to prevent improper payments. We will explain to you that we may also use the authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider for claims associated with the claim filed, such as an SSI claim by a spouse or child. We will also explain that we may use and disclose your information consistent with applicable Federal law (see part 401 of this chapter) and any privacy notices we provide to you.
(2) We will also inform you that your authorization will remain effective until the earliest of one of the following occurrences:
(i) You revoke your authorization in writing (see paragraph (c)(4) of this section);
(ii) We have terminated all eligibility for benefits and you have no other claims or appeals pending under this title, and the period for appealing the determination or decision terminating entitlement has lapsed;
(iii) There has been an adverse determination or decision on your claim, you have no other claims or appeals pending under this title, and the period for appealing the determination or decision terminating eligibility has lapsed; or
(iv) Your deeming relationship ends.
(c)
When reporting requirements will change.
We will notify you in writing whenever there is a change in your reporting responsibilities relating to the authorization described in paragraph (a) of this section. Whenever we are getting your wage and employment information from a payroll data provider, we will tell you that you are not subject to a penalty of ineligibility for cash benefits described in § 416.1340 related to any wage and employment information we get from a payroll data provider. We will also tell you when we will find good cause, under § 416.732, for a failure or delay in reporting a change in employer.
(1) If we have your authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider as described in paragraph (a) of this section, and we receive your wage and employment information from your employer(s) through a participating payroll data provider, you will not have to report changes in your wages paid in cash, as defined in § 416.1110(a), from that employer(s). Also, you will not have to report an increase in the amount of work from that employer or an increase in earnings from that employer, as described in § 416.988(a)(4) and (5). All other reporting requirements still apply.
(2) If we have your authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider as described in paragraph (a) of this section, but we do not receive your wage and employment information from your employer(s) through a participating payroll data provider, we will not reduce your reporting responsibilities.
(3) If we have your authorization to obtain wage and employment information from a payroll data provider as described in paragraph (a) of this section, and you have more than one employer,
(i) You do not need to report wages paid in cash, or an increase in the amount of work or earnings, for an employer if we receive your wage and employment information for that employer through a participating payroll data provider, and
(ii) You must still report wages paid in cash, or an increase in the amount of work or earnings, for an employer if we do not receive your wage and employment information for that employer through a participating payroll data provider.
(4) You may revoke your authorization at any time, but you must do so in writing. We will apply the revocation to all pending or approved claims under this title as well as all pending or approved disability claims under title II from the time we process your revocation. If you revoke your authorization, all your reporting responsibilities will resume; you will again be subject to all related penalties; and we may not find good cause, under § 416.732, for a failure to report timely a change in employer. We will notify you in writing of these changes.
[89 FR 107260, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 416.710
What reports must include.
When you make a report you must tell us—
(a) The name and social security number under which benefits are paid;
(b) The name of the person about whom you are reporting;
(c) The event you are reporting and the date it happened; and
(d) Your name.
§ 416.712
Form of the report.
You may make a report in any of the ways described in this section.
(a)
Written reports.
You may write a report on your own paper or on a printed form supplied by us. You may mail a written report or bring it to one of our offices.
(b)
Oral reports.
You may report to us by telephone, or you may come to one of our offices and tell one of our employees what you are reporting.
(c)
Other forms.
You may use any other suitable method of reporting—for example, a telegram or a cable.
§ 416.714
When reports are due.
(a)
A reportable event happens.
You should report to us as soon as an event listed in § 416.708 happens. If you do not report within 10 days after the close of the month in which the event happens, your report will be late. We may impose a penalty deduction from your benefits for a late report (see §§ 416.722 through 416.732).
(b)
We request a report.
We may request a report from you if we need information to determine continuing eligibility or the correct amount of your SSI benefit payments. If you do not report within 30 days of our written request, we may determine that you are ineligible to receive SSI benefits. We will suspend your benefits effective with the month following the month in which we determine that you are ineligible to receive SSI benefits because of your failure to give us necessary information.
[46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 48573, Nov. 26, 1985]

# Penalty Deductions
§ 416.722
Circumstances under which we make a penalty deduction.
A penalty deduction is made from your benefits if—
(a) You fail to make a required report on time (see §§ 416.708 and 416.714);
(b) We must reduce, suspend, or terminate your benefits because of the event you have not reported;
(c) You received and accepted an SSI benefit for the penalty period (see §§ 416.724 through 416.728 for penalty period definitions); and
(d) You do not have good cause for not reporting on time (see § 416.732).
§ 416.724
Amounts of penalty deductions.
(a)
Amounts deducted.
If we find that we must impose a penalty deduction, you will lose from your SSI benefits a total amount of—
(1) $25 for a report overdue in the first penalty period;
(2) $50 for a report overdue in the second penalty period; and
(3) $100 for a report overdue in the third (or any following) penalty period.
(b)
Limit on number of penalties.
Even though more than one required report is overdue from you at the end of a penalty period, we will limit the number of penalty deductions imposed to one penalty deduction for any one penalty period.
§ 416.726
Penalty period: First failure to report.
(a)
First penalty period.
The first penalty period begins on the first day of the month you apply for SSI benefits and ends on the day we first learn that you should have made a required report, but did not do so within 10 days after the close of the month in which
the event happened. There may be more than one required report overdue at the end of the first penalty period, but we will impose no more than one penalty deduction for the period.
(b)
Extension of first penalty period.
If you have good cause for not making a report on time (see § 416.732), we will extend the first penalty period to the day when we learn that you should have made another required report, but did not do so within 10 days after the close of the month in which the event happened. There may be more than one required report overdue at the end of the extended first penalty period, but we will impose no more than one penalty deduction for the extended period.
[46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 48573, Nov. 26, 1985]
§ 416.728
Penalty period: Second failure to report.
(a)
Second penalty period.
The second penalty period begins on the day after the first penalty period ends. The second penalty period ends on the day we first learn that you should have made a required report, but did not do so within 10 days after the close of the month in which the event happened. (The event may have happened during the first penalty period, with the reporting due date in the second penalty period. The due date and the failure to report on time are the important factors in establishing a penalty period.) There may be more than one required report overdue at the end of the second penalty period, but we will impose no more than one penalty deduction for the period.
(b)
Extension of second penalty period.
If you have good cause for not making a report on time (see § 416.732), we will extend the second penalty period to the day when we learn that you should have made another required report, but did not do so within 10 days after the close of the month in which the event happened. There may be more than one required report overdue at the end of the extended second penalty period, but we will impose no more than one penalty deduction for the extended period.
[46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 48573, Nov. 26, 1985]
§ 416.730
Penalty period: Three or more failures to report.
(a)
Third (or a following) penalty period.
A third (or a following) penalty period begins the day after the last penalty period ends. This penalty period ends on the day we first learn that you should have made a required report during the penalty period, but did not do so within 10 days after the close of the month in which the event happened. (The event may have happened during an earlier penalty period, with the reporting due date in the third (or a following) penalty period. The due date and the failure to report on time are the important factors in establishing a penalty period.) There may be more than one required report overdue at the end of a penalty period, but we will impose no more than one penalty deduction for any one penalty period.
(b)
Extension of third (or a following) penalty period.
Just as with the first and second penalty periods, if you have good cause for not making a report on time during the third (or a following) penalty period (see § 416.732), we will extend the penalty period to the day when we learn that you should have made another required report, but did not do so within 10 days after the close of the month in which the event happened. There may be more than one required report overdue at the end of an extended penalty period, but we will impose no more than one penalty deduction for any one extended penalty period.
[46 FR 5873, Jan. 21, 1981, as amended at 50 FR 48573, Nov. 26, 1985]
§ 416.732
No penalty deduction if you have good cause for failure to report timely.
(a) We will find that you have good cause for failure to report timely and we will not impose a penalty deduction, if—
(1) You are “without fault” as defined in § 416.552; or
(2) Your failure or delay in reporting is not willful. “Not willful” means that—
(i) You did not have full knowledge of the existence of your obligation to make a required report; or
(ii) You did not intentionally, knowingly, and purposely fail to make a required report.
However, in either case we may require that you refund an overpayment caused by your failure to report. See subpart E of this part for waiver of recovery of overpayments.
(b) In determining whether you have good cause for failure to report timely, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) you may have.
[59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994]

# Subpart H—Determination of Age

# Authority:
Secs. 702(a)(5), 1601, 1614(a)(1) and 1631 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 902(a)(5), 1381, 1382c(a)(1), and 1383).

# Source:
39 FR 12731, Apr. 8, 1974, unless otherwise noted.
§ 416.801
Evidence as to age—when required.
An applicant for benefits under title XVI of the Act shall file supporting evidence showing the date of his birth if his age is a condition of eligibility for benefits or is otherwise relevant to the payment of benefits pursuant to such title XVI. Such evidence may also be required by the Administration as to the age of any other individual when such other individual's age is relevant to the determination of the applicant's eligibility or benefit amount. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, if the applicant alleges that he is at least 68 years of age and submits any documentary evidence at least 3 years old which supports his allegation, no further evidence of his age is required. In the absence of evidence to the contrary, if a State required reasonably acceptable evidence of age and provides a statement as to an applicant's age, no further evidence of his age is required unless a statistically valid quality control sample has shown that a State's determination of age procedures do not yield an acceptable low rate of error.
§ 416.802
Type of evidence to be submitted.
Where an individual is required to submit evidence of date of birth as indicated in § 416.801, he shall submit a public record of birth or a religious record of birth or baptism established or recorded before his fifth birthday, if available. Where no such document recorded or established before age 5 is available the individual shall submit as evidence of age another document or documents which may serve as the basis for a determination of the individual's date of birth provided such evidence is corroborated by other evidence or by information in the records of the Administration.
§ 416.803
Evaluation of evidence.
Generally, the highest probative value will be accorded to a public record of birth or a religious record of birth or baptism established or recorded before age 5. Where such record is not available, and other documents are submitted as evidence of age, in determining their probative value, consideration will be given to when such other documents were established or recorded, and the circumstances attending their establishment or recordation. Among the documents which may be submitted for such purpose are: school record, census record, Bible or other family record, church record of baptism or confirmation in youth or early adult life, insurance policy, marriage record, employment record, labor union record, fraternal organization record, military record, voting record, vaccination record, delayed birth certificate, birth certificate of child of applicant, physician's or midwife's record of birth, immigration record, naturalization record, or passport.
§ 416.804
Certified copy in lieu of original.
In lieu of the original of any record, except a Bible or other family record, there may be submitted as evidence of age a copy of such record or a statement as to the date of birth shown by such record, which has been duly certified (see § 404.701(g) of this chapter).
§ 416.805
When additional evidence may be required.
If the evidence submitted is not convincing, additional evidence may be required.
§ 416.806
Expedited adjudication based on documentary evidence of age.
Where documentary evidence of age recorded at least 3 years before the application is filed, which reasonably supports an aged applicant's allegation as to his age, is submitted, payment of benefits may be initiated even though additional evidence of age may be required by §§ 416.801 through 416.805. The applicant will be advised that additional evidence is required and that, if it is subsequently established that the prior finding of age is incorrect, the applicant will be liable for refund of any overpayment he has received. If any of the evidence initially submitted tends to show that the age of the applicant or such other person does not correspond with the alleged age, no benefits will be paid until the evidence required by §§ 416.801 through 416.805 is submitted.

# Subpart I—Determining Disability and Blindness

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 421(m), 902(a)(5), 1382, 1382c, 1382h, 1383, and 1383b; secs. 4(c) and 5, 6(c)-(e), 14(a), and 15, Pub. L. 98-460, 98 Stat. 1794, 1801, 1802, and 1808 (42 U.S.C. 421 note, 423 note, and 1382h note).

# Source:
45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, unless otherwise noted.

# General
§ 416.901
Scope of subpart.
In order for you to become entitled to any benefits based upon disability or blindness you must be disabled or blind as defined in title XVI of the Social Security Act. This subpart explains how we determine whether you are disabled or blind. We have organized the rules in the following way.
(a) We define general terms, then discuss who makes our disability or blindness determinations and state that disability and blindness determinations made under other programs are not binding on our determinations.
(b) We explain the term
disability
and note some of the major factors that are considered in determining whether you are disabled in §§ 416.905 through 416.910.
(c) Sections 416.912 through 416.918 contain our rules on evidence. We explain your responsibilities for submitting evidence of your impairment, state what we consider to be acceptable sources of medical evidence, and describe what information should be included in medical reports.
(d) Our general rules on evaluating disability for adults filing new applications are stated in §§ 416.920 through 416.923. We describe the steps that we go through and the order in which they are considered.
(e) Our general rules on evaluating disability for children filing new applications are stated in § 416.924.
(f) Our rules on medical considerations are found in §§ 416.925 through 416.930. We explain in these rules—
(1) The purpose and use of the Listing of Impairments found in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter;
(2) What we mean by the terms
medical equivalence
and
functional equivalence
and how we make those findings;
(3) The effect of a conclusion by your physician that you are disabled;
(4) What we mean by symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings;
(5) How we evaluate pain and other symptoms; and
(6) The effect on your benefits if you fail to follow treatment that is expected to restore your ability to work or, if you are a child, to reduce your functional limitations to the point that they are no longer marked and severe, and how we apply the rule in § 416.930.
(g) In §§ 416.931 through 416.934 we explain that we may make payments on the basis of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness.
(h) In §§ 416.935 through 416.939 we explain the rules which apply in cases of drug addiction and alcoholism.
(i) In §§ 416.945 through 416.946 we explain what we mean by the term
residual functional capacity,
state when an assessment of residual functional capacity is required, and who may make it.
(j) Our rules on vocational considerations are in §§ 416.960 through 416.969a. We explain in these rules—
(1) When we must consider vocational factors along with the medical evidence;
(2) How we use our residual functional capacity assessment to determine if you can still do your past relevant work or other work;
(3) How we consider the vocational factors of age, education, and work experience;
(4) What we mean by “work which exists in the national economy”;
(5) How we consider the exertional, nonexertional, and skill requirements of work, and when we will consider the limitations or restrictions that result from your impairment(s) and related symptoms to be exertional, nonexertional, or a combination of both; and
(6) How we use the Medical-Vocational Guidelines in appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
(k) Our rules on substantial gainful activity are found in §§ 416.971 through 416.974. These explain what we mean by substantial gainful activity and how we evaluate your work activity.
(l) In §§ 416.981 through 416.985 we discuss blindness.
(m) Our rules on when disability or blindness continues and stops are contained in §§ 416.986 and 416.988 through 416.998. We explain what your responsibilities are in telling us of any events that may cause a change in your disability or blindness status and when we will review to see if you are still disabled. We also explain how we consider the issue of medical improvement (and the exceptions to medical improvement) in determining whether you are still disabled.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 50136, Dec. 6, 1985; 56 FR 5553, Feb. 11, 1991; 56 FR 57944, Nov. 14, 1991; 62 FR 6420, Feb. 11, 1997; 65 FR 42788, July 11, 2000; 65 FR 54777, Sept. 11, 2000; 68 FR 51164, Aug. 26, 2003]
§ 416.902
Definitions for this subpart.
As used in the subpart—
(a)
Acceptable medical source
means a medical source who is a:
(1) Licensed physician (medical or osteopathic doctor);
(2) Licensed psychologist, which includes:
(i) A licensed or certified psychologist at the independent practice level; or
(ii) A licensed or certified school psychologist, or other licensed or certified individual with another title who performs the same function as a school psychologist in a school setting, for impairments of intellectual disability, learning disabilities, and borderline intellectual functioning only;
(3) Licensed optometrist for impairments of visual disorders, or measurement of visual acuity and visual fields only, depending on the scope of practice in the State in which the optometrist practices;
(4) Licensed podiatrist for impairments of the foot, or foot and ankle only, depending on whether the State in which the podiatrist practices permits the practice of podiatry on the foot only, or the foot and ankle;
(5) Qualified speech-language pathologist for speech or language impairments only. For this source,
qualified
means that the speech-language pathologist must be licensed by the State professional licensing agency, or be fully certified by the State education agency in the State in which he or she practices, or hold a Certificate of Clinical Competence in Speech-Language Pathology from the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association;
(6) Licensed audiologist for impairments of hearing loss, auditory processing disorders, and balance disorders within the licensed scope of practice only (with respect to claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017);
(7) Licensed Advanced Practice Registered Nurse, or other licensed advanced practice nurse with another title, for impairments within his or her licensed scope of practice (only with respect to claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017); or
(8) Licensed Physician Assistant for impairments within his or her licensed scope of practice (only with respect to claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017).
(b)
Adult
means a person who is age 18 or older.
(c)
Child
means a person who has not attained age 18.
(d)
Commissioner
means the Commissioner of Social Security or his or her authorized designee.
(e)
Disability redetermination
means a redetermination of your eligibility based on disability using the rules for new applicants appropriate to your age, except the rules pertaining to performance of substantial gainful activity. For individuals who are working and for whom a disability redetermination is required, we will apply the rules in §§ 416.260 through 416.269. In conducting a disability redetermination, we will not use the rules for determining whether disability continues set forth in § 416.994 or § 416.994a. (See § 416.987.)
(f)
Impairment(s)
means a medically determinable physical or mental impairment or a combination of medically determinable physical or mental impairments.
(g)
Laboratory findings
means one or more anatomical, physiological, or psychological phenomena that can be shown by the use of medically acceptable laboratory diagnostic techniques. Diagnostic techniques include chemical tests (such as blood tests), electrophysiological studies (such as electrocardiograms and electroencephalograms), medical imaging (such as X-rays), and psychological tests.
(h)
Marked and severe functional limitations,
when used as a phrase, means the standard of disability in the Social Security Act for children claiming SSI benefits based on disability. It is a level of severity that meets, medically equals, or functionally equals the listings. (See §§ 416.906, 416.924, and 416.926a.) The words “marked” and “severe” are also separate terms used throughout this subpart to describe measures of functional limitations; the term “marked” is also used in the listings. (See §§ 416.924 and 416.926a.) The meaning of the words “marked” and “severe” when used as part of the phrase marked and severe functional limitations is not the same as the meaning of the separate terms “marked” and “severe” used elsewhere in 404 and 416. (See §§ 416.924(c) and 416.926a(e).)
(i)
Medical source
means an individual who is licensed as a healthcare worker by a State and working within the scope of practice permitted under State or Federal law, or an individual who is certified by a State as a speech-language pathologist or a school psychologist and acting within the scope of practice permitted under State or Federal law.
(j)
Nonmedical source
means a source of evidence who is not a medical source. This includes, but is not limited to:
(1) You;
(2) Educational personnel (for example, school teachers, counselors, early intervention team members, developmental center workers, and daycare center workers);
(3) Public and private social welfare agency personnel; and
(4) Family members, caregivers, friends, neighbors, employers, and clergy.
(k)
Objective medical evidence
means signs, laboratory findings, or both.
(l)
Signs
means one or more anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities that can be observed, apart from your statements (symptoms). Signs must be shown by medically acceptable clinical diagnostic techniques. Psychiatric signs are medically demonstrable phenomena that indicate specific psychological abnormalities, e.g., abnormalities of behavior, mood, thought, memory, orientation, development, or perception and must also be shown by observable facts that can be medically described and evaluated.
(m)
State agency
means an agency of a State designated by that State to carry out the disability or blindness determination function.
(n)
Symptoms
means your own description of your physical or mental impairment.
(o)
The listings
means the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter. When we refer to an impairment(s) that “meets, medically equals, or functionally equals the listings,” we mean that the impairment(s) meets or medically equals the severity of any listing in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, as explained in §§ 416.925 and 416.926, or that it functionally equals the severity of the listings, as explained in § 416.926a.
(p)
We
or
us
means, as appropriate, either the Social Security Administration or the State agency making the disability or blindness determination.
(q)
You, your,
me, my
and
I
mean, as appropriate, the person who applies for benefits, the person for whom an application is filed, or the person who is receiving benefits based on disability or blindness.
[82 FR 5873, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 83 FR 51836, Oct. 15, 2018]

# Determinations
§ 416.903
Who makes disability and blindness determinations.
(a)
State agencies.
State agencies make disability and blindness determinations for the Commissioner for most persons living in the State. State agencies make these disability and blindness determinations under regulations containing performance standards and other administrative requirements relating to the disability and blindness determination function. States have the option of turning the function over to the Federal Government if they no longer want to make disability determinations. Also, the Commissioner may take the function away from any State which has substantially failed to make disability and blindness determinations in accordance with these regulations. Subpart J of this part contains the rules the States must follow in making disability and blindness determinations.
(b)
Social Security Administration.
The Social Security Administration will make disability and blindness determinations for—
(1) Any person living in a State which is not making for the Commissioner any disability and blindness determinations or which is not making those determinations for the class of claimants to which that person belongs; and
(2) Any person living outside the United States.
(c)
What determinations are authorized.
The Commissioner has authorized the State agencies and the Social Security Administration to make determinations about—
(1) Whether you are disabled or blind;
(2) The date your disability or blindness began; and
(3) The date your disability or blindness stopped.
(d)
Review of State agency determinations.
On review of a State agency determination or redetermination of disability or blindness we may find that—
(1) You are, or are not, disabled or blind, regardless of what the State agency found;
(2) Your disability or blindness began earlier or later than the date found by the State agency; and
(3) Your disability or blindness stopped earlier or later than the date found by the State agency.
(e)
Determinations for childhood impairments.
In making a determination under title XVI with respect to the disability of a child, we will make reasonable efforts to ensure that a qualified pediatrician or other individual who specializes in a field of medicine appropriate to the child's impairment(s) evaluates the case of the child.
[46 FR 29211, May 29, 1981, as amended at 52 FR 33927, Sept. 9, 1987; 58 FR 47577, Sept. 9, 1993; 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997; 65 FR 34958, June 1, 2000; 71 FR 16458, Mar. 31, 2006; 72 FR 51178, Sept. 6, 2007; 82 FR 5874, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.903a
Program integrity.
We will not use in our program any individual or entity, except to provide existing medical evidence, who is currently excluded, suspended, or otherwise barred from participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or any other Federal or Federally-assisted program; whose license to provide health care services is currently revoked or suspended by any State licensing authority pursuant to adequate due process procedures for reasons bearing on professional competence, professional conduct, or financial integrity; or who until a final determination is made has surrendered such a license while formal disciplinary proceedings involving professional conduct are pending. By individual or entity we mean a medical or psychological consultant, consultative examination provider, or diagnostic test facility. Also see §§ 416.919 and 416.919g(b).
[56 FR 36963, Aug. 1, 1991]
§ 416.903b
Evidence from excluded medical sources of evidence.
(a)
General.
We will not consider evidence from the following medical sources excluded under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Social Security Act (Act), as amended, unless we find good cause under paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) Any medical source that has been convicted of a felony under section 208 or under section 1632 of the Act;
(2) Any medical source that has been excluded from participation in any Federal health care program under section 1128 of the Act; or
(3) Any medical source that has received a final decision imposing a civil monetary penalty or assessment, or both, for submitting false evidence under section 1129 of the Act.
(b)
Good cause.
We may find good cause to consider evidence from an excluded medical source of evidence under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Act, as amended, if:
(1) The evidence from the medical source consists of evidence of treatment that occurred before the date the source was convicted of a felony under section 208 or under section 1632 of the Act;
(2) The evidence from the medical source consists of evidence of treatment that occurred during a period in which the source was not excluded from participation in any Federal health care program under section 1128 of the Act;
(3) The evidence from the medical source consists of evidence of treatment that occurred before the date the source received a final decision imposing a civil monetary penalty or assessment, or both, for submitting false evidence under section 1129 of the Act;
(4) The sole basis for the medical source's exclusion under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Act, as amended, is that the source cannot participate in any Federal health care program under section 1128 of the Act, but the Office of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services granted a waiver of the section 1128 exclusion; or
(5) The evidence is a laboratory finding about a physical impairment and there is no indication that the finding is unreliable.
(c)
Reporting requirements for excluded medical sources of evidence.
Excluded medical sources of evidence (as described in paragraph (a) of this section) must inform us in writing that they are excluded under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Act, as amended, each time they submit evidence related to a claim for initial or continuing benefits under titles II or XVI of the Act. This reporting requirement applies to evidence that excluded medical sources of evidence submit to us either directly or through a representative, claimant, or other individual or entity.
(1) Excluded medical sources of evidence must provide a written statement, which contains the following information:
(i) A heading stating: “WRITTEN STATEMENT REGARDING SECTION 223(d)(5)(C) OF THE SOCIAL SECURITY ACT—DO NOT REMOVE”
(ii) The name and title of the medical source;
(iii) The applicable excluding event(s) stated in paragraph (a)(1)-(a)(3) of this section;
(iv) The date of the medical source's felony conviction under sections 208 or 1632 of the Act, if applicable;
(v) The date of the imposition of a civil monetary penalty or assessment, or both, for the submission of false evidence, under section 1129 of the Act, if applicable; and
(vi) The basis, effective date, anticipated length of the exclusion, and whether the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human Services waived the exclusion, if the excluding event was the medical source's exclusion from participation in any Federal health care program under section 1128 of the Act.
(2) The written statement provided by an excluded medical source of evidence may not be removed by any individual or entity prior to submitting evidence to us.
(3) We may request that the excluded medical source of evidence provide us with additional information or clarify any information submitted that bears on the medical source's exclusion(s)
under section 223(d)(5)(C)(i) of the Act, as amended.
[81 FR 65540, Sept. 23, 2016]
§ 416.904
Decisions by other governmental agencies and nongovernmental entities.
Other governmental agencies and nongovernmental entities—such as the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, the Department of Labor, the Office of Personnel Management, State agencies, and private insurers—make disability, blindness, employability, Medicaid, workers' compensation, and other benefits decisions for their own programs using their own rules. Because a decision by any other governmental agency or a nongovernmental entity about whether you are disabled, blind, employable, or entitled to any benefits is based on its rules, it is not binding on us and is not our decision about whether you are disabled or blind under our rules. Therefore, in claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017, we will not provide any analysis in our determination or decision about a decision made by any other governmental agency or a nongovernmental entity about whether you are disabled, blind, employable, or entitled to any benefits. However, we will consider all of the supporting evidence underlying the other governmental agency or nongovernmental entity's decision that we receive as evidence in your claim in accordance with § 416.913(a)(1) through (4).
[82 FR 5874, Jan. 18, 2017, as amended at 82 FR 15132, Mar. 27, 2017]

# Definition of Disability
§ 416.905
Basic definition of disability for adults.
(a) The law defines disability as the inability to do any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. To meet this definition, you must have a severe impairment(s) that makes you unable to do your past relevant work (see § 416.960(b)) or any other substantial gainful work that exists in the national economy. If your severe impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal a listing in appendix 1 to subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, we will assess your residual functional capacity as provided in §§ 416.920(e) and 416.945. (
See
§ 416.920(g)(2) and 416.962 for an exception to this rule.) We will use this residual functional capacity assessment to determine if you can do your past relevant work. If we find that you cannot do your past relevant work, we will use the same residual functional capacity assessment and your vocational factors of age, education, and work experience to determine if you can do other work. (
See
§ 416.920(h) for an exception to this rule.)
(b) There are different rules for determining disability for individuals who are statutorily blind. We discuss these in §§ 416.981 through 416.985.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 56 FR 5553, Feb. 11, 1991; 68 FR 51164, Aug. 26, 2003; 77 FR 43495, July 25, 2012]
§ 416.906
Basic definition of disability for children.
If you are under age 18, we will consider you disabled if you have a medically determinable physical or mental impairment or combination of impairments that causes marked and severe functional limitations, and that can be expected to cause death or that has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, if you file a new application for benefits and you are engaging in substantial gainful activity, we will not consider you disabled. We discuss our rules for determining disability in children who file new applications in §§ 416.924 through 416.924b and §§ 416.925 through 416.926a.
[62 FR 6421, Feb. 11, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 54777, Sept. 11, 2000]
§ 416.907
Disability under a State plan.
You will also be considered disabled for payment of supplemental security income benefits if—
(a) You were found to be permanently and totally disabled as defined under a State plan approved under title XIV or XVI of the Social Security Act, as in effect for October 1972;
(b) You received aid under the State plan because of your disability for the month of December 1973 and for at least one month before July 1973; and
(c) You continue to be disabled as defined under the State plan.
§ 416.908
[Reserved]
§ 416.909
How long the impairment must last.
Unless your impairment is expected to result in death, it must have lasted or must be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months. We call this the duration requirement.
§ 416.910
Meaning of substantial gainful activity.
Substantial gainful activity means work that—
(a) Involves doing significant and productive physical or mental duties; and
(b) Is done (or intended) for pay or profit.
(See § 416.972 for further details about what we mean by substantial gainful activity.)
§ 416.911
Definition of disabling impairment.
(a) If you are an adult:
(1) A disabling impairment is an impairment (or combination of impairments) which, of itself, is so severe that it meets or equals a set of criteria in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter or which, when considered with your age, education and work experience, would result in a finding that you are disabled under § 416.994, unless the disability redetermination rules in § 416.987(b) apply to you.
(2) If the disability redetermination rules in § 416.987 apply to you, a disabling impairment is an impairment or combination of impairments that meets the requirements in §§ 416.920 (c) through (f).
(b) If you are a child, a disabling impairment is an impairment (or combination of impairments) that causes marked and severe functional limitations. This means that the impairment or combination of impairments:
(1) Must meet, medically equal, or functionally equal the listings, or
(2) Would result in a finding that you are disabled under § 416.994a.
(c) In determining whether you have a disabling impairment, earnings are not considered.
[62 FR 6421, Feb. 11, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 54777, Sept. 11, 2000]

# Evidence
§ 416.912
Responsibility for evidence.
(a)
Your responsibility
—(1)
General.
In general, you have to prove to us that you are blind or disabled. You must inform us about or submit all evidence known to you that relates to whether or not you are blind or disabled (
see
§ 416.913). This duty is ongoing and requires you to disclose any additional related evidence about which you become aware. This duty applies at each level of the administrative review process, including the Appeals Council level if the evidence relates to the period on or before the date of the administrative law judge hearing decision. We will consider only impairment(s) you say you have or about which we receive evidence. When you submit evidence received from another source, you must submit that evidence in its entirety, unless you previously submitted the same evidence to us or we instruct you otherwise. If we ask you, you must inform us about:
(i) Your medical source(s);
(ii) Your age;
(iii) Your education and training;
(iv) Your work experience;
(v) Your daily activities both before and after the date you say that you became disabled;
(vi) Your efforts to work; and
(vii) Any other factors showing how your impairment(s) affects your ability to work, or, if you are a child, your functioning. In §§ 416.960 through 416.969, we discuss in more detail the evidence we need when we consider vocational factors.
(2)
Completeness.
The evidence in your case record must be complete and detailed enough to allow us to make a determination or decision about whether you are disabled or blind. It must allow us to determine—
(i) The nature and severity of your impairment(s) for any period in question;
(ii) Whether the duration requirement described in § 416.909 is met; and
(iii) Your residual functional capacity to do work-related physical and mental activities, when the evaluation steps described in §§ 416.920(e) or (f)(1) apply, or, if you are a child, how you typically function compared to children your age who do not have impairments.
(3)
Statutory blindness.
If you are applying for benefits on the basis of statutory blindness, we will require an examination by a physician skilled in diseases of the eye or by an optometrist, whichever you may select.
(b)
Our responsibility
—(1)
Development.
Before we make a determination that you are not disabled, we will develop your complete medical history for at least the 12 months preceding the month in which you file your application unless there is a reason to believe that development of an earlier period is necessary or unless you say that your disability began less than 12 months before you filed your application. We will make every reasonable effort to help you get medical evidence from your own medical sources and entities that maintain your medical sources' evidence when you give us permission to request the reports.
(i)
Every reasonable effort
means that we will make an initial request for evidence from your medical source or entity that maintains your medical source's evidence, and, at any time between 10 and 20 calendar days after the initial request, if the evidence has not been received, we will make one follow-up request to obtain the medical evidence necessary to make a determination. The medical source or entity that maintains your medical source's evidence will have a minimum of 10 calendar days from the date of our follow-up request to reply, unless our experience with that source indicates that a longer period is advisable in a particular case.
(ii)
Complete medical history
means the records of your medical source(s) covering at least the 12 months preceding the month in which you file your application. If you say that your disability began less than 12 months before you filed your application, we will develop your complete medical history beginning with the month you say your disability began unless we have reason to believe your disability began earlier.
(2)
Obtaining a consultative examination.
We may ask you to attend one or more consultative examinations at our expense. See §§ 416.917 through 416.919t for the rules governing the consultative examination process. Generally, we will not request a consultative examination until we have made every reasonable effort to obtain evidence from your own medical sources. We may order a consultative examination while awaiting receipt of medical source evidence in some instances, such as when we know a source is not productive, is uncooperative, or is unable to provide certain tests or procedures. We will not evaluate this evidence until we have made every reasonable effort to obtain evidence from your medical sources.
(3)
Other work.
In order to determine under § 416.920(g) that you are able to adjust to other work, we must provide evidence about the existence of work in the national economy that you can do (see §§ 416.960 through 416.969a), given your residual functional capacity (which we have already assessed, as described in § 416.920(e)), age, education, and work experience.
[82 FR 5874, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.913
Categories of evidence.
(a)
What we mean by evidence.
Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b), evidence is anything you or anyone else submits to us or that we obtain that relates to your claim. We consider evidence under §§ 416.920b, 416.920c (or under § 416.927 for claims filed (see § 416.325) before March 27, 2017). We evaluate evidence we receive according to the rules pertaining to the relevant category of evidence. The categories of evidence are:
(1)
Objective medical evidence.
Objective medical evidence is medical signs, laboratory findings, or both, as defined in § 416.902(k).
(2)
Medical opinion.
A medical opinion is a statement from a medical source about what you can still do despite your impairment(s) and whether you have one or more impairment-related limitations or restrictions in the abilities listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A)
through (D) and (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section. (For claims filed (see § 416.325) before March 27, 2017, see § 416.927(a) for the definition of medical opinion.)
(i) Medical opinions in adult claims are about impairment-related limitations and restrictions in:
(A) Your ability to perform physical demands of work activities, such as sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, pulling, or other physical functions (including manipulative or postural functions, such as reaching, handling, stooping, or crouching);
(B) Your ability to perform mental demands of work activities, such as understanding; remembering; maintaining concentration, persistence, or pace; carrying out instructions; or responding appropriately to supervision, co-workers, or work pressures in a work setting;
(C) Your ability to perform other demands of work, such as seeing, hearing, or using other senses; and
(D) Your ability to adapt to environmental conditions, such as temperature extremes or fumes.
(ii) Medical opinions in child claims are about impairment-related limitations and restrictions in your abilities in the six domains of functioning:
(A) Acquiring and using information (see § 416.926a(g));
(B) Attending and completing tasks (see § 416.926a(h));
(C) Interacting and relating with others (see § 416.926a(i));
(D) Moving about and manipulating objects (see § 416.926a(j));
(E) Caring for yourself (see § 416.926a(k)); and
(F) Health and physical well-being (see § 416.926a(l)).
(3)
Other medical evidence.
Other medical evidence is evidence from a medical source that is not objective medical evidence or a medical opinion, including judgments about the nature and severity of your impairments, your medical history, clinical findings, diagnosis, treatment prescribed with response, or prognosis. (For claims filed (see § 416.325) before March 27, 2017,
other medical evidence
does not include a diagnosis, prognosis, or a statement that reflects a judgment(s) about the nature and severity of your impairment(s)).
(4)
Evidence from nonmedical sources.
Evidence from nonmedical sources is any information or statement(s) from a nonmedical source (including you) about any issue in your claim. We may receive evidence from nonmedical sources either directly from the nonmedical source or indirectly, such as from forms we receive and our administrative records.
(5)
Prior administrative medical finding.
A prior administrative medical finding is a finding, other than the ultimate determination about whether you are disabled, about a medical issue made by our Federal and State agency medical and psychological consultants at a prior level of review (see § 416.1400) in your current claim based on their review of the evidence in your case record, such as:
(i) The existence and severity of your impairment(s);
(ii) The existence and severity of your symptoms;
(iii) Statements about whether your impairment(s) meets or medically equals any listing in the Listing of Impairments in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 1;
(iv) If you are a child, statements about whether your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 1;
(v) If you are an adult, your residual functional capacity;
(vi) Whether your impairment(s) meets the duration requirement; and
(vii) How failure to follow prescribed treatment (see § 416.930) and drug addiction and alcoholism (see § 416.935) relate to your claim.
(b)
Exceptions for privileged communications.
(1) The privileged communications listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section are not evidence, and we will neither consider nor provide any analysis about them in your determination or decision. This exception for privileged communications applies equally whether your representative is an attorney or a non-attorney.
(i) Oral or written communications between you and your representative that are subject to the attorney-client
privilege, unless you voluntarily disclose the communication to us.
(ii) Your representative's analysis of your claim, unless he or she voluntarily discloses it to us. This analysis means information that is subject to the attorney work product doctrine, but it does not include medical evidence, medical opinions, or any other factual matter that we may consider in determining whether or not you are entitled to benefits (see paragraph (b)(2) of this section).
(2) The attorney-client privilege generally protects confidential communications between an attorney and his or her client that are related to providing or obtaining legal advice. The attorney work product doctrine generally protects an attorney's analyses, theories, mental impressions, and notes. In the context of your disability claim, neither the attorney-client privilege nor the attorney work product doctrine allow you to withhold factual information, medical opinions, or other medical evidence that we may consider in determining whether or not you are entitled to benefits. For example, if you tell your representative about the medical sources you have seen, your representative cannot refuse to disclose the identity of those medical sources to us based on the attorney-client privilege. As another example, if your representative asks a medical source to complete an opinion form related to your impairment(s), symptoms, or limitations, your representative cannot withhold the completed opinion form from us based on the attorney work product doctrine. The attorney work product doctrine would not protect the source's opinions on the completed form, regardless of whether or not your representative used the form in his or her analysis of your claim or made handwritten notes on the face of the report.
[82 FR 5875, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.913a
Evidence from our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants.
The following rules apply to our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants that we consult in connection with administrative law judge hearings and Appeals Council reviews:
(a) In claims adjudicated by the State agency, a State agency medical or psychological consultant may make the determination of disability together with a State agency disability examiner or provide medical evidence to a State agency disability examiner when the disability examiner makes the initial or reconsideration determination alone (see § 416.1015(c) of this part). The following rules apply:
(1) When a State agency medical or psychological consultant makes the determination together with a State agency disability examiner at the initial or reconsideration level of the administrative review process as provided in § 416.1015(c)(1), he or she will consider the evidence in your case record and make administrative findings about the medical issues, including, but not limited to, the existence and severity of your impairment(s), the existence and severity of your symptoms, whether your impairment(s) meets or medically equals the requirements for any impairment listed in appendix 1 to this subpart, and your residual functional capacity. These administrative medical findings are based on the evidence in your case but are not in themselves evidence at the level of the administrative review process at which they are made. See § 416.913(a)(5).
(2) When a State agency disability examiner makes the initial determination alone as provided in § 416.1015(c)(3), he or she may obtain medical evidence from a State agency medical or psychological consultant about one or more of the medical issues listed in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. In these cases, the State agency disability examiner will consider the medical evidence of the State agency medical or psychological consultant under §§ 416.920b, 416.920c, and 416.927.
(3) When a State agency disability examiner makes a reconsideration determination alone as provided in § 416.1015(c)(3), he or she will consider prior administrative medical findings made by a State agency medical or psychological consultant at the initial level of the administrative review process, and any medical evidence provided by such consultants at the initial and
reconsideration levels, about one or more of the medical issues listed in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section under §§ 416.920b, 416.920c, and 416.927.
(b) Administrative law judges are responsible for reviewing the evidence and making administrative findings of fact and conclusions of law. They will consider prior administrative medical findings and medical evidence from our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants as follows:
(1) Administrative law judges are not required to adopt any prior administrative medical findings, but they must consider this evidence according to §§ 416.920b, 416.920c, and 416.927, as appropriate, because our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants are highly qualified and experts in Social Security disability evaluation.
(2) Administrative law judges may also ask for medical evidence from expert medical sources. Administrative law judges will consider this evidence under §§ 416.920b, 416.920c, and 416.927, as appropriate.
(c) When the Appeals Council makes a decision, it will consider prior administrative medical findings according to the same rules for considering prior administrative medical findings as administrative law judges follow under paragraph (b) of this section.
[82 FR 5876, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.914
When we will purchase existing evidence.
We need specific medical evidence to determine whether you are disabled or blind. We will pay for the medical evidence we request, if there is a charge. We will also be responsible for the cost of medical evidence we ask you to get.
§ 416.915
Where and how to submit evidence.
You may give us evidence about your impairment at any of our offices or at the office of any State agency authorized to make disability or blindness determinations. You may also give evidence to one of our employees authorized to accept evidence at another place. For more information about this, see subpart C of this part.
§ 416.916
If you fail to submit medical and other evidence.
You (and if you are a child, your parent, guardian, relative, or other person acting on your behalf) must co-operate in furnishing us with, or in helping us to obtain or identify, available medical or other evidence about your impairment(s). When you fail to cooperate with us in obtaining evidence, we will have to make a decision based on information available in your case. We will not excuse you from giving us evidence because you have religious or personal reasons against medical examinations, tests, or treatment.
[58 FR 47577, Sept. 9, 1993]
§ 416.917
Consultative examination at our expense.
If your medical sources cannot or will not give us sufficient medical evidence about your impairment for us to determine whether you are disabled or blind, we may ask you to have one or more physical or mental examinations or tests. We will pay for these examinations. However, we will not pay for any medical examination arranged by you or your representative without our advance approval. If we arrange for the examination or test, we will give you reasonable notice of the date, time, and place the examination or test will be given, and the name of the person or facility who will do it. We will also give the examiner any necessary background information about your condition.
[56 FR 36964, Aug. 1, 1991]
§ 416.918
If you do not appear at a consultative examination.
(a)
General.
If you are applying for benefits and do not have a good reason for failing or refusing to take part in a consultative examination or test which we arrange for you to get information we need to determine your disability or blindness, we may find that you are not disabled or blind. If you are already receiving benefits and do not have a good reason for failing or refusing to take part in a consultative examination or test which we arranged for you, we may determine that your disability or blindness has stopped because of your failure or refusal. Therefore, if
you have any reason why you cannot go for the scheduled appointment, you should tell us about this as soon as possible before the examination date. If you have a good reason, we will schedule another examination. We will consider your physical, mental, educational, and linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) when determining if you have a good reason for failing to attend a consultative examination.
(b)
Examples of good reasons for failure to appear.
Some examples of what we consider good reasons for not going to a scheduled examination include—
(1) Illness on the date of the scheduled examination or test;
(2) Not receiving timely notice of the scheduled examination or test, or receiving no notice at all;
(3) Being furnished incorrect or incomplete information, or being given incorrect information about the physician involved or the time or place of the examination or test, or;
(4) Having had death or serious illness occur in your immediate family.
(c)
Objections by your medical source(s).
If any of your medical sources tell you that you should not take the examination or test, you should tell us at once. In many cases, we may be able to get the information we need in another way. Your medical source(s) may agree to another type of examination for the same purpose.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994; 82 FR 5877, Jan. 18, 2017]

# Standards To Be Used in Determining When a Consultative Examination Will Be Obtained in Connection With Disability Determinations
§ 416.919
The consultative examination.
A consultative examination is a physical or mental examination or test purchased for you at our request and expense from a treating source or another medical source, including a pediatrician when appropriate. The decision to purchase a consultative examination will be made on an individual case basis in accordance with the provisions of § 416.919a through § 416.919f. Selection of the source for the examination will be consistent with the provisions of § 416.903a and §§ 416.919g through 416.919j. The rules and procedures for requesting consultative examinations set forth in §§ 416.919a and 416.919b are applicable at the reconsideration and hearing levels of review, as well as the initial level of determination.
[56 FR 36964, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11879, Mar. 7, 2000]
§ 416.919a
When we will purchase a consultative examination and how we will use it.
(a)
General.
If we cannot get the information we need from your medical sources, we may decide to purchase a consultative examination. See § 416.912 for the procedures we will follow to obtain evidence from your medical sources and § 416.920b for how we consider evidence. Before purchasing a consultative examination, we will consider not only existing medical reports, but also the disability interview form containing your allegations as well as other pertinent evidence in your file.
(b)
Situations that may require a consultative examination.
We may purchase a consultative examination to try to resolve an inconsistency in the evidence or when the evidence as a whole is insufficient to support a determination or decision on your claim. Some examples of when we might purchase a consultative examination to secure needed medical evidence, such as clinical findings, laboratory tests, a diagnosis, or prognosis, include but are not limited to:
(1) The additional evidence needed is not contained in the records of your medical sources;
(2) The evidence that may have been available from your treating or other medical sources cannot be obtained for reasons beyond your control, such as death or noncooperation of a medical source;
(3) Highly technical or specialized medical evidence that we need is not available from your treating or other medical sources; or
(4) There is an indication of a change in your condition that is likely to affect your ability to work, or, if you are
a child, your functioning, but the current severity of your impairment is not established.
[56 FR 36964, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 6421, Feb. 11, 1997; 77 FR 10656, Feb. 23, 2012]
§ 416.919b
When we will not purchase a consultative examination.
We will not purchase a consultative examination in situations including, but not limited to, the following situations:
(a) When any issues about your actual performance of substantial gainful activity have not been resolved;
(b) When you do not meet all of the nondisability requirements.
[56 FR 36965, Aug. 1, 1991]

# Standards for the Type of Referral and for Report Content
§ 416.919f
Type of purchased examinations.
We will purchase only the specific examinations and tests we need to make a determination in your claim. For example, we will not authorize a comprehensive medical examination when the only evidence we need is a special test, such as an X-ray, blood studies, or an electrocardiogram.
[56 FR 36965, Aug. 1, 1991]
§ 416.919g
Who we will select to perform a consultative examination.
(a) We will purchase a consultative examination only from a qualified medical source. The medical source may be your own medical source or another medical source. If you are a child, the medical source we choose may be a pediatrician.
(b) By “qualified,” we mean that the medical source must be currently licensed in the State and have the training and experience to perform the type of examination or test we will request; the medical source must not be barred from participation in our programs under the provisions of § 416.903a. The medical source must also have the equipment required to provide an adequate assessment and record of the existence and level of severity of your alleged impairments.
(c) The medical source we choose may use support staff to help perform the consultative examination. Any such support staff (e.g., X-ray technician, nurse) must meet appropriate licensing or certification requirements of the State. See § 416.903a.
[56 FR 36965, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11879, Mar. 7, 2000; 82 FR 5877, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.919h
Your medical source.
When, in our judgment, your medical source is qualified, equipped, and willing to perform the additional examination or test(s) for the fee schedule payment, and generally furnishes complete and timely reports, your medical source will be the preferred source for the purchased examination or test(s).
[82 FR 5877, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.919i
Other sources for consultative examinations.
We will use a different medical source than your medical source for a purchased examination or test in situations including, but not limited to, the following:
(a) Your medical source prefers not to perform such an examination or does not have the equipment to provide the specific data needed;
(b) There are conflicts or inconsistencies in your file that cannot be resolved by going back to your medical source;
(c) You prefer a source other than your medical source and have a good reason for your preference;
(d) We know from prior experience that your medical source may not be a productive source, such as when he or she has consistently failed to provide complete or timely reports; or
(e) Your medical source is not a qualified medical source as defined in § 416.919g.
[82 FR 5877, Jan, 18, 2017]
§ 416.919j
Objections to the medical source designated to perform the consultative examination.
You or your representative may object to your being examined by a medical source we have designated to perform a consultative examination. If
there is a good reason for the objection, we will schedule the examination with another medical source. A good reason may be that the medical source we designated had previously represented an interest adverse to you. For example, the medical source may have represented your employer in a workers' compensation case or may have been involved in an insurance claim or legal action adverse to you. Other things we will consider include: The presence of a language barrier, the medical source's office location (e.g., 2nd floor, no elevator), travel restrictions, and whether the medical source had examined you in connection with a previous disability determination or decision that was unfavorable to you. If your objection is that a medical source allegedly “lacks objectivity” in general, but not in relation to you personally, we will review the allegations. See § 416.919s. To avoid a delay in processing your claim, the consultative examination in your case will be changed to another medical source while a review is being conducted. We will handle any objection to use of the substitute medical source in the same manner. However, if we had previously conducted such a review and found that the reports of the medical source in question conformed to our guidelines, we will not change your examination.
[65 FR 11879, Mar. 7, 2000]
§ 416.919k
Purchase of medical examinations, laboratory tests, and other services.
We may purchase medical examinations, including psychiatric and psychological examinations, X-rays and laboratory tests (including specialized tests, such as pulmonary function studies, electrocardiograms, and stress tests) from a medical source.
(a) The rate of payment for purchasing medical or other services necessary to make determinations of disability may not exceed the highest rate paid by Federal or public agencies in the State for the same or similar types of service. See §§ 416.1024 and 416.1026 of this part.
(b) If a physician's bill, or a request for payment for a physician's services, includes a charge for a laboratory test for which payment may be made under this part, the amount payable with respect to the test shall be determined as follows:
(1) If the bill or request for payment indicates that the test was personally performed or supervised by the physician who submitted the bill (or for whose services the request for payment was made) or by another physician with whom that physician shares his or her practice, the payment will be based on the physician's usual and customary charge for the test or the rates of payment which the State uses for purchasing such services, whichever is the lesser amount.
(2) If the bill or request for payment indicates that the test was performed by an independent laboratory, the amount of reimbursement will not exceed the billed cost of the independent laboratory or the rate of payment which the State uses for purchasing such services, whichever is the lesser amount. A nominal payment may be made to the physician for collecting, handling and shipping a specimen to the laboratory if the physician bills for such a service. The total reimbursement may not exceed the rate of payment which the State uses for purchasing such services.
(c) The State will assure that it can support the rate of payment it uses. The State shall also be responsible for monitoring and overseeing the rate of payment it uses to ensure compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
[56 FR 36965, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11879, Mar. 7, 2000; 71 FR 16459, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24810, May 3, 2011]
§ 416.919m
Diagnostic tests or procedures.
We will request the results of any diagnostic tests or procedures that have been performed as part of a workup by your treating source or other medical source and will use the results to help us evaluate impairment severity or prognosis. However, we will not order diagnostic tests or procedures that involve significant risk to you, such as myelograms, arteriograms, or cardiac catheterizations for the evaluation of disability under the Supplemental Security Income program. A State agency medical consultant must approve
the ordering of any diagnostic test or procedure when there is a chance it may involve significant risk. The responsibility for deciding whether to perform the examination rests with the medical source designated to perform the consultative examination.
[56 FR 36966, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11879, Mar. 7, 2000; 71 FR 16459, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24810, May 3, 2011]
§ 416.919n
Informing the medical source of examination scheduling, report content, and signature requirements.
The medical sources who perform consultative examinations will have a good understanding of our disability programs and their evidentiary requirements. They will be made fully aware of their responsibilities and obligations regarding confidentiality as described in § 401.105(e). We will fully inform medical sources who perform consultative examinations at the time we first contact them, and at subsequent appropriate intervals, of the following obligations:
(a)
Scheduling.
In scheduling full consultative examinations, sufficient time should be allowed to permit the medical source to take a case history and perform the examination, including any needed tests. The following minimum scheduling intervals (
i.e.
, time set aside for the individual, not the actual duration of the consultative examination) should be used.
(1) Comprehensive general medical examination—at least 30 minutes;
(2) Comprehensive musculoskeletal or neurological examination—at least 20 minutes;
(3) Comprehensive psychiatric examination—at least 40 minutes;
(4) Psychological examination—at least 60 minutes (Additional time may be required depending on types of psychological tests administered); and
(5) All others—at least 30 minutes, or in accordance with accepted medical practices.
We recognize that actual practice will dictate that some examinations may require longer scheduling intervals depending on the circumstances in a particular situation. We also recognize that these minimum intervals may have to be adjusted to allow for those claimants that do not attend their scheduled examination. The purpose of these minimum scheduling timeframes is to ensure that such examinations are complete and that sufficient time is made available to obtain the information needed to make an accurate determination in your case. State agencies will monitor the scheduling of examinations (through their normal consultative examination oversight activities) to ensure that any overscheduling is avoided, as overscheduling may lead to examinations that are not thorough.
(b)
Report content.
The reported results of your medical history, examination, requested laboratory findings, discussions and conclusions must conform to accepted professional standards and practices in the medical field for a complete and competent examination. The facts in a particular case and the information and findings already reported in the medical and other evidence of record will dictate the extent of detail needed in the consultative examination report for that case. Thus, the detail and format for reporting the results of a purchased examination will vary depending upon the type of examination or testing requested. The reporting of information will differ from one type of examination to another when the requested examination relates to the performance of tests such as ventilatory function tests, treadmill exercise tests, or audiological tests. The medical report must be complete enough to help us determine the nature, severity, and duration of the impairment, and your residual functional capacity (if you are an adult) or your functioning (if you are a child). The report should reflect your statement of your symptoms, not simply the medical source's statements or conclusions. The medical source's report of the consultative examination should include the objective medical facts as well as observations and opinions.
(c)
Elements of a complete consultative examination.
A complete consultative examination is one which involves all the elements of a standard examination in the applicable medical specialty. When the report of a complete consultative examination is involved, the report should include the following elements:
(1) Your major or chief complaint(s);
(2) A detailed description, within the area of specialty of the examination, of the history of your major complaint(s);
(3) A description, and disposition, of pertinent “positive” and “negative” detailed findings based on the history, examination and laboratory tests related to the major complaint(s), and any other abnormalities or lack thereof reported or found during examination or laboratory testing;
(4) The results of laboratory and other tests (e.g., X-rays) performed according to the requirements stated in the Listing of Impairments (see appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter);
(5) The diagnosis and prognosis for your impairment(s);
(6) A medical opinion. Although we will ordinarily request a medical opinion as part of the consultative examination process, the absence of a medical opinion in a consultative examination report will not make the report incomplete. See § 416.913(a)(3); and
(7) In addition, the medical source will consider, and provide some explanation or comment on, your major complaint(s) and any other abnormalities found during the history and examination or reported from the laboratory tests. The history, examination, evaluation of laboratory test results, and the conclusions will represent the information provided by the medical source who signs the report.
(d)
When a complete consultative examination is not required.
When the evidence we need does not require a complete consultative examination (for example, we need only a specific laboratory test result to complete the record), we may not require a report containing all of the elements in paragraph (c).
(e)
Signature requirements.
All consultative examination reports will be personally reviewed and signed by the medical source who actually performed the examination. This attests to the fact that the medical source doing the examination or testing is solely responsible for the report contents and for the conclusions, explanations or comments provided with respect to the history, examination and evaluation of laboratory test results. The signature of the medical source on a report annotated “not proofed” or “dictated but not read” is not acceptable. A rubber stamp signature of a medical source or the medical source's signature entered by any other person is not acceptable.
[56 FR 36966, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 6421, Feb. 11, 1997; 62 FR 13733, Mar. 21, 1997; 65 FR 11879, Mar. 7, 2000; 65 FR 54778, Sept. 11, 2000; 82 FR 5877, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.919o
When a properly signed consultative examination report has not been received.
If a consultative examination report is received unsigned or improperly signed we will take the following action.
(a)
When we will make determinations and decisions without a properly signed report.
We will make a determination or decision in the circumstances specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section without waiting for a properly signed consultative examination report. After we have made the determination or decision, we will obtain a properly signed report and include it in the file unless the medical source who performed the original consultative examination has died:
(1) Continuous period of disability allowance with an onset date as alleged or earlier than alleged; or
(2) Continuance of disability.
(b)
When we will not make determinations and decisions without a properly signed report.
We will not use an unsigned or improperly signed consultative examination report to make the determinations or decisions specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section. When we need a properly signed consultative examination report to make these determinations or decisions, we must obtain such a report. If the signature of the medical source who performed the original examination cannot be obtained because the medical source is out of the country for an extended period of time, or on an extended vacation, seriously ill, deceased, or for any other reason, the consultative examination will be rescheduled with another medical source:
(1) Denial; or
(2) Cessation; or
(3) Allowance of disability which has ended; or
(4) Allowance with an onset date later than the filing date.
[56 FR 36967, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11880, Mar. 7, 2000]
§ 416.919p
Reviewing reports of consultative examinations.
(a) We will review the report of the consultative examination to determine whether the specific information requested has been furnished. We will consider the following factors in reviewing the report:
(1) Whether the report provides evidence which serves as an adequate basis for decisionmaking in terms of the impairment it assesses;
(2) Whether the report is internally consistent; Whether all the diseases, impairments and complaints described in the history are adequately assessed and reported in the clinical findings; Whether the conclusions correlate the findings from your medical history, clinical examination and laboratory tests and explain all abnormalities;
(3) Whether the report is consistent with the other information available to us within the specialty of the examination requested; Whether the report fails to mention an important or relevant complaint within that specialty that is noted in other evidence in the file (e.g., your blindness in one eye, amputations, pain, alcoholism, depression);
(4) Whether this is an adequate report of examination as compared to standards set out in the course of a medical education; and
(5) Whether the report is properly signed.
(b) If the report is inadequate or incomplete, we will contact the medical source who performed the consultative examination, give an explanation of our evidentiary needs, and ask that the medical source furnish the missing information or prepare a revised report.
(c) With your permission, or when the examination discloses new diagnostic information or test results that reveal a potentially life-threatening situation, we will refer the consultative examination report to your treating source. When we refer the consultative examination report to your treating source without your permission, we will notify you that we have done so.
(d) We will perform ongoing special management studies on the quality of consultative examinations purchased from major medical sources and the appropriateness of the examinations authorized.
(e) We will take steps to ensure that consultative examinations are scheduled only with medical sources who have access to the equipment required to provide an adequate assessment and record of the existence and level of severity of your alleged impairments.
[56 FR 36967, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11880, Mar. 7, 2000]
§ 416.919q
Conflict of interest.
All implications of possible conflict of interest between medical or psychological consultants and their medical or psychological practices will be avoided. Such consultants are not only those physicians and psychologists who work for us directly but are also those who do review and adjudication work in the State agencies. Physicians and psychologists who work for us directly as employees or under contract will not work concurrently for a State agency. Physicians and psychologists who do review work for us will not perform consultative examinations for us without our prior approval. In such situations, the physician or psychologist will disassociate himself or herself from further involvement in the case and will not participate in the evaluation, decision, or appeal actions. In addition, neither they, nor any member of their families, will acquire or maintain, either directly or indirectly, any financial interest in a medical partnership, corporation, or similar relationship in which consultative examinations are provided. Sometimes physicians and psychologists who do review work for us will have prior knowledge of a case; for example, when the claimant was a patient. Where this is so, the physician or psychologist will not participate in the review or determination of the case. This does not preclude the physician or psychologist from submitting medical evidence based on treatment or examination of the claimant.
[56 FR 36967, Aug. 1, 1991]

# Authorizing and Monitoring the Referral Process
§ 416.919s
Authorizing and monitoring the consultative examination.
(a) Day-to-day responsibility for the consultative examination process rests with the State agencies that make disability determinations for us.
(b) The State agency will maintain a good working relationship with the medical community in order to recruit sufficient numbers of physicians and other providers of medical services to ensure ready availability of consultative examination providers.
(c) Consistent with Federal and State laws, the State agency administrator will work to achieve appropriate rates of payment for purchased medical services.
(d) Each State agency will be responsible for comprehensive oversight management of its consultative examination program, with special emphasis on key providers.
(e) A key consultative examination provider is a provider that meets at least one of the following conditions:
(1) Any consultative examination provider with an estimated annual billing to the disability programs we administer of at least $150,000; or
(2) Any consultative examination provider with a practice directed primarily towards evaluation examinations rather than the treatment of patients; or
(3) Any consultative examination provider that does not meet the above criteria, but is one of the top five consultative examination providers in the State by dollar volume, as evidenced by prior year data.
(f) State agencies have flexibility in managing their consultative examination programs, but at a minimum will provide:
(1) An ongoing active recruitment program for consultative examination providers;
(2) A process for orientation, training, and review of new consultative examination providers, with respect to SSA's program requirements involving consultative examination report content and not with respect to medical techniques;
(3) Procedures for control of scheduling consultative examinations;
(4) Procedures to ensure that close attention is given to specific evaluation issues involved in each case;
(5) Procedures to ensure that only required examinations and tests are authorized in accordance with the standards set forth in this subpart;
(6) Procedures for providing medical or supervisory approval for the authorization or purchase of consultative examinations and for additional tests or studies requested by consulting medical sources. This includes physician approval for the ordering of any diagnostic test or procedure where the question of significant risk to the claimant/beneficiary might be raised. See § 416.919m.
(7) procedures for the ongoing review of consultative examination results to ensure compliance with written guidelines;
(8) Procedures to encourage active participation by physicians and psychologists in the consultative examination oversight program;
(9) Procedures for handling complaints;
(10) Procedures for evaluating claimant reactions to key providers; and
(11) A program of systematic, onsite reviews of key providers that will include annual onsite reviews of such providers when claimants are present for examinations. This provision does not contemplate that such reviews will involve participation in the actual examinations but, rather, offer an opportunity to talk with claimants at the provider's site before and after the examination and to review the provider's overall operation.
(g) The State agencies will cooperate with us when we conduct monitoring activities in connection with their oversight management of their consultative examination programs.
[56 FR 36967, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 11880, Mar. 7, 2000; 71 FR 16459, Mar. 31, 2006; 75 FR 32846, June 10, 2010; 76 FR 24810, May 3, 2011]

# Procedures To Monitor the Consultative Examination
§ 416.919t
Consultative examination oversight.
(a) We will ensure that referrals for consultative examinations and purchases of consultative examinations are made in accordance with our policies. We will also monitor both the referral processes and the product of the consultative examinations obtained. This monitoring may include reviews by independent medical specialists under direct contract with SSA.
(b) Through our regional offices, we will undertake periodic comprehensive reviews of each State agency to evaluate each State's management of the consultative examination process. The review will involve visits to key providers, with State staff participating, including a program physician when the visit will deal with medical techniques or judgment, or factors that go to the core of medical professionalism.
(c) We will also perform ongoing special management studies of the quality of consultative examinations purchased from key providers and other sources and the appropriateness of the examinations authorized.
[56 FR 36968, Aug. 1, 1991]

# Evaluation of Disability
§ 416.920
Evaluation of disability of adults, in general.
(a)
General
—(1)
Purpose of this section.
This section explains the five-step sequential evaluation process we use to decide whether you are disabled, as defined in § 416.905.
(2)
Applicability of these rules.
These rules apply to you if you are age 18 or older and you file an application for Supplemental Security Income disability benefits.
(3)
Evidence considered.
We will consider all evidence in your case record when we make a determination or decision whether you are disabled. See § 416.920b.
(4)
The five-step sequential evaluation process.
The sequential evaluation process is a series of five “steps” that we follow in a set order. See paragraph (h) of this section for an exception to this rule. If we can find that you are disabled or not disabled at a step, we make our determination or decision and we do not go on to the next step. If we cannot find that you are disabled or not disabled at a step, we go on to the next step. Before we go from step three to step four, we assess your residual functional capacity. (
See
paragraph (e) of this section.) We use this residual functional capacity assessment at both step four and at step five when we evaluate your claim at these steps. These are the five steps we follow:
(i) At the first step, we consider your work activity, if any. If you are doing substantial gainful activity, we will find that you are not disabled. (
See
paragraph (b) of this section.)
(ii) At the second step, we consider the medical severity of your impairment(s). If you do not have a severe medically determinable physical or mental impairment that meets the duration requirement in § 416.909, or a combination of impairments that is severe and meets the duration requirement, we will find that you are not disabled. (
See
paragraph (c) of this section.)
(iii) At the third step, we also consider the medical severity of your impairment(s). If you have an impairment(s) that meets or equals one of our listings in appendix 1 to subpart P of part 404 of this chapter and meets the duration requirement, we will find that you are disabled. (
See
paragraph (d) of this section.)
(iv) At the fourth step, we consider our assessment of your residual functional capacity and your past relevant work. If you can still do your past relevant work, we will find that you are not disabled. See paragraphs (f) and (h) of this section and § 416.960(b).
(v) At the fifth and last step, we consider our assessment of your residual functional capacity and your age, education, and work experience to see if you can make an adjustment to other work. If you can make an adjustment to other work, we will find that you are not disabled. If you cannot make an adjustment to other work, we will find that you are disabled. See paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section and § 416.960(c).
(5)
When you are already receiving disability benefits.
If you are already receiving disability benefits, we will use a different sequential evaluation process to decide whether you continue to be disabled. We explain this process in § 416.994(b)(5).
(b)
If you are working.
If you are working and the work you are doing is substantial gainful activity, we will find that you are not disabled regardless of your medical condition or your age, education, and work experience.
(c)
You must have a severe impairment.
If you do not have any impairment or combination of impairments which significantly limits your physical or mental ability to do basic work activities, we will find that you do not have a severe impairment and are, therefore, not disabled. We will not consider your age, education, and work experience.
(d)
When your impairment(s) meets or equals a listed impairment in appendix 1.
If you have an impairment(s) which meets the duration requirement and is listed in appendix 1 or is equal to a listed impairment(s), we will find you disabled without considering your age, education, and work experience.
(e)
When your impairment(s) does not meet or equal a listed impairment.
If your impairment(s) does not meet or equal a listed impairment, we will assess and make a finding about your residual functional capacity based on all the relevant medical and other evidence in your case record, as explained in § 416.945. (See paragraph (g)(2) of this section and § 416.962 for an exception to this rule.) We use our residual functional capacity assessment at the fourth step of the sequential evaluation process to determine if you can do your past relevant work (paragraph (f) of this section) and at the fifth step of the sequential evaluation process (if the evaluation proceeds to this step) to determine if you can adjust to other work (paragraph (g) of this section).
(f)
Your impairment(s) must prevent you from doing your past relevant work.
If we cannot make a determination or decision at the first three steps of the sequential evaluation process, we will compare our residual functional capacity assessment, which we made under paragraph (e) of this section, with the physical and mental demands of your past relevant work. See paragraph (h) of this section and § 416.960(b). If you can still do this kind of work, we will find that you are not disabled.
(g)
Your impairment(s) must prevent you from making an adjustment to any other work.
(1) If we find that you cannot do your past relevant work because you have a severe impairment(s) (or you do not have any past relevant work), we will consider the same residual functional capacity assessment we made under paragraph (e) of this section, together with your vocational factors (your age, education, and work experience) to determine if you can make an adjustment to other work. (
See
§ 416.960(c).) If you can make an adjustment to other work, we will find you not disabled. If you cannot, we will find you disabled.
(2) We use different rules if you meet one of the two special medical-vocational profiles described in § 416.962. If you meet one of those profiles, we will find that you cannot make an adjustment to other work, and that you are disabled.
(h)
Expedited process.
If we do not find you disabled at the third step, and we do not have sufficient evidence about your past relevant work to make a finding at the fourth step, we may proceed to the fifth step of the sequential evaluation process. If we find that you can adjust to other work based solely on your age, education, and the same residual functional capacity assessment we made under paragraph (e) of this section, we will find that you are not disabled and will not make a finding about whether you can do your past relevant work at the fourth step. If we find that you may be unable to adjust to other work or if § 416.962 may apply, we will assess your claim at the fourth step and make a finding about whether you can perform your past relevant work. See paragraph (g) of this section and § 416.960(c).
[50 FR 8728, Mar. 5, 1985; 50 FR 19164, May 7, 1985, as amended at 56 FR 5554, Feb. 11, 1991; 56 FR 36968, Aug. 1, 1991; 65 FR 80308, Dec. 21, 2000; 68 FR 51164, Aug. 26, 2003; 77 FR 10656, Feb. 23, 2012; 77 FR 43495, July 25, 2012]
§ 416.920a
Evaluation of mental impairments.
(a)
General.
The steps outlined in §§ 416.920 and 416.924 apply to the evaluation of physical and mental impairments. In addition, when we evaluate the severity of mental impairments for adults (persons age 18 and over) and in persons under age 18 when Part A of the Listing of Impairments is used, we must follow a special technique at each level in the administrative review process. We describe this special technique in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. Using this technique helps us:
(1) Identify the need for additional evidence to determine impairment severity;
(2) Consider and evaluate functional consequences of the mental disorder(s) relevant to your ability to work; and
(3) Organize and present our findings in a clear, concise, and consistent manner.
(b)
Use of the technique.
(1) Under the special technique, we must first evaluate your pertinent symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings to determine whether you have a medically determinable mental impairment(s). See § 416.921 for more information about what is needed to show a medically determinable impairment. If we determine that you have a medically determinable mental impairment(s), we must specify the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings that substantiate the presence of the impairment(s) and document our findings in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) We must then rate the degree of functional limitation resulting from the impairment(s) in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and record our findings as set out in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c)
Rating the degree of functional limitation.
(1) Assessment of functional limitations is a complex and highly individualized process that requires us to consider multiple issues and all relevant evidence to obtain a longitudinal picture of your overall degree of functional limitation. We will consider all relevant and available clinical signs and laboratory findings, the effects of your symptoms, and how your functioning may be affected by factors including, but not limited to, chronic mental disorders, structured settings, medication, and other treatment.
(2) We will rate the degree of your functional limitation based on the extent to which your impairment(s) interferes with your ability to function independently, appropriately, effectively, and on a sustained basis. Thus, we will consider such factors as the quality and level of your overall functional performance, any episodic limitations, the amount of supervision or assistance you require, and the settings in which you are able to function. See 12.00C through 12.00H of the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 to subpart P of part 404 of this chapter for more information about the factors we consider when we rate the degree of your functional limitation.
(3) We have identified four broad functional areas in which we will rate the degree of your functional limitation: Understand, remember, or apply information; interact with others; concentrate, persist, or maintain pace; and adapt or manage oneself. See 12.00E of the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 to subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
(4) When we rate your degree of limitation in these areas (understand, remember, or apply information; interact with others; concentrate, persist, or maintain pace; and adapt or manage oneself), we will use the following five-point scale: None, mild, moderate, marked, and extreme. The last point on the scale represents a degree of limitation that is incompatible with the ability to do any gainful activity.
(d)
Use of the technique to evaluate mental impairments.
After we rate the degree of functional limitation resulting from your impairment(s), we will determine the severity of your mental impairment(s).
(1) If we rate the degrees of your limitation as “none” or “mild,” we will generally conclude that your impairment(s) is not severe, unless the evidence otherwise indicates that there is more than a minimal limitation in your ability to do basic work activities (see § 416.922).
(2) If your mental impairment(s) is severe, we must then determine if it meets or is equivalent in severity to a
listed mental disorder. We do this by comparing the medical findings about your impairment(s) and the rating of the degree of functional limitation to the criteria of the appropriate listed mental disorder. We will record the presence or absence of the criteria and the rating of the degree of functional limitation on a standard document at the initial and reconsideration levels of the administrative review process, or in the decision at the administrative law judge hearing and Appeals Council levels (in cases in which the Appeals Council issues a decision). See paragraph (e) of this section.
(3) If we find that you have a severe mental impairment(s) that neither meets nor is equivalent in severity to any listing, we will then assess your residual functional capacity.
(e)
Documenting application of the technique.
At the initial and reconsideration levels of the administrative review process, we will complete a standard document to record how we applied the technique. At the administrative law judge hearing and Appeals Council levels (in cases in which the Appeals Council issues a decision), we will document application of the technique in the decision. The following rules apply:
(1) When a State agency medical or psychological consultant makes the determination together with a State agency disability examiner at the initial or reconsideration level of the administrative review process as provided in § 416.1015(c)(1) of this part, the State agency medical or psychological consultant has overall responsibility for assessing medical severity. A State agency disability examiner may assist in preparing the standard document. However, our medical or psychological consultant must review and sign the document to attest that it is complete and that he or she is responsible for its content, including the findings of fact and any discussion of supporting evidence.
(2) When a State agency disability examiner makes the determination alone as provided in § 416.1015(c)(3), the State agency disability examiner has overall responsibility for assessing medical severity and for completing and signing the standard document.
(3) When a disability hearing officer makes a reconsideration determination as provided in § 416.1015(c)(4), the determination must document application of the technique, incorporating the disability hearing officer's pertinent findings and conclusions based on this technique.
(4) At the administrative law judge hearing and Appeals Council levels, the written decision must incorporate the pertinent findings and conclusions based on the technique. The decision must show the significant history, including examination and laboratory findings, and the functional limitations that were considered in reaching a conclusion about the severity of the mental impairment(s). The decision must include a specific finding as to the degree of limitation in each of the functional areas described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(5) If the administrative law judge requires the services of a medical expert to assist in applying the technique but such services are unavailable, the administrative law judge may return the case to the State agency or the appropriate Federal component, using the rules in § 416.1441 of this part, for completion of the standard document. If, after reviewing the case file and completing the standard document, the State agency or Federal component concludes that a determination favorable to you is warranted, it will process the case using the rules found in § 416.1441(d) or (e) of this part. If, after reviewing the case file and completing the standard document, the State agency or Federal component concludes that a determination favorable to you is not warranted, it will send the completed standard document and the case to the administrative law judge for further proceedings and a decision.
[65 FR 50782, Aug. 21, 2000; 65 FR 60584, Oct. 12, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 16459, Mar. 31, 2006; 75 FR 62682, Oct. 13, 2010; 76 FR 24810, May 3, 2011; 81 FR 66178, Sept. 26, 2016; 82 FR 5877, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.920b
How we consider evidence.
After we review all of the evidence relevant to your claim, we make findings about what the evidence shows.
(a)
Complete and consistent evidence.
If all of the evidence we receive, including all medical opinion(s), is consistent and there is sufficient evidence for us to determine whether you are disabled, we will make our determination or decision based on that evidence.
(b)
Incomplete or inconsistent evidence.
In some situations, we may not be able to make our determination or decision because the evidence in your case record is insufficient or inconsistent. We consider evidence to be insufficient when it does not contain all the information we need to make our determination or decision. We consider evidence to be inconsistent when it conflicts with other evidence, contains an internal conflict, is ambiguous, or when the medical evidence does not appear to be based on medically acceptable clinical or laboratory diagnostic techniques. If the evidence in your case record is insufficient or inconsistent, we may need to take the additional actions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) If any of the evidence in your case record, including any medical opinion(s) and prior administrative medical findings, is inconsistent, we will consider the relevant evidence and see if we can determine whether you are disabled based on the evidence we have.
(2) If the evidence is consistent but we have insufficient evidence to determine whether you are disabled, or if after considering the evidence we determine we cannot reach a conclusion about whether you are disabled, we will determine the best way to resolve the inconsistency or insufficiency. The action(s) we take will depend on the nature of the inconsistency or insufficiency. We will try to resolve the inconsistency or insufficiency by taking any one or more of the actions listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iv) of this section. We might not take all of the actions listed below. We will consider any additional evidence we receive together with the evidence we already have.
(i) We may recontact your medical source. We may choose not to seek additional evidence or clarification from a medical source if we know from experience that the source either cannot or will not provide the necessary evidence. If we obtain medical evidence over the telephone, we will send the telephone report to the source for review, signature, and return;
(ii) We may request additional existing evidence;
(iii) We may ask you to undergo a consultative examination at our expense (see §§ 416.917 through 416.919t); or
(iv) We may ask you or others for more information.
(3) When there are inconsistencies in the evidence that we cannot resolve or when, despite efforts to obtain additional evidence, the evidence is insufficient to determine whether you are disabled, we will make a determination or decision based on the evidence we have.
(c)
Evidence that is inherently neither valuable nor persuasive.
Paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) apply in claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017. Because the evidence listed in paragraphs ((c)(1)-(c)(3) of this section is inherently neither valuable nor persuasive to the issue of whether you are disabled or blind under the Act, we will not provide any analysis about how we considered such evidence in our determination or decision, even under § 416.920c:
(1)
Decisions by other governmental agencies and nongovernmental entities.
See § 416.904.
(2)
Disability examiner findings.
Findings made by a State agency disability examiner made at a previous level of adjudication about a medical issue, vocational issue, or the ultimate determination about whether you are disabled.
(3)
Statements on issues reserved to the Commissioner.
The statements listed in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(ix) of this section would direct our determination or decision that you are or are not disabled or blind within the meaning of the Act, but we are responsible for making the determination or decision about whether you are disabled or blind:
(i) Statements that you are or are not disabled, blind, able to work, or able to perform regular or continuing work;
(ii) Statements about whether or not you have a severe impairment(s);
(iii) Statements about whether or not your impairment(s) meets the duration requirement (see § 416.909);
(iv) Statements about whether or not your impairment(s) meets or medically equals any listing in the Listing of Impairments in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 1;
(v) If you are a child, statements about whether or not your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings in Part 404 Subpart P Appendix 1 (see § 416.926a);
(vi) If you are an adult, statements about what your residual functional capacity is using our programmatic terms about the functional exertional levels in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 2, Rule 200.00 instead of descriptions about your functional abilities and limitations (see § 416.945);
(vii) If you are an adult, statements about whether or not your residual functional capacity prevents you from doing past relevant work (see § 416.960);
(viii) If you are an adult, statements that you do or do not meet the requirements of a medical-vocational rule in Part 404, Subpart P, Appendix 2; and
(ix) Statements about whether or not your disability continues or ends when we conduct a continuing disability review (see § 416.994).
[82 FR 5877, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.920c
How we consider and articulate medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings for claims filed on or after March 27, 2017.
For claims filed (see § 416.325) on or after March 27, 2017, the rules in this section apply. For claims filed before March 27, 2017, the rules in § 416.927 apply.
(a)
How we consider medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings.
We will not defer or give any specific evidentiary weight, including controlling weight, to any medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s), including those from your medical sources. When a medical source provides one or more medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings, we will consider those medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings from that medical source together using the factors listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section, as appropriate. The most important factors we consider when we evaluate the persuasiveness of medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings are supportability (paragraph (c)(1) of this section) and consistency (paragraph (c)(2) of this section). We will articulate how we considered the medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings in your claim according to paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
How we articulate our consideration of medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings.
We will articulate in our determination or decision how persuasive we find all of the medical opinions and all of the prior administrative medical findings in your case record. Our articulation requirements are as follows:
(1)
Source-level articulation.
Because many claims have voluminous case records containing many types of evidence from different sources, it is not administratively feasible for us to articulate in each determination or decision how we considered all of the factors for all of the medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings in your case record. Instead, when a medical source provides multiple medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s), we will articulate how we considered the medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings from that medical source together in a single analysis using the factors listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section, as appropriate. We are not required to articulate how we considered each medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding from one medical source individually.
(2)
Most important factors.
The factors of supportability (paragraph (c)(1) of this section) and consistency (paragraph (c)(2) of this section) are the most important factors we consider when we determine how persuasive we find a medical source's medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings to be. Therefore, we will explain how we considered the supportability and consistency factors for a medical source's medical opinions
or prior administrative medical findings in your determination or decision. We may, but are not required to, explain how we considered the factors in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(5) of this section, as appropriate, when we articulate how we consider medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings in your case record.
(3)
Equally persuasive medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings about the same issue.
When we find that two or more medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings about the same issue are both equally well-supported (paragraph (c)(1) of this section) and consistent with the record (paragraph (c)(2) of this section) but are not exactly the same, we will articulate how we considered the other most persuasive factors in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(5) of this section for those medical opinions or prior administrative medical findings in your determination or decision.
(c)
Factors.
We will consider the following factors when we consider the medical opinion(s) and prior administrative medical finding(s) in your case:
(1)
Supportability.
The more relevant the objective medical evidence and supporting explanations presented by a medical source are to support his or her medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s), the more persuasive the medical opinions or prior administrative medical finding(s) will be.
(2)
Consistency.
The more consistent a medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s) is with the evidence from other medical sources and nonmedical sources in the claim, the more persuasive the medical opinion(s) or prior administrative medical finding(s) will be.
(3)
Relationship with the claimant.
This factor combines consideration of the issues in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)-(v) of this section.
(i)
Length of the treatment relationship.
The length of time a medical source has treated you may help demonstrate whether the medical source has a longitudinal understanding of your impairment(s).
(ii)
Frequency of examinations.
The frequency of your visits with the medical source may help demonstrate whether the medical source has a longitudinal understanding of your impairment(s).
(iii)
Purpose of the treatment relationship.
The purpose for treatment you received from the medical source may help demonstrate the level of knowledge the medical source has of your impairment(s).
(iv)
Extent of the treatment relationship.
The kinds and extent of examinations and testing the medical source has performed or ordered from specialists or independent laboratories may help demonstrate the level of knowledge the medical source has of your impairment(s).
(v)
Examining relationship.
A medical source may have a better understanding of your impairment(s) if he or she examines you than if the medical source only reviews evidence in your folder.
(4)
Specialization.
The medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding of a medical source who has received advanced education and training to become a specialist may be more persuasive about medical issues related to his or her area of specialty than the medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding of a medical source who is not a specialist in the relevant area of specialty.
(5)
Other factors.
We will consider other factors that tend to support or contradict a medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding. This includes, but is not limited to, evidence showing a medical source has familiarity with the other evidence in the claim or an understanding of our disability program's policies and evidentiary requirements. When we consider a medical source's familiarity with the other evidence in a claim, we will also consider whether new evidence we receive after the medical source made his or her medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding makes the medical opinion or prior administrative medical finding more or less persuasive.
(d)
Evidence from nonmedical sources.
We are not required to articulate how we considered evidence from nonmedical sources using the requirements in
paragraphs (a) through (c) in this section.
[82 FR 5878, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.921
Establishing that you have a medically determinable impairment(s).
If you are not doing substantial gainful activity, we will then determine whether you have a medically determinable physical or mental impairment(s) (see § 416.920(a)(4)(ii)). Your impairment(s) must result from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities that can be shown by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques. Therefore, a physical or mental impairment must be established by objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source. We will not use your statement of symptoms, a diagnosis, or a medical opinion to establish the existence of an impairment(s). After we establish that you have a medically determinable impairment(s), then we determine whether your impairment(s) is severe.
[82 FR 5879, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.922
What we mean by an impairment(s) that is not severe in an adult.
(a)
Non-severe impairment(s).
An impairment or combination of impairments is not severe if it does not significantly limit your physical or mental ability to do basic work activities.
(b)
Basic work activities.
When we talk about basic work activities, we mean the abilities and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs. Examples of these include—
(1) Physical functions such as walking, standing, sitting, lifting, pushing, pulling, reaching, carrying, or handling;
(2) Capacities for seeing, hearing, and speaking;
(3) Understanding, carrying out, and remembering simple instructions;
(4) Use of judgment;
(5) Responding appropriately to supervision, co-workers and usual work situations; and
(6) Dealing with changes in a routine work setting.
[82 FR 5879, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.923
Multiple impairments.
(a)
Unrelated severe impairments.
We cannot combine two or more unrelated severe impairments to meet the 12-month duration test. If you have a severe impairment(s) and then develop another unrelated severe impairment(s) but neither one is expected to last for 12 months, we cannot find you disabled, even though the two impairments in combination last for 12 months.
(b)
Concurrent impairments.
If you have two or more concurrent impairments that, when considered in combination, are severe, we must determine whether the combined effect of your impairments can be expected to continue to be severe for 12 months. If one or more of your impairments improves or is expected to improve within 12 months, so that the combined effect of your remaining impairments is no longer severe, we will find that you do not meet the 12-month duration test.
(c)
Combined effect.
In determining whether your physical or mental impairment or impairments are of a sufficient medical severity that such impairment or impairments could be the basis of eligibility under the law, we will consider the combined effect of all of your impairments without regard to whether any such impairment, if considered separately, would be of sufficient severity. If we do find a medically severe combination of impairments, we will consider the combined impact of the impairments throughout the disability determination process. If we do not find that you have a medically severe combination of impairments, we will determine that you are not disabled (see §§ 416.920 and 416.924).
[82 FR 5879, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.924
How we determine disability for children.
(a)
Steps in evaluating disability.
We consider all relevant evidence in your case record when we make a determination or decision whether you are disabled. If you allege more than one impairment, we will evaluate all the impairments for which we have evidence. Thus, we will consider the combined effects of all your impairments
upon your overall health and functioning. We will also evaluate any limitations in your functioning that result from your symptoms, including pain (see § 416.929). We will also consider all of the relevant factors in §§ 416.924a and 416.924b whenever we assess your functioning at any step of this process. We follow a set order to determine whether you are disabled. If you are doing substantial gainful activity, we will determine that you are not disabled and not review your claim further. If you are not doing substantial gainful activity, we will consider your physical or mental impairment(s) first to see if you have an impairment or combination of impairments that is severe. If your impairment(s) is not severe, we will determine that you are not disabled and not review your claim further. If your impairment(s) is severe, we will review your claim further to see if you have an impairment(s) that meets, medically equals, or functionally equals the listings. If you have such an impairment(s), and it meets the duration requirement, we will find that you are disabled. If you do not have such an impairment(s), or if it does not meet the duration requirement, we will find that you are not disabled.
(b)
If you are working.
If you are working and the work you are doing is substantial gainful activity, we will find that you are not disabled regardless of your medical condition or age, education, or work experience. (For our rules on how we decide whether you are engaging in substantial gainful activity, see §§ 416.971 through 416.976.)
(c)
You must have a medically determinable impairment(s) that is severe.
If you do not have a medically determinable impairment, or your impairment(s) is a slight abnormality or a combination of slight abnormalities that causes no more than minimal functional limitations, we will find that you do not have a severe impairment(s) and are, therefore, not disabled.
(d)
Your impairment(s) must meet, medically equal, or functionally equal the listings.
An impairment(s) causes marked and severe functional limitations if it meets or medically equals the severity of a set of criteria for an impairment in the listings, or if it functionally equals the listings.
(1) Therefore, if you have an impairment(s) that meets or medically equals the requirements of a listing or that functionally equals the listings, and that meets the duration requirement, we will find you disabled.
(2) If your impairment(s) does not meet the duration requirement, or does not meet, medically equal, or functionally equal the listings, we will find that you are not disabled.
(e)
Other rules.
We explain other rules for evaluating impairments at all steps of this process in §§ 416.924a, 416.924b, and 416.929. We explain our rules for deciding whether an impairment(s) meets a listing in § 416.925. Our rules for how we decide whether an impairment(s) medically equals a listing are in § 416.926. Our rules for deciding whether an impairment(s) functionally equals the listings are in § 416.926a.
(f)
If you attain age 18 after you file your disability application but before we make a determination or decision.
For the period during which you are under age 18, we will use the rules in this section. For the period starting with the day you attain age 18, we will use the disability rules we use for adults who file new claims, in § 416.920.
(g)
How we will explain our findings.
When we make a determination or decision whether you are disabled under this section or whether your disability continues under § 416.994a, we will indicate our findings at each step of the sequential evaluation process as we explain in this paragraph. At the initial and reconsideration levels of the administrative review process, State agency medical and psychological consultants will indicate their findings in writing in a manner that we prescribe. The State agency medical or psychological consultant (see § 416.1016) or other designee of the Commissioner has overall responsibility for completing the prescribed writing and must sign the prescribed writing to attest that it is complete, including the findings of fact and any discussion of supporting evidence. Disability hearing officers, administrative law judges and the administrative appeals judges on the Appeals Council (when the Appeals Council makes a decision) will indicate
their findings at each step of the sequential evaluation process in their determinations or decisions. In claims adjudicated under the procedures in part 405 of this chapter, administrative law judges will also indicate their findings at each step of the sequential evaluation process in their decisions.
[58 FR 47577, Sept. 9, 1993, as amended at 62 FR 6421, Feb. 11, 1997; 65 FR 54778, Sept. 11, 2000; 71 FR 16460, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24811, May 3, 2011; 76 FR 41687, July 15, 2011]
§ 416.924a
Considerations in determining disability for children.
(a)
Basic considerations.
We consider all evidence in your case record (see § 416.913). The evidence in your case record may include information from medical sources (such as your pediatrician or other physician; psychologist; qualified speech-language pathologist; and physical, occupational, and rehabilitation therapists) and nonmedical sources (such as your parents, teachers, and other people who know you).
(1)
Medical evidence
—(i)
General.
Medical evidence of your impairment(s) must describe symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings. The medical evidence may include, but is not limited to, formal testing that provides information about your development or functioning in terms of standard deviations, percentiles, percentages of delay, or age or grade equivalents. It may also include opinions from medical sources about the nature and severity of your impairments. (
See
§ 416.920c.)
(ii)
Test scores.
We consider all of the relevant information in your case record and will not consider any single piece of evidence in isolation. Therefore, we will not rely on test scores alone when we decide whether you are disabled. (
See
§ 416.926a(e) for more information about how we consider test scores.)
(iii)
Medical sources.
Medical sources will report their findings and observations on clinical examination and the results of any formal testing. A medical source's report should note and resolve any material inconsistencies between formal test results, other medical findings, and your usual functioning. Whenever possible and appropriate, the interpretation of findings by the medical source should reflect consideration of information from your parents or other people who know you, including your teachers and therapists. When a medical source has accepted and relied on such information to reach a diagnosis, we may consider this information to be a sign, as defined in § 416.902(l).
(2)
Statements from nonmedical sources.
Every child is unique, so the effects of your impairment(s) on your functioning may be very different from the effects the same impairment(s) might have on another child. Therefore, whenever possible and appropriate, we will try to get information from people who can tell us about the effects of your impairment(s) on your activities and how you function on a day-to-day basis. These other people may include, but are not limited to:
(i)
Your parents and other caregivers.
Your parents and other caregivers can be important sources of information because they usually see you every day. In addition to your parents, other caregivers may include a childcare provider who takes care of you while your parent(s) works or an adult who looks after you in a before-or after-school program.
(ii)
Early intervention and preschool programs.
If you have been identified for early intervention services (in your home or elsewhere) because of your impairment(s), or if you attend a preschool program (e.g., Headstart or a public school kindergarten for children with special needs), these programs are also important sources of information about your functioning. We will ask for reports from the agency and individuals who provide you with services or from your teachers about how you typically function compared to other children your age who do not have impairments.
(iii)
School.
If you go to school, we will ask for information from your teachers and other school personnel about how you are functioning there on a day-to-day basis compared to other children your age who do not have impairments. We will ask for any reports that the school may have that show the results of formal testing or that describe any special education instruction or services, including home-based
instruction, or any accommodations provided in a regular classroom.
(b)
Factors we consider when we evaluate the effects of your impairment(s) on your functioning
—(1)
General.
We must consider your functioning when we decide whether your impairment(s) is “severe” and when we decide whether your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings. We will also consider your functioning when we decide whether your impairment(s) meets or medically equals a listing if the listing we are considering includes functioning among its criteria.
(2)
Factors we consider when we evaluate your functioning.
Your limitations in functioning must result from your medically determinable impairment(s). The information we get from your medical and nonmedical sources can help us understand how your impairment(s) affects your functioning. We will also consider any factors that are relevant to how you function when we evaluate your impairment or combination of impairments. For example, your symptoms (such as pain, fatigue, decreased energy, or anxiety) may limit your functioning. (
See
§ 416.929.) We explain some other factors we may consider when we evaluate your functioning in paragraphs (b)(3)-(b)(9) of this section.
(3)
How your functioning compares to the functioning of children your age who do not have impairments
—(i)
General.
When we evaluate your functioning, we will look at whether you do the things that other children your age typically do or whether you have limitations and restrictions because of your medically determinable impairment(s). We will also look at how well you do the activities and how much help you need from your family, teachers, or others. Information about what you can and cannot do, and how you function on a day-to-day basis at home, school, and in the community, allows us to compare your activities to the activities of children your age who do not have impairments.
(ii)
How we will consider reports of your functioning.
When we consider the evidence in your case record about the quality of your activities, we will consider the standards used by the person who gave us the information. We will also consider the characteristics of the group to whom you are being compared. For example, if the way you do your classwork is compared to other children in a special education class, we will consider that you are being compared to children who do have impairments.
(4)
Combined effects of multiple impairments.
If you have more than one impairment, we will sometimes be able to decide that you have a “severe” impairment or an impairment that meets, medically equals, or functionally equals the listings by looking at each of your impairments separately. When we cannot, we will look comprehensively at the combined effects of your impairments on your day-to-day functioning instead of considering the limitations resulting from each impairment separately. (See §§ 416.923 and 416.926a(c) for more information about how we will consider the interactive and cumulative effects of your impairments on your functioning.)
(5)
How well you can initiate, sustain, and complete your activities, including the amount of help or adaptations you need, and the effects of structured or supportive settings
—(i)
Initiating, sustaining, and completing activities.
We will consider how effectively you function by examining how independently you are able to initiate, sustain, and complete your activities despite your impairment(s), compared to other children your age who do not have impairments. We will consider:
(A) The range of activities you do;
(B) Your ability to do them independently, including any prompting you may need to begin, carry through, and complete your activities;
(C) The pace at which you do your activities;
(D) How much effort you need to make to do your activities; and
(E) How long you are able to sustain your activities.
(ii)
Extra help.
We will consider how independently you are able to function compared to other children your age who do not have impairments. We will consider whether you need help from other people, or whether you need special equipment, devices, or medications to perform your day-to-day activities. For example, we may consider how much supervision you need to keep from hurting yourself, how much help
you need every day to get dressed or, if you are an infant, how long it takes for your parents or other caregivers to feed you. We recognize that children are often able to do things and complete tasks when given help, but may not be able to do these same things by themselves. Therefore, we will consider how much extra help you need, what special equipment or devices you use, and the medications you take that enable you to participate in activities like other children your age who do not have impairments.
(iii)
Adaptations.
We will consider the nature and extent of any adaptations that you use to enable you to function. Such adaptations may include assistive devices or appliances. Some adaptations may enable you to function normally or almost normally (e.g., eyeglasses). Others may increase your functioning, even though you may still have functional limitations (e.g., ankle-foot orthoses, hand or foot splints, and specially adapted or custom-made tools, utensils, or devices for self-care activities such as bathing, feeding, toileting, and dressing). When we evaluate your functioning with an adaptation, we will consider the degree to which the adaptation enables you to function compared to other children your age who do not have impairments, your ability to use the adaptation effectively on a sustained basis, and any functional limitations that nevertheless persist.
(iv)
Structured or supportive settings.
(A) If you have a serious impairment(s), you may spend some or all of your time in a structured or supportive setting, beyond what a child who does not have an impairment typically needs.
(B) A structured or supportive setting may be your own home in which family members or other people (e.g., visiting nurses or home health workers) make adjustments to accommodate your impairment(s). A structured or supportive setting may also be your classroom at school, whether it is a regular classroom in which you are accommodated or a special classroom. It may also be a residential facility or school where you live for a period of time.
(C) A structured or supportive setting may minimize signs and symptoms of your impairment(s) and help to improve your functioning while you are in it, but your signs, symptoms, and functional limitations may worsen outside this type of setting. Therefore, we will consider your need for a structured setting and the degree of limitation in functioning you have or would have outside the structured setting. Even if you are able to function adequately in the structured or supportive setting, we must consider how you function in other settings and whether you would continue to function at an adequate level without the structured or supportive setting.
(D) If you have a chronic impairment(s), you may have your activities structured in such a way as to minimize stress and reduce the symptoms or signs of your impairment(s). You may continue to have persistent pain, fatigue, decreased energy, or other symptoms or signs, although at a lesser level of severity. We will consider whether you are more limited in your functioning than your symptoms and signs would indicate.
(E) Therefore, if your symptoms or signs are controlled or reduced in a structured setting, we will consider how well you are functioning in the setting and the nature of the setting in which you are functioning (e.g., home or a special class); the amount of help you need from your parents, teachers, or others to function as well as you do; adjustments you make to structure your environment; and how you would function without the structured or supportive setting.
(6)
Unusual settings.
Children may function differently in unfamiliar or one-to-one settings than they do in their usual settings at home, at school, in childcare or in the community. You may appear more or less impaired on a single examination (such as a consultative examination) than indicated by the information covering a longer period. Therefore, we will apply the guidance in paragraph (b)(5) of this section when we consider how you function in an unusual or one-to-one situation. We will look at your performance in a special situation and at your typical day-
to-day functioning in routine situations. We will not draw inferences about your functioning in other situations based only on how you function in a one-to-one, new, or unusual situation.
(7)
Early intervention and school programs
—(i)
General.
If you are a very young child who has been identified for early intervention services, or if you attend school (including preschool), the records of people who know you or who have examined you are important sources of information about your impairment(s) and its effects on your functioning. Records from physicians, teachers and school psychologists, or physical, occupational, or speech-language therapists are examples of what we will consider. If you receive early intervention services or go to school or preschool, we will consider this information when it is relevant and available to us.
(ii)
School evidence.
If you go to school or preschool, we will ask your teacher(s) about your performance in your activities throughout your school day. We will consider all the evidence we receive from your school, including teacher questionnaires, teacher checklists, group achievement testing, and report cards.
(iii)
Early intervention and special education programs.
If you have received a comprehensive assessment for early intervention services or special education services, we will consider information used by the assessment team to make its recommendations. We will consider the information in your Individualized Family Service Plan, your Individualized Education Program, or your plan for transition services to help us understand your functioning. We will examine the goals and objectives of your plan or program as further indicators of your functioning, as well as statements regarding related services, supplementary aids, program modifications, and other accommodations recommended to help you function, together with the other relevant information in your case record.
(iv)
Special education or accommodations.
We will consider the fact that you attend school, that you may be placed in a special education setting, or that you receive accommodations because of your impairments along with the other information in your case record. The fact that you attend school does not mean that you are not disabled. The fact that you do or do not receive special education services does not, in itself, establish your actual limitations or abilities. Children are placed in special education settings, or are included in regular classrooms (with or without accommodation), for many reasons that may or may not be related to the level of their impairments. For example, you may receive one-to-one assistance from an aide throughout the day in a regular classroom, or be placed in a special classroom. We will consider the circumstances of your school attendance, such as your ability to function in a regular classroom or preschool setting with children your age who do not have impairments. Similarly, we will consider that good performance in a special education setting does not mean that you are functioning at the same level as other children your age who do not have impairments.
(v)
Attendance and participation.
We will also consider factors affecting your ability to participate in your education program. You may be unable to participate on a regular basis because of the chronic or episodic nature of your impairment(s) or your need for therapy or treatment. If you have more than one impairment, we will look at whether the effects of your impairments taken together make you unable to participate on a regular basis. We will consider how your temporary removal or absence from the program affects your ability to function compared to other children your age who do not have impairments.
(8)
The impact of chronic illness and limitations that interfere with your activities over time.
If you have a chronic impairment(s) that is characterized by episodes of exacerbation (worsening) and remission (improvement), we will consider the frequency and severity of your episodes of exacerbation as factors that may be limiting your functioning. Your level of functioning may vary considerably over time. Proper evaluation of your ability to function in any domain requires us to take into account any variations in your level of
functioning to determine the impact of your chronic illness on your ability to function over time. If you require frequent treatment, we will consider it as explained in paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section.
(9)
The effects of treatment (including medications and other treatment).
We will evaluate the effects of your treatment to determine its effect on your functioning in your particular case.
(i)
Effects of medications.
We will consider the effects of medication on your symptoms, signs, laboratory findings, and functioning. Although medications may control the most obvious manifestations of your impairment(s), they may or may not affect the functional limitations imposed by your impairment(s). If your symptoms or signs are reduced by medications, we will consider:
(A) Any of your functional limitations that may nevertheless persist, even if there is improvement from the medications;
(B) Whether your medications create any side effects that cause or contribute to your functional limitations;
(C) The frequency of your need for medication;
(D) Changes in your medication or the way your medication is prescribed; and
(E) Any evidence over time of how medication helps or does not help you to function compared to other children your age who do not have impairments.
(ii)
Other treatment.
We will also consider the level and frequency of treatment other than medications that you get for your impairment(s). You may need frequent and ongoing therapy from one or more medical sources to maintain or improve your functional status. (Examples of therapy include occupational, physical, or speech and language therapy, nursing or home health services, psychotherapy, or psychosocial counseling.) Frequent therapy, although intended to improve your functioning in some ways, may also interfere with your functioning in other ways. Therefore, we will consider the frequency of any therapy you must have, and how long you have received or will need it. We will also consider whether the therapy interferes with your participation in activities typical of other children your age who do not have impairments, such as attending school or classes and socializing with your peers. If you must frequently interrupt your activities at school or at home for therapy, we will consider whether these interruptions interfere with your functioning. We will also consider the length and frequency of your hospitalizations.
(iii)
Treatment and intervention, in general.
With treatment or intervention, you may not only have your symptoms or signs reduced, but may also maintain, return to, or achieve a level of functioning that is not disabling. Treatment or intervention may prevent, eliminate, or reduce functional limitations.
[65 FR 54779, Sept. 11, 2000, as amended at 82 FR 5879, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.924b
Age as a factor of evaluation in the sequential evaluation process for children.
(a)
General.
In this section, we explain how we consider age when we decide whether you are disabled. Your age may or may not be a factor in our determination whether your impairment(s) meets or medically equals a listing, depending on the listing we use for comparison. However, your age is an important factor when we decide whether your impairment(s) is severe (
see
§ 416.924(c)) and whether it functionally equals the listings (
see
§ 416.926a). Except in the case of certain premature infants, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, age means chronological age.
(1) When we determine whether you have an impairment or combination of impairments that is severe, we will compare your functioning to that of children your age who do not have impairments.
(2) When we determine whether your impairment(s) meets a listing, we may or may not need to consider your age. The listings describe impairments that we consider of such significance that they are presumed to cause marked and severe functional limitations.
(i) If the listing appropriate for evaluating your impairment is divided into specific age categories, we will evaluate your impairment according to your
age when we decide whether your impairment meets that listing.
(ii) If the listing appropriate for evaluating your impairment does not include specific age categories, we will decide whether your impairment meets the listing without giving consideration to your age.
(3) When we compare an unlisted impairment or a combination of impairments with the listings to determine whether it medically equals the severity of a listing, the way we consider your age will depend on the listing we use for comparison. We will use the same principles for considering your age as in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section; that is, we will consider your age only if we are comparing your impairment(s) to a listing that includes specific age categories.
(4) We will also consider your age and whether it affects your ability to be tested. If your impairment(s) is not amenable to formal testing because of your age, we will consider all information in your case record that helps us decide whether you are disabled. We will consider other generally acceptable methods consistent with the prevailing state of medical knowledge and clinical practice that will help us evaluate the existence and severity of your impairment(s).
(b)
Correcting chronological age of premature infants.
We generally use chronological age (a child's age based on birth date) when we decide whether, or the extent to which, a physical or mental impairment or combination of impairments causes functional limitations. However, if you were born prematurely, we may consider you younger than your chronological age when we evaluate your development. We may use a “corrected” chronological age (CCA); that is, your chronological age adjusted by a period of gestational prematurity. We consider an infant born at less than 37 weeks' gestation to be born prematurely.
(1) We compute your CCA by subtracting the number of weeks of prematurity (the difference between 40 weeks of full-term gestation and the number of actual weeks of gestation) from your chronological age. For example, if your chronological age is 20 weeks but you were born at 32 weeks gestation (8 weeks premature), then your CCA is 12 weeks.
(2) We evaluate developmental delay in a premature child until the child's prematurity is no longer a relevant factor, generally no later than about chronological age 2.
(i) If you have not attained age 1 and were born prematurely, we will assess your development using your CCA.
(ii) If you are over age 1 and have a developmental delay, and prematurity is still a relevant factor, we will decide whether to correct your chronological age. We will base our decision on our judgment and all the facts in your case. If we decide to correct your chronological age, we may correct it by subtracting the full number of weeks of prematurity or a lesser number of weeks. If your developmental delay is the result of your medically determinable impairment(s) and is not attributable to your prematurity, we will decide not to correct your chronological age.
(3) Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, we will not compute a corrected chronological age if the medical evidence shows that your medical source has already considered your prematurity in his or her assessment of your development. We will not compute a CCA when we find you disabled under listing 100.04 of the Listing of Impairments.
[65 FR 54778, Sept. 11, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 59431, Oct. 19, 2007; 80 FR 19529, Apr. 13, 2015; 82 FR 5880, Jan. 18, 2017]

# Medical Considerations
§ 416.925
Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
(a)
What is the purpose of the Listing of Impairments?
The Listing of Impairments (the listings) is in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter. For adults, it describes for each of the major body systems impairments that we consider to be severe enough to prevent an individual from doing any gainful activity, regardless of his or her age, education, or work experience. For children, it describes impairments that cause marked and severe functional limitations.
(b)
How is appendix 1 organized?
There are two parts in appendix 1:
(1)
Part A
contains criteria that apply to individuals age 18 and over. We may also use part A for individuals who are under age 18 if the disease processes have a similar effect on adults and children.
(2)(i)
Part B
contains criteria that apply only to individuals who are under age 18; we never use the listings in part B to evaluate individuals who are age 18 or older. In evaluating disability for a person under age 18, we use part B first. If the criteria in part B do not apply, we may use the criteria in part A when those criteria give appropriate consideration to the effects of the impairment(s) in children. To the extent possible, we number the provisions in part B to maintain a relationship with their counterparts in part A.
(ii) Although the severity criteria in part B of the listings are expressed in different ways for different impairments, “listing-level severity” generally means the level of severity described in § 416.926a(a); that is, “marked” limitations in two domains of functioning or an “extreme” limitation in one domain. (See § 416.926a(e) for the definitions of the terms
marked
and
extreme
as they apply to children.) Therefore, in general, a child's impairment(s) is of “listing-level severity” if it causes marked limitations in two domains of functioning or an extreme limitation in one. However, when we decide whether your impairment(s) meets the requirements of a listing, we will decide that your impairment is of “listing-level severity” even if it does not result in marked limitations in two domains of functioning, or an extreme limitation in one, if the listing that we apply does not require such limitations to establish that an impairment(s) is disabling.
(c)
How do we use the listings?
(1) Most body system sections in parts A and B of appendix 1 are in two parts: an introduction, followed by the specific listings.
(2) The introduction to each body system contains information relevant to the use of the listings in that body system; for example, examples of common impairments in the body system and definitions used in the listings for that body system. We may also include specific criteria for establishing a diagnosis, confirming the existence of an impairment, or establishing that your impairment(s) satisfies the criteria of a particular listing in the body system. Even if we do not include specific criteria for establishing a diagnosis or confirming the existence of your impairment, you must still show that you have a severe medically determinable impairment(s), as defined in §§ 416.921 and 416.924(c).
(3) In most cases, the specific listings follow the introduction in each body system, after the heading,
Category of Impairments.
Within each listing, we specify the objective medical and other findings needed to satisfy the criteria of that listing. We will find that your impairment(s)
meets
the requirements of a listing when it satisfies all of the criteria of that listing, including any relevant criteria in the introduction, and meets the duration requirement (see § 416.909).
(4) Most of the listed impairments are permanent or expected to result in death. For some listings, we state a specific period of time for which your impairment(s) will meet the listing. For all others, the evidence must show that your impairment(s) has lasted or can be expected to last for a continuous period of at least 12 months.
(5) If your impairment(s) does not meet the criteria of a listing, it can
medically equal
the criteria of a listing. We explain our rules for medical equivalence in § 416.926. We use the listings only to find that you are disabled or still disabled. If your impairment(s) does not meet or medically equal the criteria of a listing, we may find that you are disabled or still disabled at a later step in the sequential evaluation process.
(d)
Can your impairment(s) meet a listing based only on a diagnosis?
No. Your impairment(s) cannot meet the criteria of a listing based only on a diagnosis. To meet the requirements of a listing, you must have a medically determinable impairment(s) that satisfies all of the criteria of the listing.
(e)
How do we consider your symptoms when we determine whether your impairment(s) meets a listing?
Some listed impairments include symptoms, such as pain, as criteria. Section 416.929(d)(2) explains how we consider your symptoms when your symptoms are included as criteria in a listing.
[71 FR 10430, Mar. 1, 2006, as amended at 76 FR 19698, Apr. 8, 2011; 82 FR 5880, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.926
Medical equivalence for adults and children.
(a)
What is medical equivalence?
Your impairment(s) is medically equivalent to a listed impairment in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter if it is at least equal in severity and duration to the criteria of any listed impairment.
(b)
How do we determine medical equivalence?
We can find medical equivalence in three ways.
(1)(i) If you have an impairment that is described in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, but—
(A) You do not exhibit one or more of the findings specified in the particular listing, or
(B) You exhibit all of the findings, but one or more of the findings is not as severe as specified in the particular listing,
(ii) We will find that your impairment is medically equivalent to that listing if you have other findings related to your impairment that are at least of equal medical significance to the required criteria.
(2) If you have an impairment(s) that is not described in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, we will compare your findings with those for closely analogous listed impairments. If the findings related to your impairment(s) are at least of equal medical significance to those of a listed impairment, we will find that your impairment(s) is medically equivalent to the analogous listing.
(3) If you have a combination of impairments, no one of which meets a listing described in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter (see § 416.925(c)(3)), we will compare your findings with those for closely analogous listed impairments. If the findings related to your impairments are at least of equal medical significance to those of a listed impairment, we will find that your combination of impairments is medically equivalent to that listing.
(4) Section 416.929(d)(3) explains how we consider your symptoms, such as pain, when we make findings about medical equivalence.
(c)
What evidence do we consider when we determine if your impairment(s) medically equals a listing?
When we determine if your impairment medically equals a listing, we consider all evidence in your case record about your impairment(s) and its effects on you that is relevant to this finding. We do not consider your vocational factors of age, education, and work experience (see, for example, § 416.960(c)(1)). We also consider the opinion given by one or more medical or psychological consultants designated by the Commissioner. (See § 416.1016.)
(d)
Who is a designated medical or psychological consultant?
A medical or psychological consultant designated by the Commissioner includes any medical or psychological consultant employed or engaged to make medical judgments by the Social Security Administration, the Railroad Retirement Board, or a State agency authorized to make disability determinations. See § 416.1016 for the necessary qualifications for medical consultants and psychological consultants.
(e)
Who is responsible for determining medical equivalence?
(1) In cases where the State agency or other designee of the Commissioner makes the initial or reconsideration disability determination, a State agency medical or psychological consultant or other designee of the Commissioner (see § 416.1016 of this part) has the overall responsibility for determining medical equivalence.
(2) For cases in the disability hearing process or otherwise decided by a disability hearing officer, the responsibility for determining medical equivalence rests with either the disability hearing officer or, if the disability hearing officer's reconsideration determination is changed under § 416.1418 of
this part, with the Associate Commissioner for Disability Policy or his or her delegate.
(3) For cases at the administrative law judge or Appeals Council level, the responsibility for deciding medical equivalence rests with the administrative law judge or Appeals Council.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 33928, Sept. 9, 1987; 56 FR 5561, Feb. 11, 1991; 62 FR 6424, Feb. 11, 1997; 62 FR 13538, Mar. 21, 1997; 65 FR 34959, June 1, 2000; 71 FR 10431, Mar. 1, 2006; 71 FR 16460, Mar. 31, 2006; 76 FR 24811, May 3, 2011; 82 FR 5880, Jan. 18, 2017; 82 FR 15132, Mar. 27, 2017]
§ 416.926a
Functional equivalence for children.
(a)
General.
If you have a severe impairment or combination of impairments that does not meet or medically equal any listing, we will decide whether it results in limitations that functionally equal the listings. By “functionally equal the listings,” we mean that your impairment(s) must be of listing-level severity;
i.e.,
it must result in “marked” limitations in two domains of functioning or an “extreme” limitation in one domain, as explained in this section. We will assess the functional limitations caused by your impairment(s);
i.e.,
what you cannot do, have difficulty doing, need help doing, or are restricted from doing because of your impairment(s). When we make a finding regarding functional equivalence, we will assess the interactive and cumulative effects of all of the impairments for which we have evidence, including any impairments you have that are not “severe.” (
See
§ 416.924(c).) When we assess your functional limitations, we will consider all the relevant factors in §§ 416.924a, 416.924b, and 416.929 including, but not limited to:
(1) How well you can initiate and sustain activities, how much extra help you need, and the effects of structured or supportive settings (
see
§ 416.924a(b)(5));
(2) How you function in school (
see
§ 416.924a(b)(7)); and
(3) The effects of your medications or other treatment (
see
§ 416.924a(b)(9)).
(b)
How we will consider your functioning.
We will look at the information we have in your case record about how your functioning is affected during all of your activities when we decide whether your impairment or combination of impairments functionally equals the listings. Your activities are everything you do at home, at school, and in your community. We will look at how appropriately, effectively, and independently you perform your activities compared to the performance of other children your age who do not have impairments.
(1) We will consider how you function in your activities in terms of six domains. These domains are broad areas of functioning intended to capture all of what a child can or cannot do. In paragraphs (g) through (l), we describe each domain in general terms. For most of the domains, we also provide examples of activities that illustrate the typical functioning of children in different age groups. For all of the domains, we also provide examples of limitations within the domains. However, we recognize that there is a range of development and functioning, and that not all children within an age category are expected to be able to do all of the activities in the examples of typical functioning. We also recognize that limitations of any of the activities in the examples do not necessarily mean that a child has a “marked” or “extreme” limitation, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section. The domains we use are:
(i) Acquiring and using information;
(ii) Attending and completing tasks;
(iii) Interacting and relating with others;
(iv) Moving about and manipulating objects;
(v) Caring for yourself; and,
(vi) Health and physical well-being.
(2) When we evaluate your ability to function in each domain, we will ask for and consider information that will help us answer the following questions about whether your impairment(s) affects your functioning and whether your activities are typical of other children your age who do not have impairments.
(i) What activities are you able to perform?
(ii) What activities are you not able to perform?
(iii) Which of your activities are limited or restricted compared to other children your age who do not have impairments?
(iv) Where do you have difficulty with your activities-at home, in childcare, at school, or in the community?
(v) Do you have difficulty independently initiating, sustaining, or completing activities?
(vi) What kind of help do you need to do your activities, how much help do you need, and how often do you need it?
(3) We will try to get information from sources who can tell us about the effects of your impairment(s) and how you function. We will ask for information from your medical sources who can give us medical evidence, including medical opinions, about your limitations and restrictions. We will also ask for information from your parents and teachers, and may ask for information from others who see you often and can describe your functioning at home, in childcare, at school, and in your community. We may also ask you to go to a consultative examination(s) at our expense. (
See
§§ 416.912-416.919a regarding medical evidence and when we will purchase a consultative examination.)
(c)
The interactive and cumulative effects of an impairment or multiple impairments.
When we evaluate your functioning and decide which domains may be affected by your impairment(s), we will look first at your activities and your limitations and restrictions. Any given activity may involve the integrated use of many abilities and skills; therefore, any single limitation may be the result of the interactive and cumulative effects of one or more impairments. And any given impairment may have effects in more than one domain; therefore, we will evaluate the limitations from your impairment(s) in any affected domain(s).
(d)
How we will decide that your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings.
We will decide that your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings if it is of listing-level severity. Your impairment(s) is of listing-level severity if you have “marked” limitations in two of the domains in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or an “extreme” limitation in one domain. We will not compare your functioning to the requirements of any specific listing. We explain what the terms “marked” and “extreme” mean in paragraph (e) of this section. We explain how we use the domains in paragraph (f) of this section, and describe each domain in paragraphs (g)-(l). You must also meet the duration requirement. (
See
§ 416.909.)
(e)
How we define “marked” and “extreme” limitations
—(1)
General.
(i) When we decide whether you have a “marked” or an “extreme” limitation, we will consider your functional limitations resulting from all of your impairments, including their interactive and cumulative effects. We will consider all the relevant information in your case record that helps us determine your functioning, including your signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings, the descriptions we have about your functioning from your parents, teachers, and other people who know you, and the relevant factors explained in §§ 416.924a, 416.924b, and 416.929.
(ii) The medical evidence may include formal testing that provides information about your development or functioning in terms of percentiles, percentages of delay, or age or grade equivalents. Standard scores (e.g., percentiles) can be converted to standard deviations. When you have such scores, we will consider them together with the information we have about your functioning to determine whether you have a “marked” or “extreme” limitation in a domain.
(2)
Marked limitation.
(i) We will find that you have a “marked” limitation in a domain when your impairment(s) interferes seriously with your ability to independently initiate, sustain, or complete activities. Your day-to-day functioning may be seriously limited when your impairment(s) limits only one activity or when the interactive and cumulative effects of your impairment(s) limit several activities. “Marked” limitation also means a limitation that is “more than moderate” but “less than extreme.” It is the equivalent of the functioning we would expect to find on standardized testing with scores that are at least two, but less than three, standard deviations below the mean.
(ii) If you have not attained age 3, we will generally find that you have a “marked” limitation if you are functioning at a level that is more than one-half but not more than two-thirds of your chronological age when there are no standard scores from standardized tests in your case record.
(iii) If you are a child of any age (birth to the attainment of age 18), we will find that you have a “marked” limitation when you have a valid score that is two standard deviations or more below the mean, but less than three standard deviations, on a comprehensive standardized test designed to measure ability or functioning in that domain, and your day-to-day functioning in domain-related activities is consistent with that score. (
See
paragraph (e)(4) of this section.)
(iv) For the sixth domain of functioning, “Health and physical well-being,” we may also consider you to have a “marked” limitation if you are frequently ill because of your impairment(s) or have frequent exacerbations of your impairment(s) that result in significant, documented symptoms or signs. For purposes of this domain, “frequent means that you have episodes of illness or exacerbations that occur on an average of 3 times a year, or once every 4 months, each lasting 2 weeks or more. We may also find that you have a “marked” limitation if you have episodes that occur more often than 3 times in a year or once every 4 months but do not last for 2 weeks, or occur less often than an average of 3 times a year or once every 4 months but last longer than 2 weeks, if the overall effect (based on the length of the episode(s) or its frequency) is equivalent in severity.
(3)
Extreme limitation.
(i) We will find that you have an “extreme” limitation in a domain when your impairment(s) interferes very seriously with your ability to independently initiate, sustain, or complete activities. Your day-to-day functioning may be very seriously limited when your impairment(s) limits only one activity or when the interactive and cumulative effects of your impairment(s) limit several activities. “Extreme” limitation also means a limitation that is “more than marked.” “Extreme” limitation is the rating we give to the worst limitations. However, “extreme limitation” does not necessarily mean a total lack or loss of ability to function. It is the equivalent of the functioning we would expect to find on standardized testing with scores that are at least three standard deviations below the mean.
(ii) If you have not attained age 3, we will generally find that you have an “extreme” limitation if you are functioning at a level that is one-half of your chronological age or less when there are no standard scores from standardized tests in your case record.
(iii) If you are a child of any age (birth to the attainment of age 18), we will find that you have an “extreme” limitation when you have a valid score that is three standard deviations or more below the mean on a comprehensive standardized test designed to measure ability or functioning in that domain, and your day-to-day functioning in domain-related activities is consistent with that score. (
See
paragraph (e)(4) of this section.)
(iv) For the sixth domain of functioning, “Health and physical well-being,” we may also consider you to have an “extreme” limitation if you are frequently ill because of your impairment(s) or have frequent exacerbations of your impairment(s) that result in significant, documented symptoms or signs substantially in excess of the requirements for showing a “marked” limitation in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section. However, if you have episodes of illness or exacerbations of your impairment(s) that we would rate as “extreme” under this definition, your impairment(s) should meet or medically equal the requirements of a listing in most cases.
See
§§ 416.925 and 416.926.
(4)
How we will consider your test scores.
(i) As indicated in § 416.924a(a)(1)(ii), we will not rely on any test score alone. No single piece of information taken in isolation can establish whether you have a “marked” or an “extreme” limitation in a domain.
(ii) We will consider your test scores together with the other information we have about your functioning, including reports of classroom performance and
the observations of school personnel and others.
(A) We may find that you have a “marked” or “extreme” limitation when you have a test score that is slightly higher than the level provided in paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section, if other information in your case record shows that your functioning in day-to-day activities is seriously or very seriously limited because of your impairment(s). For example, you may have IQ scores above the level in paragraph (e)(2), but other evidence shows that your impairment(s) causes you to function in school, home, and the community far below your expected level of functioning based on this score.
(B) On the other hand, we may find that you do not have a “marked” or “extreme” limitation, even if your test scores are at the level provided in paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section, if other information in your case record shows that your functioning in day-to-day activities is not seriously or very seriously limited by your impairment(s). For example, you may have a valid IQ score below the level in paragraph (e)(2), but other evidence shows that you have learned to drive a car, shop independently, and read books near your expected grade level.
(iii) If there is a material inconsistency between your test scores and other information in your case record, we will try to resolve it. The interpretation of the test is primarily the responsibility of the psychologist or other professional who administered the test. But it is also our responsibility to ensure that the evidence in your case is complete and consistent or that any material inconsistencies have been resolved. Therefore, we will use the following guidelines when we resolve concerns about your test scores:
(A) We may be able to resolve the inconsistency with the information we have. We may need to obtain additional information; e.g., by recontact with your medical source(s), by purchase of a consultative examination to provide further medical information, by recontact with a medical source who provided a consultative examination, or by questioning individuals familiar with your day-to-day functioning.
(B) Generally, we will not rely on a test score as a measurement of your functioning within a domain when the information we have about your functioning is the kind of information typically used by medical professionals to determine that the test results are not the best measure of your day-to-day functioning. When we do not rely on test scores, we will explain our reasons for doing so in your case record or in our decision.
(f)
How we will use the domains to help us evaluate your functioning.
(1) When we consider whether you have “marked” or “extreme” limitations in any domain, we examine all the information we have in your case record about how your functioning is limited because of your impairment(s), and we compare your functioning to the typical functioning of children your age who do not have impairments.
(2) The general descriptions of each domain in paragraphs (g)-(l) help us decide whether you have limitations in any given domain and whether these limitations are “marked” or “extreme.”
(3) The domain descriptions also include examples of some activities typical of children in each age group and some functional limitations that we may consider. These examples also help us decide whether you have limitations in a domain because of your impairment(s). The examples are not all-inclusive, and we will not require our adjudicators to develop evidence about each specific example. When you have limitations in a given activity or activities in the examples, we may or may not decide that you have a “marked” or “extreme” limitation in the domain. We will consider the activities in which you are limited because of your impairment(s) and the extent of your limitations under the rules in paragraph (e) of this section. We will also consider all of the relevant provisions of §§ 416.924a, 416.924b, and 416.929.
(g)
Acquiring and using information.
In this domain, we consider how well you acquire or learn information, and how well you use the information you have learned.
(1)
General.
(i) Learning and thinking begin at birth. You learn as you explore the world through sight, sound, taste, touch, and smell. As you play, you acquire concepts and learn that people, things, and activities have names. This lets you understand symbols, which prepares you to use language for learning. Using the concepts and symbols you have acquired through play and learning experiences, you should be able to learn to read, write, do arithmetic, and understand and use new information.
(ii) Thinking is the application or use of information you have learned. It involves being able to perceive relationships, reason, and make logical choices. People think in different ways. When you think in pictures, you may solve a problem by watching and imitating what another person does. When you think in words, you may solve a problem by using language to talk your way through it. You must also be able to use language to think about the world and to understand others and express yourself; e.g., to follow directions, ask for information, or explain something.
(2)
Age group descriptors
—(i)
Newborns and young infants (birth to attainment of age 1).
At this age, you should show interest in, and explore, your environment. At first, your actions are random; for example, when you accidentally touch the mobile over your crib. Eventually, your actions should become deliberate and purposeful, as when you shake noisemaking toys like a bell or rattle. You should begin to recognize, and then anticipate, routine situations and events, as when you grin with expectation at the sight of your stroller. You should also recognize and gradually attach meaning to everyday sounds, as when you hear the telephone or your name. Eventually, you should recognize and respond to familiar words, including family names and what your favorite toys and activities are called.
(ii)
Older infants and toddlers (age 1 to attainment of age 3).
At this age, you are learning about the world around you. When you play, you should learn how objects go together in different ways. You should learn that by pretending, your actions can represent real things. This helps you understand that words represent things, and that words are simply symbols or names for toys, people, places, and activities. You should refer to yourself and things around you by pointing and eventually by naming. You should form concepts and solve simple problems through purposeful experimentation (e.g., taking toys apart), imitation, constructive play (e.g., building with blocks), and pretend play activities. You should begin to respond to increasingly complex instructions and questions, and to produce an increasing number of words and grammatically correct simple sentences and questions.
(iii)
Preschool children (age 3 to attainment of age 6).
When you are old enough to go to preschool or kindergarten, you should begin to learn and use the skills that will help you to read and write and do arithmetic when you are older. For example, listening to stories, rhyming words, and matching letters are skills needed for learning to read. Counting, sorting shapes, and building with blocks are skills needed to learn math. Painting, coloring, copying shapes, and using scissors are some of the skills needed in learning to write. Using words to ask questions, give answers, follow directions, describe things, explain what you mean, and tell stories allows you to acquire and share knowledge and experience of the world around you. All of these are called “readiness skills,” and you should have them by the time you begin first grade.
(iv)
School-age children (age 6 to attainment of age 12).
When you are old enough to go to elementary and middle school, you should be able to learn to read, write, and do math, and discuss history and science. You will need to use these skills in academic situations to demonstrate what you have learned; e.g., by reading about various subjects and producing oral and written projects, solving mathematical problems, taking achievement tests, doing group work, and entering into class discussions. You will also need to use these skills in daily living situations at home and in the community (e.g., reading street signs, telling time, and making change). You should be able to use
increasingly complex language (vocabulary and grammar) to share information and ideas with individuals or groups, by asking questions and expressing your own ideas, and by understanding and responding to the opinions of others.
(v)
Adolescents (age 12 to attainment of age 18).
In middle and high school, you should continue to demonstrate what you have learned in academic assignments (e.g., composition, classroom discussion, and laboratory experiments). You should also be able to use what you have learned in daily living situations without assistance (e.g., going to the store, using the library, and using public transportation). You should be able to comprehend and express both simple and complex ideas, using increasingly complex language (vocabulary and grammar) in learning and daily living situations (e.g., to obtain and convey information and ideas). You should also learn to apply these skills in practical ways that will help you enter the workplace after you finish school (e.g., carrying out instructions, preparing a job application, or being interviewed by a potential employer).
(3)
Examples of limited functioning in acquiring and using information.
The following examples describe some limitations we may consider in this domain. Your limitations may be different from the ones listed here. Also, the examples do not necessarily describe a “marked” or “extreme” limitation. Whether an example applies in your case may depend on your age and developmental stage; e.g., an example below may describe a limitation in an older child, but not a limitation in a younger one. As in any case, your limitations must result from your medically determinable impairment(s). However, we will consider all of the relevant information in your case record when we decide whether your medically determinable impairment(s) results in a “marked” or “extreme” limitation in this domain.
(i) You do not demonstrate understanding of words about space, size, or time; e.g., in/under, big/little, morning/night.
(ii) You cannot rhyme words or the sounds in words.
(iii) You have difficulty recalling important things you learned in school yesterday.
(iv) You have difficulty solving mathematics questions or computing arithmetic answers.
(v) You talk only in short, simple sentences and have difficulty explaining what you mean.
(h)
Attending and completing tasks.
In this domain, we consider how well you are able to focus and maintain your attention, and how well you begin, carry through, and finish your activities, including the pace at which you perform activities and the ease with which you change them.
(1)
General.
(i) Attention involves regulating your levels of alertness and initiating and maintaining concentration. It involves the ability to filter out distractions and to remain focused on an activity or task at a consistent level of performance. This means focusing long enough to initiate and complete an activity or task, and changing focus once it is completed. It also means that if you lose or change your focus in the middle of a task, you are able to return to the task without other people having to remind you frequently to finish it.
(ii) Adequate attention is needed to maintain physical and mental effort and concentration on an activity or task. Adequate attention permits you to think and reflect before starting or deciding to stop an activity. In other words, you are able to look ahead and predict the possible outcomes of your actions before you act. Focusing your attention allows you to attempt tasks at an appropriate pace. It also helps you determine the time needed to finish a task within an appropriate timeframe.
(2)
Age group descriptors
—(i)
Newborns and young infants (birth to attainment of age 1).
You should begin at birth to show sensitivity to your environment by responding to various stimuli (e.g., light, touch, temperature, movement). Very soon, you should be able to fix your gaze on a human face. You should stop your activity when you hear voices or sounds around you. Next, you should begin to attend to and follow various moving objects with your gaze, including people or toys. You should be
listening to your family's conversations for longer and longer periods of time. Eventually, as you are able to move around and explore your environment, you should begin to play with people and toys for longer periods of time. You will still want to change activities frequently, but your interest in continuing interaction or a game should gradually expand.
(ii)
Older infants and toddlers (age 1 to attainment of age 3).
At this age, you should be able to attend to things that interest you and have adequate attention to complete some tasks by yourself. As a toddler, you should demonstrate sustained attention, such as when looking at picture books, listening to stories, or building with blocks, and when helping to put on your clothes.
(iii)
Preschool children (age 3 to attainment of age 6).
As a preschooler, you should be able to pay attention when you are spoken to directly, sustain attention to your play and learning activities, and concentrate on activities like putting puzzles together or completing art projects. You should also be able to focus long enough to do many more things by yourself, such as getting your clothes together and dressing yourself, feeding yourself, or putting away your toys. You should usually be able to wait your turn and to change your activity when a caregiver or teacher says it is time to do something else.
(iv)
School-age children (age 6 to attainment of age 12).
When you are of school age, you should be able to focus your attention in a variety of situations in order to follow directions, remember and organize your school materials, and complete classroom and homework assignments. You should be able to concentrate on details and not make careless mistakes in your work (beyond what would be expected in other children your age who do not have impairments). You should be able to change your activities or routines without distracting yourself or others, and stay on task and in place when appropriate. You should be able to sustain your attention well enough to participate in group sports, read by yourself, and complete family chores. You should also be able to complete a transition task (e.g., be ready for the school bus, change clothes after gym, change classrooms) without extra reminders and accommodation.
(v)
Adolescents (age 12 to attainment of age 18).
In your later years of school, you should be able to pay attention to increasingly longer presentations and discussions, maintain your concentration while reading textbooks, and independently plan and complete long-range academic projects. You should also be able to organize your materials and to plan your time in order to complete school tasks and assignments. In anticipation of entering the workplace, you should be able to maintain your attention on a task for extended periods of time, and not be unduly distracted by your peers or unduly distracting to them in a school or work setting.
(3)
Examples of limited functioning in attending and completing tasks.
The following examples describe some limitations we may consider in this domain. Your limitations may be different from the ones listed here. Also, the examples do not necessarily describe a “marked” or “extreme” limitation. Whether an example applies in your case may depend on your age and developmental stage; e.g., an example below may describe a limitation in an older child, but not a limitation in a younger one. As in any case, your limitations must result from your medically determinable impairment(s). However, we will consider all of the relevant information in your case record when we decide whether your medically determinable impairment(s) results in a “marked” or “extreme” limitation in this domain.
(i) You are easily startled, distracted, or overreactive to sounds, sights, movements, or touch.
(ii) You are slow to focus on, or fail to complete activities of interest to you, e.g., games or art projects.
(iii) You repeatedly become sidetracked from your activities or you frequently interrupt others.
(iv) You are easily frustrated and give up on tasks, including ones you are capable of completing.
(v) You require extra supervision to keep you engaged in an activity.
(i)
Interacting and relating with others.
In this domain, we consider how well you initiate and sustain emotional connections with others, develop and use the language of your community, cooperate with others, comply with rules, respond to criticism, and respect and take care of the possessions of others.
(1)
General.
(i) Interacting means initiating and responding to exchanges with other people, for practical or social purposes. You interact with others by using facial expressions, gestures, actions, or words. You may interact with another person only once, as when asking a stranger for directions, or many times, as when describing your day at school to your parents. You may interact with people one-at-a-time, as when you are listening to another student in the hallway at school, or in groups, as when you are playing with others.
(ii) Relating to other people means forming intimate relationships with family members and with friends who are your age, and sustaining them over time. You may relate to individuals, such as your siblings, parents or best friend, or to groups, such as other children in childcare, your friends in school, teammates in sports activities, or people in your neighborhood.
(iii) Interacting and relating require you to respond appropriately to a variety of emotional and behavioral cues. You must be able to speak intelligibly and fluently so that others can understand you; participate in verbal turntaking and nonverbal exchanges; consider others' feelings and points of view; follow social rules for interaction and conversation; and respond to others appropriately and meaningfully.
(iv) Your activities at home or school or in your community may involve playing, learning, and working cooperatively with other children, one-at-a-time or in groups; joining voluntarily in activities with the other children in your school or community; and responding to persons in authority (e.g., your parent, teacher, bus driver, coach, or employer).
(2)
Age group descriptors
—(i)
Newborns and young infants (birth to attainment of age 1).
You should begin to form intimate relationships at birth by gradually responding visually and vocally to your caregiver(s), through mutual gaze and vocal exchanges, and by physically molding your body to the caregiver's while being held. You should eventually initiate give-and-take games (such as pat-a-cake, peek-a-boo) with your caregivers, and begin to affect others through your own purposeful behavior (e.g., gestures and vocalizations). You should be able to respond to a variety of emotions (e.g., facial expressions and vocal tone changes). You should begin to develop speech by using vowel sounds and later consonants, first alone, and then in babbling.
(ii)
Older infants and toddlers (age 1 to attainment of age 3).
At this age, you are dependent upon your caregivers, but should begin to separate from them. You should be able to express emotions and respond to the feelings of others. You should begin initiating and maintaining interactions with adults, but also show interest in, then play alongside, and eventually interact with other children your age. You should be able to spontaneously communicate your wishes or needs, first by using gestures, and eventually by speaking words clearly enough that people who know you can understand what you say most of the time.
(iii)
Preschool children (age 3 to attainment of age 6).
At this age, you should be able to socialize with children as well as adults. You should begin to prefer playmates your own age and start to develop friendships with children who are your age. You should be able to use words instead of actions to express yourself, and also be better able to share, show affection, and offer to help. You should be able to relate to caregivers with increasing independence, choose your own friends, and play cooperatively with other children, one-at-a-time or in a group, without continual adult supervision. You should be able to initiate and participate in conversations, using increasingly complex vocabulary and grammar, and speaking clearly enough that both familiar and unfamiliar listeners can understand what you say most of the time.
(iv)
School-age children (age 6 to attainment of age 12).
When you enter school, you should be able to develop more lasting friendships with children who are your age. You should begin to
understand how to work in groups to create projects and solve problems. You should have an increasing ability to understand another's point of view and to tolerate differences. You should be well able to talk to people of all ages, to share ideas, tell stories, and to speak in a manner that both familiar and unfamiliar listeners readily understand.
(v)
Adolescents (age 12 to attainment of age 18).
By the time you reach adolescence, you should be able to initiate and develop friendships with children who are your age and to relate appropriately to other children and adults, both individually and in groups. You should begin to be able to solve conflicts between yourself and peers or family members or adults outside your family. You should recognize that there are different social rules for you and your friends and for acquaintances or adults. You should be able to intelligibly express your feelings, ask for assistance in getting your needs met, seek information, describe events, and tell stories, in all kinds of environments (e.g., home, classroom, sports, extra-curricular activities, or part-time job), and with all types of people (e.g., parents, siblings, friends, classmates, teachers, employers, and strangers).
(3)
Examples of limited functioning in interacting and relating with others.
The following examples describe some limitations we may consider in this domain. Your limitations may be different from the ones listed here. Also, the examples do not necessarily describe a “marked” or “extreme” limitation. Whether an example applies in your case may depend on your age and developmental stage; e.g., an example below may describe a limitation in an older child, but not a limitation in a younger one. As in any case, your limitations must result from your medically determinable impairment(s). However, we will consider all of the relevant information in your case record when we decide whether your medically determinable impairment(s) results in a “marked” or “extreme” limitation in this domain.
(i) You do not reach out to be picked up and held by your caregiver.
(ii) You have no close friends, or your friends are all older or younger than you.
(iii) You avoid or withdraw from people you know, or you are overly anxious or fearful of meeting new people or trying new experiences.
(iv) You have difficulty playing games or sports with rules.
(v) You have difficulty communicating with others; e.g., in using verbal and nonverbal skills to express yourself, carrying on a conversation, or in asking others for assistance.
(vi) You have difficulty speaking intelligibly or with adequate fluency.
(j)
Moving about and manipulating objects.
In this domain, we consider how you move your body from one place to another and how you move and manipulate things. These are called gross and fine motor skills.
(1)
General.
(i) Moving your body involves several different kinds of actions: Rolling your body; rising or pulling yourself from a sitting to a standing position; pushing yourself up; raising your head, arms, and legs, and twisting your hands and feet; balancing your weight on your legs and feet; shifting your weight while sitting or standing; transferring yourself from one surface to another; lowering yourself to or toward the floor as when bending, kneeling, stooping, or crouching; moving yourself forward and backward in space as when crawling, walking, or running, and negotiating different terrains (e.g., curbs, steps, and hills).
(ii) Moving and manipulating things involves several different kinds of actions: Engaging your upper and lower body to push, pull, lift, or carry objects from one place to another; controlling your shoulders, arms, and hands to hold or transfer objects; coordinating your eyes and hands to manipulate small objects or parts of objects.
(iii) These actions require varying degrees of strength, coordination, dexterity, pace, and physical ability to persist at the task. They also require a sense of where your body is and how it moves in space; the integration of sensory input with motor output; and the capacity to plan, remember, and execute controlled motor movements.
(2)
Age group descriptors
—(i)
Newborns and infants (birth to attainment of age 1).
At birth, you should begin to explore your world by moving your body and by using your limbs. You should learn to hold your head up, sit, crawl, and stand, and sometimes hold onto a stable object and stand actively for brief periods. You should begin to practice your developing eye-hand control by reaching for objects or picking up small objects and dropping them into containers.
(ii)
Older infants and toddlers (age 1 to attainment of age 3).
At this age, you should begin to explore actively a wide area of your physical environment, using your body with steadily increasing control and independence from others. You should begin to walk and run without assistance, and climb with increasing skill. You should frequently try to manipulate small objects and to use your hands to do or get something that you want or need. Your improved motor skills should enable you to play with small blocks, scribble with crayons, and feed yourself.
(iii)
Preschool children (age 3 to attainment of age 6).
As a preschooler, you should be able to walk and run with ease. Your gross motor skills should let you climb stairs and playground equipment with little supervision, and let you play more independently; e.g., you should be able to swing by yourself and may start learning to ride a tricycle. Your fine motor skills should also be developing. You should be able to complete puzzles easily, string beads, and build with an assortment of blocks. You should be showing increasing control of crayons, markers, and small pieces in board games, and should be able to cut with scissors independently and manipulate buttons and other fasteners.
(iv)
School-age children (age 6 to attainment of age 12).
As a school-age child, your developing gross motor skills should let you move at an efficient pace about your school, home, and neighborhood. Your increasing strength and coordination should expand your ability to enjoy a variety of physical activities, such as running and jumping, and throwing, kicking, catching and hitting balls in informal play or organized sports. Your developing fine motor skills should enable you to do things like use many kitchen and household tools independently, use scissors, and write.
(v)
Adolescents (age 12 to attainment of age 18).
As an adolescent, you should be able to use your motor skills freely and easily to get about your school, the neighborhood, and the community. You should be able to participate in a full range of individual and group physical fitness activities. You should show mature skills in activities requiring eye-hand coordination, and should have the fine motor skills needed to write efficiently or type on a keyboard.
(3)
Examples of limited functioning in moving about and manipulating objects.
The following examples describe some limitations we may consider in this domain. Your limitations may be different from the ones listed here. Also, the examples do not necessarily describe a “marked” or “extreme” limitation. Whether an example applies in your case may depend on your age and developmental stage; e.g., an example below may describe a limitation in an older child, but not a limitation in a younger one. As in any case, your limitations must result from your medically determinable impairment(s). However, we will consider all of the relevant information in your case record when we decide whether your medically determinable impairment(s) results in a “marked” or “extreme” limitation in this domain.
(i) You experience muscle weakness, joint stiffness, or sensory loss (e.g., spasticity, hypotonia, neuropathy, or paresthesia) that interferes with your motor activities (e.g., you unintentionally drop things).
(ii) You have trouble climbing up and down stairs, or have jerky or disorganized locomotion or difficulty with your balance.
(iii) You have difficulty coordinating gross motor movements (e.g., bending, kneeling, crawling, running, jumping rope, or riding a bike).
(iv) You have difficulty with sequencing hand or finger movements.
(v) You have difficulty with fine motor movement (e.g., gripping or grasping objects).
(vi) You have poor eye-hand coordination when using a pencil or scissors.
(k)
Caring for yourself.
In this domain, we consider how well you maintain a healthy emotional and physical state, including how well you get your physical and emotional wants and needs met in appropriate ways; how you cope with stress and changes in your environment; and whether you take care of your own health, possessions, and living area.
(1)
General.
(i) Caring for yourself effectively, which includes regulating yourself, depends upon your ability to respond to changes in your emotions and the daily demands of your environment to help yourself and cooperate with others in taking care of your personal needs, health and safety. It is characterized by a sense of independence and competence. The effort to become independent and competent should be observable throughout your childhood.
(ii) Caring for yourself effectively means becoming increasingly independent in making and following your own decisions. This entails relying on your own abilities and skills, and displaying consistent judgment about the consequences of caring for yourself. As you mature, using and testing your own judgment helps you develop confidence in your independence and competence. Caring for yourself includes using your independence and competence to meet your physical needs, such as feeding, dressing, toileting, and bathing, appropriately for your age.
(iii) Caring for yourself effectively requires you to have a basic understanding of your body, including its normal functioning, and of your physical and emotional needs. To meet these needs successfully, you must employ effective coping strategies, appropriate to your age, to identify and regulate your feelings, thoughts, urges, and intentions. Such strategies are based on taking responsibility for getting your needs met in an appropriate and satisfactory manner.
(iv) Caring for yourself means recognizing when you are ill, following recommended treatment, taking medication as prescribed, following safety rules, responding to your circumstances in safe and appropriate ways, making decisions that do not endanger yourself, and knowing when to ask for help from others.
(2)
Age group descriptors
—(i)
Newborns and infants (birth to attainment of age 1.
Your sense of independence and competence begins in being able to recognize your body's signals (e.g., hunger, pain, discomfort), to alert your caregiver to your needs (e.g., by crying), and to console yourself (e.g., by sucking on your hand) until help comes. As you mature, your capacity for self-consolation should expand to include rhythmic behaviors (e.g., rocking). Your need for a sense of competence also emerges in things you try to do for yourself, perhaps before you are ready to do them, as when insisting on putting food in your mouth and refusing your caregiver's help.
(ii)
Older infants and toddlers (age 1 to attainment of age 3).
As you grow, you should be trying to do more things for yourself that increase your sense of independence and competence in your environment. You might console yourself by carrying a favorite blanket with you everywhere. You should be learning to cooperate with your caregivers when they take care of your physical needs, but you should also want to show what you can do; e.g., pointing to the bathroom, pulling off your coat. You should be experimenting with your independence by showing some degree of contrariness (e.g., “No! No!”) and identity (e.g., hoarding your toys).
(iii)
Preschool children (age 3 to attainment of age 6).
You should want to take care of many of your physical needs by yourself (e.g., putting on your shoes, getting a snack), and also want to try doing some things that you cannot do fully (e.g., tying your shoes, climbing on a chair to reach something up high, taking a bath). Early in this age range, it may be easy for you to agree to do what your caregiver asks. Later, that may be difficult for you because you want to do things your way or not at all. These changes usually mean that you are more confident about your ideas and what you are able to do. You should also begin to understand how to control behaviors that are not good for you (e.g., crossing the street without an adult).
(iv)
School-age children (age 6 to attainment of age 12).
You should be independent in most day-to-day activities (e.g., dressing yourself, bathing yourself), although you may still need to be reminded sometimes to do these routinely. You should begin to recognize that you are competent in doing some activities and that you have difficulty with others. You should be able to identify those circumstances when you feel good about yourself and when you feel bad. You should begin to develop understanding of what is right and wrong, and what is acceptable and unacceptable behavior. You should begin to demonstrate consistent control over your behavior, and you should be able to avoid behaviors that are unsafe or otherwise not good for you. You should begin to imitate more of the behavior of adults you know.
(v)
Adolescents (age 12 to attainment of age 18).
You should feel more independent from others and should be increasingly independent in all of your day-to-day activities. You may sometimes experience confusion in the way you feel about yourself. You should begin to notice significant changes in your body's development, and this can result in anxiety or worrying about yourself and your body. Sometimes these worries can make you feel angry or frustrated. You should begin to discover appropriate ways to express your feelings, both good and bad (e.g., keeping a diary to sort out angry feelings or listening to music to calm yourself down). You should begin to think seriously about your future plans, and what you will do when you finish school.
(3)
Examples of limited functioning in caring for yourself.
The following examples describe some limitations we may consider in this domain. Your limitations may be different from the ones listed here. Also, the examples do not necessarily describe a “marked” or “extreme” limitation. Whether an example applies in your case may depend on your age and developmental stage; e.g., an example below may describe a limitation in an older child, but not a limitation in a younger one. As in any case, your limitations must result from your medically determinable impairment(s). However, we will consider all of the relevant information in your case record when we decide whether your medically determinable impairment(s) results in a “marked” or “extreme” limitation in this domain.
(i) You continue to place non-nutritive or inedible objects in your mouth.
(ii) You often use self-soothing activities showing developmental regression (e.g., thumbsucking, re-chewing food), or you have restrictive or stereotyped mannerisms (e.g., body rocking, headbanging).
(iii) You do not dress or bathe yourself appropriately for your age because you have an impairment(s) that affects this domain.
(iv) You engage in self-injurious behavior (e.g., suicidal thoughts or actions, self-inflicted injury, or refusal to take your medication), or you ignore safety rules.
(v) You do not spontaneously pursue enjoyable activities or interests.
(vi) You have disturbance in eating or sleeping patterns.
(l)
Health and physical well-being.
In this domain, we consider the cumulative physical effects of physical or mental impairments and their associated treatments or therapies on your functioning that we did not consider in paragraph (j) of this section. When your physical impairment(s), your mental impairment(s), or your combination of physical and mental impairments has physical effects that cause “extreme” limitation in your functioning, you will generally have an impairment(s) that “meets” or “medically equals” a listing.
(1) A physical or mental disorder may have physical effects that vary in kind and intensity, and may make it difficult for you to perform your activities independently or effectively. You may experience problems such as generalized weakness, dizziness, shortness of breath, reduced stamina, fatigue, psychomotor retardation, allergic reactions, recurrent infection, poor growth, bladder or bowel incontinence, or local or generalized pain.
(2) In addition, the medications you take (e.g., for asthma or depression) or the treatments you receive (e.g., chemotherapy or multiple surgeries) may have physical effects that also limit your performance of activities.
(3) Your illness may be chronic with stable symptoms, or episodic with periods of worsening and improvement. We will consider how you function during periods of worsening and how often and for how long these periods occur. You may be medically fragile and need intensive medical care to maintain your level of health and physical well-being. In any case, as a result of the illness itself, the medications or treatment you receive, or both, you may experience physical effects that interfere with your functioning in any or all of your activities.
(4)
Examples of limitations in health and physical well-being.
The following examples describe some limitations we may consider in this domain. Your limitations may be different from the ones listed here. Also, the examples do not necessarily describe a “marked” or “extreme” limitation. Whether an example applies in your case may depend on your age and developmental stage; e.g., an example below may describe a limitation in an older child, but not a limitation in a younger one. As in any case, your limitations must result from your medically determinable impairment(s). However, we will consider all of the relevant information in your case record when we decide whether your medically determinable impairment(s) results in a “marked” or “extreme” limitation in this domain.
(i) You have generalized symptoms, such as weakness, dizziness, agitation (e.g., excitability), lethargy (e.g., fatigue or loss of energy or stamina), or psychomotor retardation because of your impairment(s).
(ii) You have somatic complaints related to your impairments (e.g., seizure or convulsive activity, headaches, incontinence, recurrent infections, allergies, changes in weight or eating habits, stomach discomfort, nausea, headaches, or insomnia).
(iii) You have limitations in your physical functioning because of your treatment (e.g., chemotherapy, multiple surgeries, chelation, pulmonary cleansing, or nebulizer treatments).
(iv) You have exacerbations from one impairment or a combination of impairments that interfere with your physical functioning.
(v) You are medically fragile and need intensive medical care to maintain your level of health and physical well-being.
(m)
Examples of impairments that functionally equal the listings.
The following are some examples of impairments and limitations that functionally equal the listings. Findings of equivalence based on the disabling functional limitations of a child's impairment(s) are not limited to the examples in this paragraph, because these examples do not describe all possible effects of impairments that might be found to functionally equal the listings. As with any disabling impairment, the duration requirement must also be met (
see
§§ 416.909 and 416.924(a)).
(1) Any physical impairment(s) or combination of physical and mental impairments causing complete inability to function independently outside the area of one's home within age-appropriate norms.
(2) Requirement for 24-hour-a-day supervision for medical (including psychological) reasons.
(3) Major congenital organ dysfunction which could be expected to result in death within the first year of life without surgical correction, and the impairment is expected to be disabling (because of residual impairment following surgery, or the recovery time required, or both) until attainment of 1 year of age.
(n)
Responsibility for determining functional equivalence.
In cases where the State agency or other designee of the Commissioner makes the initial or reconsideration disability determination, a State agency medical or psychological consultant or other designee of the Commissioner (
see
§ 416.1016 of this part) has the overall responsibility for determining functional equivalence. For cases in the disability hearing process or otherwise decided by a disability hearing officer, the responsibility for determining functional equivalence rests with either the disability hearing officer or, if the disability hearing officer's reconsideration determination is changed under § 416.1418 of this part, with the Associate Commissioner for Disability Programs or his or her delegate. For cases
at the administrative law judge or Appeals Council level, the responsibility for deciding functional equivalence rests with the administrative law judge or Appeals Council.
[62 FR 6424, Feb. 11, 1997; 62 FR 13538, 13733, Mar. 21, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 54782, Sept. 11, 2000; 65 FR 80308, Dec. 21, 2000; 66 FR 58045, Nov. 19, 2001; 71 FR 16460, Mar. 31, 2006; 72 FR 59431, Oct. 19, 2007; 76 FR 24811, May 3, 2011; 80 FR 19530, Apr. 13, 2015; 81 FR 37153, June 9, 2016; 82 FR 5880, Jan. 18, 2017; 85 FR 78189, Dec. 3, 2020]
§ 416.927
Evaluating opinion evidence for claims filed before March 27, 2017.
For claims filed (see § 416.325) before March 27, 2017, the rules in this section apply. For claims filed on or after March 27, 2017, the rules in § 416.920c apply.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Medical opinions.
Medical opinions are statements from acceptable medical sources that reflect judgments about the nature and severity of your impairment(s), including your symptoms, diagnosis and prognosis, what you can still do despite impairment(s), and your physical or mental restrictions.
(2)
Treating source.
Treating source means your own acceptable medical source who provides you, or has provided you, with medical treatment or evaluation and who has, or has had, an ongoing treatment relationship with you. Generally, we will consider that you have an ongoing treatment relationship with an acceptable medical source when the medical evidence establishes that you see, or have seen, the source with a frequency consistent with accepted medical practice for the type of treatment and/or evaluation required for your medical condition(s). We may consider an acceptable medical source who has treated or evaluated you only a few times or only after long intervals (e.g., twice a year) to be your treating source if the nature and frequency of the treatment or evaluation is typical for your condition(s). We will not consider an acceptable medical source to be your treating source if your relationship with the source is not based on your medical need for treatment or evaluation, but solely on your need to obtain a report in support of your claim for disability. In such a case, we will consider the acceptable medical source to be a nontreating source.
(b)
How we consider medical opinions.
In determining whether you are disabled, we will always consider the medical opinions in your case record together with the rest of the relevant evidence we receive. See § 416.920b.
(c)
How we weigh medical opinions.
Regardless of its source, we will evaluate every medical opinion we receive. Unless we give a treating source's medical opinion controlling weight under paragraph (c)(2) of this section, we consider all of the following factors in deciding the weight we give to any medical opinion.
(1)
Examining relationship.
Generally, we give more weight to the medical opinion of a source who has examined you than to the medical opinion of a medical source who has not examined you.
(2)
Treatment relationship.
Generally, we give more weight to medical opinions from your treating sources, since these sources are likely to be the medical professionals most able to provide a detailed, longitudinal picture of your medical impairment(s) and may bring a unique perspective to the medical evidence that cannot be obtained from the objective medical findings alone or from reports of individual examinations, such as consultative examinations or brief hospitalizations. If we find that a treating source's medical opinion on the issue(s) of the nature and severity of your impairment(s) is well-supported by medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques and is not inconsistent with the other substantial evidence in your case record, we will give it controlling weight. When we do not give the treating source's medical opinion controlling weight, we apply the factors listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section, as well as the factors in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(6) of this section in determining the weight to give the medical opinion. We will always give good reasons in our notice of determination or decision for the weight we give your treating source's medical opinion.
(i)
Length of the treatment relationship and the frequency of examination.
Generally, the longer a treating source has treated you and the more times you have been seen by a treating source, the more weight we will give to the source's medical opinion. When the treating source has seen you a number of times and long enough to have obtained a longitudinal picture of your impairment, we will give the medical source's medical opinion more weight than we would give it if it were from a nontreating source.
(ii)
Nature and extent of the treatment relationship.
Generally, the more knowledge a treating source has about your impairment(s) the more weight we will give to the source's medical opinion. We will look at the treatment the source has provided and at the kinds and extent of examinations and testing the source has performed or ordered from specialists and independent laboratories. For example, if your ophthalmologist notices that you have complained of neck pain during your eye examinations, we will consider his or her medical opinion with respect to your neck pain, but we will give it less weight than that of another physician who has treated you for the neck pain. When the treating source has reasonable knowledge of your impairment(s), we will give the source's medical opinion more weight than we would give it if it were from a nontreating source.
(3)
Supportability.
The more a medical source presents relevant evidence to support a medical opinion, particularly medical signs and laboratory findings, the more weight we will give that medical opinion. The better an explanation a source provides for a medical opinion, the more weight we will give that medical opinion. Furthermore, because nonexamining sources have no examining or treating relationship with you, the weight we will give their medical opinions will depend on the degree to which they provide supporting explanations for their medical opinions. We will evaluate the degree to which these medical opinions consider all of the pertinent evidence in your claim, including medical opinions of treating and other examining sources.
(4)
Consistency.
Generally, the more consistent a medical opinion is with the record as a whole, the more weight we will give to that medical opinion.
(5)
Specialization.
We generally give more weight to the medical opinion of a specialist about medical issues related to his or her area of specialty than to the medical opinion of a source who is not a specialist.
(6)
Other factors.
When we consider how much weight to give to a medical opinion, we will also consider any factors you or others bring to our attention, or of which we are aware, which tend to support or contradict the medical opinion. For example, the amount of understanding of our disability programs and their evidentiary requirements that a medical source has, regardless of the source of that understanding, and the extent to which a medical source is familiar with the other information in your case record are relevant factors that we will consider in deciding the weight to give to a medical opinion.
(d)
Medical source opinions on issues reserved to the Commissioner.
Opinions on some issues, such as the examples that follow, are not medical opinions, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but are, instead, opinions on issues reserved to the Commissioner because they are administrative findings that are dispositive of a case;
i.e.,
that would direct the determination or decision of disability.
(1)
Opinions that you are disabled.
We are responsible for making the determination or decision about whether you meet the statutory definition of disability. In so doing, we review all of the medical findings and other evidence that support a medical source's statement that you are disabled. A statement by a medical source that you are “disabled” or “unable to work” does not mean that we will determine that you are disabled.
(2)
Other opinions on issues reserved to the Commissioner.
We use medical sources, including your treating source, to provide evidence, including opinions, on the nature and severity of your impairment(s). Although we consider opinions from medical sources on issues such as whether your impairment(s) meets or equals the requirements of any impairment(s) in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1
to subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, your residual functional capacity (see §§ 416.945 and 416.946), or the application of vocational factors, the final responsibility for deciding these issues is reserved to the Commissioner.
(3) We will not give any special significance to the source of an opinion on issues reserved to the Commissioner described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
(e)
Evidence from our Federal or State agency medical or psychological consultants.
The rules in § 416.913a apply except that when an administrative law judge gives controlling weight to a treating source's medical opinion, the administrative law judge is not required to explain in the decision the weight he or she gave to the prior administrative medical findings in the claim.
(f)
Opinions from medical sources who are not acceptable medical sources and from nonmedical sources.
(1)
Consideration.
Opinions from medical sources who are not acceptable medical sources and from nonmedical sources may reflect the source's judgment about some of the same issues addressed in medical opinions from acceptable medical sources. Although we will consider these opinions using the same factors as listed in paragraph (c)(1) through (c)(6) in this section, not every factor for weighing opinion evidence will apply in every case because the evaluation of an opinion from a medical source who is not an acceptable medical source or from a nonmedical source depends on the particular facts in each case. Depending on the particular facts in a case, and after applying the factors for weighing opinion evidence, an opinion from a medical source who is not an acceptable medical source or from a nonmedical source may outweigh the medical opinion of an acceptable medical source, including the medical opinion of a treating source. For example, it may be appropriate to give more weight to the opinion of a medical source who is not an acceptable medical source if he or she has seen the individual more often than the treating source, has provided better supporting evidence and a better explanation for the opinion, and the opinion is more consistent with the evidence as a whole.
(2)
Articulation.
The adjudicator generally should explain the weight given to opinions from these sources or otherwise ensure that the discussion of the evidence in the determination or decision allows a claimant or subsequent reviewer to follow the adjudicator's reasoning, when such opinions may have an effect on the outcome of the case. In addition, when an adjudicator determines that an opinion from such a source is entitled to greater weight than a medical opinion from a treating source, the adjudicator must explain the reasons in the notice of decision in hearing cases and in the notice of determination (that is, in the personalized disability notice) at the initial and reconsideration levels, if the determination is less than fully favorable.
[82 FR 5880, Jan. 18, 2017; 82 FR 15133, Mar. 27, 2017]
§ 416.928
[Reserved]
§ 416.929
How we evaluate symptoms, including pain.
(a)
General.
In determining whether you are disabled, we consider all your symptoms, including pain, and the extent to which your symptoms can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence. We will consider all of your statements about your symptoms, such as pain, and any description your medical sources or nonmedical sources may provide about how the symptoms affect your activities of daily living and your ability to work (or, if you are a child, your functioning). However, statements about your pain or other symptoms will not alone establish that you are disabled. There must be objective medical evidence from an acceptable medical source that shows you have a medical impairment(s) which could reasonably be expected to produce the pain or other symptoms alleged and that, when considered with all of the other evidence (including statements about the intensity and persistence of your pain or other symptoms which may reasonably be accepted as consistent with the medical signs and laboratory findings), would lead to a conclusion that you are disabled. In
evaluating the intensity and persistence of your symptoms, including pain, we will consider all of the available evidence, including your medical history, the medical signs and laboratory findings, and statements about how your symptoms affect you. We will then determine the extent to which your alleged functional limitations and restrictions due to pain or other symptoms can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the medical signs and laboratory findings and other evidence to decide how your symptoms affect your ability to work (or if you are a child, your functioning).
(b)
Need for medically determinable impairment that could reasonably be expected to produce your symptoms, such as pain.
Your symptoms, such as pain, fatigue, shortness of breath, weakness, or nervousness, will not be found to affect your ability to do basic work activities unless medical signs or laboratory findings show that a medically determinable impairment(s) is present. Medical signs and laboratory findings, established by medically acceptable clinical or laboratory diagnostic techniques, must show the existence of a medical impairment(s) which results from anatomical, physiological, or psychological abnormalities and which could reasonably be expected to produce the pain or other symptoms alleged. In cases decided by a State agency (except in disability hearings under §§ 416.1414 through 416.1418 of this part and in fully favorable determinations made by State agency disability examiners alone under § 416.1015(c)(3) of this part), a State agency medical or psychological consultant or other medical or psychological consultant designated by the Commissioner directly participates in determining whether your medically determinable impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce your alleged symptoms. In the disability hearing process, a medical or psychological consultant may provide an advisory assessment to assist a disability hearing officer in determining whether your impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce your alleged symptoms. At the administrative law judge hearing or Appeals Council level of the administrative review process, the adjudicator(s) may ask for and consider the opinion of a medical or psychological expert concerning whether your impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce your alleged symptoms. The finding that your impairment(s) could reasonably be expected to produce your pain or other symptoms does not involve a determination as to the intensity, persistence, or functionally limiting effects of your symptoms. We will develop evidence regarding the possibility of a medically determinable mental impairment when we have information to suggest that such an impairment exists, and you allege pain or other symptoms but the medical signs and laboratory findings do not substantiate any physical impairment(s) capable of producing the pain or other symptoms.
(c)
Evaluating the intensity and persistence of your symptoms, such as pain, and determining the extent to which your symptoms limit your capacity for work or, if you are a child, your functioning
—(1)
General.
When the medical signs or laboratory findings show that you have a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce your symptoms, such as pain, we must then evaluate the intensity and persistence of your symptoms so that we can determine how your symptoms limit your capacity for work or, if you are a child, your functioning. In evaluating the intensity and persistence of your symptoms, we consider all of the available evidence from your medical sources and nonmedical sources about how your symptoms affect you. We also consider the medical opinions as explained in § 416.920c. Paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section explain further how we evaluate the intensity and persistence of your symptoms and how we determine the extent to which your symptoms limit your capacity for work (or, if you are a child, your functioning) when the medical signs or laboratory findings show that you have a medically determinable impairment(s) that could reasonably be expected to produce your symptoms, such as pain.
(2)
Consideration of objective medical evidence.
Objective medical evidence is evidence obtained from the application of medically acceptable clinical and laboratory diagnostic techniques, such
as evidence of reduced joint motion, muscle spasm, sensory deficit or motor disruption. Objective medical evidence of this type is a useful indicator to assist us in making reasonable conclusions about the intensity and persistence of your symptoms and the effect those symptoms, such as pain, may have on your ability to work or, if you are a child, your functioning. We must always attempt to obtain objective medical evidence and, when it is obtained, we will consider it in reaching a conclusion as to whether you are disabled. However, we will not reject your statements about the intensity and persistence of your pain or other symptoms or about the effect your symptoms have on your ability to work (or if you are a child, to function independently, appropriately, and effectively in an age-appropriate manner) solely because the available objective medical evidence does not substantiate your statements.
(3)
Consideration of other evidence.
Because symptoms sometimes suggest a greater severity of impairment than can be shown by objective medical evidence alone, we will carefully consider any other information you may submit about your symptoms. The information that your medical sources or nonmedical sources provide about your pain or other symptoms (e.g., what may precipitate or aggravate your symptoms, what medications, treatments or other methods you use to alleviate them, and how the symptoms may affect your pattern of daily living) is also an important indicator of the intensity and persistence of your symptoms. Because symptoms, such as pain, are subjective and difficult to quantify, any symptom-related functional limitations and restrictions that your medical sources or nonmedical sources report, which can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence, will be taken into account as explained in paragraph (c)(4) of this section in reaching a conclusion as to whether you are disabled. We will consider all of the evidence presented, including information about your prior work record, your statements about your symptoms, evidence submitted by your medical sources, and observations by our employees and other persons. If you are a child, we will also consider all of the evidence presented, including evidence submitted by your medical sources (such as physicians, psychologists, and therapists) and nonmedical sources (such as educational agencies and personnel, parents and other relatives, and social welfare agencies). Section 416.920c explains in detail how we consider medical opinions and prior administrative medical findings about the nature and severity of your impairment(s) and any related symptoms, such as pain. Factors relevant to your symptoms, such as pain, which we will consider include:
(i) Your daily activities;
(ii) The location, duration, frequency, and intensity of your pain or other symptoms;
(iii) Precipitating and aggravating factors;
(iv) The type, dosage, effectiveness, and side effects of any medication you take or have taken to alleviate your pain or other symptoms;
(v) Treatment, other than medication, you receive or have received for relief of your pain or other symptoms;
(vi) Any measures you use or have used to relieve your pain or other symptoms (e.g., lying flat on your back, standing for 15 to 20 minutes every hour, sleeping on a board, etc.); and
(vii) Other factors concerning your functional limitations and restrictions due to pain or other symptoms.
(4)
How we determine the extent to which symptoms, such as pain, affect your capacity to perform basic work activities, or, if you are a child, your functioning).
In determining the extent to which your symptoms, such as pain, affect your capacity to perform basic work activities (or if you are a child, your functioning), we consider all of the available evidence described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section. We will consider your statements about the intensity, persistence, and limiting effects of your symptoms, and we will evaluate your statements in relation to the objective medical evidence and other evidence, in reaching a conclusion as to whether you are disabled. We will consider whether there are any inconsistencies in the evidence and the extent to which there
are any conflicts between your statements and the rest of the evidence, including your history, the signs and laboratory findings, and statements by your medical sources or other persons about how your symptoms affect you. Your symptoms, including pain, will be determined to diminish your capacity for basic work activities (or, if you are a child, your functioning) to the extent that your alleged functional limitations and restrictions due to symptoms, such as pain, can reasonably be accepted as consistent with the objective medical evidence and other evidence.
(d)
Consideration of symptoms in the disability determination process.
We follow a set order of steps to determine whether you are disabled. If you are not doing substantial gainful activity, we consider your symptoms, such as pain, to evaluate whether you have a severe physical or mental impairment(s), and at each of the remaining steps in the process. Sections 416.920 and 416.920a (for adults) and 416.924 (for children) explain this process in detail. We also consider your symptoms, such as pain, at the appropriate steps in our review when we consider whether your disability continues. The procedure we follow in reviewing whether your disability continues is explained in § 416.994 (for adults) and § 416.994a (for children).
(1)
Need to establish a severe medically determinable impairment(s).
Your symptoms, such as pain, fatigue, shortness of breath, weakness, or nervousness, are considered in making a determination as to whether your impairment or combination of impairment(s) is severe. (See § 416.920(c) for adults and § 416.924(c) for children.)
(2)
Decision whether the Listing of Impairments is met.
Some listed impairments include symptoms usually associated with those impairments as criteria. Generally, when a symptom is one of the criteria in a listing, it is only necessary that the symptom be present in combination with the other criteria. It is not necessary, unless the listing specifically states otherwise, to provide information about the intensity, persistence, or limiting effects of the symptom as long as all other findings required by the specific listing are present.
(3)
Decision whether the Listing of Impairments is equaled.
If your impairment is not the same as a listed impairment, we must determine whether your impairment(s) is medically equivalent to a listed impairment. Section 416.926 explains how we make this determination. Under § 416.926(b), we will consider medical equivalence based on all evidence in your case record about your impairment(s) and its effects on you that is relevant to this finding. In considering whether your symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings are medically equal to the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of a listed impairment, we will look to see whether your symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings are at least equal in severity to the listed criteria. However, we will not substitute your allegations of pain or other symptoms for a missing or deficient sign or laboratory finding to raise the severity of your impairment(s) to that of a listed impairment. (If you are a child and we cannot find equivalence based on medical evidence only, we will consider pain and other symptoms under §§ 416.924a and 416.926a in determining whether you have an impairment(s) that functionally equals the listings.) Regardless of whether you are an adult or a child, if the symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings of your impairment(s) are equivalent in severity to those of a listed impairment, we will find you disabled. (If you are a child and your impairment(s) functionally equals the listings under the rules in § 416.926a, we will also find you disabled.) If they are not, we will consider the impact of your symptoms on your residual functional capacity if you are an adult. If they are not, we will consider the impact of your symptoms on your residual functional capacity if you are an adult. (See paragraph (d)(4) of this section.)
(4)
Impact of symptoms (including pain) on residual functional capacity or, if you are a child, on your functioning.
If you have a medically determinable severe physical or mental impairment(s), but your impairment(s) does not meet or equal an impairment listed in appendix
1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, we will consider the impact of your impairment(s) and any related symptoms, including pain, or your residual functional capacity, if you are an adult, or, on your functioning if you are a child. (
See
§§ 416.945 and 416.924a-416.924b.)
[56 FR 57944, Nov. 14, 1991, as amended at 62 FR 6429, Feb. 11, 1997; 62 FR 13538, Mar. 21, 1997; 62 FR 38454, July 18, 1997; 65 FR 16814, Mar. 30, 2000; 65 FR 54789, Sept. 11, 2000; 71 FR 10431, Mar. 1, 2006; 71 FR 16461, Mar. 31, 2006; 75 FR 62683, Oct. 13, 2010; 76 FR 24811, May 3, 2011; 82 FR 5882, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.930
Need to follow prescribed treatment.
(a)
What treatment you must follow.
In order to get benefits, you must follow treatment prescribed by your medical source(s) if this treatment is expected to restore your ability to work.
(b)
When you do not follow prescribed treatment.
If you do not follow the prescribed treatment without a good reason, we will not find you disabled or blind or, if you are already receiving benefits, we will stop paying you benefits.
(c)
Acceptable reasons for failure to follow prescribed treatment.
We will consider your physical, mental, educational, and linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) when determining if you have an acceptable reason for failure to follow prescribed treatment. The following are examples of a good reason for not following treatment:
(1) The specific medical treatment is contrary to the established teaching and tenets of your religion.
(2) The prescribed treatment would be cataract surgery for one eye when there is an impairment of the other eye resulting in a severe loss of vision and is not subject to improvement through treatment.
(3) Surgery was previously performed with unsuccessful results and the same surgery is again being recommended for the same impairment.
(4) The treatment because of its enormity (e.g., open heart surgery), unusual nature (e.g., organ transplant), or other reason is very risky for you; or
(5) The treatment involves amputation of an extremity, or a major part of an extremity.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994; 62 FR 6429, Feb. 11, 1997; 82 FR 5882, Jan. 18, 2017]

# Presumptive Disability and Blindness
§ 416.931
The meaning of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness.
If you are applying for supplemental security income benefits on the basis of disability or blindness, we may pay you benefits before we make a formal finding of whether or not you are disabled or blind. In order to receive these payments, we must find that you are presumptively disabled or presumptively blind. You must also meet all other eligibility requirements for supplemental security income benefits. We may make these payments to you for a period not longer than 6 months. These payments will not be considered overpayments if we later find that you are not disabled or blind.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 53853, Nov. 13, 1992]
§ 416.932
When presumptive payments begin and end.
We may make payments to you on the basis of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness before we make a formal determination about your disability or blindness. The payments can not be made for more than 6 months. They start for a period of not more than 6 months beginning in the month we make the presumptive disability or presumptive blindness finding. The payments end the earliest of—
(a) The month in which we make a formal finding on whether or not you are disabled or blind;
(b) The month for which we make the sixth monthly payment based on presumptive disability or presumptive blindness to you; or
(c) The month in which you no longer meet one of the other eligibility requirements (e.g., your income exceeds the limits).
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 57 FR 53853, Nov. 13, 1992]
§ 416.933
How we make a finding of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness.
We may make a finding of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness if the evidence available at the time we make the presumptive disability or presumptive blindness finding reflects a high degree of probability that you are disabled or blind. In the case of readily observable impairments (e.g., total blindness), we will find that you are disabled or blind for purposes of this section without medical or other evidence. For other impairments, a finding of disability or blindness must be based on medical evidence or other information that, though not sufficient for a formal determination of disability or blindness, is sufficient for us to find that there is a high degree of probability that you are disabled or blind. For example, for claims involving the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), the Social Security Field Office may make a finding of presumptive disability if your medical source provides us with information that confirms that your disease manifestations meet the severity of listing-level criteria for HIV. Of course, regardless of the specific HIV manifestations, the State agency may make a finding of presumptive disability if the medical evidence or other information reflects a high degree of probability that you are disabled.
[58 FR 36063, July 2, 1993, as amended at 66 FR 58046, Nov. 19, 2001]
§ 416.934
Impairments that may warrant a finding of presumptive disability or presumptive blindness.
We may make findings of presumptive disability and presumptive blindness in specific impairment categories without obtaining any medical evidence. These specific impairment categories are—
(a) Amputation of a leg at the hip;
(b) Allegation of total deafness;
(c) Allegation of total blindness;
(d) Allegation of bed confinement or immobility without a wheelchair, walker, or crutches, due to a longstanding condition, excluding recent accident and recent surgery;
(e) Allegation of a stroke (cerebral vascular accident) more than 3 months in the past and continued marked difficulty in walking or using a hand or arm;
(f) Allegation of cerebral palsy, muscular dystrophy or muscle atrophy and marked difficulty in walking (e.g., use of braces), speaking, or coordination of the hands or arms.
(g) Allegation of Down syndrome.
(h) Allegation of intellectual disability or another neurodevelopmental impairment (for example, autism spectrum disorder) with complete inability to independently perform basic self-care activities (such as toileting, eating, dressing, or bathing) made by another person who files on behalf of a claimant who is at least 4 years old.
(i) Allegation of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS, Lou Gehrig's disease).
(j) Infants weighing less than 1200 grams at birth, until attainment of 1 year of age.
(k) Infants weighing at least 1200 but less than 2000 grams at birth, and who are small for gestational age, until attainment of 1 year of age. (Small for gestational age means a birth weight that is at or more than 2 standard deviations below the mean or that is less than the third growth percentile for the gestational age of the infant.)
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 5574, Feb. 11, 1985; 53 FR 3741, Feb. 9, 1988; 56 FR 65684, Dec. 18, 1991; 67 FR 58046, Nov. 19, 2001; 68 FR 51693, Aug. 28, 2003; 80 FR 19530, Apr. 13, 2015; 81 FR 66178, Sept. 26, 2016]

# Drug Addiction and Alcoholism
§ 416.935
How we will determine whether your drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(a)
General.
If we find that you are disabled and have medical evidence of your drug addiction or alcoholism, we must determine whether your drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability, unless we find that you are eligible for benefits because of your age or blindness.
(b)
Process we will follow when we have medical evidence of your drug addiction or alcoholism.
(1) The key factor we will examine in determining whether drug
addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability is whether we would still find you disabled if you stopped using drugs or alcohol.
(2) In making this determination, we will evaluate which of your current physical and mental limitations, upon which we based our current disability determination, would remain if you stopped using drugs or alcohol and then determine whether any or all of your remaining limitations would be disabling.
(i) If we determine that your remaining limitations would not be disabling, we will find that your drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(ii) If we determine that your remaining limitations are disabling, you are disabled independent of your drug addiction or alcoholism and we will find that your drug addiction or alcoholism is not a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
[60 FR 8151, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.936
Treatment required for individuals whose drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability.
(a) If we determine that you are disabled and drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability, you must avail yourself of appropriate treatment for your drug addiction or alcoholism at an institution or facility approved by us when this treatment is available and make progress in your treatment. Generally, you are not expected to pay for this treatment. You will not be paid benefits for any month after the month we have notified you in writing that—
(1) You did not comply with the terms, conditions and requirements of the treatment which has been made available to you; or
(2) You did not avail yourself of the treatment after you had been notified that it is available to you.
(b) If your benefits are suspended for failure to comply with treatment requirements, your benefits can be reinstated in accordance with the rules in § 416.1326.
[60 FR 8151, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.937
What we mean by appropriate treatment.
By appropriate treatment, we mean treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism that serves the needs of the individual in the least restrictive setting possible consistent with your treatment plan. These settings range from outpatient counseling services through a variety of residential treatment settings including acute detoxification, short-term intensive residential treatment, long-term therapeutic residential treatment, and long-term recovery houses. Appropriate treatment is determined with the involvement of a State licensed or certified addiction professional on the basis of a detailed assessment of the individual's presenting symptomatology, psychosocial profile, and other relevant factors. This assessment may lead to a determination that more than one treatment modality is appropriate for the individual. The treatment will be provided or overseen by an approved institution or facility. This treatment may include (but is not limited to)—
(a) Medical examination and medical management;
(b) Detoxification;
(c) Medication management to include substitution therapy (e.g., methadone);
(d) Psychiatric, psychological, psychosocial, vocational, or other substance abuse counseling in a residential or outpatient treatment setting; or
(e) Relapse prevention.
[60 FR 8151, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.938
What we mean by approved institutions or facilities.
Institutions or facilities that we may approve include—
(a) An institution or facility that furnishes medically recognized treatment for drug addiction or alcoholism in conformity with applicable Federal or State laws and regulations;
(b) An institution or facility used by or licensed by an appropriate State agency which is authorized to refer
persons for treatment of drug addiction or alcoholism;
(c) State licensed or certified care providers;
(d) Programs accredited by the Commission on Accreditation for Rehabilitation Facilities (CARF) and/or the Joint Commission for the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) for the treatment of drug addiction or alcoholism;
(e) Medicare or Medicaid certified care providers; or
(f) Nationally recognized self-help drug addiction or alcoholism recovery programs (e.g., Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous) when participation in these programs is specifically prescribed by a treatment professional at an institution or facility described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section as part of an individual's treatment plan.
[60 FR 8151, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.939
How we consider whether treatment is available.
Our determination about whether treatment is available to you for your drug addiction or your alcoholism will depend upon—
(a) The capacity of an approved institution or facility to admit you for appropriate treatment;
(b) The location of the approved institution or facility, or the place where treatment, services or resources could be provided to you;
(c) The availability and cost of transportation for you to the place of treatment;
(d) Your general health, including your ability to travel and capacity to understand and follow the prescribed treatment;
(e) Your particular condition and circumstances; and
(f) The treatment that is prescribed for your drug addiction or alcoholism.
[60 FR 8151, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.940
Evaluating compliance with the treatment requirements.
(a)
General.
Generally, we will consider information from the treatment institution or facility to evaluate your compliance with your treatment plan. The treatment institution or facility will—
(1) Monitor your attendance at and participation in treatment sessions;
(2) Provide reports of the results of any clinical testing (such as, hematological or urinalysis studies for individuals with drug addiction and hematological studies and breath analysis for individuals with alcoholism) when such tests are likely to yield important information;
(3) Provide observational reports from the treatment professionals familiar with your individual case (subject to verification and Federal confidentiality requirements); or
(4) Provide their assessment or views on your noncompliance with treatment requirements.
(b)
Measuring progress.
Generally, we will consider information from the treatment institution or facility to evaluate your progress in completing your treatment plan. Examples of milestones for measuring your progress with the treatment which has been prescribed for your drug addiction or alcoholism may include (but are not limited to)—
(1) Abstinence from drug or alcohol use (initial progress may include significant reduction in use);
(2) Consistent attendance at and participation in treatment sessions;
(3) Improved social functioning and levels of gainful activity;
(4) Participation in vocational rehabilitation activities; or
(5) Avoidance of criminal activity.
[60 FR 8151, Feb. 10, 1995]
§ 416.941
Establishment and use of referral and monitoring agencies.
We will contract with one or more agencies in each of the States and the District of Columbia to provide services to individuals whose disabilities are based on a determination that drug addiction or alcoholism is a contributing factor material to the determination of disability (as described in § 416.935) and to submit information to us which we will use to make decisions about these individuals' benefits. These agencies will be known as referral and monitoring agencies. Their duties and responsibilities include (but are not limited to)—
(a) Identifying appropriate treatment placements for individuals we refer to them;
(b) Referring these individuals for treatment;
(c) Monitoring the compliance and progress with the appropriate treatment of these individuals; and
(d) Promptly reporting to us any individual's failure to comply with treatment requirements as well as failure to achieve progress through the treatment.
[60 FR 8152, Feb. 10, 1995]

# Residual Functional Capacity
§ 416.945
Your residual functional capacity.
(a)
General
—(1)
Residual functional capacity assessment.
Your impairment(s), and any related symptoms, such as pain, may cause physical and mental limitations that affect what you can do in a work setting. Your residual functional capacity is the most you can still do despite your limitations. We will assess your residual functional capacity based on all the relevant evidence in your case record. (
See
§ 416.946.)
(2)
If you have more than one impairment.
We will consider all of your medically determinable impairments of which we are aware, including your medically determinable impairments that are not “severe,” as explained in §§ 416.920(c), 416.921, and 416.923, when we assess your residual functional capacity. (
See
paragraph (e) of this section.)
(3)
Evidence we use to assess your residual functional capacity.
We will assess your residual functional capacity based on all of the relevant medical and other evidence. In general, you are responsible for providing the evidence we will use to make a finding about your residual functional capacity. (
See
§ 416.912(c).) However, before we make a determination that you are not disabled, we are responsible for developing your complete medical history, including arranging for a consultative examination(s) if necessary, and making every reasonable effort to help you get medical reports from your own medical sources. (
See
§§ 416.912(d) through (e).) We will consider any statements about what you can still do that have been provided by medical sources, whether or not they are based on formal medical examinations. (
See
§ 416.913.) We will also consider descriptions and observations of your limitations from your impairment(s), including limitations that result from your symptoms, such as pain, provided by you, your family, neighbors, friends, or other persons. (
See
paragraph (e) of this section and § 416.929.)
(4)
What we will consider in assessing residual functional capacity.
When we assess your residual functional capacity, we will consider your ability to meet the physical, mental, sensory, and other requirements of work, as described in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
(5)
How we will use our residual functional capacity assessment.
(i) We will first use our residual functional capacity assessment at step four of the sequential evaluation process to decide if you can do your past relevant work. (
See
§§ 416.920(f) and 416.960(b).)
(ii) If we find that you cannot do your past relevant work, you do not have any past relevant work, or if we use the procedures in § 416.920(h) and § 416.962 does not apply, we will use the same assessment of your residual functional capacity at step five of the sequential evaluation process to decide if you can adjust to any other work that exists in the national economy. (
See
§§ 416.920(g) and 416.966.) At this step, we will not use our assessment of your residual functional capacity alone to decide if you are disabled. We will use the guidelines in §§ 416.960 through 416.969a, and consider our residual functional capacity assessment together with the information about your vocational background to make our disability determination or decision. For our rules on residual functional capacity assessment in deciding whether your disability continues or ends,
see
§ 416.994.
(b)
Physical abilities.
When we assess your physical abilities, we first assess the nature and extent of your physical limitations and then determine your residual functional capacity for work activity on a regular and continuing
basis. A limited ability to perform certain physical demands of work activity, such as sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, pulling, or other physical functions (including manipulative or postural functions, such as reaching, handling, stooping or crouching), may reduce your ability to do past work and other work.
(c)
Mental abilities.
When we assess your mental abilities, we first assess the nature and extent of your mental limitations and restrictions and then determine your residual functional capacity for work activity on a regular and continuing basis. A limited ability to carry out certain mental activities, such as limitations in understanding, remembering, and carrying out instructions, and in responding appropriately to supervision, coworkers, and work pressures in a work setting, may reduce your ability to do past work and other work.
(d)
Other abilities affected by impairment(s).
Some medically determinable impairment(s), such as skin impairment(s), epilepsy, impairment(s) of vision, hearing or other senses, and impairment(s) which impose environmental restrictions, may cause limitations and restrictions which affect other work-related abilities. If you have this type of impairment(s), we consider any resulting limitations and restrictions which may reduce your ability to do past work and other work in deciding your residual functional capacity.
(e)
Total limiting effects.
When you have a severe impairment(s), but your symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings do not meet or equal those of a listed impairment in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, we will consider the limiting effects of all your impairment(s), even those that are not severe, in determining your residual functional capacity. Pain or other symptoms may cause a limitation of function beyond that which can be determined on the basis of the anatomical, physiological or psychological abnormalities considered alone; e.g., someone with a low back disorder may be fully capable of the physical demands consistent with those of sustained medium work activity, but another person with the same disorder, because of pain, may not be capable of more than the physical demands consistent with those of light work activity on a sustained basis. In assessing the total limiting effects of your impairment(s) and any related symptoms, we will consider all of the medical and nonmedical evidence, including the information described in § 416.929(c).
[56 FR 57947, Nov. 14, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 51165, Aug. 26, 2003; 77 FR 10657, Feb. 23, 2012; 77 FR 43495, July 25, 2012]
§ 416.946
Responsibility for assessing your residual functional capacity.
(a)
Responsibility for assessing residual functional capacity at the State agency.
When a State agency medical or psychological consultant and a State agency disability examiner make the disability determination as provided in § 416.1015(c)(1) of this part, a State agency medical or psychological consultant(s) is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity. When a State agency disability examiner makes a disability determination alone as provided in § 416.1015(c)(3), the disability examiner is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity.
(b)
Responsibility for assessing residual functional capacity in the disability hearings process.
If your case involves a disability hearing under § 416.1414, a disability hearing officer is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity. However, if the disability hearing officer's reconsidered determination is changed under § 416.1418, the Associate Commissioner for the Office of Disability Determinations or his or her delegate is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity.
(c)
Responsibility for assessing residual functional capacity at the administrative law judge hearing or Appeals Council level.
If your case is at the administrative law judge hearing level or at the Appeals Council review level, the administrative law judge or the administrative appeals judge at the Appeals Council (when the Appeals Council
makes a decision) is responsible for assessing your residual functional capacity.
[68 FR 51165, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 71 FR 16461, Mar. 31, 2006; 75 FR 62683, Oct. 13, 2010; 76 FR 24812, May 3, 2011]

# Vocational Considerations
§ 416.960
When we will consider your vocational background.
(a)
General.
If you are age 18 or older and applying for supplemental security income benefits based on disability, and we cannot decide whether you are disabled at one of the first three steps of the sequential evaluation process (
see
§ 416.920), we will consider your residual functional capacity together with your vocational background, as discussed in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Past relevant work.
We will first compare our assessment of your residual functional capacity with the physical and mental demands of your past relevant work. See § 416.920(h) for an exception to this rule.
(1)
Definition of past relevant work
—(i)
What is past relevant work.
Past relevant work is work that you have done within the past five years that was substantial gainful activity and that lasted long enough for you to learn to do it (see § 416.965(a)). We will not consider work to be past relevant work if you started and stopped it in fewer than 30 calendar days (see paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section).
(ii)
30 calendar days.
When we consider past relevant work and work experience (see § 416.965), 30 calendar days means a period of 30 consecutive days, including weekends, starting from the first day of work. When we consider whether work lasted 30 calendar days, we generally do not consider the total number of hours or days worked during that period, or whether the work was full-time or part-time. The 30 calendar days requirement is separate from the consideration of substantial gainful activity or whether you worked long enough to learn how to do the work, although the work performed during the 30 calendar days may count toward the time needed for you to learn to do the work. The 30 calendar days requirement also applies if you were self-employed or an independent contractor; we will consider whether you were engaged in the same type of work for 30 calendar days, even if individual work assignments or contracts each lasted fewer than 30 calendar days.
(2)
Determining whether you can do your past relevant work.
We will ask you for information about work you have done in the past. We may also ask other people who know about your work. (
See
§ 416.965(b).) We may use the services of vocational experts or vocational specialists, or other resources, such as the “Dictionary of Occupational Titles” and its companion volumes and supplements, published by the Department of Labor, to obtain evidence we need to help us determine whether you can do your past relevant work, given your residual functional capacity. A vocational expert or specialist may offer relevant evidence within his or her expertise or knowledge concerning the physical and mental demands of a claimant's past relevant work, either as the claimant actually performed it or as generally performed in the national economy. Such evidence may be helpful in supplementing or evaluating the accuracy of the claimant's description of his past work. In addition, a vocational expert or specialist may offer expert opinion testimony in response to a hypothetical question about whether a person with the physical and mental limitations imposed by the claimant's medical impairment(s) can meet the demands of the claimant's previous work, either as the claimant actually performed it or as generally performed in the national economy.
(3)
If you can do your past relevant work.
If we find that you have the residual functional capacity to do your past relevant work, we will determine that you can still do your past work and are not disabled. We will not consider your vocational factors of age, education, and work experience or whether your past relevant work exists in significant numbers in the national economy.
(c)
Other work.
(1) If we find that your residual functional capacity does not enable you to do any of your past relevant work or if we use the procedures
in § 416.920(h), we will use the same residual functional capacity assessment when we decide if you can adjust to any other work. We will look at your ability to adjust to other work by considering your residual functional capacity and the vocational factors of age, education, and work experience, as appropriate in your case. (
See
§ 416.920(h) for an exception to this rule.) Any other work (jobs) that you can adjust to must exist in significant numbers in the national economy (either in the region where you live or in several regions in the country).
(2) In order to support a finding that you are not disabled at this fifth step of the sequential evaluation process, we are responsible for providing evidence that demonstrates that other work exists in significant numbers in the national economy that you can do, given your residual functional capacity and vocational factors. We are not responsible for providing additional evidence about your residual functional capacity because we will use the same residual functional capacity assessment that we used to determine if you can do your past relevant work.
[68 FR 51166, Aug. 26, 2003, as amended at 77 FR 43495, July 25, 2012; 89 FR 27667, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 416.962
Medical-vocational profiles showing an inability to make an adjustment to other work.
(a)
If you have done only arduous unskilled physical labor.
If you have no more than a marginal education (
see
§ 416.964) and work experience of 35 years or more during which you did only arduous unskilled physical labor, and you are not working and are no longer able to do this kind of work because of a severe impairment(s) (
see
§§ 416.920(c), 416.921, and 416.923), we will consider you unable to do lighter work, and therefore, disabled.

# Example to paragraph (a):
B is a 58-year-old miner's helper with a fourth grade education who has a lifelong history of unskilled arduous physical labor. B says that he is disabled because of arthritis of the spine, hips, and knees, and other impairments. Medical evidence shows a “severe” combination of impairments that prevents B from performing his past relevant work. Under these circumstances, we will find that B is disabled.
(b)
If you are at least 55 years old, have no more than a limited education, and have no past relevant work experience.
If you have a severe, medically determinable impairment(s) (
see
§§ 416.920(c), 416.921, and 416.923), are of advanced age (age 55 or older,
see
§ 416.963), have a limited education or less (
see
§ 416.964), and have no past relevant work experience (
see
§ 416.965), we will find you disabled. If the evidence shows that you meet this profile, we will not need to assess your residual functional capacity or consider the rules in appendix 2 to subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
[68 FR 51166, Aug. 26, 2003]
§ 416.963
Your age as a vocational factor.
(a)
General.
“Age” means your chronological age. When we decide whether you are disabled under § 416.920(g)(1), we will consider your chronological age in combination with your residual functional capacity, education, and work experience. We will not consider your ability to adjust to other work on the basis of your age alone. In determining the extent to which age affects a person's ability to adjust to other work, we consider advancing age to be an increasingly limiting factor in the person's ability to make such an adjustment, as we explain in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. If you are unemployed but you still have the ability to adjust to other work, we will find that you are not disabled. In paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section and in appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, we explain in more detail how we consider your age as a vocational factor.
(b)
How we apply the age categories.
When we make a finding about your ability to do other work under § 416.920(f)(1), we will use the age categories in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. We will use each of the age categories that applies to you during the period for which we must determine if you are disabled. We will not apply the age categories mechanically in a borderline situation. If you are within a few days to a few months of reaching an older age category, and using the older age category would result in a determination or decision that you are disabled, we will consider
whether to use the older age category after evaluating the overall impact of all the factors of your case.
(c)
Younger person.
If you are a younger person (under age 50), we generally do not consider that your age will seriously affect your ability to adjust to other work. However, in some circumstances, we consider that persons age 45-49 are more limited in their ability to adjust to other work than persons who have not attained age 45. See Rule 201.17 in appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
(d)
Person closely approaching advanced age.
If you are closely approaching advanced age (age 50-54), we will consider that your age along with a severe impairment(s) and limited work experience may seriously affect your ability to adjust to other work.
(e)
Person of advanced age.
We consider that at advanced age (age 55 or older), age significantly affects a person's ability to adjust to other work. We have special rules for persons of advanced age and for persons in this category who are closely approaching retirement age (age 60 or older). See § 416.968(d)(4).
(f)
Information about your age.
We will usually not ask you to prove your age. However, if we need to know your exact age to determine whether you get disability benefits, we will ask you for evidence of your age.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 18001, Apr. 6, 2000; 68 FR 51166, Aug. 26, 2003; 73 FR 64197, Oct. 29, 2008]
§ 416.964
Your education as a vocational factor.
(a)
General. Education
is primarily used to mean formal schooling or other training which contributes to your ability to meet vocational requirements, for example, reasoning ability, communication skills, and arithmetical ability. However, if you do not have formal schooling, this does not necessarily mean that you are uneducated or lack these abilities. Past work experience and the kinds of responsibilities you had when you were working may show that you have intellectual abilities, although you may have little formal education. Your daily activities, hobbies, or the results of testing may also show that you have significant intellectual ability that can be used to work.
(b)
How we evaluate your education.
The importance of your educational background may depend upon how much time has passed between the completion of your formal education and the beginning of your physical or mental impairment(s) and by what you have done with your education in a work or other setting. Formal education that you completed many years before your impairment began, or unused skills and knowledge that were a part of your formal education, may no longer be useful or meaningful in terms of your ability to work. Therefore, the numerical grade level that you completed in school may not represent your actual educational abilities. These may be higher or lower. However, if there is no other evidence to contradict it, we will use your numerical grade level to determine your educational abilities. In evaluating your educational level, we use the following categories:
(1)
Illiteracy.
Illiteracy means the inability to read or write. We consider someone illiterate if the person cannot read or write a simple message such as instructions or inventory lists even though the person can sign his or her name. Generally, an illiterate person has had little or no formal schooling.
(2)
Marginal education.
Marginal education means ability in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills which are needed to do simple, unskilled types of jobs. We generally consider that formal schooling at a 6th grade level or less is a marginal education.
(3)
Limited education.
Limited education means ability in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills, but not enough to allow a person with these educational qualifications to do most of the more complex job duties needed in semi-skilled or skilled jobs. We generally consider that a 7th grade through the 11th grade level of formal education is a limited education.
(4)
High school education and above.
High school education and above means abilities in reasoning, arithmetic, and language skills acquired through formal schooling at a 12th grade level or above. We generally consider that
someone with these educational abilities can do semi-skilled through skilled work.
(c)
Information about your education.
We will ask you how long you attended school, and whether you are able to understand, read, and write, and do at least simple arithmetic calculations. We will also consider other information about how much formal or informal education you may have had through your previous work, community projects, hobbies, and any other activities which might help you to work.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 85 FR 10603, Feb. 25, 2020]
§ 416.965
Your work experience as a vocational factor.
(a)
General. Work experience
means skills and abilities you have acquired through work you have done which show the type of work you may be expected to do. Work you have already been able to do shows the kind of work that you may be expected to do. We consider that your work experience applies when it was done within the last five years, lasted long enough for you to learn to do it, and was substantial gainful activity. We do not usually consider that work you did more than five years before the time we are deciding whether you are disabled applies. A gradual change occurs in most jobs so that after five years it is no longer realistic to expect that skills and abilities acquired in a job done then continue to apply. If you have no work experience or you did work that started and stopped in a period of fewer than 30 calendar days (see § 416.960(b)(1)(ii)) during the five-year period, we generally consider that these do not apply. If you have acquired skills through your past work, we consider you to have these work skills unless you cannot use them in other skilled or semi-skilled work that you can now do. If you cannot use your skills in other skilled or semi-skilled work, we will consider your work background the same as unskilled. However, even if you have no work experience, we may consider that you are able to do unskilled work because it requires little or no judgment and can be learned in a short period of time.
(b)
Information about your work.
Under certain circumstances, we will ask you about the work you have done in the past. If you cannot give us all of the information we need, we may try, with your permission, to get it from your employer or other person who knows about your work, such as a member of your family or a co-worker. When we need to consider your work experience to decide whether you are able to do work that is different from what you have done in the past, we will ask you to tell us about all of the jobs you have had in the last five years. You must tell us the dates you worked, all of the duties you did, and any tools, machinery, and equipment you used. We will need to know about the amount of walking, standing, sitting, lifting and carrying you did during the workday, as well as any other physical or mental duties of your job. If all of your work in the past five years has been arduous and unskilled, and you have very little education, we will ask you to tell us about all of your work from the time you first began working. This information could help you to get disability benefits.
[89 FR 27667, Apr. 18, 2024]
§ 416.966
Work which exists in the national economy.
(a)
General.
We consider that work exists in the national economy when it exists in significant numbers either in the region where you live or in several other regions of the country. It does not matter whether—
(1) Work exists in the immediate area in which you live;
(2) A specific job vacancy exists for you; or
(3) You would be hired if you applied for work.
(b)
How we determine the existence of work.
Work exists in the national economy when there is a significant number of jobs (in one or more occupations) having requirements which you are able to meet with your physical or mental abilities and vocational qualifications. Isolated jobs that exist only in very limited numbers in relatively few locations outside of the region where you live are not considered
work which exists in the national economy.
We will not deny you disability benefits on
the basis of the existence of these kinds of jobs. If work that you can do does not exist in the national economy, we will determine that you are disabled. However, if work that you can do does exist in the national economy, we will determine that you are not disabled.
(c)
Inability to obtain work.
We will determine that you are not disabled if your residual functional capacity and vocational abilities make it possible for you to do work which exists in the national economy, but you remain unemployed because of—
(1) Your inability to get work;
(2) Lack of work in your local area;
(3) The hiring practices of employers;
(4) Technological changes in the industry in which you have worked;
(5) Cyclical economic conditions;
(6) No job openings for you;
(7) You would not actually be hired to do work you could otherwise do, or;
(8) You do not wish to do a particular type of work.
(d)
Administrative notice of job data.
When we determine that unskilled, sedentary, light, and medium jobs exist in the national economy (in significant numbers either in the region where you live or in several regions of the country), we will take administrative notice of reliable job information available from various governmental and other publications. For example, we will take notice of—
(1)
Dictionary of Occupational Titles,
published by the Department of Labor;
(2)
County Business Patterns,
published by the Bureau of the Census;
(3)
Census Reports,
also published by the Bureau of the Census;
(4)
Occupational Analyses
prepared for the Social Security Administration by various State employment agencies; and
(5)
Occupational Outlook Handbook,
published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
(e)
Use of vocational experts and other specialists.
If the issue in determining whether you are disabled is whether your work skills can be used in other work and the specific occupations in which they can be used, or there is a similarly complex issue, we may use the services of a vocational expert or other specialist. We will decide whether to use a vocational expert or other specialist.
§ 416.967
Physical exertion requirements.
To determine the physical exertion requirements of work in the national economy, we classify jobs as
sedentary, light, medium, heavy,
and
very heavy.
These terms have the same meaning as they have in the
Dictionary of Occupational Titles,
published by the Department of Labor. In making disability determinations under this subpart, we use the following definitions:
(a)
Sedentary work.
Sedentary work involves lifting no more than 10 pounds at a time and occasionally lifting or carrying articles like docket files, ledgers, and small tools. Although a sedentary job is defined as one which involves sitting, a certain amount of walking and standing is often necessary in carrying out job duties. Jobs are sedentary if walking and standing are required occasionally and other sedentary criteria are met.
(b)
Light work.
Light work involves lifting no more than 20 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 10 pounds. Even though the weight lifted may be very little, a job is in this category when it requires a good deal of walking or standing, or when it involves sitting most of the time with some pushing and pulling of arm or leg controls. To be considered capable of performing a full or wide range of light work, you must have the ability to do substantially all of these activities. If someone can do light work, we determine that he or she can also do sedentary work, unless there are additional limiting factors such as loss of fine dexterity or inability to sit for long periods of time.
(c)
Medium work.
Medium work involves lifting no more than 50 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 25 pounds. If someone can do medium work, we determine that he or she can also do sedentary and light work.
(d)
Heavy work.
Heavy work involves lifting no more than 100 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing up to 50 pounds. If
someone can do heavy work, we determine that he or she can also do medium, light, and sedentary work.
(e)
Very heavy work.
Very heavy work involves lifting objects weighing more than 100 pounds at a time with frequent lifting or carrying of objects weighing 50 pounds or more. If someone can do very heavy work, we determine that he or she can also do heavy, medium, light, and sedentary work.
§ 416.968
Skill requirements.
In order to evaluate your skills and to help determine the existence in the national economy of work you are able to do, occupations are classified as unskilled, semi-skilled, and skilled. In classifying these occupations, we use materials published by the Department of Labor. When we make disability determinations under this subpart, we use the following definitions:
(a)
Unskilled work.
Unskilled work is work which needs little or no judgment to do simple duties that can be learned on the job in a short period of time. The job may or may not require considerable strength. For example, we consider jobs unskilled if the primary work duties are handling, feeding and offbearing (that is, placing or removing materials from machines which are automatic or operated by others), or machine tending, and a person can usually learn to do the job in 30 days, and little specific vocational preparation and judgment are needed. A person does not gain work skills by doing unskilled jobs.
(b)
Semi-skilled work.
Semi-skilled work is work which needs some skills but does not require doing the more complex work duties. Semi-skilled jobs may require alertness and close attention to watching machine processes; or inspecting, testing or otherwise looking for irregularities; or tending or guarding equipment, property, materials, or persons against loss, damage or injury; or other types of activities which are similarly less complex than skilled work, but more complex than unskilled work. A job may be classified as semi-skilled where coordination and dexterity are necessary, as when hands or feet must be moved quickly to do repetitive tasks.
(c)
Skilled work.
Skilled work requires qualifications in which a person uses judgment to determine the machine and manual operations to be performed in order to obtain the proper form, quality, or quantity of material to be produced. Skilled work may require laying out work, estimating quality, determining the suitability and needed quantities of materials, making precise measurements, reading blueprints or other specifications, or making necessary computations or mechanical adjustments to control or regulate the work. Other skilled jobs may require dealing with people, facts, or figures or abstract ideas at a high level of complexity.
(d)
Skills that can be used in other work (transferability)
—(1)
What we mean by transferable skills.
We consider you to have skills that can be used in other jobs, when the skilled or semi-skilled work activities you did in past work can be used to meet the requirements of skilled or semi-skilled work activities of other jobs or kinds of work. This depends largely on the similarity of occupationally significant work activities among different jobs.
(2)
How we determine skills that can be transferred to other jobs.
Transferability is most probable and meaningful among jobs in which—
(i) The same or a lesser degree of skill is required;
(ii) The same or similar tools and machines are used; and
(iii) The same or similar raw materials, products, processes, or services are involved.
(3)
Degrees of transferability.
There are degrees of transferability of skills ranging from very close similarities to remote and incidental similarities among jobs. A complete similarity of all three factors is not necessary for transferability. However, when skills are so specialized or have been acquired in such an isolated vocational setting (like many jobs in mining, agriculture, or fishing) that they are not readily usable in other industries, jobs, and work settings, we consider that they are not transferable.
(4)
Transferability of skills for persons of advanced age.
If you are of
advanced age
(age 55 or older), and you have a severe impairment(s) that limits you to
sedentary
or
light
work, we will find that you cannot make an adjustment to other work unless you have skills that you can transfer to other skilled or semiskilled work (or you have recently completed education which provides for direct entry into skilled work) that you can do despite your impairment(s). We will decide if you have transferable skills as follows. If you are of advanced age and you have a severe impairment(s) that limits you to no more than
sedentary
work, we will find that you have skills that are transferable to skilled or semiskilled sedentary work only if the sedentary work is so similar to your previous work that you would need to make very little, if any, vocational adjustment in terms of tools, work processes, work settings, or the industry. (See § 416.967(a) and Rule 201.00(f) of appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.) If you are of advanced age but have not attained age 60, and you have a severe impairment(s) that limits you to no more than
light
work, we will apply the rules in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section to decide if you have skills that are transferable to skilled or semiskilled light work (see § 416.967(b)). If you are
closely approaching retirement age
(age 60 or older) and you have a severe impairment(s) that limits you to no more than
light
work, we will find that you have skills that are transferable to skilled or semiskilled light work only if the light work is so similar to your previous work that you would need to make very little, if any, vocational adjustment in terms of tools, work processes, work settings, or the industry. (See § 416.967(b) and Rule 202.00(f) of appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.)
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 18001, Apr. 6, 2000; 73 FR 64197, Oct. 29, 2008]
§ 416.969
Listing of Medical-Vocational Guidelines in appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
The
Dictionary of Occupational Titles
includes information about jobs (classified by their exertional and skill requirements) that exist in the national economy. Appendix 2 provides rules using this data reflecting major functional and vocational patterns. We apply these rules in cases where a person is not doing substantial gainful activity and is prevented by a severe medically determinable impairment from doing vocationally relevant past work. (
See
§ 416.920(h) for an exception to this rule.) The rules in appendix 2 do not cover all possible variations of factors. Also, as we explain in § 200.00 of appendix 2, we do not apply these rules if one of the findings of fact about the person's vocational factors and residual functional capacity is not the same as the corresponding criterion of a rule. In these instances, we give full consideration to all relevant facts in accordance with the definitions and discussions under vocational considerations. However, if the findings of fact made about all factors are the same as the rule, we use that rule to decide whether a person is disabled.
[45 FR 55584, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 77 FR 43495, July 25, 2012]
§ 416.969a
Exertional and nonexertional limitations.
(a)
General.
Your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, may cause limitations of function or restrictions which limit your ability to meet certain demands of jobs. These limitations may be exertional, nonexertional, or a combination of both. Limitations are classified as exertional if they affect your ability to meet the strength demands of jobs. The classification of a limitation as exertional is related to the United States Department of Labor's classification of jobs by various exertional levels (sedentary, light, medium, heavy, and very heavy) in terms of the strength demands for sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling. Sections 416.967 and 416.969 explain how we use the classification of jobs by exertional levels (strength demands) which is contained in the Dictionary of Occupational Titles published by the Department of Labor, to determine the exertional requirements of work which exists in the national economy. Limitations or restrictions which affect your ability to meet the demands of jobs other than the strength demands, that is, demands other than sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing
or pulling, are considered nonexertional. When we decide whether you can do your past relevant work (
see
§§ 416.920(f) and 416.994(b)(5)(vi)), we will compare our assessment of your residual functional capacity with the demands of your past relevant work. If you cannot do your past relevant work, we will use the same residual functional capacity assessment along with your age, education, and work experience to decide if you can adjust to any other work which exists in the national economy. (
See
§§ 416.920(g) and 416.994(b)(5)(vii).) Paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section explain how we apply the medical-vocational guidelines in appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter in making this determination, depending on whether the limitations or restrictions imposed by your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, are exertional, nonexertional, or a combination of both.
(b)
Exertional limitations.
When the limitations and restrictions imposed by your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect only your ability to meet the strength demands of jobs (sitting, standing, walking, lifting, carrying, pushing, and pulling), we consider that you have only exertional limitations. When your impairment(s) and related symptoms only impose exertional limitations and your specific vocational profile is listed in a rule contained in appendix 2, we will directly apply that rule to decide whether you are disabled.
(c)
Nonexertional limitations.
(1) When the limitations and restrictions imposed by your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect only your ability to meet the demands of jobs other than the strength demands, we consider that you have only nonexertional limitations or restrictions. Some examples of nonexertional limitations or restrictions include the following:
(i) You have difficulty functioning because you are nervous, anxious, or depressed;
(ii) You have difficulty maintaining attention or concentrating;
(iii) You have difficulty understanding or remembering detailed instructions;
(iv) You have difficulty in seeing or hearing;
(v) You have difficulty tolerating some physical feature(s) of certain work settings, e.g., you cannot tolerate dust or fumes; or
(vi) You have difficulty performing the manipulative or postural functions of some work such as reaching, handling, stooping, climbing, crawling, or crouching.
(2) If your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, only affect your ability to perform the nonexertional aspects of work-related activities, the rules in appendix 2 do not direct factual conclusions of disabled or not disabled. The determination as to whether disability exists will be based on the principles in the appropriate sections of the regulations, giving consideration to the rules for specific case situations in appendix 2.
(d)
Combined exertional and nonexertional limitations.
When the limitations and restrictions imposed by your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect your ability to meet both the strength and demands of jobs other than the strength demands, we consider that you have a combination of exertional and nonexertional limitations or restrictions. If your impairment(s) and related symptoms, such as pain, affect your ability to meet both the strength and demands of jobs other than the strength demands, we will not directly apply the rules in appendix 2 unless there is a rule that directs a conclusion that you are disabled based upon your strength limitations; otherwise the rules provide a framework to guide our decision.
[56 FR 57947, Nov. 14, 1991, as amended at 68 FR 51166, Aug. 26, 2003]

# Substantial Gainful Activity
§ 416.971
General.
The work, without regard to legality, that you have done during any period in which you believe you are disabled may show that you are able to work at the substantial gainful activity level. If you are able to engage in substantial gainful activity, we will find that you are not disabled. (We explain the rules for persons who are statutorily blind in § 416.984.) Even if the work you have
done was not substantial gainful activity, it may show that you are able to do more work than you actually did. We will consider all of the medical and vocational evidence in your file to decide whether or not you have the ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 42788, July 11, 2000]
§ 416.972
What we mean by substantial gainful activity.
Substantial gainful activity is work activity that is both substantial and gainful:
(a)
Substantial work activity.
Substantial work activity is work activity that involves doing significant physical or mental activities. Your work may be substantial even if it is done on a part-time basis or if you do less, get paid less, or have less responsibility than when you worked before.
(b)
Gainful work activity.
Gainful work activity is work activity that you do for pay or profit. Work activity is gainful if it is the kind of work usually done for pay or profit, whether or not a profit is realized.
(c)
Some other activities.
Generally, we do not consider activities like taking care of yourself, household tasks, hobbies, therapy, school attendance, club activities, or social programs to be substantial gainful activity.
§ 416.973
General information about work activity.
(a)
The nature of your work.
If your duties require use of your experience, skills, supervision and responsibilities, or contribute substantially to the operation of a business, this tends to show that you have the ability to work at the substantial gainful activity level.
(b)
How well you perform.
We consider how well you do your work when we determine whether or not you are doing substantial gainful activity. If you do your work satisfactorily, this may show that you are working at the substantial gainful activity level. If you are unable, because of your impairments, to do ordinary or simple tasks satisfactorily without more supervision or assistance than is usually given other people doing similar work, this may show that you are not working at the substantial gainful activity level. If you are doing work that involves minimal duties that make little or no demands on you and that are of little or no use to your employer, or to the operation of a business if you are self-employed, this does not show that you are working at the substantial gainful activity level.
(c)
If your work is done under special conditions.
The work you are doing may be done under special conditions that take into account your impairment, such as work done in a sheltered workshop or as a patient in a hospital. If your work is done under special conditions, we may find that it does not show that you have the ability to do substantial gainful activity. Also, if you are forced to stop or reduce your work because of the removal of special conditions that were related to your impairment and essential to your work, we may find that your work does not show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity. However, work done under special conditions may show that you have the necessary skills and ability to work at the substantial gainful activity level. Examples of the special conditions that may relate to your impairment include, but are not limited to, situations in which—
(1) You required and received special assistance from other employees in performing your work;
(2) You were allowed to work irregular hours or take frequent rest periods;
(3) You were provided with special equipment or were assigned work especially suited to your impairment;
(4) You were able to work only because of specially arranged circumstances, for example, other persons helped you prepare for or get to and from your work;
(5) You were permitted to work at a lower standard of productivity or efficiency than other employees; or
(6) You were given the opportunity to work, despite your impairment, because of family relationship, past association with your employer, or your employer's concern for your welfare.
(d)
If you are self-employed.
Supervisory, managerial, advisory or other significant personal services that you
perform as a self-employed individual may show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity.
(e)
Time spent in work.
While the time you spend in work is important, we will not decide whether or not you are doing substantial gainful activity only on that basis. We will still evaluate the work to decide whether it is substantial and gainful regardless of whether you spend more time or less time at the job than workers who are not impaired and who are doing similar work as a regular means of their livelihood.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 42788, July 11, 2000]
§ 416.974
Evaluation guides if you are an employee.
(a) We use several guides to decide whether the work you have done shows that you are able to do substantial gainful activity. If you are working or have worked as an employee, we will use the provisions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section that are relevant to your work activity. We will use these provisions whenever they are appropriate in connection with your application for supplemental security income benefits (when we make an initial determination on your application and throughout any appeals you may request) to determine if you are eligible.
(1)
Your earnings may show you have done substantial gainful activity.
Generally, in evaluating your work activity for substantial gainful activity purposes, our primary consideration will be the earnings you derive from the work activity. We will use your earnings to determine whether you have done substantial gainful activity unless we have information from you, your employer, or others that shows that we should not count all of your earnings. The amount of your earnings from work you have done (regardless of whether it is unsheltered or sheltered work) may show that you have engaged in substantial gainful activity. Generally, if you worked for substantial earnings, we will find that you are able to do substantial gainful activity. However, the fact that your earnings were not substantial will not necessarily show that you are not able to do substantial gainful activity. We generally consider work that you are forced to stop or to reduce below the substantial gainful activity level after a short time because of your impairment to be an unsuccessful work attempt. Your earnings from an unsuccessful work attempt will not show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity. We will use the criteria in paragraph (c) of this section to determine if the work you did was an unsuccessful work attempt.
(2)
We consider only the amounts you earn.
When we decide whether your earnings show that you have done substantial gainful activity, we do not consider any income that is not directly related to your productivity. When your earnings exceed the reasonable value of the work you perform, we consider only that part of your pay which you actually earn. If your earnings are being subsidized, we do not consider the amount of the subsidy when we determine if your earnings show that you have done substantial gainful activity. We consider your work to be subsidized if the true value of your work, when compared with the same or similar work done by unimpaired persons, is less than the actual amount of earnings paid to you for your work. For example, when a person with a serious impairment does simple tasks under close and continuous supervision, our determination of whether that person has done substantial gainful activity will not be based only on the amount of the wages paid. We will first determine whether the person received a subsidy; that is, we will determine whether the person was being paid more than the reasonable value of the actual services performed. We will then subtract the value of the subsidy from the person's gross earnings to determine the earnings we will use to determine if he or she has done substantial gainful activity.
(3)
If you are working in a sheltered or special environment.
If you are working in a sheltered workshop, you may or may not be earning the amounts you are being paid. The fact that the sheltered workshop or similar facility is operating at a loss or is receiving some charitable contributions or governmental aid does not establish that you are not earning all you are being paid.
Since persons in military service being treated for severe impairments usually continue to receive full pay, we evaluate work activity in a therapy program or while on limited duty by comparing it with similar work in the civilian work force or on the basis of reasonable worth of the work, rather than on the actual amount of the earnings.
(b)
Earnings guidelines.
(1)
General.
If you are an employee, we first consider the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section and § 416.976, and then the guides in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. When we review your earnings to determine if you have been performing substantial gainful activity, we will subtract the value of any subsidized earnings (see paragraph (a)(2) of this section) and the reasonable cost of any impairment-related work expenses from your gross earnings (see § 416.976). The resulting amount is the amount we use to determine if you have done substantial gainful activity. We will generally average your earnings for comparison with the earnings guidelines in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section. See § 416.974a for our rules on averaging earnings.
(2)
Earnings that will ordinarily show that you have engaged in substantial gainful activity.
We will consider that your earnings from your work activity as an employee (including earnings from work in a sheltered workshop or a comparable facility especially set up for severely impaired persons) show that you have engaged in substantial gainful activity if:
(i)
Before January 1, 2001,
they averaged more than the amount(s) in Table 1 of this section for the time(s) in which you worked.
(ii)
Beginning January 1, 2001,
and each year thereafter, they average more than the larger of:
(A) The amount for the previous year, or
(B) An amount adjusted for national wage growth, calculated by multiplying $700 by the ratio of the national average wage index for the year 2 calendar years before the year for which the amount is being calculated to the national average wage index for the year 1998. We will then round the resulting amount to the next higher multiple of $10 where such amount is a multiple of $5 but not of $10 and to the nearest multiple of $10 in any other case.
Table 1
For months:
Your monthly earnings
averaged more than:
In calendar years before 1976
$200
In calendar year 1976
230
In calendar year 1977
240
In calendar year 1978
260
In calendar year 1979
280
In calendar years 1980-1989
300
January 1990-June 1999
500
July 1999-December 2000
700
(3)
Earnings that will ordinarily show that you have not engaged in substantial gainful activity
—(i)
General.
If your average monthly earnings are equal to or less than the amount(s) determined under paragraph (b)(2) of this section for the year(s) in which you work, we will generally consider that the earnings from your work as an employee (including earnings from work in a sheltered workshop or comparable facility) will show that you have not engaged in substantial gainful activity. We will generally not consider other information in addition to your earnings except in the circumstances described in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii)
When we will consider other information in addition to your earnings.
Unless you meet the criteria set forth in section 416.990 (h) and (i), we will generally consider other information in addition to your earnings if there is evidence indicating that you may be engaging in substantial gainful activity or that you are in a position to control when earnings are paid to you or the amount of wages paid to you (for example, if you are working for a small corporation owned by a relative). Examples of other information we may consider include, whether—
(A) Your work is comparable to that of unimpaired people in your community who are doing the same or similar occupations as their means of livelihood, taking into account the time, energy, skill, and responsibility involved in the work; and
(B) Your work, although significantly less than that done by unimpaired people, is clearly worth the
amounts shown in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, according to pay scales in your community.
(c)
The unsuccessful work attempt
—(1)
General.
Ordinarily, work you have done will not show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity if, after working for a period of 6 months or less, you were forced by your impairment to stop working or to reduce the amount of work you do so that your earnings from such work fall below the substantial gainful activity earnings level in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and you meet the conditions described in paragraphs (c)(2), (3), (4), and (5) of this section.
(2)
Event that must precede an unsuccessful work attempt.
There must be a significant break in the continuity of your work before we will consider you to have begun a work attempt that later proved unsuccessful. You must have stopped working or reduced your work and earnings below the substantial gainful activity earnings level because of your impairment or because of the removal of special conditions that were essential to the further performance of your work. We explain what we mean by special conditions in § 416.973(c). We will consider your prior work to be “discontinued” for a significant period if you were out of work at least 30 consecutive days. We will also consider your prior work to be “discontinued” if, because of your impairment, you were forced to change to another type of work or another employer.
(3)
If you worked 6 months or less.
We will consider work of 6 months or less to be an unsuccessful work attempt if you stopped working or you reduced your work and earnings below the substantial gainful activity earnings level because of your impairment or because of the removal of special conditions that took into account your impairment and permitted you to work.
(4)
If you worked more than 6 months.
We will not consider work you performed at the substantial gainful activity earnings level for more than 6 months to be an unsuccessful work attempt regardless of why it ended or was reduced below the substantial gainful activity earnings level.
(d)
Work activity in certain volunteer programs.
If you work as a volunteer in certain programs administered by the Federal government under the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 or the Small Business Act, we will not count any payments you receive from these programs as earnings when we determine whether you are engaging in substantial gainful activity. These payments may include a minimal stipend, payments for supportive services such as housing, supplies and equipment, an expense allowance, or reimbursement of out-of-pocket expenses. We will also disregard the services you perform as a volunteer in applying any of the substantial gainful activity tests discussed in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. This exclusion from the substantial gainful activity provisions will apply only if you are a volunteer in a program explicitly mentioned in the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 or the Small Business Act. Programs explicitly mentioned in those Acts include Volunteers in Service to America, University Year for ACTION, Special Volunteer Programs, Retired Senior Volunteer Program, Foster Grandparent Program, Service Corps of Retired Executives, and Active Corps of Executives. We will not exclude under this paragraph volunteer work you perform in other programs or any nonvolunteer work you may perform, including nonvolunteer work under one of the specified programs. For civilians in certain government-sponsored job training and employment programs, we evaluate the work activity on a case-by-case basis under the substantial gainful activity earnings test. In programs such as these, subsidies often occur. We will subtract the value of any subsidy and use the remainder to determine if you have done substantial gainful activity. See paragraphs (a)(2)-(3) of this section.
(e)
Work activity as a member or consultant of an advisory committee established under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (FACA), 5 U.S.C. App. 2.
If you are serving as a member or consultant of an advisory committee, board, commission, council, or similar group established under FACA, we will not count any payments you receive from serving on such committees as
earnings when we determine whether you are engaging in substantial gainful activity. These payments may include compensation, travel expenses, and special assistance. We also will exclude the services you perform as a member or consultant of an advisory committee established under FACA in applying any of the substantial gainful activity tests discussed in paragraph (b)(6) of this section. This exclusion from the substantial gainful activity provision will apply only if you are a member or consultant of an advisory committee specifically authorized by statute, or by the President, or determined as a matter of formal record by the head of a federal government agency. This exclusion from the substantial gainful activity provisions will not apply if your service as a member or consultant of an advisory committee is part of your duties or is required as an employee of any governmental or non-governmental organization, agency, or business.
[46 FR 4871, Jan. 19, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 21939, May 16, 1983; 49 FR 22274, May 29, 1984; 54 FR 53605, Dec. 29, 1989; 64 FR 18570, Apr. 15, 1999; 64 FR 22903, Apr. 28, 1999; 65 FR 42789, July 11, 2000; 65 FR 82911, Dec. 29, 2000; 71 FR 3219, Jan. 20, 2006; 71 FR 66857, Nov. 17, 2006; 81 FR 71369, Oct. 17, 2016]
§ 416.974a
When and how we will average your earnings.
(a) To determine your initial eligibility for benefits, we will average any earnings you make during the month you file for benefits and any succeeding months to determine if you are doing substantial gainful activity. If your work as an employee or as a self-employed person was continuous without significant change in work patterns or earnings, and there has been no change in the substantial gainful activity earnings levels, your earnings will be averaged over the entire period of work requiring evaluation to determine if you have done substantial gainful activity.
(b) If you work over a period of time during which the substantial gainful activity earnings levels change, we will average your earnings separately for each period in which a different substantial gainful activity earnings level applies.
(c) If there is a significant change in your work pattern or earnings during the period of work requiring evaluation, we will average your earnings over each separate period of work to determine if any of your work efforts were substantial gainful activity.
[65 FR 42790, July 11, 2000]
§ 416.975
Evaluation guides if you are self-employed.
(a)
If you are a self-employed person.
If you are working or have worked as a self-employed person, we will use the provisions in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section that are relevant to your work activity. We will use these provisions whenever they are appropriate in connection with your application for supplemental security income benefits (when we make an initial determination on your application and throughout any appeals you may request). We will consider your activities and their value to your business to decide whether you have engaged in substantial gainful activity if you are self-employed. We will not consider your income alone because the amount of income you actually receive may depend on a number of different factors, such as capital investment and profit-sharing agreements. We will generally consider work that you were forced to stop or reduce to below substantial gainful activity after 6 months or less because of your impairment as an unsuccessful work attempt. See paragraph (d) of this section. We will evaluate your work activity based on the value of your services to the business regardless of whether you receive an immediate income for your services. We determine whether you have engaged in substantial gainful activity by applying three tests. If you have not engaged in substantial gainful activity under test one, then we will consider tests two and three. The tests are as follows:
(1)
Test One:
You have engaged in substantial gainful activity if you render services that are significant to the operation of the business and receive a substantial income from the business. Paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section explain what we mean by significant services and substantial income for purposes of this test.
(2)
Test Two:
You have engaged in substantial gainful activity if your work activity, in terms of factors such as hours, skills, energy output, efficiency, duties, and responsibilities, is comparable to that of unimpaired individuals in your community who are in the same or similar businesses as their means of livelihood.
(3)
Test Three:
You have engaged in substantial gainful activity if your work activity, although not comparable to that of unimpaired individuals, is clearly worth the amount shown in § 416.974(b)(2) when considered in terms of its value to the business, or when compared to the salary that an owner would pay to an employee to do the work you are doing.
(b)
What we mean by significant services.
(1) If you are not a farm landlord and you operate a business entirely by yourself, any services that you render are significant to the business. If your business involves the services of more than one person, we will consider you to be rendering significant services if you contribute more than half the total time required for the management of the business, or you render management services for more than 45 hours a month regardless of the total management time required by the business.
(2) If you are a farm landlord, that is, you rent farm land to another, we will consider you to be rendering significant services if you materially participate in the production or the management of the production of the things raised on the rented farm. (See § 404.1082 of this chapter for an explanation of “material participation”.) If you were given social security earnings credits because you materially participated in the activities of the farm and you continue these same activities, we will consider you to be rendering significant services.
(c)
What we mean by substantial income.
We deduct your normal business expenses from your gross income to determine net income. Once net income is determined, we deduct the reasonable value of any significant amount of unpaid help furnished by your spouse, children, or others. Miscellaneous duties that ordinarily would not have commercial value would not be considered significant. We deduct impairment-related work expenses that have not already been deducted in determining your net income. Impairment-related work expenses are explained in § 416.976. We deduct unincurred business expenses paid for you by another individual or agency. An unincurred business expense occurs when a sponsoring agency or another person incurs responsibility for the payment of certain business expenses, e.g., rent, utilities, or purchases and repair of equipment, or provides you with equipment, stock, or other material for the operation of your business. We deduct soil bank payments if they were included as farm income. That part of your income remaining after we have made all applicable deductions represents the actual value of work performed. The resulting amount is the amount we use to determine if you have done substantial gainful activity. We will generally average your income for comparison with the earnings guidelines in §§ 416.974(b)(2) and 416.974(b)(3). See § 416.974a for our rules on averaging of earnings. We will consider this amount to be substantial if—
(1) It averages more than the amounts described in § 416.974(b)(2); or
(2) It averages less than the amounts described in § 416.974(b)(2) but it is either comparable to what it was before you became seriously impaired if we had not considered your earnings or is comparable to that of unimpaired self-employed persons in your community who are in the same or a similar business as their means of livelihood.
(d)
The unsuccessful work attempt
—(1)
General.
Ordinarily, work you have done will not show that you are able to do substantial gainful activity if, after working for a period of 6 months or less, you were forced by your impairment to stop working or to reduce the amount of work you do so that you are no longer performing substantial gainful activity and you meet the conditions described in paragraphs (d)(2), (3), and (4) of this section.
(2)
Event that must precede an unsuccessful work attempt.
There must be a significant break in the continuity of your work before we will consider you to have begun a work attempt that later proved unsuccessful. You must
have stopped working or reduced your work and earnings below substantial gainful activity because of your impairment or because of the removal of special conditions which took into account your impairment and permitted you to work. Examples of such special conditions may include any significant amount of unpaid help furnished by your spouse, children, or others, or unincurred business expenses, as described in paragraph (c) of this section, paid for you by another individual or agency. We will consider your prior work to be “discontinued” for a significant period if you were out of work at least 30 consecutive days. We will also consider your prior work to be “discontinued” if, because of your impairment, you were forced to change to another type of work.
(3)
If you worked 6 months or less.
We will consider work of 6 months or less to be an unsuccessful work attempt if you stopped working or you reduced your work and earnings below the substantial gainful activity earnings level because of your impairment or because of the removal of special conditions that took into account your impairment and permitted you to work.
(4)
If you worked more than 6 months.
We will not consider work you performed at the substantial gainful activity level for more than 6 months to be an unsuccessful work attempt regardless of why it ended or was reduced below the substantial gainful activity level.
[46 FR 4872, Jan. 19, 1981, as amended at 48 FR 21940, May 16, 1983; 49 FR 22274, May 29, 1984; 65 FR 42790, July 11, 2000; 81 FR 71369, Oct. 17, 2016]
§ 416.976
Impairment-related work expenses.
(a)
General.
When we figure your earnings in deciding if you have done substantial gainful activity, and in determining your countable earned income (see § 416.1112(c)(5)), we will subtract the reasonable costs to you of certain items and services which, because of your impairment(s), you need and use to enable you to work. The costs are deductible even though you also need or use the items and services to carry out daily living functions unrelated to your work. Paragraph (b) of this section explains the conditions for deducting work expenses. Paragraph (c) of this section describes the expenses we will deduct. Paragraph (d) of this section explains when expenses may be deducted. Paragraph (e) of this section describes how expenses may be allocated. Paragraph (f) of this section explains the limitations on deducting expenses. Paragraph (g) of this section explains our verification procedures.
(b)
Conditions for deducting impairment-related work expenses.
We will deduct impairment-related work expenses if—
(1) You are otherwise disabled as defined in §§ 416.905 through 416.907;
(2) The severity of your impairment(s) requires you to purchase (or rent) certain items and services in order to work;
(3) You pay the cost of the item or service. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that payment has been or will be made by another source. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that you have been, could be, or will be reimbursed for such cost by any other source (such as through a private insurance plan, Medicare or Medicaid, or other plan or agency). For example, if you purchase crutches for $80 but you were, could be, or will be reimbursed $64 by some agency, plan, or program, we will deduct only $16;
(4) You pay for the item or service in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section; and
(5) Your payment is in cash (including checks or other forms of money). Payment in kind is not deductible.
(c)
What expenses may be deducted
—(1)
Payments for attendant care services.
(i) If because of your impairment(s) you need assistance in traveling to and from work, or while at work you need assistance with personal functions (e.g., eating, toileting) or with work-related functions (e.g., reading, communicating), the payments you make for those services may be deducted.
(ii) If because of your impairment(s) you need assistance with personal functions (e.g., dressing, administering medications) at home in preparation for going to and assistance in returning from work, the payments you make for those services may be deducted.
(iii)(A) We will deduct payments you make to a family member for attendant care services only if such person, in order to perform the services, suffers an economic loss by terminating his or her employment or by reducing the number of hours he or she worked.
(B) We consider a family member to be anyone who is related to you by blood, marriage or adoption, whether or not that person lives with you.
(iv) If only part of your payment to a person is for services that come under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section, we will only deduct that part of the payment which is attributable to those services. For example, an attendant gets you ready for work and helps you in returning from work, which takes about 2 hours a day. The rest of his or her 8 hour day is spent cleaning your house and doing your laundry, etc. We would only deduct one-fourth of the attendant's daily wages as an impairment-related work expense.
(2)
Payments for medical devices.
If your impairment(s) requires that you utilize medical devices in order to work, the payments you make for those devices may be deducted. As used in this subparagraph, medical devices include durable medical equipment which can withstand repeated use, is customarily used for medical purposes, and is generally not useful to a person in the absence of an illness or injury. Examples of durable medical equipment are wheelchairs, hemodialysis equipment, canes, crutches, inhalators and pacemakers.
(3)
Payments for prosthetic devices.
If your impairment(s) requires that you utilize a prosthetic device in order to work, the payments you make for that device may be deducted. A prosthetic device is that which replaces an internal body organ or external body part. Examples of prosthetic devices are artificial replacements of arms, legs and other parts of the body.
(4)
Payments for equipment
—(i)
Work-related equipment.
If your impairment(s) requires that you utilize special equipment in order to do your job, the payments you make for that equipment may be deducted. Examples of work-related equipment are one-hand typewriters, telecommunication devices for the deaf and tools specifically designed to accommodate a person's impairment(s).
(ii)
Residential modifications.
If your impairment(s) requires that you make modifications to your residence, the location of your place of work will determine if the cost of these modifications will be deducted. If you are employed away from home, only the cost of changes made outside of your home to permit you to get to your means of transportation (e.g., the installation of an exterior ramp for a wheel-chair confined person or special exterior railings or pathways for someone who requires crutches) will be deducted. Costs relating to modifications of the inside of your home will not be deducted. If you work at home, the costs of modifying the inside of your home in order to create a working space to accommodate your impairment(s) will be deducted to the extent that the changes pertain specifically to the space in which you work. Examples of such changes are the enlargement of a doorway leading into the work space or modification of the work space to accommodate problems in dexterity. However, if you are self-employed at home, any cost deducted as a business expense cannot be deducted as an impairment-related work expense.
(iii)
Nonmedical appliances and equipment.
Expenses for appliances and equipment which you do not ordinarily use for medical purposes are generally not deductible. Examples of these items are portable room heaters, air conditioners, humidifiers, dehumidifiers, and electric air cleaners. However, expenses for such items may be deductible when unusual circumstances clearly establish an impairment-related and medically verified need for such an item because it is essential for the control of your disabling condition, thus enabling you to work. To be considered essential, the item must be of such a nature that if it were not available to you there would be an immediate adverse impact on your ability to function in your work activity. In this situation, the expense is deductible whether the item is used at home or in the working place. An example would be the need for an electric air cleaner
by an individual with severe respiratory disease who cannot function in a non-purified air environment. An item such as an exercycle is not deductible if used for general physical fitness. If it is prescribed and used as necessary treatment of your impairment and necessary to enable you to work, we will deduct payments you make toward its cost.
(5)
Payments for drugs and medical services.
(i) If you must use drugs or medical services (including diagnostic procedures) to control your impairment(s), the payments you make for them may be deducted. The drugs or services must be prescribed (or utilized) to reduce or eliminate symptoms of your impairment(s) or to slow down its progression. The diagnostic procedures must be performed to ascertain how the impairment(s) is progressing or to determine what type of treatment should be provided for the impairment(s).
(ii) Examples of deductible drugs and medical services are anticonvulsant drugs to control epilepsy or anticonvulsant blood level monitoring; antidepressant medication for mental disorders; medication used to allay the side effects of certain treatments; radiation treatment or chemotherapy for cancer patients; corrective surgery for spinal disorders; electroencephalograms and brain scans related to a disabling epileptic condition; tests to determine the efficacy of medication on a diabetic condition; and immunosuppressive medications that kidney transplant patients regularly take to protect against graft rejection.
(iii) We will only deduct the costs of drugs or services that are directly related to your impairment(s). Examples of non-deductible items are routine annual physical examinations, optician services (unrelated to a disabling visual impairment) and dental examinations.
(6)
Payments for similar items and services
—(i)
General.
If you are required to utilize items and services not specified in paragraph (c) (1) through (5) of this section but which are directly related to your impairment(s) and which you need to work, their costs are deductible. Examples of such items and services are medical supplies and services not discussed above, and transportation.
(ii)
Medical supplies and services not described above.
We will deduct payments you make for expendable medical supplies, such as incontinence pads, catheters, bandages, elastic stockings, face masks, irrigating kits, and disposable sheets and bags. We will also deduct payments you make for physical therapy which you require because of your impairment(s) and which you need in order to work.
(iii)
Payments for transportation costs.
We will deduct transportation costs in these situations:
(A) Your impairment(s) requires that in order to get to work you need a vehicle that has structural or operational modifications. The modifications must be critical to your operation or use of the vehicle and directly related to your impairment(s). We will deduct the costs of the modifications, but not the cost of the vehicle. We will also deduct a mileage allowance for the trip to and from work. The allowance will be based on data compiled by the Federal Highway Administration relating to vehicle operating costs.
(B) Your impairment(s) requires you to use driver assistance, taxicabs or other hired vehicles in order to work. We will deduct amounts paid to the driver and, if your own vehicle is used, we will also deduct a mileage allowance, as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, for the trip to and from work.
(C) Your impairment(s) prevents your taking available public transportation to and from work and you must drive your (unmodified) vehicle to work. If we can verify through your physician or other sources that the need to drive is caused by your impairment(s) (and not due to the unavailability of public transportation), we will deduct a mileage allowance as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(iii)(A) of this section, for the trip to and from work.
(7)
Payments for installing, maintaining, and repairing deductible items.
If the device, equipment, appliance, etc., that you utilize qualifies as a deductible item as described in paragraphs (c)(2), (3), (4), and (6) of this section, the costs directly related to installing, maintaining and repairing these items are
also deductible. (The costs which are associated with modifications to a vehicle are deductible. Except for a mileage allowance, as provided for in paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section, the costs which are associated with the vehicle itself are not deductible.)
(d)
When expenses may be deducted
—(1)
Effective date.
To be deductible an expense must be incurred after November 30, 1980. An expense may be considered incurred after that date if it is paid thereafter even though pursuant to a contract or other arrangement entered into before December 1, 1980.
(2)
Payments for services.
For the purpose of determining SGA, a payment you make for services may be deducted if the services are received while you are working and the payment is made in a month you are working. We consider you to be working even though you must leave work temporarily to receive the services. For the purpose of determining your SSI monthly payment amount, a payment you make for services may be deducted if the payment is made in the month your earned income is received and the earned income is for work done in the month you received the services. If you begin working and make a payment before the month earned income is received, the payment is also deductible. If you make a payment after you stop working, and the payment is made in the month you received earned income for work done in the month you received the services, the payment is also deductible.
(3)
Payment for items.
For the purpose of determining SGA, a payment you make toward the cost of a deductible item (regardless of when it is acquired) may be deducted if payment is made in a month you are working. For the purpose of determining your SSI monthly payment amount, a payment you make toward the cost of a deductible item (regardless of when it is acquired) may be deducted if the payment is made in the month your earned income is received and the earned income is for work done in the month you used the item. If you begin working and make a payment before the month earned income is received, the payment is also deductible. If you make a payment after you stop working, and the payment is made in the month you received earned income for work done in the month you used the item, the payment is also deductible. See paragraph (e)(4) of this section when purchases are made in anticipation of work.
(e)
How expenses are allocated
—(1)
Recurring expenses.
You may pay for services on a regular periodic basis, or you may purchase an item on credit and pay for it in regular periodic installments or you may rent an item. If so, each payment you make for the services and each payment you make toward the purchase or rental (including interest) is deductible as described in paragraph (d) of this section.

# Example:
B starts work in October 1981 at which time she purchases a medical device at a cost of $4,800 plus interest charges of $720. Her monthly payments begin in October. She earns and receives $400 a month. The term of the installment contract is 48 months. No downpayment is made. The monthly allowable deduction for the item would be $115 ($5520 divided by 48) for each month of work (for SGA purposes) and for each month earned income is received (for SSI payment purposes) during the 48 months.
(2)
Nonrecurring expenses.
Part or all of your expenses may not be recurring. For example, you may make a one-time payment in full for an item or service or make a downpayment. For the purpose of determining SGA, if you are working when you make the payment we will either deduct the entire amount in the month you pay it or allocate the amount over a 12 consecutive month period beginning with the month of payment, whichever you select. For the purpose of determining your SSI monthly payment amount, if you are working in the month you make the payment and the payment is made in a month earned income is received, we will either deduct the entire amount in that month, or we will allocate the amount over a 12 consecutive month period, beginning with that month, whichever you select. If you begin working and do not receive earned income in the month you make the payment, we will either deduct or begin allocating the payment amount in the first month you do receive earned income. If you make a payment for services or items after you stopped working, we will deduct the payment if it was made in the month you received
earned income for work done in the month you received the services or used the item.

# Example:
A begins working in October 1981 and earns and receives $525 a month. In the same month he purchases and pays for a deductible item at a cost of $250. In this situation we could allow a $250 deduction for both SGA and SSI payment purposes for October 1981, reducing A's earnings below the SGA level for that month.
If A's earnings had been $15 above the SGA earnings amount, A probably would select the option of projecting the $250 payment over the 12-month period, October 1981-September 1982, giving A an allowable deduction of $20.83 a month for each month of work (for SGA purposes) and for each month earned income is received (for SSI payment purposes) during that period. This deduction would reduce A's earnings below the SGA level for 12 months.
(3)
Allocating downpayments.
If you make a downpayment we will, if you choose, make a separate calculation for the downpayment in order to provide for uniform monthly deductions. In these situations we will determine the total payment that you will make over a 12 consecutive month period beginning with the month of the downpayment and allocate that amount over the 12 months. Beginning with the 13th month, the regular monthly payment will be deductible. This allocation process will be for a shorter period if your regular monthly payments will extend over a period of less than 12 months.

# Example 1.
C starts working in October 1981, at which time he purchases special equipment at a cost of $4,800, paying $1,200 down. The balance of $3,600, plus interest of $540, is to be repaid in 36 installments of $115 a month beginning November 1981. C earns and receives $500 a month. He chooses to have the downpayment allocated. In this situation we would allow a deduction of $205.42 a month for each month of work (for SGA purposes) and for each month earned income is received (for SSI payment purposes) during the period October 1981 through September 1982. After September 1982, the deduction amount would be the regular monthly payment of $115 for each month of work (for SGA purposes) and for each month earned income is received (for SSI payment purposes) during the remaining installment period.
Explanation:
Downpayment in 10/81
$1,200
Monthly payments 11/81 through 09/82
1,265
12) 2,465
= $205.42.

# Example 2.
D, while working, buys a deductible item in July 1981, paying $1,450 down. (D earns and receives $500 a month.) However, his first monthly payment of $125 is not due until September 1981. D chooses to have the downpayment allocated. In this situation we would allow a deduction of $225 a month for each month of work (for SGA purposes) and for each month earned income is received (for SSI payment purposes) during the period July 1981 through June 1982. After June 1982, the deduction amount would be the regular monthly payment of $125 for each month of work (for SGA purposes) and for each month earned income is received (for SSI payment purposes).
Explanation:
Downpayment in 07/81
$1,450
Monthly payments 09/81 through 06/82
1,250
12) 2,700
= 225.
(4)
Payments made in anticipation of work.
A payment toward the cost of a deductible item that you made in any of the 11 months preceding the month you started working will be taken into account in determining your impairment-related work expenses. When an item is paid for in full during the 11 months preceding the month you started working the payment will be allocated over the 12-consecutive month period beginning with the month of the payment. However, the only portion of the payment which may be deductible is the portion allocated to the month work begins and the following months. For example, if an item is purchased 3 months before the month work began and is paid for with a one-time payment of $600, the deductible amount would be $450 ($600 divided by 12, multiplied by 9). Installment payments (including a downpayment) that you made for a particular item during the 11 months preceding the month you started working will be totaled and considered to have been made in the month of your first payment for that item within this 11 month period. The sum of these payments will be allocated over the 12-consecutive month period beginning with the month of your first payment (but never earlier than 11 months before the month work began). However, the only portion of the total which may be deductible is the portion allocated to the month work begins
and the following months. For example, if an item is purchased 3 months before the month work began and is paid for in 3 monthly installments of $200 each, the total payment of $600 will be considered to have been made in the month of the first payment, that is, 3 months before the month work began. The deductible amount would be $450 ($600 divided by 12, multiplied by 9). The amount, as determined by these formulas, will then be considered to have been paid in the first month of work for the purpose of determining SGA and in the first month earned income is received for the purpose of determining the SSI monthly payment amount. For the purpose of determining SGA, we will deduct either the entire amount in the first month of work or allocate it over a 12 consecutive month period beginning with the first month of work, whichever you select. In the above examples, the individual would have the choice of having the entire $450 deducted in the first month of work or of having $37.50 a month ($450 divided by 12) deducted for each month that he works over a 12-consecutive month period, beginning with the first month of work. For the purpose of determining the SSI payment amount, we will either deduct the entire amount in the first month earned income is received or allocate it over a 12-consecutive month period beginning with the first month earned income is received, whichever you select. In the above examples, the individual would have the choice of having the entire $450 deducted in the first month earned income is received or of having $37.50 a month ($450 divided by 12) deducted for each month he receives earned income (for work) over a 12-consecutive month period, beginning with the first month earned income is received. To be deductible the payments must be for durable items such as medical devices, prostheses, work-related equipment, residential modifications, nonmedical appliances and vehicle modifications. Payments for services and expendable items such as drugs, oxygen, diagnostic procedures, medical supplies and vehicle operating costs are not deductible for purposes of this paragraph.
(f)
Limits on deductions.
(1) We will deduct the actual amounts you pay toward your impairment-related work expenses unless the amounts are unreasonable. With respect to durable medical equipment, prosthetic devices, medical services, and similar medically related items and services, we will apply the prevailing charges under Medicare (part B of title XVIII, Health Insurance for the Aged and Disabled) to the extent that this information is readily available. Where the Medicare guides are used, we will consider the amount that you pay to be reasonable if it is no more than the prevailing charge for the same item or service under the Medicare guidelines. If the amount you actually pay is more than the prevailing charge for the same item under the Medicare guidelines, we will deduct from your earnings the amount you paid to the extent you establish that the amount is consistent with the standard or normal charge for the same or similar item or service in your community. For items and services that are not listed in the Medicare guidelines, and for items and services that are listed in the Medicare guidelines but for which such guides cannot be used because the information is not readily available, we will consider the amount you pay to be reasonable if it does not exceed the standard or normal charge for the same or similar item(s) or service(s) in your community.
(2) The decision as to whether you performed substantial gainful activity in a case involving impairment-related work expenses for items or services necessary for you to work generally will be based upon your “earnings” and not on the value of “services” you rendered. (See §§ 416.974(b)(6) (i) and (ii), and 416.975(a)). This is not necessarily so, however, if you are in a position to control or manipulate your earnings.
(3) The amount of the expenses to be deducted must be determined in a uniform manner in both the disability insurance and SSI programs. The amount of deductions must, therefore, be the same for determinations as to substantial gainful activity under both programs. The deductions that apply in determining the SSI payment amounts, though determined in the same manner as for SGA determinations, are applied
so that they correspond to the timing of the receipt of the earned income to be excluded.
(4) No deduction will be allowed to the extent that any other source has paid or will pay for an item or service. No deduction will be allowed to the extent that you have been, could be, or will be, reimbursed for payments you made. (See paragraph (b)(3) of this section.)
(5) The provisions described in the foregoing paragraphs of this section are effective with respect to expenses incurred on and after December 1, 1980, although expenses incurred after November 1980 as a result of contractual or other arrangements entered into before December 1980, are deductible. For months before December 1980 we will deduct impairment-related work expenses from your earnings only to the extent they exceeded the normal work-related expenses you would have had if you did not have your impairment(s). We will not deduct expenses, however, for those things which you needed even when you were not working.
(g)
Verification.
We will verify your need for items or services for which deductions are claimed, and the amount of the charges for those items or services. You will also be asked to provide proof that you paid for the items or services.
[48 FR 21940, May 16, 1983, as amended at 65 FR 42791, July 11, 2000]

# Blindness
§ 416.981
Meaning of blindness as defined in the law.
We will consider you blind under the law for payment of supplemental security income benefits if we determine that you are statutorily blind. Statutory blindness is central visual acuity of 20/200 or less in the better eye with the use of a correcting lens. An eye which has a limitation in the field of vision so that the widest diameter of the visual field subtends an angle no greater than 20 degrees is considered to have a central visual acuity of 20/200 or less.
§ 416.982
Blindness under a State plan.
We shall also consider you blind for the purposes of payment of supplemental security income benefits if—
(a) You were found to be blind as defined under a State plan approved under title X or title XVI of the Social Security Act, as in effect for October 1972;
(b) You received aid under the State plan because of your blindness for the month of December 1973; and
(c) You continue to be blind as defined under the State plan.
§ 416.983
How we evaluate statutory blindness.
We will find that you are blind if you are
statutorily blind
within the meaning of § 416.981. For us to find that you are statutorily blind, it is not necessary—
(a) That your blindness meet the duration requirement; or
(b) That you be unable to do any substantial gainful activity.
§ 416.984
If you are statutorily blind and still working.
There is no requirement that you be unable to work in order for us to find that you are blind. However, if you are working, your earnings will be considered under the income and resources rules in subparts K and L of this part. This means that if your income or resources exceed the limitations, you will not be eligible for benefits, even though you are blind.
§ 416.985
How we evaluate other visual impairments.
If you are not blind as defined in the law, we will evaluate a visual impairment the same as we evaluate other impairments in determining disability. Although you will not qualify for benefits on the basis of blindness, you may still be eligible for benefits if we find that you are disabled as defined in §§ 416.905 through 416.907.
§ 416.986
Why and when we will find that you are no longer entitled to benefits based on statutory blindness.
(a)
If your vision does not meet the definition of blindness.
If you become entitled to payments as a statutorily blind person and your statutory blindness
ends, your eligibility for payments generally will end 2 months after your blindness ends. We will find that your statutory blindness has ended beginning with the earliest of the following months—
(1) The month your vision, based on current medical evidence, does not meet the definition of blindness and you were disabled only for a specified period of time in the past;
(2) The month your vision based on current medical evidence, does not meet the definition of blindness, but not earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that the information we have shows that you are not now blind; or
(3) The first month in which you fail to follow prescribed treatment that can restore your ability to work (see § 416.930).
(b)
If you were found blind as defined in a State plan.
If you become eligible for payments because you were blind as defined in a State plan, we will find that your blindness has ended beginning with the first month in which your vision, as shown by medical or other evidence, does not meet the criteria of the appropriate State plan or the first month in which your vision does not meet the definition of statutory blindness (§ 416.981), whichever is later, and in neither event earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that we have determined that you are not now blind under a State plan or not now statutorily blind, as appropriate.
(c)
If you do not cooperate with us.
If you are asked to give us medical or other evidence or to go for a physical or mental examination by a certain date, we will find that your blindness ended if you fail, without good cause, to do what we ask. Section 416.1411 explains the factors we consider and how we will determine generally whether you have good cause for failure to cooperate. In addition, § 416.918 discusses how we determine whether you have good cause for failing to attend a consultative examination. The month in which your blindness ends will be the month in which you fail to do what we asked.
(d)
Before we stop your payments.
Before we stop payment of your benefits we will give you a chance to give us your reasons why we should not stop payment. Subpart M of this part describes your rights and the procedures we will follow.
[45 FR 55621, Aug. 20, 1980, as amended at 50 FR 50137, Dec. 6, 1985; 51 FR 7603, Feb. 28, 1986; 59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994]

# Disability Redeterminations for Individuals Who Attain Age 18
§ 416.987
Disability redeterminations for individuals who attain age 18.
(a)
Who is affected by this section?
(1) We must redetermine your eligibility if you are eligible for SSI disability benefits and:
(i) You are at least 18 years old; and
(ii) You became eligible for SSI disability benefits as a child (
i.e.,
before you attained age 18); and
(iii) You were eligible for such benefits for the month before the month in which you attained age 18.
(2) We may find that you are not now disabled even though we previously found that you were disabled.
(b)
What are the rules for age-18 redeterminations?
When we redetermine your eligibility, we will use the rules for adults (individuals age 18 or older) who file new applications explained in § 416.920(c) through (h). We will not use the rule in § 416.920(b) for people who are doing substantial gainful activity, and we will not use the rules in § 416.994 for determining whether disability continues. If you are working and we find that you are disabled under § 416.920(d) or (g), we will apply the rules in §§ 416.260ff.
(c)
When will my eligibility be redetermined?
We will redetermine your eligibility either during the 1-year period beginning on your 18th birthday or, in lieu of a continuing disability review, whenever we determine that your case is subject to redetermination under the Act.
(d)
Will I be notified?
—(1)
We will notify you in writing before we begin your disability redetermination.
We will tell you:
(i) That we are redetermining your eligibility for payments;
(ii) Why we are redetermining your eligibility;
(iii) Which disability rules we will apply;
(iv) That our review could result in a finding that your SSI payments based on disability could be terminated;
(v) That you have the right to submit medical and other evidence for our consideration during the redetermination; and
(vi) That we will notify you of our determination, your right to appeal the determination, and your right to request continuation of benefits during appeal.
(2)
We will notify you in writing of the results of the disability redetermination.
The notice will tell you what our determination is, the reasons for our determination, and your right to request reconsideration of the determination. If our determination shows that we should stop your SSI payments based on disability, the notice will also tell you of your right to request that your benefits continue during any appeal. Our initial disability redetermination will be binding unless you request a reconsideration within the stated time period or we revise the initial determination.
(e)
When will we find that your disability ended?
If we find that you are not disabled, we will find that your disability ended in the earliest of:
(1) The month the evidence shows that you are not disabled under the rules in this section, but not earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that you are not disabled.
(2) The first month in which you failed without good cause to follow prescribed treatment under the rules in § 416.930.
(3) The first month in which you failed without good cause to do what we asked. Section 416.1411 explains the factors we will consider and how we will determine generally whether you have good cause for failure to cooperate. In addition, § 416.918 discusses how we determine whether you have good cause for failing to attend a consultative examination.
[65 FR 54789, Sept. 11, 2000, as amended at 70 FR 36508, June 24, 2005; 77 FR 43495, July 25, 2012]

# Continuing or Stopping Disability or Blindness
§ 416.988
Your responsibility to tell us of events that may change your disability or blindness status.
(a) If you are entitled to payments because you are disabled or blind, you should promptly tell us if—
(1) Your condition improves;
(2) You return to work;
(3) You have a new employer;
(4) You increase the amount of your work; or
(5) Your earnings increase.
(b) If we have your authorization to obtain wage and employment information (see § 416.709(a)) from a payroll data provider (see § 416.702), and we receive your wage and employment information from your employer(s) through a participating payroll data provider, your reporting requirements under paragraphs (a)(4) and (5) will be reduced as described in § 416.709(c).
[89 FR 107260, Dec. 31, 2024]
§ 416.989
We may conduct a review to find out whether you continue to be disabled.
After we find that you are disabled, we must evaluate your impairment(s) from time to time to determine if you are still eligible for payments based on disability. We call this evaluation a continuing disability review. We may begin a continuing disability review for any number of reasons including your failure to follow the provisions of the Social Security Act or these regulations. When we begin such a review, we will notify you that we are reviewing your eligibility for payments, why we are reviewing your eligibility, that in medical reviews the medical improvement review standard will apply, that our review could result in the termination of your payments, and that you have the right to submit medical and other evidence for our consideration during the continuing disability review. In doing a medical review, we will develop a complete medical history of at least the preceding 12 months in any case in which a determination is made that you are no longer under a disability. If this review shows that we should stop your payments, we will notify you in writing
and give you an opportunity to appeal. In § 416.990 we describe those events that may prompt us to review whether you continue to be disabled.
[51 FR 16826, May 7, 1986]
§ 416.989a
We may conduct a review to find out whether you continue to be blind.
After we find that you are blind, we must evaluate your impairment(s) from time to time to determine if you are still eligible for payments based on blindness. We call this evaluation a continuing disability review. We may begin a continuing disability review for any number of reasons including your failure to follow the provisions of the Social Security Act or these regulations. When we begin such a review, we will notify you that we are reviewing your eligibility for payments, why we are reviewing your eligibility, that our review could result in the termination of your payments, and that you have the right to submit medical and other evidence for our consideration during the continuing disability review. In doing a medical review, we will develop a complete medical history of at least the preceding 12 months in any case in which a determination is made that you are no longer blind. If this review shows that we should stop your payments, we will notify you in writing and give you an opportunity to appeal. In § 416.990 we describe those events that may prompt us to review whether you continue to be blind.
[51 FR 16826, May 7, 1986]
§ 416.990
When and how often we will conduct a continuing disability review.
(a)
General.
We conduct continuing disability reviews to determine whether or not you continue to meet the disability or blindness requirements of the law. Payment ends if the medical or other evidence shows that you are not disabled or blind as determined under the standards set out in section 1614(a) of the Social Security Act if you receive benefits based on disability or § 416.986 of this subpart if you receive benefits based on blindness. In paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, we explain when and how often we conduct continuing disability reviews for most individuals. In paragraph (h) of this section, we explain special rules for some individuals who are participating in the Ticket to Work program. In paragraph (i) of this section, we explain special rules for some individuals who work and have received social security benefits as well as supplemental security income payments.
(b)
When we will conduct a continuing disability review.
Except as provided in paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, we will start a continuing disability review if—
(1) You have been scheduled for a medical improvement expected diary review;
(2) You have been scheduled for a periodic review (medical improvement possible or medical improvement not expected) in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section;
(3) We need a current medical or other report to see if your disability continues. (This could happen when, for example, an advance in medical technology, such as improved treatment for Alzheimer's disease, or a change in vocational therapy or technology raises a disability issue);
(4) You return to work;
(5) Substantial earnings are reported to your wage record;
(6) You tell us that—
(i) You have recovered from your disability; or
(ii) You have returned to work;
(7) Your State Vocational Rehabilitation Agency tells us that—
(i) The services have been completed; or
(ii) You are now working; or
(iii) You are able to work;
(8) Someone in a position to know of your physical or mental condition tells us any of the following, and it appears that the report could be substantially correct:
(i) You are not disabled or blind; or
(ii) You are not following prescribed treatment; or
(iii) You have returned to work; or
(iv) You are failing to follow the provisions of the Social Security Act or these regulations;
(9) Evidence we receive raises a question whether your disability or blindness continues;
(10) You have been scheduled for a vocational reexamination diary review; or
(11) By your first birthday, if you are a child whose low birth weight was a contributing factor material to our determination that you were disabled;
i.e.,
whether we would have found you disabled if we had not considered your low birth weight. However, we will conduct your continuing disability review later if at the time of our initial determination that you were disabled:
(i) We determine that you have an impairment that is not expected to improve by your first birthday; and
(ii) We schedule you for a continuing disability review after your first birthday.
(c)
Definitions.
As used in this section—
Medical improvement expected diary
—refers to a case which is scheduled for review at a later date because the individual's impairment(s) is expected to improve. Generally, the diary period is set for not less than 6 months or for not more than 18 months. Examples of cases likely to be scheduled for medical improvement expected diary are fractures and cases in which corrective surgery is planned and recovery can be anticipated.
Permanent impairment—medical improvement not expected—
refers to a case in which any medical improvement in a person's impairment(s) is not expected. This means an extremely severe condition determined on the basis of our experience in administering the disability programs to be at least static, but more likely to be progressively disabling either by itself or by reason of impairment complications, and unlikely to improve so as to permit the individual to engage in substantial gainful activity or, if you are a child, unlikely to improve to the point that you will no longer have marked and severe functional limitations. The interaction of the individual's age, impairment consequences and the lack of recent attachment to the labor market may also be considered in determining whether an impairment is permanent. Improvement which is considered temporary under § 416.994(b)(2)(iv)(D) or § 416.994(c)(2)(iv), as appropriate, will not be considered in deciding if an impairment is permanent. Examples of permanent impairments taken from the list contained in our other written guidelines which are available for public review are as follows and are not intended to be all inclusive:
(1) Parkinsonian Syndrome which has reached the level of severity necessary to meet the Listing in appendix 1 of subpart P or part 404 of this chapter.
(2) Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis which has reached the level of severity necessary to meet the Listing in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
(3) Diffuse pulmonary fibrosis in an individual age 55 or over which has reached the level of severity necessary to meet the Listing in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter.
(4) Amputation of leg at hip.
Nonpermanent impairment
—refers to a case in which any medical improvement in the person's impairment(s) is possible. This means an impairment for which improvement cannot be predicted based on current experience and the facts of the particular case but which is not at the level of severity of an impairment that is considered permanent. Examples of nonpermanent impairments are: Regional enteritis, hyperthyroidism, and chronic ulcerative colitis.
Vocational reexamination diary
—refers to a case which is scheduled for review at a later date because the individual is undergoing vocational therapy, training or an educational program which may improve his or her ability to work so that the disability or blindness requirement of the law is no longer met. Generally, the diary period will be set for the length of the training, therapy, or program of education.
(d)
Frequency of review.
If your impairment is expected to improve, generally we will review your continuing eligibility for payments based on disability or blindness at intervals from 6 months to 18 months following our most recent decision. Our notice to you about the review of your case will tell you more precisely when the review will be conducted. If your disability is not considered permanent but is such that any medical improvement in your impairment(s) cannot be accurately
predicted, we will review your continuing eligibility for payments at least once every 3 years. If your disability is considered permanent, we will review your continuing eligibility for payments no less frequently than once every 7 years but no more frequently than once every 5 years. Regardless of your classification we will conduct an immediate continuing disability review if a question of continuing disability is raised pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Change in classification of impairment.
If the evidence developed during a continuing disability review demonstrates that your impairment has improved, is expected to improve, or has worsened since the last review, we may reclassify your impairment to reflect this change in severity. A change in the classification of your impairment will change the frequency with which we will review your case. We may also reclassify certain impairments because of improved tests, treatment, and other technical advances concerning those impairments.
(f)
Review after administrative appeal.
If you were found eligible to receive or to continue to receive, payments on the basis of a decision by an administrative law judge, the Appeals Council or a Federal court, we will not conduct a continuing disability review earlier than 3 years after that decision unless your case should be scheduled for a medical improvement expected or vocational reexamination diary review or a question of continuing disability is raised pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(g)
Waiver of timeframes.
All cases involving a nonpermanent impairment will be reviewed by us at least once every 3 years unless we, after consultation with the State agency, determine that the requirement should be waived to ensure that only the appropriate number of cases are reviewed. The appropriate number of cases to be reviewed is to be based on such considerations as the backlog of pending reviews, the projected number of new applications, and projected staffing levels. Such waiver shall be given only after good faith effort on the part of the State to meet staffing requirements and to process the reviews on a timely basis. Availability of independent medical resources may also be a factor. A
waiver
in this context refers to our administrative discretion to determine the appropriate number of cases to be reviewed on a State by State basis. Therefore, your continuing disability review may be delayed longer than 3 years following our original decision or other review under certain circumstances. Such a delay would be based on our need to ensure that backlogs, reviews required to be performed by the Social Security Disability Benefits Reform Act (Pub. L. 98-460), and new disability claims workloads are accomplished within available medical and other resources in the State agency and that such reviews are done carefully and accurately.
(h)
If you are participating in the Ticket to Work program.
If you are participating in the Ticket to Work program, we will not start a continuing disability review during the period in which you are using a ticket. See subpart C of part 411 of this chapter.
(i)
If you are working and have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months
—(1)
General.
Notwithstanding the provisions in paragraphs (b)(4), (b)(5), (b)(6)(ii), (b)(7)(ii), and (b)(8)(iii) of this section, we will not start a continuing disability review based solely on your work activity if—
(i) You are currently entitled to disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability under title II of the Social Security Act (see subpart D of part 404 of this chapter); and
(ii) You have received such benefits for at least 24 months (see paragraph (i)(2) of this section).
(2)
The 24-month requirement.
(i) The months for which you have actually received disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability that you were due under title II of the Social Security Act, or for which you have constructively received such benefits, will count for the 24-month requirement under paragraph (i)(1)(ii) of this section, regardless of whether the months were consecutive.
We will consider you to have constructively received a benefit for a month for purposes of the 24-month requirement if you were otherwise due a social security disability benefit for that month and your monthly benefit was withheld to recover an overpayment. Any month for which you were entitled to social security disability benefits but for which you did not actually or constructively receive a benefit payment will not be counted for the 24-month requirement. Months for which your social security disability benefits are continued under § 404.1597a pending reconsideration and/or a hearing before an administrative law judge on a medical cessation determination will not be counted for the 24-month requirement. Months for which you received only supplemental security income payments will not be counted for the 24-month requirement.
(ii) In determining whether paragraph (i)(1) of this section applies, we consider whether you have received disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability under title II of the Social Security Act for at least 24 months as of the date on which we start a continuing disability review. For purposes of this provision, the date on which we start a continuing disability review is the date on the notice we send you that tells you that we are beginning to review your disability case.
(3)
When we may start a continuing disability review even if you have received social security disability benefits for at least 24 months.
Even if you meet the requirements of paragraph (i)(1) of this section, we may still start a continuing disability review for a reason(s) other than your work activity. We may start a continuing disability review if we have scheduled you for a periodic review of your continuing disability, we need a current medical or other report to see if your disability continues, we receive evidence which raises a question as to whether your disability or blindness continues, or you fail to follow the provisions of the Social Security Act or these regulations. For example, we will start a continuing disability review when you have been scheduled for a medical improvement expected diary review, and we may start a continuing disability review if you failed to report your work to us.
(4)
Erroneous start of the continuing disability review.
If we start a continuing disability review based solely on your work activity that results in a medical cessation determination, we will vacate the medical cessation determination if—
(i) You provide us evidence that establishes that you met the requirements of paragraph (i)(1) of this section as of the date of the start of your continuing disability review and that the start of the review was erroneous; and
(ii) We receive the evidence within 12 months of the date of the notice of the initial determination of medical cessation.
[51 FR 16826, May 7, 1986, as amended at 62 FR 6430, Feb. 11, 1997; 65 FR 54790, Sept. 11, 2000; 71 FR 66858, Nov. 17, 2006]
§ 416.991
If your medical recovery was expected and you returned to work.
If your impairment was expected to improve and you returned to full-time work with no significant medical limitations and acknowledge that medical improvement has occurred, we may find that your disability ended in the month you returned to work. Unless there is evidence showing that your disability has not ended, we will use the medical and other evidence already in your file and the fact that you returned to full-time work without significant limitations to determine that you are no longer disabled.

# Example:
Evidence obtained during the processing of your claim showed that you had an impairment that was expected to improve about 18 months after your disability began. We, therefore, told you that your claim would be reviewed again at that time. However, before the time arrived for your scheduled medical re-examination, you told us that you had returned to work and your impairment had improved. We reviewed your claim immediately and found that, in the 16th month after your disability began, you returned to full-time work without any significant medical restrictions. Therefore, we would find that your disability ended in the first month you returned to full-time work.
[50 FR 50137, Dec. 6, 1985, as amended at 65 FR 42791, July 11, 2000]
§ 416.992
What happens if you fail to comply with our request for information.
We will suspend your payments before we make a determination regarding your continued eligibility for disability payments if you fail to comply, without good cause (see § 416.1411), with our request for information for your continuing disability review or age-18 redetermination. The suspension is effective with the month in which it is determined in accordance with § 416.1322 that your eligibility for disability payments has ended due to your failure to comply with our request for necessary information. When we have received the information, we will reinstate your payments for any previous month for which they are otherwise payable, and continue with the CDR or age-18 redetermination process. We will terminate your eligibility for payments following 12 consecutive months of payment suspension as discussed in § 416.1335.
[71 FR 60823, Oct. 17, 2006]
§ 416.992a
[Reserved]
§ 416.993
Medical evidence in continuing disability review cases.
(a)
General.
If you are entitled to benefits because you are disabled, we will have your case file with the supporting medical evidence previously used to establish or continue your entitlement. Generally, therefore, the medical evidence we will need for a continuing disability review will be that required to make a current determination or decision as to whether you are still disabled, as defined under the medical improvement review standard. See §§ 416.987 and 416.994.
(b)
Obtaining evidence from your medical sources.
You must provide us with reports from your physician, psychologist, or others who have treated or evaluated you, as well as any other evidence that will help us determine if you are still disabled. See § 416.912. You must have a good reason for not giving us this information or we may find that your disability has ended. See § 416.994(e)(2). If we ask you, you must contact your medical sources to help us get the medical reports. We will make every reasonable effort to help you in getting medical reports when you give us permission to request them from your physician, psychologist, or other medical sources. See § 416.912(b)(1)(i) concerning what we mean by every reasonable effort. In some instances, such as when a source is known to be unable to provide certain tests or procedures or is known to be nonproductive or uncooperative, we may order a consultative examination while awaiting receipt of medical source evidence. See § 416.912(b)(1)(ii). See § 416.912(c).
(c)
When we will purchase a consultative examination.
A consultative examination may be purchased when we need additional evidence to determine whether or not your disability continues. As a result, we may ask you, upon our request and reasonable notice, to undergo consultative examinations and tests to help us determine if you are still disabled. See § 416.917. We will decide whether or not to purchase a consultative examination in accordance with the standards in §§ 416.919a through 416.919b.
[56 FR 36970, Aug. 1, 1991, as amended at 65 FR 16815, Mar. 30, 2000; 82 FR 5882, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.994
How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends, disabled adults.
(a)
General.
There is a statutory requirement that, if you are entitled to disability benefits, your continued entitlement to such benefits must be reviewed periodically. Our rules for deciding whether your disability continues are set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Additional rules apply if you were found disabled under a State plan, as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b)
Disabled persons age 18 or over (adults).
If you are entitled to disability benefits as a disabled person age 18 or over (adult) there are a number of factors we consider in deciding whether your disability continues. We must determine if there has been any medical improvement in your impairment(s) and, if so, whether this medical improvement is related to your ability to work. If your impairment(s) has not
so medically improved, we must consider whether one or more of the exceptions to medical improvement applies. If medical improvement related to your ability to work has not occurred and no exception applies, your benefits will continue. Even where medical improvement related to your ability to work has occurred or an exception applies, in most cases, (see paragraph (b)(4) of this section for exceptions) we must also show that you are currently able to engage in substantial gainful activity before we can find that you are no longer disabled.
(1)
Terms and definitions.
There are several terms and definitions which are important to know in order to understand how we review whether your disability continues. In addition, see paragraph (b)(8) of this section if you work during your current period of eligibility based on disability or during certain other periods.
(i)
Medical improvement.
Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of your impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled. A determination that there has been a decrease in medical severity must be based on changes (improvement) in the symptoms, signs, or laboratory findings associated with your impairment(s).

# Example 1:
You were awarded disability benefits due to a herniated nucleus pulposus. At the time of our prior decision granting you benefits you had had a laminectomy. Postoperatively, a myelogram still shows evidence of a persistent deficit in your lumbar spine. You had pain in your back, and pain and a burning sensation in your right foot and leg. There were no muscle weakness or neurological changes and a modest decrease in motion in your back and leg. When we reviewed your claim your medical source who has treated you reported that he or she had seen you regularly every 2 to 3 months for the past 2 years. No further myelograms had been done, complaints of pain in the back and right leg continued especially on sitting or standing for more than a short period of time. Your doctor further reported a moderately decreased range of motion in your back and right leg, but again no muscle atrophy or neurological changes were reported. Medical improvement has
not
occurred because there has been no decrease in the severity of your back impairment as shown by changes in symptoms, signs or laboratory findings.

# Example 2:
You were awarded disability benefits due to rheumatoid arthritis. At the time, laboratory findings were positive for this condition. Your doctor reported persistent swelling and tenderness of your fingers and wrists and that you complained of joint pain. Current medical evidence shows that while laboratory tests are still positive for rheumatoid arthritis, your impairment has responded favorably to therapy so that for the last year your fingers and wrists have not been significantly swollen or painful. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of your impairment as documented by the current symptoms and signs reported by your physician. Although your impairment is subject to temporary remissions and exacerbations, the improvement that has occurred has been sustained long enough to permit a finding of medical improvement. We would then determine if this medical improvement is related to your ability to work.
(ii)
Medical improvement not related to ability to do work.
Medical improvement is not related to your ability to work if there has been a decrease in the severity of the impairment(s) as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision, but
no
increase in your functional capacity to do basic work activities as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section. If there has been any medical improvement in your impairment(s), but it is not related to your ability to do work and none of the exceptions applies, your benefits will be continued.

# Example:
You are 65 inches tall and weighed 246 pounds at the time your disability was established. You had venous insufficiency and persistent edema in your legs. At the time, your ability to do basic work activities was affected because you were able to sit for 6 hours, but were able to stand or walk only occasionally. At the time of our continuing disability review, you had undergone a vein stripping operation. You now weigh 220 pounds and have intermittent edema. You are still able to sit for 6 hours at a time and to stand or work only occasionally although you report less discomfort on walking. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of the existing impairment as shown by your weight loss and the improvement in your edema. This medical improvement is not related to your ability to work, however, because your functional capacity to do basic work activities (
i.e.
, the ability to sit, stand and walk) has not increased.
(iii)
Medical improvement that is related to ability to do work.
Medical improvement is related to your ability to work if there has been a decrease in the severity, as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, of the impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision
and
an increase in your functional capacity to do basic work activities as discussed in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section. A determination that medical improvement related to your ability to do work has occurred does not, necessarily, mean that your disability will be found to have ended unless it is also shown that you are currently able to engage in substantial gainful activity as discussed in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.

# Example 1:
You have a back impairment and had a laminectomy to relieve the nerve root impingement and weakness in your left leg. At the time of our prior decision, basic work activities were affected because you were able to stand less than 6 hours, and sit no more than
1/2
hour at a time. You had a successful fusion operation on your back about 1 year before our review of your entitlement. At the time of our review, the weakness in your leg has decreased. Your functional capacity to perform basic work activities now is unimpaired because you now have no limitation on your ability to sit, walk, or stand. Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of your impairment as demonstrated by the decreased weakness in your leg. This medical improvement is related to your ability to work because there has also been an increase in your functional capacity to perform basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) as shown by the absence of limitation on your ability to sit, walk, or stand. Whether or not your disability is found to have ended, however, will depend on our determination as to whether you can currently engage in substantial gainful activity.

# Example 2:
You were injured in an automobile accident receiving a compound fracture to your right femur and a fractured pelvis. When you applied for disability benefits 10 months after the accident your doctor reported that neither fracture had yet achieved solid union based on his clinical examination. X-rays supported this finding. Your doctor estimated that solid union and a subsequent return to full weight bearing would not occur for at least 3 more months. At the time of our review 6 months later, solid union had occurred and you had been returned to weight-bearing for over a month. Your doctor reported this and the fact that your prior fractures no longer placed any limitation on your ability to walk, stand, lift, etc., and, that in fact, you could return to fulltime work if you so desired.
Medical improvement has occurred because there has been a decrease in the severity of your impairments as shown by X-ray and clinical evidence of solid union and your return to full weight-bearing. This medical improvement is related to your ability to work because you no longer meet the same listed impairment in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter (see paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section). In fact, you no longer have an impairment which is severe (see § 416.921) and your disability will be found to have ended.
(iv)
Functional capacity to do basic work activities.
Under the law, disability is defined, in part, as the inability to do any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment(s). In determining whether you are disabled under the law, we must measure, therefore, how and to what extent your impairment(s) has affected your ability to do work. We do this by looking at how your functional capacity for doing basic work activities has been affected. Basic work activities means the abilities and aptitudes necessary to do most jobs. Included are exertional abilities such as walking, standing, pushing, pulling, reaching and carrying, and nonexertional abilities and aptitudes such as seeing, hearing, speaking, remembering, using judgment, dealing with changes and dealing with both supervisors and fellow workers. A person who has no impairment(s) would be able to do all basic work activities at normal levels; he or she would have an unlimited functional capacity to do basic work activities. Depending on its nature and severity, an impairment will result in some limitation to the functional capacity to do one or more of these basic work activities. Diabetes, for example, can result in circulatory problems which could limit the length of time a person could stand or walk and damage to his or her eyes as well, so that the person also had limited vision. What a person can still do despite an impairment, is called his or her residual functional capacity. How the residual functional capacity is assessed is discussed in more detail in § 416.945. Unless an impairment is so severe that it is
deemed to prevent you from doing substantial gainful activity (see §§ 416.925 and 416.926) it is this residual functional capacity that is used to determine whether you can still do your past work or, in conjunction with your age, education and work experience, any other work.
(A) A decrease in the severity of an impairment as measured by changes (improvement) in symptoms, signs or laboratory findings can, if great enough, result in an increase in the functional capacity to do work activities. Vascular surgery (e.g., femoropopliteal bypass) may sometimes reduce the severity of the circulatory complications of diabetes so that better circulation results and the person can stand or walk for longer periods. When new evidence showing a change in symptoms, signs and laboratory findings establishes that both medical improvement has occurred and your functional capacity to perform basic work activities, or residual functional capacity, has increased, we say that medical improvement which is related to your ability to do work has occurred. A residual functional capacity assessment is also used to determine whether you can engage in substantial gainful activity and, thus, whether you continue to be disabled (see paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section).
(B) Many impairment-related factors must be considered in assessing your functional capacity for basic work activities. Age is one key factor. Medical literature shows that there is a gradual decrease in organ function with age; that major losses and deficits become irreversible over time and that maximum exercise performance diminishes with age. Other changes related to sustained periods of inactivity and the aging process include muscle atrophy, degenerative joint changes, decrease in range of motion, and changes in the cardiac and respiratory systems which limit the exertional range.
(C) Studies have also shown that the longer an individual is away from the workplace and is inactive, the more difficult it becomes to return to ongoing gainful employment. In addition, a gradual change occurs in most jobs so that after about 15 years, it is no longer realistic to expect that skills and abilities acquired in these jobs will continue to apply to the current workplace. Thus, if you are age 50 or over and have been receiving disability benefits for a considerable period of time, we will consider this factor along with your age in assessing your residual functional capacity. This will ensure that the disadvantages resulting from inactivity and the aging process during a long period of disability will be considered. In some instances where available evidence does not resolve what you can or cannot do on a sustained basis, we will provide special work evaluations or other appropriate testing.
(v)
Ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
In most instances, we must show that you are able to engage in substantial gainful activity before your benefits are stopped. When doing this, we will consider all your current impairments not just that impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable determination. If we cannot determine that you are still disabled based on medical consideration alone (as discussed in §§ 416.925 and 416.926), we will use the new symptoms, signs and laboratory findings to make an objective assessment of your functional capacity to do basic work activities or residual functional capacity and we will consider your vocational factors. See §§ 416.945 through 416.969.
(vi)
Evidence and basis for our decision.
Our decisions under this section will be made on a neutral basis without any initial inference as to the presence or absence of disability being drawn from the fact that you have previously been determined to be disabled. We will consider all evidence you submit and that we obtain from your medical sources and nonmedical sources. What constitutes “evidence” and our procedures for obtaining it are set out in §§ 416.912 through 416.918. Our determination regarding whether your disability continues will be made on the basis of the weight of the evidence.
(vii)
Point of comparison.
For purpose of determining whether medical improvement has occurred, we will compare the current medical severity of that impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were
disabled or continued to be disabled to the medical severity of that impairment(s) at that time. If medical improvement has occurred, we will compare your current functional capacity to do basic work activities (
i.e.
, your residual functional capacity) based on the previously existing impairments with your prior residual functional capacity in order to determine whether the medical improvement is related to your ability to do work. The most recent favorable medical decision is the latest decision involving a consideration of the medical evidence and the issue of whether you were disabled or continued to be disabled which became final.
(2)
Determining medical improvement and its relationship to your abilities to do work.
Paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section discuss what we mean by medical improvement, medical improvement not related to your ability to work, and medical improvement that is related to your ability to work. (In addition, see paragraph (b)(8) of this section if you work during your current period of eligibility based on disability or during certain other periods.) How we will arrive at the decision that medical improvement has occurred and its relationship to the ability to do work, is discussed below.
(i)
Medical improvement.
Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of impairment(s) present at the time of the most recent favorable medical decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled and is determined by a comparison of prior and current medical evidence which must show that there have been changes (improvement) in the symptoms, signs or laboratory findings associated with that impairment(s).
(ii)
Determining if medical improvement is related to ability to work.
If there is a decrease in medical severity as shown by the symptoms, signs and laboratory findings, we then must determine if it is related to your ability to do work. In paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, we explain the relationship between medical severity and limitation on functional capacity to do basic work activities (or residual functional capacity) and how changes in medical severity can affect your residual functional capacity. In determining whether medical improvement that has occurred is related to your ability to do work, we will assess your residual functional capacity (in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section) based on the current severity of the impairment(s) which was present at your last favorable medical decision.
(iii) Your new residual functional capacity will then be compared to your residual functional capacity at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision. Unless an increase in the current residual functional capacity is based on actual changes in the signs, symptoms, or laboratory findings any medical improvement that has occurred will not be considered to be related to your ability to do work.
(iv) Following are some additional factors and considerations which we will apply in making these determinations.
(A)
Previous impairment met or equaled listings.
If our most recent favorable decision was based on the fact that your impairment(s) at the time met or equaled the severity contemplated by the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, an assessment of your residual functional capacity would not have been made. If medical improvement has occurred and the severity of the prior impairment(s) no longer meets or equals the same listing section used to make our most recent favorable decision, we will find that the medical improvement was related to your ability to work. Appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter describes impairments which, if severe enough, affect a person's ability to work. If the appendix level severity is met or equaled the individual is deemed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, to be unable to engage in gainful activity. If there has been medical improvement to the degree that the requirement of the listing section is no longer met or equaled, then the medical improvement is related to your ability to work. We must, of course, also establish that you can currently engage in substantial gainful activity before finding that your disability has ended.
(B)
Prior residual functional capacity assessment made.
The residual functional capacity assessment used in making the most recent favorable medical decision will be compared to the residual functional capacity assessment based on current evidence in order to determine if your functional capacity for basic work activities has increased. There will be no attempt made to reassess the prior residual functional capacity.
(C)
Prior residual functional capacity assessment should have been made, but was not.
If the most recent favorable medical decision should have contained an assessment of your residual functional capacity (
i.e.
, your impairments did not meet or equal the level of severity contemplated by the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter) but does not, either because this assessment is missing from your file or because it was not done, we will reconstruct the residual functional capacity. This reconstructed residual functional capacity will accurately and objectively assess your functional capacity to do basic work activities. We will assign the maximum functional capacity consistent with a decision of allowance.

# Example:
You were previously found to be disabled on the basis that “while your impairment did not meet or equal a listing, it did prevent you from doing your past or any other work.” The prior adjudicator did not, however, include a residual functional capacity assessment in the rationale of this decision and a review of the prior evidence does not show that such an assessment was ever made. If a decrease in medical severity,
i.e.
, medical improvement, has occurred, the residual functional capacity based on the current level of severity of your impairment will have to be compared with your residual functional capacity based on its prior severity in order to determine if the medical improvement is related to your ability to do work. In order to make this comparison, we will review the prior evidence and make an objective assessment of your residual functional capacity at the time of our most recent favorable medical determination, based on the symptoms, signs and laboratory findings as they then existed.
(D)
Impairment subject to temporary remission.
In some cases the evidence shows that an individual's impairments are subject to temporary remission. In assessing whether medical improvement has occurred in persons with this type of impairment, we will be careful to consider the longitudinal history of the impairment, including the occurrence of prior remission, and prospects for future worsenings. Improvement in such impairments that is only temporary will not warrant a finding of medical improvement.
(E)
Prior file cannot be located.
If the prior file cannot be located, we will first determine whether you are able to now engage in substantial gainful activity based on all your current impairments. (In this way, we will be able to determine that your disability continues at the earliest point without addressing the often lengthy process of reconstructing prior evidence.) If you cannot engage in substantial gainful activity currently, your benefits will continue unless one of the second group of exceptions applies (see paragraph (b)(4) of this section). If you are able to engage in substantial gainful activity, we will determine whether an attempt should be made to reconstruct those portions of the missing file that were relevant to our most recent favorable medical decision (e.g., work history, medical evidence, and the results of consultative examinations). This determination will consider the potential availability of old records in light of their age, whether the source of the evidence is still in operation , and whether reconstruction efforts will yield a complete record of the basis for the most recent favorable medical decision. If relevant parts of the prior record are not reconstructed either because it is determined not to attempt reconstruction or because such efforts fail, medical improvement cannot be found. The documentation of your current impairments will provide a basis for any future reviews. If the missing file is later found, it may serve as a basis for reopening any decision under this section in accordance with § 416.988.
(3)
First group of exceptions to medical improvement.
The law provides for certain limited situations when your disability can be found to have ended even though medical improvement has not occurred, if you can engage in substantial gainful activity. These exceptions to medical improvement are intended
to provide a way of finding that a person is no longer disabled in those limited situations where, even though there has been no decrease in severity of the impairment(s), evidence shows that the person should no longer be considered disabled or never should have been considered disabled. If one of these exceptions applies, we must also show that, taking all your current impairment(s) into account, not just those that existed at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision, you are now able to engage in substantial gainful activity before your disability can be found to have ended. As part of the review process, you will be asked about any medical or vocational therapy you received or are receiving. Your answers and the evidence gathered as a result as well as all other evidence, will serve as the basis for the finding that an exception applies.
(i)
Substantial evidence shows that you are the beneficiary of advances in medical or vocational therapy or technology (related to your ability to work).
Advances in medical or vocational therapy or technology are improvements in treatment or rehabilitative methods which have increased your ability to do basic work activities. We will apply this exception when substantial evidence shows that you have been the beneficiary of services which reflect these advances and they have favorably affected the severity of your impairment or your ability to do basic work activities. This decision will be based on new medical evidence and a new residual functional capacity assessment. (See § 416.945.) This exception does not apply if you are eligible to receive special Supplemental Security Income cash benefits as explained in § 416.261. In many instances, an advanced medical therapy or technology will result in a decrease in severity as shown by symptoms, signs and laboratory findings which will meet the definition of medical improvement. This exception will, therefore, see very limited application.
(ii)
Substantial evidence shows that you have undergone vocational therapy (related to your ability to work).
Vocational therapy (related to your ability to work) may include, but is not limited to, additional education, training, or work experience that improves your ability to meet the vocational requirements of more jobs. This decision will be based on substantial evidence which includes new medical evidence and a new residual functional capacity assessment. (See § 416.945.) This exception does not apply if you are eligible to receive special Supplemental Security Income cash benefits as explained in § 416.261. If, at the time of our review, you have not completed vocational therapy which could affect the continuance of your disability, we will review your claim upon completion of the therapy.

# Example 1:
You were found to be disabled because the limitations imposed on you by your impairment allowed you to only do work that was at a sedentary level of exertion. Your prior work experience was work that required a medium level of exertion. Your age and education at the time would not have qualified you for work that was below this medium level of exertion. You enrolled in and completed a specialized training course which qualifies you for a job in data processing as a computer programmer in the period since you were awarded benefits. On review of your claim, current evidence shows that there is no medical improvement and that you can still do only sedentary work. As the work of a computer programmer is sedentary in nature, you are now able to engage in substantial gainful activity when your new skills are considered.

# Example 2:
You were previously entitled to benefits because the medical evidence and assessment of your residual functional capacity showed you could only do light work. Your prior work was considered to be heavy in nature and your age, education and the nature of your prior work qualified you for work which was no less than medium in exertion. The current evidence and residual functional capacity show there has been no medical improvement and that you can still do only light work. Since you were originally entitled to benefits, your vocational rehabilitation agency enrolled you in and you successfully completed a trade school course so that you are now qualified to do small appliance repair. This work is light in nature, so when your new skills are considered, you are now able to engage in substantial gainful activity even though there has been no change in your residual functional capacity.
(iii)
Substantial evidence shows that based on new or improved diagnostic or evaluative techniques your impairment(s) is not as disabling as it was considered to be at the time of the most recent favorable decision.
Changing methodologies and
advances in medical and other diagnostic or evaluative techniques have given, and will continue to give, rise to improved methods for measuring and documenting the effect of various impairments on the ability to do work. Where, by such new or improved methods, substantial evidence shows that your impairment(s) is not as severe as was determined at the time of our most recent favorable medical decision, such evidence may serve as a basis for finding that you are no longer disabled, if you can currently engage in substantial gainful activity. In order to be used under this exception, however, the new or improved techniques must have become generally available after the date of our most recent favorable medical decision.
(A)
How we will determine which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
New or improved diagnostic techniques or evaluations will come to our attention by several methods. In reviewing cases, we often become aware of new techniques when their results are presented as evidence. Such techniques and evaluations are also discussed and acknowledged in medical literature by medical professional groups and other governmental entities. Through these sources, we develop listings of new techniques and when they become generally available. For example, we will consult the Health Care Financing Administration for its experience regarding when a technique is recognized for payment under Medicare and when they began paying for the technique.
(B)
How you will know which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
We will let you know which methods we consider to be new or improved techniques and when they become available through two vehicles.
(
1
) Some of the future changes in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter will be based on new or improved diagnostic or evaluation techniques. Such listings changes will clearly state this fact as they are published as Notices of Proposed Rulemaking and the new or improved techniques will be considered generally available as of the date of the final publication of that particular listing in the
Federal Register.
(
2
) A cumulative list since 1970 of new or approved diagnostic techniques or evaluations, how they changed the evaluation of the applicable impairment and the month and year they became generally available, will be published in the
Notices
section of the
Federal Register.
Included will be any changes in the Listing of Impairments published in the Code of Federal Regulations since 1970 which are reflective of new or improved techniques. No cases will be processed under this exception until this cumulative listing is so published. Subsequent changes to the list will be published periodically. The period will be determined by the volume of changes needed.

# Example:
The electrocardiographic exercise test has replaced the Master's 2-step test as a measurement of heart function since the time of your last favorable medical decision. Current evidence could show that your condition, which was previously evaluated based on the Master's 2-step test, is not now as disabling as was previously thought. If, taking all your current impairments into account, you are now able to engage in substantial gainful activity, this exception would be used to find that you are no longer disabled even if medical improvement has not occurred.
(iv)
Substantial evidence demonstrates that any prior disability decision was in error.
We will apply the exception to medical improvement based on error if substantial evidence (which may be evidence on the record at the time any prior determination of the entitlement to benefits based on disability was made, or newly obtained evidence which relates to that determination) demonstrates that a prior determination was in error. A prior determination will be found in error only if:
(A) Substantial evidence shows on its face that the decision in question should not have been made (e.g., the evidence in your file such as pulmonary function study values was misread or an adjudicative standard such as a listing in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter or a medical/vocational rule in appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter was misapplied).

# Example 1:
You were granted benefits when it was determined that your epilepsy met Listing 11.02. This listing calls for a finding of major motor seizures more frequently than once a month as documented by electroencephalogram evidence and by a detailed description of a typical seizure pattern. A history of either diurnal episodes or nocturnal episodes with residuals interfering with daily activities is also required. On review, it is found that a history of the frequency of your seizures showed that they occurred only once or twice a year. The prior decision would be found to be in error, and whether you were still considered to be disabled would be based on whether you could currently engage in substantial gainful activity.

# Example 2:
Your prior award of benefits was based on vocational rule 201.12 in appendix 2 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter. This rule applies to a person age 50-54 who has at least a high school education, whose previous work was entirely at a semiskilled level, and who can do only sedentary work. On review, it is found that at the time of the prior determination you were actually only age 46 and vocational rule 201.21 should have been used. This rule would have called for a denial of your claim and the prior decision is found to have been in error. Continuation of your disability would depend on a finding of your current ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
(B) At the time of the prior evaluation, required and material evidence of the severity of your impairment(s) was missing. That evidence becomes available upon review, and substantial evidence demonstrates that had such evidence been present at the time of the prior determination, disability would not have been found.

# Example:
You were found disabled on the basis of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The severity of your impairment was documented primarily by pulmonary function testing results. The evidence showed that you could do only light work. Spirometric tracings of this testing, although required, were not obtained, however. On review, the original report is resubmitted by the consultative examining physician along with the corresponding spirometric tracings. A review of the tracings shows that the test was invalid. Current pulmonary function testing supported by spirometric tracings reveals that your impairment does not limit your ability to perform basic work activities in any way. Error is found based on the fact that required, material evidence which was originally missing now becomes available and shows that if it had been available at the time of the prior determination, disability would not have been found.
(C) Substantial evidence which is new evidence which relates to the prior determination (of allowance or continuance) refutes the conclusions that were based upon the prior evidence (e.g., a tumor thought to be malignant was later shown to have actually been benign). Substantial evidence must show that had the new evidence, (which relates to the prior determination) been considered at the time of the prior decision, the claim would not have been allowed or continued. A substitution of current judgment for that used in the prior favorable decision will not be the basis for applying this exception.

# Example:
You were previously found entitled to benefits on the basis of diabetes mellitus which the prior adjudicator believed was equivalent to the level of severity contemplated in the Listing of Impairments. The prior record shows that you had “brittle” diabetes for which you were taking insulin. Your urine was 3 + for sugar, and you alleged occasional hypoglycemic attacks caused by exertion. On review, symptoms, signs and laboratory findings are unchanged. The current adjudicator feels, however, that your impairment clearly does not equal the severity contemplated by the listings. Error
cannot
be found because it would represent a substitution of current judgment for that of the prior adjudicator that your impairment equaled a listing.
(D) The exception for error will not be applied retroactively under the conditions set out above unless the conditions for reopening the prior decision (see §§ 416.1488 through 416.1489) are met.
(4)
Second group of exceptions to medical improvement.
In addition to the first group of exceptions to medical improvement, the following exceptions may result in a determination that you are no longer disabled. In these situations the decision will be made without a determination that you have medically improved or can engage in substantial gainful activity.
(i)
A prior determination or decision was fraudulently obtained.
If we find that any prior favorable determination or decision was obtained by fraud, we may find that you are not disabled. In addition, we may reopen your claim
under the rules in § 416.1488. In determining whether a prior favorable determination or decision was fraudulently obtained, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which you may have had at the time.
(ii)
You do not cooperate with us.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled and we ask you to give us medical or other evidence or to go for a physical or mental examination by a certain date, we will find that your disability has ended if you fail, without good cause, to do what we ask. Section 416.1411 explains the factors we consider and how we will determine generally whether you have good cause for failure to cooperate. In addition, § 416.918 discusses how we determine whether you have good cause for failing to attend a consultative examination. The month in which your disability ends will be the first month in which you failed to do what we asked.
(iii)
We are unable to find you.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled and we are unable to find you to resolve the question, we will suspend your payments. The month your payments are suspended will be the first month in which the question arose and we could not find you.
(iv)
You fail to follow prescribed treatment which would be expected to restore your ability to engage in substantial gainful activity.
If treatment has been prescribed for you which would be expected to restore your ability to work, you must follow that treatment in order to be paid benefits. If you are not following that treatment and you do not have good cause for failing to follow that treatment, we will find that your disability has ended (see § 416.930(c)). The month your disability ends will be the first month in which you failed to follow the prescribed treatment.
(5)
Evaluation steps.
To assure that disability reviews are carried out in a uniform manner, that a decision of continuing disability can be made in the most expeditious and administratively efficient way, and that any decisions to stop disability benefits are made objectively, neutrally, and are fully documented, we will follow specific steps in reviewing the question of whether your disability continues. Our review may cease and benefits may be
continued
at any point if we determine there is sufficient evidence to find that you are still unable to engage in substantial gainful activity. The steps are as follows. (See paragraph (b)(8) of this section if you work during your current period of eligibility based on disability or during certain other periods.)
(i)
Step 1.
Do you have an impairment or combination of impairments which meets or equals the severity of an impairment listed in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter? If you do, your disability will be found to continue.
(ii)
Step 2.
If you do not, has there been medical improvement as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section? If there has been medical improvement as shown by a decrease in medical severity, see step 3 in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section. If there has been no decrease in medical severity, there has been no medical improvement. (See step 4 in paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section.)
(iii)
Step 3.
If there has been medical improvement, we must determine whether it is related to your ability to do work in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iv) of this section;
i.e.
, whether or not there has been an increase in the residual functional capacity based on the impairment(s) that was present at the time of the most recent favorable medical determination. If medical improvement is
not
related to your ability to do work, see step 4 in paragraph (b)(5)(iv) of this section. If medical improvement
is
related to your ability to do work, see step 5 in paragraph (b)(5)(v) of this section.
(iv)
Step 4.
If we found at step 2 in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section that there has been no medical improvement or if we found at step 3 in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section that the medical improvement is not related to your ability to work, we consider whether any of the exceptions in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section apply. If none of them apply, your disability will be found to continue. If one
of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, see step 5 in paragraph (b)(5)(v) of this section. If an exception from the second group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, your disability will be found to have ended. The second group of exceptions to medical improvement may be considered at any point in this process.
(v)
Step 5.
If medical improvement is shown to be related to your ability to do work or if one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, we will determine whether all your current impairments in combination are severe (see § 416.921). This determination will consider all your current impairments and the impact of the combination of these impairments on your ability to function. If the residual functional capacity assessment in step 3 in paragraph (b)(5)(iii) of this section shows significant limitation of your ability to do basic work activities, see step 6 in paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of this section. When the evidence shows that all your current impairments in combination do not significantly limit your physical or mental abilities to do basic work activities, these impairments will not be considered severe in nature. If so, you will no longer be considered to be disabled.
(vi)
Step 6.
If your impairment(s) is severe, we will assess your current ability to do substantial gainful activity in accordance with § 416.960. That is, we will assess your residual functional capacity based on all your current impairments and consider whether you can still do work you have done in the past. If you can do such work, disability will be found to have ended.
(vii)
Step 7.
If you are not able to do work you have done in the past, we will consider whether you can do other work given the residual functional capacity assessment made under paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of this section and your age, education, and past work experience (
see
paragraph (b)(5)(viii) of this section for an exception to this rule). If you can, we will find that your disability has ended. If you cannot, we will find that your disability continues.
(viii)
Step 8.
We may proceed to the final step, described in paragraph (b)(5)(vii) of this section, if the evidence in your file about your past relevant work is not sufficient for us to make a finding under paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of this section about whether you can perform your past relevant work. If we find that you can adjust to other work based solely on your age, education, and residual functional capacity, we will find that you are no longer disabled, and we will not make a finding about whether you can do your past relevant work under paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of this section. If we find that you may be unable to adjust to other work or if § 416.962 may apply, we will assess your claim under paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of this section and make a finding about whether you can perform your past relevant work.
(6)
The month in which we will find you are no longer disabled.
If the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled, we will find that your disability ended in the earliest of the following months.
(i) The month the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled under the rules set out in this section, and you were disabled only for a specified period of time in the past;
(ii) The month the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled under the rules set out in this section, but not earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that the information we have shows that you are not disabled;
(iii) The month in which you return to full-time work, with no significant medical restrictions and acknowledge that medical improvement has occurred, and we expected your impairment(s) to improve (see § 416.991);
(iv) The first month in which you fail without good cause to follow prescribed treatment, when the rule set out in paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section applies;
(v) The first month you were told by your physician that you could return to work, provided there is no substantial conflict between your physician's and your statements regarding your awareness of your capacity for work and the earlier date is supported by substantial evidence; or
(vi) The first month in which you failed without good cause to do what we asked, when the rule set out in
paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section applies.
(7)
Before we stop your benefits.
If we find you are no longer disabled, before we stop your benefits, we will give you a chance to explain why we should not do so. Subparts M and N of this part describe your rights and the procedures we will follow.
(8)
If you work during your current period of eligibility based on disability or during certain other periods.
(i) We will not consider the work you are doing or have done during your current period of eligibility based on disability (or, when determining whether you are eligible for expedited reinstatement of benefits under section 1631(p) of the Act, the work you are doing or have done during or after the previously terminated period of eligibility referred to in section 1631(p)(1)(B) of the Act) to be past relevant work under paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of this section or past work experience under paragraph (b)(5)(vii) of this section. In addition, if you are currently entitled to disability benefits under title II of the Social Security Act, we may or may not consider the physical and mental activities that you perform in the work you are doing or have done during your current period of entitlement based on disability, as explained in paragraphs (b)(8)(ii) and (iii) of this section.
(ii) If you are currently entitled to disability insurance benefits as a disabled worker, child's insurance benefits based on disability, or widow's or widower's insurance benefits based on disability under title II of the Social Security Act, and at the time we are making a determination on your case you have received such benefits for at least 24 months, we will not consider the activities you perform in the work you are doing or have done during your current period of entitlement based on disability if they support a finding that your disability has ended. (We will use the rules in § 416.990(i)(2) to determine whether the 24-month requirement is met.) However, we will consider the activities you do in that work if they support a finding that your disability continues or they do not conflict with a finding that your disability continues. We will not presume that you are still disabled if you stop working.
(iii) If you are not a person described in paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, we will consider the activities you perform in your work at any of the evaluation steps in paragraph (b)(5) of this section at which we need to assess your ability to function. However, we will not consider the work you are doing or have done during your current period of eligibility based on disability (or, when determining whether you are eligible for expedited reinstatement of benefits under section 1631(p) of the Act, the work you are doing or have done during or after the previously terminated period of eligibility referred to in section 1631(p)(1)(B) of the Act) to be past relevant work under paragraph (b)(5)(vi) of this section or past work experience under paragraph (b)(5)(vii) of this section.
(c)
Persons who were found disabled under a State plan.
If you became entitled to benefits because you were found to be disabled under a State plan, we will first evaluate your impairment(s) under the rules explained in paragraph (b) of this section. We will apply the same steps as described in paragraph (b) of this section to the last decision granting or affirming entitlement to benefits under the State plan. If we are not able to find that your disability continues on the basis of these rules, we will then evaluate your impairment(s) under the appropriate State plan. If we are not able to find that your disability continues under these State plan criteria, we will find that your disability ends. Disability will be found to end the month the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled under the criteria in paragraph (b) of this section (or appropriate State plan criteria), subject to the rules set out in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
[50 FR 50137, Dec. 6, 1985; 51 FR 7063, Feb. 28, 1986; 51 FR 16015, Apr. 30, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 44971, Nov. 24, 1987; 56 FR 5562, Feb. 11, 1991; 59 FR 1636, Jan. 12, 1994; 65 FR 42791, July 11, 2000; 68 FR 51167, Aug. 26, 2003; 68 FR 53219, Sept. 9, 2003; 71 FR 66859, Nov. 17, 2006; 77 FR 43496, July 25, 2012; 82 FR 5882, Jan. 18, 2017]
§ 416.994a
How we will determine whether your disability continues or ends, and whether you are and have been receiving treatment that is medically necessary and available, disabled children.
(a)
Evaluation of continuing disability, in general.
There is a statutory requirement that, if you are eligible for disability benefits as a disabled child, your continued eligibility for such benefits must be reviewed periodically. There are a number of factors we consider when we decide whether your disability continues.
(1) We will first consider whether there has been medical improvement in your impairment(s). We define “medical improvement” in paragraph (c) of this section. If there has been no medical improvement, we will find you are still disabled unless one of the exceptions in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section applies. If there has been medical improvement, we will consider whether the impairments(s) you had at the time of our most recent favorable determination or decision now meets or medically or functionally equals the severity of the listing it met or equalled at that time. If so, we will find you are still disabled, unless one of the exceptions in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section applies. If not, we will consider whether your current impairment(s) are disabling under the rules in § 416.924. These steps are described in more detail in paragraph (b) of this section. Even where medical improvement or an exception applies, in most cases, we will find that your disability has ended only if we also find that you are not currently disabled.
(2) Our determinations and decisions under this section will be made on a neutral basis, without any initial inference as to the presence or absence of disability being drawn from the fact that you have been previously found disabled. We will consider all evidence you submit and that we obtain from your medical and nonmedical sources. What constitutes “evidence” and our procedures for obtaining it are set out in §§ 416.912 through 416.918. Our determination regarding whether your disability continues will be made on the basis of the weight of the evidence.
(b)
Sequence of evaluation.
To ensure that disability reviews are carried out in a uniform manner, that decisions of continuing disability can be made in the most expeditious and administratively efficient way, and that any decisions to stop disability benefits are made objectively, neutrally, and are fully documented, we follow specific steps in determining whether your disability continues. However, we may skip steps in the sequence if it is clear this would lead to a more prompt finding that your disability continues. For example, we might not consider the issue of medical improvement if it is obvious on the face of the evidence that a current impairment meets the severity of a listed impairment. If we can make a favorable determination or decision at any point in the sequence, we do not review further. The steps are:
(1)
Has there been medical improvement in your condition(s)?
We will determine whether there has been medical improvement in the impairment(s) you had at the time of our most recent favorable determination or decision. (The term medical improvement is defined in paragraph (c) of this section.) If there has been no medical improvement, we will find that your disability continues, unless one of the exceptions to medical improvement described in paragraph (e) or (f) of this section applies.
(i) If one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, we will proceed to step 3.
(ii) If one of the second group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, we may find that your disability has ended.
(2)
Does your impairment(s) still meet or equal the severity of the listed impairment that it met or equaled before?
If there has been medical improvement, we will consider whether the impairment(s) that we considered at the time of our most recent favorable determination or decision still meets or equals the severity of the listed impairment it met or equaled at that time. In making this decision, we will consider the current severity of the impairment(s) present and documented at the time of our most recent favorable determination or decision, and the same listing section
used to make that determination or decision as it was written at that time, even if it has since been revised or removed from the Listing of Impairments. If that impairment(s) does not still meet or equal the severity of that listed impairment, we will proceed to the next step. If that impairment(s) still meets or equals the severity of that listed impairment as it was written at that time, we will find that you are still disabled, unless one of the exceptions to medical improvement described in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section applies.
(i) If one of the first group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, we will proceed to step 3.
(ii) If one of the second group of exceptions to medical improvement applies, we may find that your disability has ended.
(3)
Are you currently disabled?
If there has been medical improvement in the impairment(s) that we considered at the time of our most recent favorable determination or decision, and if that impairment(s) no longer meets or equals the severity of the listed impairment that it met or equaled at that time, we will consider whether you are disabled under the rules in §§ 416.924(c) and (d). In determining whether you are currently disabled, we will consider all impairments you now have, including any you did not have at the time of our most recent favorable determination or decision, or that we did not consider at that time. The steps in determining current disability are summarized as follows:
(i)
Do you have a severe impairment or combination of impairment?
If there has been medical improvement in your impairment(s), or if one of the first group of exceptions applies, we will determine whether your current impairment(s) is severe, as defined in § 416.924(c). If your impairment(s) is not severe, we will find that your disability has ended. If your impairment(s) is severe, we will then consider whether it meets or medically equals the severity of a listed impairment.
(ii)
Does your impairment(s) meet or medically equal the severity of any impairment listed in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter?
If your current impairment(s) meets or medically equals the severity of any listed impairment, as described in §§ 416.925 and 416.926, we will find that your disability continues. If not, we will consider whether it functionally equals the listings.
(iii)
Does your impairment(s) functionally equal the listings?
If your current impairment(s) functionally equals the listings, as described in § 416.926a, we will find that your disability continues. If not, we will find that your disability has ended.
(c)
What we mean by medical improvement.
Medical improvement is any decrease in the medical severity of your impairment(s) which was present at the time of the most recent favorable decision that you were disabled or continued to be disabled. Although the decrease in severity may be of any quantity or degree, we will disregard minor changes in your signs, symptoms, and laboratory findings that obviously do not represent medical improvement and could not result in a finding that your disability has ended. A determination that there has been a decrease in medical severity must be based on changes (improvement) in the symptoms, signs, or laboratory findings associated with your impairment(s).
(1) The most recent favorable decision is the latest final determination or decision involving a consideration of the medical evidence and whether you were disabled or continued to be disabled.
(2) The terms symptoms, signs, and laboratory findings are defined in § 416.902. For children, our definitions of the terms
symptoms, signs,
and
laboratory findings
may include any abnormalities of physical and mental functioning that we used in making our most recent favorable decision.
(3) Some impairments are subject to temporary remissions, which can give the appearance of medical improvement when in fact there has been none. If you have the kind of impairment that is subject to temporary remissions, we will be careful to consider the longitudinal history of the impairment, including the occurrence of prior remissions and prospects for future worsenings, when we decide whether there has been medical improvement. Improvements that are only temporary
will not warrant a finding of medical improvement.
(d)
Prior file cannot be located.
If we cannot locate your prior file, we will first determine whether you are currently disabled under the sequence set forth in § 416.924. (In this way, we will determine that your benefits continue at the earliest time without reconstructing prior evidence.) If so, your benefits will continue unless one of the second group of exceptions applies (see paragraph (f) of this section). If not, we will determine whether an attempt should be made to reconstruct those portions of the missing file that were relevant to our most recent favorable determination or decision (e.g., school records, medical evidence, and the results of consultative examinations). This determination will consider the potential availability of old records in light of their age, whether the source of the evidence is still in operation, and whether reconstruction efforts will yield a complete record of the basis for the most recent favorable decision. If relevant parts of the prior record are not reconstructed, either because we decide not to attempt reconstruction or because our efforts failed, we will not find that you have medically improved. The documentation of your current impairment(s) will provide a basis for any future reviews. If the missing file is later found, it may serve as a basis for reopening any determination or decision under this section, in accordance with § 416.1488.
(e)
First group of exceptions to medical improvement.
The law provides certain limited situations when your disability can be found to have ended even though medical improvement has not occurred, if your impairment(s) no longer results in marked and severe functional limitations. These exceptions to medical improvement are intended to provide a way of finding that a person is no longer disabled in those situations where, even though there has been no decrease in severity of the impairment(s), evidence shows that the person should no longer be considered disabled or never should have been considered disabled. If one of these exceptions applies, we must also show that your impairment(s) does not now result in marked and severe functional limitations, before we can find you are no longer disabled, taking all your current impairments into account, not just those that existed at the time of our most recent favorable determination or decision. The evidence we gather will serve as the basis for the finding that an exception applies.
(1)
Substantial evidence shows that, based on new or improved diagnostic techniques or evaluations, your impairment(s) is not as disabling as it was considered to be at the time of the most recent favorable decision.
Changing methodologies and advances in medical and other diagnostic techniques or evaluations have given rise to, and will continue to give rise to, improved methods for determining the causes of (
i.e.,
diagnosing) and measuring and documenting the effects of various impairments on children and their functioning. Where, by such new or improved methods, substantial evidence shows that your impairment(s) is not as severe as was determined at the time of our most recent favorable decision, such evidence may serve as a basis for a finding that you are no longer disabled, provided that you do not currently have an impairment(s) that meets, medically equals, or functionally equals the listings, and therefore results in marked and severe functional limitations. In order to be used under this exception, however, the new or improved techniques must have become generally available after the date of our most recent favorable decision.
(i)
How we will determine which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
New or improved diagnostic techniques or evaluations will come to our attention by several methods. In reviewing cases, we often become aware of new techniques when their results are presented as evidence. Such techniques and evaluations are also discussed and acknowledged in medical literature by medical professional groups and other governmental entities. Through these sources, we develop listings of new techniques and when they become generally available. For example, we will consult the Health Care Financing Administration for its experience regarding when a technique is recognized for
payment under Medicare and when they began paying for the technique.
(ii)
How you will know which methods are new or improved techniques and when they become generally available.
We will let you know which methods we consider to be new or improved techniques and when they become available through two vehicles.
(A) Some of the future changes in the Listing of Impairments in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter will be based on new or improved diagnostic or evaluative techniques. Such listings changes will clearly state this fact as they are published as Notices of Proposed Rulemaking and the new or improved technique will be considered generally available as of the date of the final publication of that particular listing in the
Federal Register.
(B) From time to time, we will publish in the
Federal Register
cumulative lists of new or approved diagnostic techniques or evaluations that have been in use since 1970, how they changed the evaluation of the applicable impairment and the month and year they became generally available. We will include any changes in the Listing of Impairments published in the Code of Federal Regulations since 1970 that are reflective of new or improved techniques. We will not process any cases under this exception using a new or improved diagnostic technique that we have not included in a published notice until we have published an updated cumulative list. The period between publications will be determined by the volume of changes needed.
(2)
Substantial evidence demonstrates that any prior disability decision was in error.
We will apply the exception to medical improvement based on error if substantial evidence (which may be evidence on the record at the time any prior determination or decision of the entitlement to benefits based on disability was made, or newly obtained evidence which relates to that determination or decision) demonstrates that a prior determination or decision (of allowance or continuance) was in error. A prior determination or decision will be found in error only if:
(i) Substantial evidence shows on its face that the determination or decision in question should not have been made (e.g., the evidence in your file, such as pulmonary function study values, was misread, or an adjudicative standard, such as a listing in appendix 1 of subpart P of part 404 of this chapter, was misapplied).
(ii) At the time of the prior evaluation, required and material evidence of the severity of your impairment(s) was missing. That evidence becomes available upon review, and substantial evidence demonstrates that, had such evidence been present at the time of the prior determination or decision, disability would not have been found.
(iii) New substantial evidence that relates to the prior determination or decision refutes the conclusions that were based upon the prior evidence at the time of that determination or decision (e.g., a tumor thought to be malignant was later shown to have actually been benign). Substantial evidence must show that, had the new evidence (which relates to the prior determination or decision) been considered at the time of the prior determination or decision, the claim would not have been allowed or continued. A substitution of current judgment for that used in the prior favorable determination or decision will not be the basis for applying this exception.
(iv) The exception for error will not be applied retroactively under the conditions set out above unless the conditions for reopening the prior decision (see §§ 416.1488 and 416.1489) are met.
(f)
Second group of exceptions to medical improvement.
In addition to the first group of exceptions to medical improvement, the following exceptions may result in a determination or decision that you are no longer disabled. In these situations, the determination or decision will be made without a finding that you have demonstrated medical improvement or that you are currently not disabled under the rules in § 416.924. There is no set point in the continuing disability review sequence described in paragraph (b) of this section at which we must consider these exceptions; exceptions in the second group may be considered at any point in the process.
(1)
A prior determination or decision was fraudulently obtained.
If we find that any prior favorable determination
or decision was obtained by fraud, we may find that you are not disabled. In addition, we may reopen your claim under the rules in § 416.1488. In determining whether a prior favorable determination or decision was fraudulently obtained, we will take into account any physical, mental, educational, or linguistic limitations (including any lack of facility with the English language) which you may have had at the time.
(2)
You do not cooperate with us.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled and we ask you to give us medical or other evidence or to go for a physical or mental examination by a certain date, we will find that your disability has ended if you fail, without good cause, to do what we ask. Section 416.1411 explains the factors we consider and how we will determine generally whether you have good cause for failure to cooperate. In addition, § 416.918 discusses how we determine whether you have good cause for failing to attend a consultative examination. The month in which your disability ends will be the first month in which you failed to do what we asked.
(3)
We are unable to find you.
If there is a question about whether you continue to be disabled and we are unable to find you to resolve the question, we will suspend your payments. The month your payments are suspended will be the first month in which the question arose and we could not find you.
(4)
You fail to follow prescribed treatment which would be expected to improve your impairment(s) so that it no longer results in marked and severe functional limitations.
If treatment has been prescribed for you which would be expected to improve your impairment(s) so that it no longer results in marked and severe functional limitations, you must follow that treatment in order to be paid benefits. If you are not following that treatment and you do not have good cause for failing to follow that treatment, we will find that your disability has ended (see § 416.930(c)). The month your disability ends will be the first month in which you failed to follow the prescribed treatment.
(g)
The month in which we will find you are no longer disabled.
If the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled, we will find that your disability ended in the following month—
(1) The month the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled under the rules set out in this section, and you were disabled only for a specified period of time in the past;
(2) The month the evidence shows that you are no longer disabled under the rules set out in this section, but not earlier than the month in which we mail you a notice saying that the information we have shows that you are not disabled;
(3) The month in which you return to, or begin, full-time work with no significant medical restrictions, and acknowledge that medical improvement has occurred, and we expected your impairment(s) to improve (see § 416.991);
(4) The first month in which you fail without good cause to follow prescribed treatment, when the rule set out in paragraph (f)(4) of this section applies;
(5) The first month in which you were told by your physician that you could return to normal activities, provided there is no substantial conflict between your physician's and your statements regarding your awareness of your capacity, and the earlier date is supported by substantial evidence; or
(6) The first month in which you failed without good cause to do what we asked, when the rule set out in paragraph (f)(2) of this section applies.
(h)
Before we stop your benefits.
If we find you are no longer disabled, before we stop your benefits, we will give you a chance to explain why we should not do so. Subparts M and N of this part describe your rights and the procedures we will follow.
(i)
Requirement for treatment that is medically necessary and available.
If you have a representative payee, the representative payee must, at the time of the continuing disability review, present evidence demonstrating that you are and have been receiving treatment, to the extent considered medically necessary and available, for the condition(s) that was the basis for providing you with SSI benefits, unless we
