The parties may seek review of the presiding officer's decision by filing a petition for review with the presiding officer within 10 calendar days after service of the decision. Replies must be filed within 10 calendar days after the petition filing date. Upon receipt of a petition for review and any reply, the presiding officer will promptly certify the entire record to the Comptroller. Within 60 calendar days of the presiding officer's certification, the Comptroller will issue an order notifying the affected party whether or not the immediate suspension should be continued or reinstated. The order will state the basis of the Comptroller's decision.
§ 19.244
Automatic removal, suspension, or debarment.
(a) An independent public accountant or accounting firm may not perform audit services for insured national banks, insured Federal savings associations, or insured Federal branches of foreign banks if the accountant or firm:
(1) Is subject to a final order of removal, suspension, or debarment (other than a limited scope order) issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the former Office of Thrift Supervision under section 36 of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831m);
(2) Is subject to a temporary suspension or permanent revocation of registration or a temporary or permanent suspension or bar from further association with any registered public accounting firm issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission under sections 105(c)(4)(A) or (B) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7215(c)(4)(A) or (B)); or
(3) Is subject to an order of suspension or denial of the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(b) Upon written request, the Comptroller, for good cause shown, may grant written permission to such accountant or firm to perform audit services for insured national banks, insured Federal savings associations, or insured Federal branches of foreign banks. The request must contain a concise statement of the action requested. The Comptroller may require the applicant to submit additional information.
§ 19.245
Notice of removal, suspension, or debarment.
(a)
Notice to the public.
Upon the issuance of a final order for removal, suspension, or debarment of an independent public accountant or accounting firm from providing audit services, the Comptroller will make the order publicly available and provide notice of the order to the other Federal banking agencies.
(b)
Notice to the Comptroller by accountants and firms.
An accountant or accounting firm that provides audit services to an insured national bank, insured Federal savings association, or insured Federal branch of a foreign bank must provide the Comptroller with written notice of:
(1) Any currently effective order or other action described in § 19.243(a)(1)(vi) through (vii) or § 19.244(a)(2) and (3); and
(2) Any currently effective action by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board under sections 105(c)(4)(C) or (G) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7215(c)(4)(C) or (G)).
(c)
Timing of notice.
Written notice required by this paragraph (c) must be given no later than 15 calendar days following the effective date of an order or action, or 15 calendar days before an accountant or firm accepts an engagement to provide audit services, whichever date is earlier.
§ 19.246
Petition for reinstatement.
(a)
Form of petition.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Comptroller, a petition for reinstatement by an independent public accountant, an accounting firm, or an office of a firm that was removed, suspended, or debarred under § 19.243 may be made in writing at any time. The request must contain a concise statement of the action requested. The Comptroller may require the applicant to submit additional information.
(b)
Procedure.
A petitioner for reinstatement under this section may, in the sole discretion of the Comptroller, be afforded a hearing. The accountant or firm bears the burden of going forward with a petition and proving the grounds asserted in support of the petition. In reinstatement proceedings, the person seeking reinstatement bears the burden of going forward with an application and proving the grounds asserted in support of the application. The Comptroller may, in his sole discretion, direct that any reinstatement proceeding be limited to written submissions. The removal, suspension, or debarment will continue until the Comptroller, for good cause shown, has reinstated the petitioner or until the suspension period has expired. The filing of a petition for reinstatement will not stay the effectiveness of the removal, suspension, or debarment of an accountant or firm.

# Subpart Q—Forfeiture of Franchise for Money Laundering or Cash Transaction Reporting Offenses
§ 19.250
Scope.
Except as provided in this subpart, subpart A of this part applies to proceedings by the Comptroller to determine whether, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 93(d) or 12 U.S.C. 1464(w), as applicable, to terminate all rights, privileges, and franchises of a national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency convicted of a criminal offense under 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957 or 31 U.S.C. 5322 or 5324.
§ 19.251
Notice and hearing.
(a)
In general.
After receiving written notification from the Attorney General of the United States of a conviction of a criminal offense under 18 U.S.C. 1956 or 1957, the Comptroller will, or under 31 U.S.C. 5322 or 5324, the Comptroller may:
(1) Issue to the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency a written notice of the Comptroller's intention to terminate all rights, privileges, and franchises of the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 93(d) or 12 U.S.C. 1464(w); and
(2) Schedule a pretermination hearing.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The notice issued pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section must set forth:
(1) The legal authority for the proceeding and for the OCC's jurisdiction over the proceeding;
(2) The basis of termination pursuant to the factors listed in § 19.253;
(3) A proposed order or prayer for an order of termination;
(4) The time, place, and nature of the hearing as required by law or regulation;
(5) The time within which to file an answer as established by the presiding officer; and
(6) That the answer must be filed with the OCC.
(c)
Failure to file an answer.
Unless the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency files an answer within the time specified in the notice, it will be deemed to have consented to termination of its rights, privileges and franchises and the Comptroller may order the termination of such rights, privileges, and franchises.
(d)
Service.
The OCC will serve the notice upon the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency in the manner set forth in § 19.11(c).
§ 19.252
Presiding officer.
(a)
Appointment.
The Comptroller will designate a presiding officer to conduct the pretermination hearing under this subpart.
(b)
Powers.
The presiding officer has the same powers set forth in § 19.5, including the discretion necessary to conduct the pretermination hearing in a manner that avoids unnecessary delay. In addition, the presiding officer may limit the use of discovery and limit opportunities to file written memoranda, briefs, affidavits, or other materials or documents to avoid relitigation of facts already stipulated to by the parties; conceded to by the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or Federal agency; or otherwise already firmly established by the underlying criminal conviction.
§ 19.253
Grounds for termination.
In determining whether to terminate a franchise, the Comptroller will take into account the following factors:
(a) The extent to which directors or senior executive officers of the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency knew of, or were involved in, the commission of the money laundering offense of which the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency was found guilty;
(b) The extent to which the offense occurred despite the existence of policies and procedures within the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or Federal agency which were designed to prevent the occurrence of the offense;
(c) The extent to which the national bank, Federal savings association, or
Federal branch or agency has fully cooperated with law enforcement authorities with respect to the investigation of the money laundering offense of which the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency was found guilty;
(d) The extent to which the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency has implemented additional internal controls (since the commission of the offense of which the national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency was found guilty) to prevent the occurrence of any money laundering offense; and
(e) The extent to which the interest of the local community in having adequate deposit and credit services available would be threatened by the forfeiture of the franchise.
§ 19.254
Judicial review.
Any national bank, Federal savings association, or Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank whose rights, privileges and franchises have been terminated by order of the Comptroller under this part has the right of judicial review of such order pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(h).
Pt. 19, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 19—Rules of Practice and Procedure

# Note:
The content of this appendix reproduces 12 CFR parts 19, 108, 109, 112, and 165 as of October 1, 2023, which, pursuant to § 19.0, are applicable to adjudicatory actions initiated before April 1, 2024, unless the parties otherwise stipulate that the rules in this part in effect after April 1, 2024 apply. Cross-references to parts 19, 108, 109, and 112 (as well as to included sections) in this appendix are to those provisions as contained within this appendix.
PART 19—RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504, 554-557; 12 U.S.C. 93(b), 93a, 164, 481, 504, 1817, 1818, 1820, 1831m, 1831o, 1832, 1884, 1972, 3102, 3108(a), 3110, 3909, and 4717; 15 U.S.C. 78(h) and (i), 78o-4(c), 78o-5, 78q-1, 78s, 78u, 78u-2, 78u-3, 78w, and 1639e; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 31 U.S.C. 330 and 5321; and 42 U.S.C. 4012a.
Subpart A—Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure
§ 19.1 Scope.
This subpart prescribes Uniform Rules of practice and procedure applicable to adjudicatory proceedings required to be conducted on the record after opportunity for a hearing under the following statutory provisions:
(a) Cease-and-desist proceedings under section 8(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (“FDIA”) (12 U.S.C. 1818(b));
(b) Removal and prohibition proceedings under section 8(e) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(e));
(c) Change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)) to determine whether the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) should issue an order to approve or disapprove a person's proposed acquisition of an institution;
(d) Proceedings under section 15C(c)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) (15 U.S.C. 78o-5), to impose sanctions upon any government securities broker or dealer or upon any person associated or seeking to become associated with a government securities broker or dealer for which the OCC is the appropriate agency;
(e) Assessment of civil money penalties by the OCC against institutions, institution-affiliated parties, and certain other persons for which it is the appropriate agency for any violation of:
(1) Any provision of law referenced in 12 U.S.C. 93, or any regulation issued thereunder, and certain unsafe or unsound practices and breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 93;
(2) Sections 22 and 23 of the Federal Reserve Act (“FRA”), or any regulation issued thereunder, and certain unsafe or unsound practices and breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 504 and 505;
(3) Section 106(b) of the Bank Holding Company Amendments of 1970, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1972(2)(F);
(4) Any provision of the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 or any regulation or order issued thereunder, and certain unsafe or unsound practices and breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(16);
(5) Any provision of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (“ILSA”), or any rule, regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3909;
(6) Any provision of the International Banking Act of 1978 (“IBA”), or any rule, regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3108;
(7) Section 5211 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 161), pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 164;
(8) Certain provisions of the Exchange Act, pursuant to section 21B of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-2);
(9) Section 1120 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (“FIRREA”) (12 U.S.C. 3349), or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(10) The terms of any final or temporary order issued under section 8 of the FDIA or any written agreement executed by the OCC, the terms of any condition imposed in writing by the OCC in connection with the grant of an application or request, certain unsafe or unsound practices, breaches of fiduciary duty, or any law or regulation not otherwise provided herein, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(2);
(11) Any provision of law referenced in section 102(f) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)) or any order or regulation issued thereunder; and
(12) Any provision of law referenced in 31 U.S.C. 5321 or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(f) Remedial action under section 102(g) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(g));
(g) Removal, prohibition, and civil monetary penalty proceedings under section 10(k) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(k)) for violations of the post-employment restrictions imposed by that section; and
(h) This subpart also applies to all other adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing, unless otherwise specifically provided for in the Local Rules.
§ 19.2 Rules of construction.
For purposes of this part:
(a) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate;
(b) Any use of a masculine, feminine, or neuter gender encompasses all three, if such use would be appropriate;
(c) The term
counsel
includes a non-attorney representative; and
(d) Unless the context requires otherwise, a party's counsel of record, if any, may, on behalf of that party, take any action required to be taken by the party.
§ 19.3 Definitions.
For purposes of this part, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:
(a)
Administrative law judge
means one who presides at an administrative hearing under authority set forth at 5 U.S.C. 556.
(b)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a proceeding conducted pursuant to these rules and leading to the formulation of a final order other than a regulation.
(c)
Comptroller
means the Comptroller of the Currency or a person delegated to perform the functions of the Comptroller of the Currency under this part.
(d)
Decisional employee
means any member of the Comptroller's or administrative law judge's staff who has not engaged in an investigative or prosecutorial role in a proceeding and who may assist the Comptroller or the administrative law judge, respectively, in preparing orders, recommended decisions, decisions, and other documents under the Uniform Rules.
(e)
Enforcement Counsel
means any individual who files a notice of appearance as counsel on behalf of the OCC in an adjudicatory proceeding.
(f)
Final order
means an order issued by the Comptroller with or without the consent of the affected institution or the institution-affiliated party, that has become final, without regard to the pendency of any petition for reconsideration or review.
(g)
Institution
includes any national bank or Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank.
(h)
Institution-affiliated party
means any institution-affiliated party as that term is defined in section 3(u) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(u)).
(i)
Local Rules
means those rules promulgated by the OCC in the subparts of this part excluding subpart A.
(j)
OCC
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
(k)
OFIA
means the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication, the executive body charged with overseeing the administration of administrative enforcement proceedings for the OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (“Board of Governors”), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”), the Office of Thrift Supervision (“OTS”), and the National Credit Union Administration (“NCUA”).
(l)
Party
means the OCC and any person named as a party in any notice.
(m)
Person
means an individual, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, agency or other entity or organization, including an institution as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(n)
Respondent
means any party other than the OCC.
(o)
Uniform Rules
means those rules in subpart A of this part that are common to the OCC, the Board of Governors, the FDIC, the OTS, and the NCUA.
(p)
Violation
includes any action (alone or with another or others) for or toward causing, bringing about, participating in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.
§ 19.4 Authority of the Comptroller.
The Comptroller may, at any time during the pendency of a proceeding, perform, direct the performance of, or waive performance of, any act which could be done or ordered by the administrative law judge.
§ 19.5 Authority of the administrative law judge.
(a)
General rule.
All proceedings governed by this part shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of title 5 of the United States Code. The administrative law judge shall have all powers necessary to
conduct a proceeding in a fair and impartial manner and to avoid unnecessary delay.
(b)
Powers.
The administrative law judge shall have all powers necessary to conduct the proceeding in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, including the following powers:
(1) To administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) To issue subpoenas, subpoenas duces tecum, and protective orders, as authorized by this part, and to quash or modify any such subpoenas and orders;
(3) To receive relevant evidence and to rule upon the admission of evidence and offers of proof;
(4) To take or cause depositions to be taken as authorized by this subpart;
(5) To regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties and their counsel;
(6) To hold scheduling and/or pre-hearing conferences as set forth in § 19.31;
(7) To consider and rule upon all procedural and other motions appropriate in an adjudicatory proceeding, provided that only the Comptroller shall have the power to grant any motion to dismiss the proceeding or to decide any other motion that results in a final determination of the merits of the proceeding;
(8) To prepare and present to the Comptroller a recommended decision as provided herein;
(9) To recuse himself or herself by motion made by a party or on his or her own motion;
(10) To establish time, place and manner limitations on the attendance of the public and the media for any public hearing; and
(11) To do all other things necessary and appropriate to discharge the duties of a presiding officer.
§ 19.6 Appearance and practice in adjudicatory proceedings.
(a)
Appearance before the OCC or an administrative law judge
—(1)
By attorneys.
Any member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, commonwealth, possession, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia may represent others before the OCC if such attorney is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the OCC.
(2)
By non-attorneys.
An individual may appear on his or her own behalf; a member of a partnership may represent the partnership; a duly authorized officer, director, or employee of any government unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority may represent that unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority if such officer, director, or employee is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the OCC.
(3)
Notice of appearance.
Any individual acting as counsel on behalf of a party, including the Comptroller, shall file a notice of appearance with OFIA at or before the time that the individual submits papers or otherwise appears on behalf of a party in the adjudicatory proceeding. The notice of appearance must include a written declaration that the individual is currently qualified as provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and is authorized to represent the particular party. By filing a notice of appearance on behalf of a party in an adjudicatory proceeding, the counsel agrees and represents that he or she is authorized to accept service on behalf of the represented party and that, in the event of withdrawal from representation, he or she will, if required by the administrative law judge, continue to accept service until new counsel has filed a notice of appearance or until the represented party indicates that he or she will proceed on a
pro se
basis.
(b)
Sanctions.
Dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous or contumacious conduct at any phase of any adjudicatory proceeding may be grounds for exclusion or suspension of counsel from the proceeding.
§ 19.7 Good faith certification.
(a)
General requirement.
Every filing or submission of record following the issuance of a notice shall be signed by at least one counsel of record in his or her individual name and shall state that counsel's address and telephone number. A party who acts as his or her own counsel shall sign his or her individual name and state his or her address and telephone number on every filing or submission of record.
(b)
Effect of signature.
(1) The signature of counsel or a party shall constitute a certification that: the counsel or party has read the filing or submission of record; to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the filing or submission of record is well-grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and the filing or submission of record is not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) If a filing or submission of record is not signed, the administrative law judge shall strike the filing or submission of record, unless it is signed promptly after the omission is called to the attention of the pleader or movant.
(c)
Effect of making oral motion or argument.
The act of making any oral motion or oral argument by any counsel or party constitutes a certification that to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, his or her statements are well-grounded in fact and are warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, and are not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or
to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
§ 19.8 Conflicts of interest.
(a)
Conflict of interest in representation.
No person shall appear as counsel for another person in an adjudicatory proceeding if it reasonably appears that such representation may be materially limited by that counsel's responsibilities to a third person or by the counsel's own interests. The administrative law judge may take corrective measures at any stage of a proceeding to cure a conflict of interest in representation, including the issuance of an order limiting the scope of representation or disqualifying an individual from appearing in a representative capacity for the duration of the proceeding.
(b)
Certification and waiver.
If any person appearing as counsel represents two or more parties to an adjudicatory proceeding or also represents a non-party on a matter relevant to an issue in the proceeding, counsel must certify in writing at the time of filing the notice of appearance required by § 19.6(a):
(1) That the counsel has personally and fully discussed the possibility of conflicts of interest with each such party and non-party; and
(2) That each such party and non-party waives any right it might otherwise have had to assert any known conflicts of interest or to assert any non-material conflicts of interest during the course of the proceeding.
§ 19.9 Ex parte communications.
(a)
Definition
—(1)
Ex parte communication
means any material oral or written communication relevant to the merits of an adjudicatory proceeding that was neither on the record nor on reasonable prior notice to all parties that takes place between:
(i) An interested person outside the OCC (including such person's counsel); and
(ii) The administrative law judge handling that proceeding, the Comptroller, or a decisional employee.
(2)
Exception.
A request for status of the proceeding does not constitute an ex parte communication.
(b)
Prohibition of ex parte communications.
From the time the notice is issued by the Comptroller until the date that the Comptroller issues his or her final decision pursuant to § 19.40(c):
(1) No interested person outside the OCC shall make or knowingly cause to be made an ex parte communication to the Comptroller, the administrative law judge, or a decisional employee; and
(2) The Comptroller, administrative law judge, or decisional employee shall not make or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person outside the OCC any ex parte communication.
(c)
Procedure upon occurrence of ex parte communication.
If an ex parte communication is received by the administrative law judge, the Comptroller or any other person identified in paragraph (a) of this section, that person shall cause all such written communications (or, if the communication is oral, a memorandum stating the substance of the communication) to be placed on the record of the proceeding and served on all parties. All other parties to the proceeding shall have an opportunity, within ten days of receipt of service of the ex parte communication, to file responses thereto and to recommend any sanctions, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, that they believe to be appropriate under the circumstances.
(d)
Sanctions.
Any party or his or her counsel who makes a prohibited ex parte communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanction or sanctions imposed by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge including, but not limited to, exclusion from the proceedings and an adverse ruling on the issue which is the subject of the prohibited communication.
(e)
Separation of functions.
Except to the extent required for the disposition of ex parte matters as authorized by law, the administrative law judge may not consult a person or party on any matter relevant to the merits of the adjudication, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. An employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the OCC in a case may not, in that or a factually related case, participate or advise in the decision, recommended decision, or agency review of the recommended decision under § 19.40, except as witness or counsel in public proceedings.
§ 19.10 Filing of papers.
(a)
Filing.
Any papers required to be filed, excluding documents produced in response to a discovery request pursuant to §§ 19.25 and 19.26, shall be filed with OFIA, except as otherwise provided.
(b)
Manner of filing.
Unless otherwise specified by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge, filing may be accomplished by:
(1) Personal service;
(2) Delivering the papers to a reliable commercial courier service, overnight delivery service, or to the U.S. Post Office for Express Mail delivery;
(3) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail; or
(4) Transmission by electronic media, only if expressly authorized, and upon any conditions specified, by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge. All papers filed by electronic media shall also concurrently be filed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Formal requirements as to papers filed
—(1)
Form.
All papers filed must set forth the name, address, and telephone number of the counsel or party making the filing and must be accompanied by a certification setting forth when and how service has been made on all other parties. All papers filed must be double-spaced and printed or typewritten on 8
1/2
× 11 inch paper, and must be clear and legible.
(2)
Signature.
All papers must be dated and signed as provided in § 19.7.
(3)
Caption.
All papers filed must include at the head thereof, or on a title page, the name of the OCC and of the filing party, the title and docket number of the proceeding, and the subject of the particular paper.
(4)
Number of copies.
Unless otherwise specified by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge, an original and one copy of all documents and papers shall be filed, except that only one copy of transcripts of testimony and exhibits shall be filed.
§ 19.11 Service of papers.
(a)
By the parties.
Except as otherwise provided, a party filing papers shall serve a copy upon the counsel of record for all other parties to the proceeding so represented, and upon any party not so represented.
(b)
Method of service.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) of this section, a serving party shall use one or more of the following methods of service:
(1) Personal service;
(2) Delivering the papers to a reliable commercial courier service, overnight delivery service, or to the U.S. Post Office for Express Mail delivery;
(3) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail; or
(4) Transmission by electronic media, only if the parties mutually agree. Any papers served by electronic media shall also concurrently be served in accordance with the requirements of § 19.10(c).
(c)
By the Comptroller or the administrative law judge.
(1) All papers required to be served by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge upon a party who has appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 19.6 shall be served by any means specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If a party has not appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 19.6, the Comptroller or the administrative law judge shall make service by any of the following methods:
(i) By personal service;
(ii) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(iii) If the person to be served is a corporation or other association, by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(iv) By registered or certified mail addressed to the person's last known address; or
(v) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(d)
Subpoenas.
Service of a subpoena may be made:
(1) By personal service;
(2) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(3) By delivery to an agent, which, in the case of a corporation or other association, is delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(4) By registered or certified mail addressed to the person's last known address; or
(5) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(e)
Area of service.
Service in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or on any person as otherwise provided by law, is effective without regard to the place where the hearing is held, provided that if service is made on a foreign bank in connection with an action or proceeding involving one or more of its branches or agencies located in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, service shall be made on at least one branch or agency so involved.
§ 19.12 Construction of time limits.
(a)
General rule.
In computing any period of time prescribed by this subpart, the date of the act or event that commences the designated period of time is not included. The last day so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are included in the computation of time. However, when the time period within which an act is to be performed is ten days or less, not including any additional time allowed for in paragraph (c) of this section, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are not included.
(b)
When papers are deemed to be filed or served.
(1) Filing and service are deemed to be effective:
(i) In the case of personal service or same day commercial courier delivery, upon actual service;
(ii) In the case of overnight commercial delivery service, U.S. Express Mail delivery, or first class, registered, or certified mail, upon deposit in or delivery to an appropriate point of collection;
(iii) In the case of transmission by electronic media, as specified by the authority receiving the filing, in the case of filing, and as agreed among the parties, in the case of service.
(2) The effective filing and service dates specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be modified by the Comptroller or administrative law judge in the case of filing or by agreement of the parties in the case of service.
(c)
Calculation of time for service and filing of responsive papers.
Whenever a time limit is measured by a prescribed period from the service of any notice or paper, the applicable time limits are calculated as follows:
(1) If service is made by first class, registered, or certified mail, add three calendar days to the prescribed period;
(2) If service is made by express mail or overnight delivery service, add one calendar day to the prescribed period; or
(3) If service is made by electronic media transmission, add one calendar day to the prescribed period, unless otherwise determined by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge in the case of filing, or by agreement among the parties in the case of service.
§ 19.13 Change of time limits.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the administrative law judge may, for good cause shown, extend the time limits prescribed by the Uniform Rules or by any notice or order issued in the proceedings. After the referral of the case to the Comptroller pursuant to § 19.38, the Comptroller may grant extensions of the time limits for good cause shown. Extensions may be granted at the motion of a party after notice and opportunity to respond is afforded all non-moving parties or on the Comptroller's or the administrative law judge's own motion.
§ 19.14 Witness fees and expenses.
Witnesses subpoenaed for testimony or depositions shall be paid the same fees for attendance and mileage as are paid in the United States district courts in proceedings in which the United States is a party, provided that, in the case of a discovery subpoena addressed to a party, no witness fees or mileage need be paid. Fees for witnesses shall be tendered in advance by the party requesting the subpoena, except that fees and mileage need not be tendered in advance where the OCC is the party requesting the subpoena. The OCC shall not be required to pay any fees to, or expenses of, any witness not subpoenaed by the OCC.
§ 19.15 Opportunity for informal settlement.
Any respondent may, at any time in the proceeding, unilaterally submit to Enforcement Counsel written offers or proposals for settlement of a proceeding, without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties. No such offer or proposal shall be made to any OCC representative other than Enforcement Counsel. Submission of a written settlement offer does not provide a basis for adjourning or otherwise delaying all or any portion of a proceeding under this part. No settlement offer or proposal, or any subsequent negotiation or resolution, is admissible as evidence in any proceeding.
§ 19.16 OCC's right to conduct examination.
Nothing contained in this subpart limits in any manner the right of the OCC to conduct any examination, inspection, or visitation of any institution or institution-affiliated party, or the right of the OCC to conduct or continue any form of investigation authorized by law.
§ 19.17 Collateral attacks on adjudicatory proceeding.
If an interlocutory appeal or collateral attack is brought in any court concerning all or any part of an adjudicatory proceeding, the challenged adjudicatory proceeding shall continue without regard to the pendency of that court proceeding. No default or other failure to act as directed in the adjudicatory proceeding within the times prescribed in this subpart shall be excused based on the pendency before any court of any interlocutory appeal or collateral attack.
§ 19.18 Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice.
(a)
Commencement of proceeding.
(1)(i) Except for change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA, 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4), a proceeding governed by this subpart is commenced by issuance of a notice by the Comptroller.
(ii) The notice must be served by the Comptroller upon the respondent and given to any other appropriate financial institution supervisory authority where required by law.
(iii) The notice must be filed with OFIA.
(2) Change-in control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)) commence with the issuance of an order by the Comptroller.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The notice must set forth:
(1) The legal authority for the proceeding and for the OCC's jurisdiction over the proceeding;
(2) A statement of the matters of fact or law showing that the OCC is entitled to relief;
(3) A proposed order or prayer for an order granting the requested relief;
(4) The time, place, and nature of the hearing as required by law or regulation;
(5) The time within which to file an answer as required by law or regulation;
(6) The time within which to request a hearing as required by law or regulation; and
(7) That the answer and/or request for a hearing shall be filed with OFIA.
§ 19.19 Answer.
(a)
When.
Within 20 days of service of the notice, respondent shall file an answer as designated in the notice. In a civil money penalty proceeding, respondent shall also file a request for a hearing within 20 days of service of the notice.
(b)
Content of answer.
An answer must specifically respond to each paragraph or allegation of fact contained in the notice and must admit, deny, or state that the party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation of fact. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation of fact denied; general denials are not permitted. When a respondent denies part of an allegation, that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation of fact in the notice which is not denied in the answer must be deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. A respondent is not required to respond to the portion of a notice that constitutes the prayer for relief or proposed order. The answer must set forth affirmative defenses, if any, asserted by the respondent.
(c)
Default
—(1)
Effect of failure to answer.
Failure of a respondent to file an answer required by this section within the time provided constitutes a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations in the notice. If no timely answer is filed, Enforcement Counsel may file a motion for entry of an order of default. Upon a finding that no good cause has been shown for the failure to file a timely answer, the administrative law judge shall file with the Comptroller a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice. Any final order issued by the Comptroller based upon a respondent's failure to answer is deemed to be an order issued upon consent.
(2)
Effect of failure to request a hearing in civil money penalty proceedings.
If respondent fails to request a hearing as required by law within the time provided, the notice of assessment constitutes a final and unappealable order.
§ 19.20 Amended pleadings.
(a)
Amendments.
The notice or answer may be amended or supplemented at any stage of the proceeding. The respondent must answer an amended notice within the time remaining for the respondent's answer to the original notice, or within ten days after service of the amended notice, whichever period is longer, unless the Comptroller or administrative law judge orders otherwise for good cause.
(b)
Amendments to conform to the evidence.
When issues not raised in the notice or answer are tried at the hearing by express or implied consent of the parties, they will be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the notice or answer, and no formal amendments are required. If evidence is objected to at the hearing on the ground that it is not within the issues raised by the notice or answer, the administrative law judge may admit the evidence when admission is likely to assist in adjudicating the merits of the action and the objecting party fails to satisfy the administrative law judge that the admission of such evidence would unfairly prejudice that party's action or defense upon the merits. The administrative law judge may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to meet such evidence.
§ 19.21 Failure to appear.
Failure of a respondent to appear in person at the hearing or by a duly authorized counsel constitutes a waiver of respondent's right to a hearing and is deemed an admission of the facts as alleged and consent to the relief sought in the notice. Without further proceedings or notice to the respondent, the administrative law judge shall file with the Comptroller a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice.
§ 19.22 Consolidation and severance of actions.
(a)
Consolidation.
(1) On the motion of any party, or on the administrative law judge's own motion, the administrative law judge may consolidate, for some or all purposes, any two or more proceedings, if each such proceeding involves or arises out of the same transaction, occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences, or involves at least one common respondent or a material common question of law or fact, unless such consolidation would cause unreasonable delay or injustice.
(2) In the event of consolidation under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, appropriate adjustment to the prehearing schedule must be made to avoid unnecessary expense, inconvenience, or delay.
(b)
Severance.
The administrative law judge may, upon the motion of any party, sever the proceeding for separate resolution of the matter as to any respondent only if the administrative law judge finds that:
(1) Undue prejudice or injustice to the moving party would result from not severing the proceeding; and
(2) Such undue prejudice or injustice would outweigh the interests of judicial economy and expedition in the complete and final resolution of the proceeding.
§ 19.23 Motions.
(a)
In writing.
(1) Except as otherwise provided herein, an application or request for an order or ruling must be made by written motion.
(2) All written motions must state with particularity the relief sought and must be accompanied by a proposed order.
(3) No oral argument may be held on written motions except as otherwise directed by the administrative law judge. Written memoranda, briefs, affidavits or other relevant material or documents may be filed in support of or in opposition to a motion.
(b)
Oral motions.
A motion may be made orally on the record unless the administrative law judge directs that such motion be reduced to writing.
(c)
Filing of motions.
Motions must be filed with the administrative law judge, except that following the filing of the recommended decision, motions must be filed with the Comptroller.
(d)
Responses.
(1) Except as otherwise provided herein, within ten days after service of any written motion, or within such other period of time as may be established by the administrative law judge or the Comptroller, any party may file a written response to a motion. The administrative law judge shall not rule on any oral or written motion before each party has had an opportunity to file a response.
(2) The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record is deemed a consent by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of the order accompanying the motion.
(e)
Dilatory motions.
Frivolous, dilatory or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.
(f)
Dispositive motions.
Dispositive motions are governed by §§ 19.29 and 19.30.
§ 19.24 Scope of document discovery.
(a)
Limits on discovery.
(1) Subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a party to a proceeding under this subpart may obtain document discovery by serving a written request to produce documents. For purposes of a request to produce documents, the term “documents” may be defined to include drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, recordings, data stored in electronic form, and other data compilations from which information can be obtained, or translated, if necessary, by the parties through detection devices into reasonably usable form, as well as written material of all kinds.
(2) Discovery by use of deposition is governed by subpart I of this part.
(3) Discovery by use of interrogatories is not permitted.
(b)
Relevance.
A party may obtain document discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that has material relevance to the merits of the pending action. Any request to produce documents that calls for irrelevant material, that is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or that seeks to obtain privileged documents will be denied or modified. A request is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome if, among other things, it fails to include justifiable limitations on the time period covered and the geographic locations to be searched, the time provided to respond in the request is inadequate, or the request calls for copies of documents to be delivered to the requesting party and fails to include the requestor's written agreement to pay in advance for the copying, in accordance with § 19.25.
(c)
Privileged matter.
Privileged documents are not discoverable. Privileges include the attorney-client privilege, work-product privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative process privilege, and any other privileges the Constitution, any applicable act of Congress, or the principles of common law provide.
(d)
Time limits.
All discovery, including all responses to discovery requests, shall be completed at least 20 days prior to the date scheduled for the commencement of the hearing, except as provided in the Local Rules. No exceptions to this time limit shall be permitted, unless the administrative law judge finds on the record that good cause exists for waiving the requirements of this paragraph.
§ 19.25 Request for document discovery from parties.
(a)
General rule.
Any party may serve on any other party a request to produce for inspection any discoverable documents that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served. The request must identify the documents to be produced either by individual item or by category, and must describe each item and category with reasonable particularity. Documents must be produced as they are kept in the usual course of business or must be organized to correspond with the categories in the request.
(b)
Production or copying.
The request must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for production and performing any related acts. In lieu of inspecting the documents, the requesting party may specify that all or some of the responsive documents be copied and the copies delivered to the requesting party. If copying of fewer than 250 pages is requested, the party to whom the request is addressed shall bear the cost of copying and
shipping charges. If a party requests 250 pages or more of copying, the requesting party shall pay for the copying and shipping charges. Copying charges are the current per-page copying rate imposed by 12 CFR part 4 implementing the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). The party to whom the request is addressed may require payment in advance before producing the documents.
(c)
Obligation to update responses.
A party who has responded to a discovery request with a response that was complete when made is not required to supplement the response to include documents thereafter acquired, unless the responding party learns that:
(1) The response was materially incorrect when made; or
(2) The response, though correct when made, is no longer true and a failure to amend the response is, in substance, a knowing concealment.
(d)
Motions to limit discovery.
(1) Any party that objects to a discovery request may, within ten days of being served with such request, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 19.23 to strike or otherwise limit the request. If an objection is made to only a portion of an item or category in a request, the portion objected to shall be specified. Any objections not made in accordance with this paragraph and § 19.23 are waived.
(2) The party who served the request that is the subject of a motion to strike or limit may file a written response within five days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(e)
Privilege.
At the time other documents are produced, the producing party must reasonably identify all documents withheld on the grounds of privilege and must produce a statement of the basis for the assertion of privilege. When similar documents that are protected by deliberative process, attorney work-product, or attorney-client privilege are voluminous, these documents may be identified by category instead of by individual document. The administrative law judge retains discretion to determine when the identification by category is insufficient.
(f)
Motions to compel production.
(1) If a party withholds any documents as privileged or fails to comply fully with a discovery request, the requesting party may, within ten days of the assertion of privilege or of the time the failure to comply becomes known to the requesting party, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 19.23 for the issuance of a subpoena compelling production.
(2) The party who asserted the privilege or failed to comply with the request may file a written response to a motion to compel within five days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(g)
Ruling on motions.
After the time for filing responses pursuant to this section has expired, the administrative law judge shall rule promptly on all motions filed pursuant to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that a discovery request, or any of its terms, calls for irrelevant material, is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or seeks to obtain privileged documents, he or she may deny or modify the request, and may issue appropriate protective orders, upon such conditions as justice may require. The pendency of a motion to strike or limit discovery or to compel production is not a basis for staying or continuing the proceeding, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge. Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, the administrative law judge may not release, or order a party to produce, documents withheld on grounds of privilege if the party has stated to the administrative law judge its intention to file a timely motion for interlocutory review of the administrative law judge's order to produce the documents, and until the motion for interlocutory review has been decided.
(h)
Enforcing discovery subpoenas.
If the administrative law judge issues a subpoena compelling production of documents by a party, the subpoenaing party may, in the event of noncompliance and to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to any appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the subpoena. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a subpoena shall not in any manner limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge against a party who fails to produce subpoenaed documents.
§ 19.26 Document subpoenas to nonparties.
(a)
General rules.
(1) Any party may apply to the administrative law judge for the issuance of a document discovery subpoena addressed to any person who is not a party to the proceeding. The application must contain a proposed document subpoena and a brief statement showing the general relevance and reasonableness of the scope of documents sought. The subpoenaing party shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for making production in response to the document subpoena.
(2) A party shall only apply for a document subpoena under this section within the time period during which such party could serve a discovery request under § 19.24(d). The party obtaining the document subpoena is responsible for serving it on the subpoenaed person and for serving copies on all parties. Document subpoenas may be served in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law.
(3) The administrative law judge shall promptly issue any document subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon such conditions as may be consistent with the Uniform Rules.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a document subpoena is directed may file a motion to quash or modify such subpoena, accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant shall serve the motion on all parties, and any party may respond to such motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a document subpoena must be filed on the same basis, including the assertion of privilege, upon which a party could object to a discovery request under § 19.25(d), and during the same time limits during which such an objection could be filed.
(c)
Enforcing document subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the administrative law judge which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with so much of the document subpoena as the administrative law judge has not quashed or modified. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a document subpoena shall in no way limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge on a party who induces a failure to comply with subpoenas issued under this section.
§ 19.27 Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing.
(a)
General rules.
(1) If a witness will not be available for the hearing, a party desiring to preserve that witness' testimony for the record may apply in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to the administrative law judge for the issuance of a subpoena, including a subpoena duces tecum, requiring the attendance of the witness at a deposition. The administrative law judge may issue a deposition subpoena under this section upon showing that:
(i) The witness will be unable to attend or may be prevented from attending the hearing because of age, sickness or infirmity, or will otherwise be unavailable;
(ii) The witness' unavailability was not procured or caused by the subpoenaing party;
(iii) The testimony is reasonably expected to be material; and
(iv) Taking the deposition will not result in any undue burden to any other party and will not cause undue delay of the proceeding.
(2) The application must contain a proposed deposition subpoena and a brief statement of the reasons for the issuance of the subpoena. The subpoena must name the witness whose deposition is to be taken and specify the time and place for taking the deposition. A deposition subpoena may require the witness to be deposed at any place within the country in which that witness resides or has a regular place of employment or such other convenient place as the administrative law judge shall fix.
(3) Any requested subpoena that sets forth a valid basis for its issuance must be promptly issued, unless the administrative law judge on his or her own motion, requires a written response or requires attendance at a conference concerning whether the requested subpoena should be issued.
(4) The party obtaining a deposition subpoena is responsible for serving it on the witness and for serving copies on all parties. Unless the administrative law judge orders otherwise, no deposition under this section shall be taken on fewer than ten days' notice to the witness and all parties. Deposition subpoenas may be served in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or as otherwise permitted by law.
(b)
Objections to deposition subpoenas.
(1) The witness and any party who has not had an opportunity to oppose a deposition subpoena issued under this section may file a motion with the administrative law judge to quash or modify the subpoena prior to the time for compliance specified in the subpoena, but not more than ten days after service of the subpoena.
(2) A statement of the basis for the motion to quash or modify a subpoena issued under this section must accompany the motion. The motion must be served on all parties.
(c)
Procedure upon deposition.
(1) Each witness testifying pursuant to a deposition subpoena must be duly sworn, and each party shall have the right to examine the witness. Objections to questions or documents must be in short form, stating the grounds for the objection. Failure to object to questions or documents is not deemed a waiver except where the ground for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. All questions, answers, and objections must be recorded.
(2) Any party may move before the administrative law judge for an order compelling the witness to answer any questions the witness has refused to answer or submit any evidence the witness has refused to submit during the deposition.
(3) The deposition must be subscribed by the witness, unless the parties and the witness, by stipulation, have waived the signing, or the witness is ill, cannot be found, or has refused to sign. If the deposition is not subscribed by the witness, the court reporter taking the deposition shall certify that the transcript is a true and complete transcript of the deposition.
(d)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any order of the administrative law judge which directs compliance with all or any portion of a deposition subpoena under paragraph (b) or (c)(3) of this section, the subpoenaing party or other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the portions of the subpoena that the administrative law judge has ordered enforced. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a deposition subpoena in no way limits the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge on a party who fails to comply with, or procures a failure to comply with, a subpoena issued under this section.
§ 19.28 Interlocutory review.
(a)
General rule.
The Comptroller may review a ruling of the administrative law judge prior to the certification of the record to the Comptroller only in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section and § 19.23.
(b)
Scope of review.
The Comptroller may exercise interlocutory review of a ruling of the administrative law judge if the Comptroller finds that:
(1) The ruling involves a controlling question of law or policy as to which substantial grounds exist for a difference of opinion;
(2) Immediate review of the ruling may materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding;
(3) Subsequent modification of the ruling at the conclusion of the proceeding would be an inadequate remedy; or
(4) Subsequent modification of the ruling would cause unusual delay or expense.
(c)
Procedure.
Any request for interlocutory review shall be filed by a party with the administrative law judge within ten days of his or her ruling and shall otherwise comply with § 19.23. Any party may file a response to a request for interlocutory review in accordance with § 19.23(d). Upon the expiration of the time for filing all responses, the administrative law judge shall refer the matter to the Comptroller for final disposition.
(d)
Suspension of proceeding.
Neither a request for interlocutory review nor any disposition of such a request by the Comptroller under this section suspends or stays the proceeding unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge or the Comptroller.
§ 19.29 Summary disposition.
(a)
In general.
The administrative law judge shall recommend that the Comptroller issue a final order granting a motion for summary disposition if the undisputed pleaded facts, admissions, affidavits, stipulations, documentary evidence, matters as to which official notice may be taken, and any other evidentiary materials properly submitted in connection with a motion for summary disposition show that:
(1) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and
(2) The moving party is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law.
(b)
Filing of motions and responses.
(1) Any party who believes there is no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that he or she is entitled to a decision as a matter of law may move at any time for summary disposition in its favor of all or any part of the proceeding. Any party, within 20 days after service of such a motion, or within such time period as allowed by the administrative law judge, may file a response to such motion.
(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, investigatory depositions, transcripts, affidavits and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support his or her position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention of the moving party. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which he or she contends a genuine dispute exists. Such opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as that submitted with the motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.
(c)
Hearing on motion.
At the request of any party or on his or her own motion, the administrative law judge may hear oral argument on the motion for summary disposition.
(d)
Decision on motion.
Following receipt of a motion for summary disposition and all responses thereto, the administrative law judge shall determine whether the moving party is entitled to summary disposition. If the administrative law judge determines that summary disposition is warranted, the administrative law judge shall submit a recommended decision to that effect to the
Comptroller. If the administrative law judge finds that no party is entitled to summary disposition, he or she shall make a ruling denying the motion.
§ 19.30 Partial summary disposition.
If the administrative law judge determines that a party is entitled to summary disposition as to certain claims only, he or she shall defer submitting a recommended decision as to those claims. A hearing on the remaining issues must be ordered. Those claims for which the administrative law judge has determined that summary disposition is warranted will be addressed in the recommended decision filed at the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 19.31 Scheduling and prehearing conferences.
(a)
Scheduling conference.
Within 30 days of service of the notice or order commencing a proceeding or such other time as parties may agree, the administrative law judge shall direct counsel for all parties to meet with him or her in person at a specified time and place prior to the hearing or to confer by telephone for the purpose of scheduling the course and conduct of the proceeding. This meeting or telephone conference is called a “scheduling conference.” The identification of potential witnesses, the time for and manner of discovery, and the exchange of any prehearing materials including witness lists, statements of issues, stipulations, exhibits and any other materials may also be determined at the scheduling conference.
(b)
Prehearing conferences.
The administrative law judge may, in addition to the scheduling conference, on his or her own motion or at the request of any party, direct counsel for the parties to meet with him or her (in person or by telephone) at a prehearing conference to address any or all of the following:
(1) Simplification and clarification of the issues;
(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the contents, authenticity and admissibility into evidence of documents;
(3) Matters of which official notice may be taken;
(4) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(5) Summary disposition of any or all issues;
(6) Resolution of discovery issues or disputes;
(7) Amendments to pleadings; and
(8) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly disposition of the proceeding.
(c)
Transcript.
The administrative law judge, in his or her discretion, may require that a scheduling or prehearing conference be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the conference and any materials filed, including orders, becomes part of the record of the proceeding. A party may obtain a copy of the transcript at his or her expense.
(d)
Scheduling or prehearing orders.
At or within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the scheduling conference or any prehearing conference, the administrative law judge shall serve on each party an order setting forth any agreements reached and any procedural determinations made.
§ 19.32 Prehearing submissions.
(a) Within the time set by the administrative law judge, but in no case later than 14 days before the start of the hearing, each party shall serve on every other party, his or her:
(1) Prehearing statement;
(2) Final list of witnesses to be called to testify at the hearing, including name and address of each witness and a short summary of the expected testimony of each witness;
(3) List of the exhibits to be introduced at the hearing along with a copy of each exhibit; and
(4) Stipulations of fact, if any.
(b) Effect of failure to comply. No witness may testify and no exhibits may be introduced at the hearing if such witness or exhibit is not listed in the prehearing submissions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, except for good cause shown.
§ 19.33 Public hearings.
(a)
General rule.
All hearings shall be open to the public, unless the Comptroller, in the Comptroller's discretion, determines that holding an open hearing would be contrary to the public interest. Within 20 days of service of the notice or, in the case of change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)), within 20 days from service of the hearing order, any respondent may file with the Comptroller a request for a private hearing, and any party may file a reply to such a request. A party must serve on the administrative law judge a copy of any request or reply the party files with the Comptroller. The form of, and procedure for, these requests and replies are governed by § 19.23. A party's failure to file a request or a reply constitutes a waiver of any objections regarding whether the hearing will be public or private.
(b)
Filing document under seal.
Enforcement Counsel, in his or her discretion, may file any document or part of a document under seal if disclosure of the document would be contrary to the public interest. The administrative law judge shall take all appropriate steps to preserve the confidentiality of such documents or parts thereof, including closing portions of the hearing to the public.
§ 19.34 Hearing subpoenas.
(a)
Issuance.
(1) Upon application of a party showing general relevance and reasonableness of scope of the testimony or other evidence sought, the administrative law judge may issue a subpoena or a subpoena
duces tecum
requiring the attendance of a witness
at the hearing or the production of documentary or physical evidence at the hearing. The application for a hearing subpoena must also contain a proposed subpoena specifying the attendance of a witness or the production of evidence from any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law at any designated place where the hearing is being conducted. The party making the application shall serve a copy of the application and the proposed subpoena on every other party.
(2) A party may apply for a hearing subpoena at any time before the commencement of a hearing. During a hearing, a party may make an application for a subpoena orally on the record before the administrative law judge.
(3) The administrative law judge shall promptly issue any hearing subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon any conditions consistent with this subpart. Upon issuance by the administrative law judge, the party making the application shall serve the subpoena on the person named in the subpoena and on each party.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a hearing subpoena is directed or any party may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena, accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant must serve the motion on each party and on the person named in the subpoena. Any party may respond to the motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a hearing subpoena must be filed prior to the time specified in the subpoena for compliance but not more than ten days after the date of service of the subpoena upon the movant.
(c)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the administrative law judge which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may seek enforcement of the subpoena pursuant to § 19.26(c).
§ 19.35 Conduct of hearings.
(a)
General rules.
(1) Hearings shall be conducted so as to provide a fair and expeditious presentation of the relevant disputed issues. Each party has the right to present its case or defense by oral and documentary evidence and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for full disclosure of the facts.
(2) Order of hearing. Enforcement Counsel shall present its case-in-chief first, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge, or unless otherwise expressly specified by law or regulation. Enforcement Counsel shall be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement, and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's closing statement. If there are multiple respondents, respondents may agree among themselves as to their order of presentation of their cases, but if they do not agree, the administrative law judge shall fix the order.
(3) Examination of witnesses. Only one counsel for each party may conduct an examination of a witness, except that in the case of extensive direct examination, the administrative law judge may permit more than one counsel for the party presenting the witness to conduct the examination. A party may have one counsel conduct the direct examination and another counsel conduct re-direct examination of a witness, or may have one counsel conduct the cross examination of a witness and another counsel conduct the re-cross examination of a witness.
(4) Stipulations. Unless the administrative law judge directs otherwise, all stipulations of fact and law previously agreed upon by the parties, and all documents, the admissibility of which have been previously stipulated, will be admitted into evidence upon commencement of the hearing.
(b)
Transcript.
The hearing must be recorded and transcribed. The reporter will make the transcript available to any party upon payment by that party to the reporter of the cost of the transcript. The administrative law judge may order the record corrected, either upon motion to correct, upon stipulation of the parties, or following notice to the parties upon the administrative law judge's own motion.
§ 19.36 Evidence.
(a)
Admissibility.
(1) Except as is otherwise set forth in this section, relevant, material, and reliable evidence that is not unduly repetitive is admissible to the fullest extent authorized by the Administrative Procedure Act and other applicable law.
(2) Evidence that would be admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence is admissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart.
(3) Evidence that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence may not be deemed or ruled to be inadmissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart if such evidence is relevant, material, reliable and not unduly repetitive.
(b)
Official notice.
(1) Official notice may be taken of any material fact which may be judicially noticed by a United States district court and any material information in the official public records of any Federal or state government agency.
(2) All matters officially noticed by the administrative law judge or the Comptroller shall appear on the record.
(3) If official notice is requested or taken of any material fact, the parties, upon timely request, shall be afforded an opportunity to object.
(c)
Documents.
(1) A duplicate copy of a document is admissible to the same extent as the original, unless a genuine issue is raised as to whether the copy is in some material respect not a true and legible copy of the original.
(2) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, any document, including a report of examination, supervisory activity, inspection or visitation, prepared by an appropriate Federal financial institutions regulatory agency or by a state regulatory agency, is admissible either with or without a sponsoring witness.
(3) Witnesses may use existing or newly created charts, exhibits, calendars, calculations, outlines or other graphic material to summarize, illustrate, or simplify the presentation of testimony. Such materials may, subject to the administrative law judge's discretion, be used with or without being admitted into evidence.
(d)
Objections.
(1) Objections to the admissibility of evidence must be timely made and rulings on all objections must appear on the record.
(2) When an objection to a question or line of questioning propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining counsel may make a specific proffer on the record of what he or she expected to prove by the expected testimony of the witness either by representation of counsel or by direct interrogation of the witness.
(3) The administrative law judge shall retain rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, for the record, and transmit such exhibits to the Comptroller.
(4) Failure to object to admission of evidence or to any ruling constitutes a waiver of the objection.
(e)
Stipulations.
The parties may stipulate as to any relevant matters of fact or the authentication of any relevant documents. Such stipulations must be received in evidence at a hearing and are binding on the parties with respect to the matters therein stipulated.
(f)
Depositions of unavailable witnesses.
(1) If a witness is unavailable to testify at a hearing, and that witness has testified in a deposition to which all parties in a proceeding had notice and an opportunity to participate, a party may offer as evidence all or any part of the transcript of the deposition, including deposition exhibits, if any.
(2) Such deposition transcript is admissible to the same extent that testimony would have been admissible had that person testified at the hearing, provided that if a witness refused to answer proper questions during the depositions, the administrative law judge may, on that basis, limit the admissibility of the deposition in any manner that justice requires.
(3) Only those portions of a deposition received in evidence at the hearing constitute a part of the record.
§ 19.37 Post-hearing filings.
(a)
Proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs.
(1) Using the same method of service for each party, the administrative law judge shall serve notice upon each party that the certified transcript, together with all hearing exhibits and exhibits introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing, has been filed. Any party may file with the administrative law judge proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law, and a proposed order within 30 days following service of this notice by the administrative law judge or within such longer period as may be ordered by the administrative law judge.
(2) Proposed findings and conclusions must be supported by citation to any relevant authorities and by page references to any relevant portions of the record. A post-hearing brief may be filed in support of proposed findings and conclusions, either as part of the same document or in a separate document. Any party who fails to file timely with the administrative law judge any proposed finding or conclusion is deemed to have waived the right to raise in any subsequent filing or submission any issue not addressed in such party's proposed finding or conclusion.
(b)
Reply briefs.
Reply briefs may be filed within 15 days after the date on which the parties' proposed findings, conclusions, and order are due. Reply briefs must be strictly limited to responding to new matters, issues, or arguments raised in another party's papers. A party who has not filed proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law or a post-hearing brief may not file a reply brief.
(c)
Simultaneous filing required.
The administrative law judge shall not order the filing by any party of any brief or reply brief in advance of the other party's filing of its brief.
§ 19.38 Recommended decision and filing of record.
(a)
Filing of recommended decision and record.
Within 45 days after expiration of the time allowed for filing reply briefs under § 19.37(b), the administrative law judge shall file with and certify to the Comptroller, for decision, the record of the proceeding. The record must include the administrative law
judge's recommended decision, recommended findings of fact, recommended conclusions of law, and proposed order; all prehearing and hearing transcripts, exhibits, and rulings; and the motions, briefs, memoranda, and other supporting papers filed in connection with the hearing. The administrative law judge shall serve upon each party the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order.
(b)
Filing of index.
At the same time the administrative law judge files with and certifies to the Comptroller for final determination the record of the proceeding, the administrative law judge shall furnish to the Comptroller a certified index of the entire record of the proceeding. The certified index shall include, at a minimum, an entry for each paper, document or motion filed with the administrative law judge in the proceeding, the date of the filing, and the identity of the filer. The certified index shall also include an exhibit index containing, at a minimum, an entry consisting of exhibit number and title or description for: Each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence at the hearing; each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing; each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence after the completion of the hearing; and each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence after the completion of the hearing.
§ 19.39 Exceptions to recommended decision.
(a)
Filing exceptions.
Within 30 days after service of the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order under § 19.38, a party may file with the Comptroller written exceptions to the administrative law judge's recommended decision, findings, conclusions or proposed order, to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or to the failure of the administrative law judge to make a ruling proposed by a party. A supporting brief may be filed at the time the exceptions are filed, either as part of the same document or in a separate document.
(b)
Effect of failure to file or raise exceptions.
(1) Failure of a party to file exceptions to those matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section within the time prescribed is deemed a waiver of objection thereto.
(2) No exception need be considered by the Comptroller if the party taking exception had an opportunity to raise the same objection, issue, or argument before the administrative law judge and failed to do so.
(c)
Contents.
(1) All exceptions and briefs in support of such exceptions must be confined to the particular matters in, or omissions from, the administrative law judge's recommendations to which that party takes exception.
(2) All exceptions and briefs in support of exceptions must set forth page or paragraph references to the specific parts of the administrative law judge's recommendations to which exception is taken, the page or paragraph references to those portions of the record relied upon to support each exception, and the legal authority relied upon to support each exception.
§ 19.40 Review by the Comptroller.
(a)
Notice of submission to the Comptroller.
When the Comptroller determines that the record in the proceeding is complete, the Comptroller shall serve notice upon the parties that the proceeding has been submitted to the Comptroller for final decision.
(b)
Oral argument before the Comptroller.
Upon the initiative of the Comptroller or on the written request of any party filed with the Comptroller within the time for filing exceptions, the Comptroller may order and hear oral argument on the recommended findings, conclusions, decision, and order of the administrative law judge. A written request by a party must show good cause for oral argument and state reasons why arguments cannot be presented adequately in writing. A denial of a request for oral argument may be set forth in the Comptroller's final decision. Oral argument before the Comptroller must be on the record.
(c)
Comptroller's final decision.
(1) Decisional employees may advise and assist the Comptroller in the consideration and disposition of the case. The final decision of the Comptroller will be based upon review of the entire record of the proceeding, except that the Comptroller may limit the issues to be reviewed to those findings and conclusions to which opposing arguments or exceptions have been filed by the parties.
(2) The Comptroller shall render a final decision within 90 days after notification of the parties that the case has been submitted for final decision, or 90 days after oral argument, whichever is later, unless the Comptroller orders that the action or any aspect thereof be remanded to the administrative law judge for further proceedings. Copies of the final decision and order of the Comptroller shall be served upon each party to the proceeding, upon other persons required by statute, and, if directed by the Comptroller or required by statute, upon any appropriate state or Federal supervisory authority.
§ 19.41 Stays pending judicial review.
The commencement of proceedings for judicial review of a final decision and order of the Comptroller may not, unless specifically ordered by the Comptroller or a reviewing court, operate as a stay of any order issued by the Comptroller. The Comptroller may, in his or her discretion, and on such terms as he or she finds just, stay the effectiveness of all or any part of an order pending a final decision on a petition for review of that order.
Subpart B—Procedural Rules for OCC Adjudications
§ 19.100 Filing documents.
All materials required to be filed with or referred to the Comptroller or the administrative law judge in any proceeding under this part must be filed with the Hearing Clerk, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, DC 20219. Filings to be made with the Hearing Clerk include the notice and answer; motions and responses to motions; briefs; the record filed by the administrative law judge after the issuance of a recommended decision; the recommended decision filed by the administrative law judge following a motion for summary disposition; referrals by the administrative law judge of motions for interlocutory review; exceptions and requests for oral argument; and any other papers required to be filed with the Comptroller or the administrative law judge under this part.
§ 19.101 Delegation to OFIA.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Comptroller, administrative adjudications subject to subpart A of this part shall be conducted by an administrative law judge assigned to OFIA.
Subpart C—Removals, Suspensions, and Prohibitions When a Crime Is Charged or a Conviction Is Obtained
§ 19.110 Scope.
This subpart applies to informal hearings afforded to any institution-affiliated party who has been suspended or removed from office or prohibited from further participation in the affairs of any depository institution pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(g) by a notice or order issued by the Comptroller.
§ 19.111 Suspension, removal, or prohibition.
The Comptroller may serve a notice of suspension or order of removal or prohibition pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(g) on an institution-affiliated party. A copy of such notice or order will be served on any depository institution that the subject of the notice or order is affiliated with at the time the notice or order is issued, whereupon the institution-affiliated party involved must immediately cease service to, or participation in the affairs of, that depository institution and, if so determined by the OCC, any other depository institution. The notice or order will indicate the basis for suspension, removal or prohibition and will inform the institution-affiliated party of the right to request in writing, to be received by the OCC within 30 days from the date that the institution-affiliated party was served with such notice or order, an opportunity to show at an informal hearing that continued service to or participation in the conduct of the affairs of any depository institution has not posed, does not pose, or is not likely to pose a threat to the interests of the depositors of, or has not threatened, does not threaten, or is not likely to threaten to impair public confidence in, any relevant depository institution. The written request must be sent by certified mail to, or served personally with a signed receipt on, the District Deputy Comptroller in the OCC district in which the bank in question is located; if the bank is supervised by Large Bank Supervision, to the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Large Bank Supervision for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; if the bank is supervised by Mid-Size/Community Bank Supervision, to the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Mid-Size/Community Bank Supervision for the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; or if the institution-affiliated party is no longer affiliated with a particular national bank, to the Deputy Comptroller for Special Supervision, Washington, DC 20219. The request must state specifically the relief desired and the grounds on which that relief is based. For purposes of this section, the term
depository institution
means any depository institution of which the petitioner is or was an institution-affiliated party at the time at which the notice or order was issued by the Comptroller.
§ 19.112 Informal hearing.
(a)
Issuance of hearing order.
After receipt of a request for hearing, the District Deputy Comptroller, the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Large Bank Supervision, the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Mid-Size/Community Bank Supervision, or the Deputy Comptroller for Special Supervision, as appropriate, must notify the petitioner requesting the hearing, the OCC's Enforcement and Compliance Division, and the appropriate OCC District Counsel of the date, time, and place fixed for the hearing. The hearing must be scheduled to be held not later than 30 days from the date when a request for hearing is received unless the time is extended in response to a written request of the petitioner. The District Deputy Comptroller, the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Large Bank Supervision, the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Mid-Size/Community Bank Supervision, or the Deputy Comptroller for Special Supervision, as appropriate, may extend the hearing date only for a specific period of time and must take appropriate action to ensure that the hearing is not unduly delayed.
(b)
Appointment of presiding officer.
the District Deputy Comptroller, the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Large Bank Supervision, the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Mid-Size/Community Bank Supervision, or the Deputy Comptroller for Special Supervision, as appropriate, must appoint one or more OCC employees as the presiding officer to conduct the hearing. The presiding officer(s) may not
have been involved in the proceeding, a factually related proceeding, or the underlying enforcement action in a prosecutorial or investigative role.
(c)
Waiver of oral hearing
—(1)
Petitioner.
When the petitioner requests a hearing, the petitioner may elect to have the matter determined by the presiding officer solely on the basis of written submissions by serving on the District Deputy Comptroller, the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Large Bank Supervision, the Senior Deputy Comptroller for Mid-Size/Community Bank Supervision, or the Deputy Comptroller for Special Supervision, as appropriate, and all parties, a signed document waiving the statutory right to appear and make oral argument. The petitioner must present the written submissions to the presiding officer, and serve the other parties, not later than ten days prior to the date fixed for the hearing, or within such shorter time period as the presiding officer may permit.
(2)
OCC.
The OCC may respond to the petitioner's submissions by presenting the presiding officer with a written response, and by serving the other parties, not later than the date fixed for the hearing, or within such other time period as the presiding officer may require.
(d)
Hearing procedures
—(1)
Conduct of hearing.
Hearings under this subpart are not subject to the provisions of subpart A of this part or the adjudicative provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557).
(2)
Powers of the presiding officer.
The presiding officer shall determine all procedural issues that are governed by this subpart. The presiding officer may also permit or limit the number of witnesses and impose time limitations as he or she deems reasonable. The informal hearing will not be governed by the formal rules of evidence. All oral presentations, when permitted, and documents deemed by the presiding officer to be relevant and material to the proceeding and not unduly repetitious will be considered. The presiding officer may ask questions of any person participating in the hearing and may make any rulings reasonably necessary to facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the hearing.
(3)
Presentation.
(i) The OCC may appear and the petitioner may appear personally or through counsel at the hearing to present relevant written materials and oral argument. Except as permitted in paragraph (c) of this section, each party, including the OCC, must file a copy of any affidavit, memorandum, or other written material to be presented at the hearing with the presiding officer and must serve the other parties not later than ten days prior to the hearing or within such shorter time period as permitted by the presiding officer.
(ii) If the petitioner or the appointed OCC attorney desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, he or she must file a written request with the presiding officer not later than ten days prior to the hearing, or within a shorter time period as permitted by the presiding officer. The names of proposed witnesses should be included, along with the general nature of the expected testimony, and the reasons why oral testimony is necessary. The presiding officer generally will not admit oral testimony or witnesses unless a specific and compelling need is demonstrated. Witnesses, if admitted, shall be sworn.
(iii) In deciding on any suspension, the presiding officer shall not consider the ultimate question of the guilt or innocence of the individual with respect to the criminal charges which are outstanding. In deciding on any removal, the presiding officer shall not consider challenges to or efforts to impeach the validity of the conviction. The presiding officer may consider facts in either situation, however, which show the nature of the events on which the indictment or conviction was based.
(4)
Record.
A transcript of the proceedings may be taken if the petitioner requests a transcript and agrees to pay all expenses or if the presiding officer determines that the nature of the case warrants a transcript. The presiding officer may order the record to be kept open for a reasonable period following the hearing, not to exceed five business days, to permit the petitioner or the appointed OCC attorney to submit additional documents for the record. Thereafter, no further submissions may be accepted except for good cause shown.
§ 19.113 Recommended and final decisions.
(a) The presiding officer must issue a recommended decision to the Comptroller within 20 days of the conclusion of the hearing or, when the petitioner has waived an oral hearing, within 20 days of the date fixed for the hearing. The presiding officer must serve promptly a copy of the recommended decision on the parties to the proceeding. The decision must include a summary of the facts and arguments of the parties.
(b) Each party may, within ten days of being served with the presiding officer's recommended decision, submit to the Comptroller comments on the recommended decision.
(c) Within 60 days of the conclusion of the hearing or, when the petitioner has waived an oral hearing, within 60 days from the date fixed for the hearing, the Comptroller must notify the petitioner by registered mail whether the suspension or removal from office, and prohibition from participation in any manner in the affairs of any depository institution, will be affirmed, terminated, or modified. The Comptroller's decision must include a statement of reasons supporting
the decision. The Comptroller's decision is a final and unappealable order.
(d) A finding of not guilty or other disposition of the charge on which a notice of suspension was based does not preclude the Comptroller from thereafter instituting removal proceedings pursuant to section 8(e) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)) and subpart: A of this part.
(e) A removal or prohibition by order remains in effect until terminated by the Comptroller. A suspension or prohibition by notice remains in effect until the criminal charge is disposed of or until terminated by the Comptroller.
(f) A suspended or removed individual may petition the Comptroller to reconsider the decision any time after the expiration of a 12-month period from the date of the decision, but no petition for reconsideration may be made within 12 months of a previous petition. The petition must state specifically the relief sought and the grounds therefor, and may be accompanied by a supporting memorandum and any other documentation the petitioner wishes to have considered. No hearing need be granted on the petition for reconsideration.
Subpart D—Exemption Hearings Under Section 12(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
§ 19.120 Scope.
The rules in this subpart apply to informal hearings that may be held by the Comptroller to determine whether, pursuant to authority in sections 12 (h) and (i) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(h) and (i)), to exempt in whole or in part an issuer or a class of issuers from the provisions of section 12(g), or from section 13 or 14 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(g), 78m or 78n), or whether to exempt from section 16 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78p) any officer, director, or beneficial owner of securities of an issuer. The only issuers covered by this subpart are banks whose securities are registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(g)). The Comptroller may deny an application for exemption without a hearing.
§ 19.121 Application for exemption.
An issuer or an individual (officer, director or shareholder) may submit a written application for an exemption order to the Securities and Corporate Practices Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, DC 20219. The application must specify the type of exemption sought and the reasons therefor, including an explanation of why an exemption would not be inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of investors. The Securities and Corporate Practices Division shall inform the applicant in writing whether a hearing will be held to consider the matter.
§ 19.122 Newspaper notice.
Upon being informed that an application will be considered at a hearing, the applicant shall publish a notice one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the community where the issuer's main office is located. The notice must state: the name and title of any individual applicants; the type of exemption sought; the fact that a hearing will be held; and a statement that interested persons may submit to the Securities and Corporate Practices Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, DC 20219, within 30 days from the date of the newspaper notice, written comments concerning the application and a written request for an opportunity to be heard. The applicant shall promptly furnish a copy of the notice to the Securities and Corporate Practices Division, and to bank shareholders.
§ 19.123 Informal hearing.
(a)
Conduct of proceeding.
The adjudicative provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, formal rules of evidence and subpart A of this part do not apply to hearings conducted under this subpart, except as provided in § 19.100(b).
(b)
Notice of hearing.
Following the comment period, the Comptroller shall send a notice which fixes a date, time and place for hearing to each applicant and to any person who has requested an opportunity to be heard.
(c)
Presiding officer.
The Comptroller shall designate a presiding officer to conduct the hearing. The presiding officer shall determine all procedural questions not governed by this subpart and may limit the number of witnesses and impose time and presentation limitations as are deemed reasonable. At the conclusion of the informal hearing, the presiding officer shall issue a recommended decision to the Comptroller as to whether the exemption should issue. The decision shall include a summary of the facts and arguments of the parties.
(d)
Attendance.
The applicant and any person who has requested an opportunity to be heard may attend the hearing, with or without counsel. The hearing shall be open to the public. In addition, the applicant and any other hearing participant may introduce oral testimony through such witnesses as the presiding officer shall permit.
(e)
Order of presentation.
(1) The applicant may present an opening statement of a length decided by the presiding officer. Then each of the hearing participants, or one among them selected with the approval of the presiding officer, may present an opening statement. The opening statement should summarize concisely what the applicant and each participant intends to show.
(2) The applicant shall have an opportunity to make an oral presentation of facts and materials or submit written materials for
the record. One or more of the hearing participants may make an oral presentation or a written submission.
(3) After the above presentations, the applicant, followed by one or more of the hearing participants, may make concise summary statements reviewing their position.
(f)
Witnesses.
The obtaining and use of witnesses is the responsibility of the parties afforded the hearing. All witnesses shall be present on their own volition, but any person appearing as a witness may be questioned by each applicant, any hearing participant, and the presiding officer. Witnesses shall be sworn unless otherwise directed by the presiding officer.
(g)
Evidence.
The presiding officer may exclude data or materials deemed to be improper or irrelevant. Formal rules of evidence do not apply. Documentary material must be of a size consistent with ease of handling and filing. The presiding officer may determine the number of copies that must be furnished for purposes of the hearing.
(h)
Transcript.
A transcript of each proceeding will be arranged by the OCC, with all expenses, including the furnishing of a copy to the presiding officer, being borne by the applicant.
§ 19.124 Decision of the Comptroller.
Following the conclusion of the hearing and the submission of the record and the presiding officer's recommended decision to the Comptroller for decision, the Comptroller shall notify the applicant and all persons who have so requested in writing of the final disposition of the application. Exemptions granted must be in the form of an order which specifies the type of exemption granted and its terms and conditions.
Subpart E—Disciplinary Proceedings Involving the Federal Securities Laws
§ 19.130 Scope.
(a) Except as provided in this subpart, subpart A of this part applies to proceedings by the Comptroller to determine whether, pursuant to authority contained in sections 15B(c)(5), 15C(c)(2)(A), 17A(c)(3), and 17A(c)(4)(C) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-4(c)(5), 78o-5(c)(2)(A), 78q-1(c)(3)(A), and 78q-1(c)(4)(C)), to take disciplinary action against the following:
(1) A bank which is a municipal securities dealer, or any person associated or seeking to become associated with such a municipal securities dealer;
(2) A bank which is a government securities broker or dealer, or any person associated with such government securities broker or dealer; or
(3) A bank which is a transfer agent, or any person associated or seeking to become associated with such transfer agent.
(b) In addition to the issuance of disciplinary orders after opportunity for hearing, the Comptroller or the Comptroller's delegate may issue and serve any notices and temporary or permanent cease-and-desist orders and take any actions that are authorized by section 8 of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818), sections 15B(c)(5), 15C(c)(2)(B), and 17A(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, and other subparts of this part against the following:
(1) The parties listed in paragraph (a) of this section; and
(2) A bank which is a clearing agency.
(c) Nothing in this subpart impairs the powers conferred on the Comptroller by other provisions of law.
§ 19.131 Notice of charges and answer.
(a) Proceedings are commenced when the Comptroller serves a notice of charges on a bank or associated person. The notice must indicate the type of disciplinary action being contemplated and the grounds therefor, and fix a date, time and place for hearing. The hearing must be set for a date at least 30 days after service of the notice. A party served with a notice of charges may file an answer as prescribed in § 19.19. Any party who fails to appear at a hearing personally or by a duly authorized representative shall be deemed to have consented to the issuance of a disciplinary order.
(b) All proceedings under this subpart must be commenced, and the notice of charges must be filed, on a public basis, unless otherwise ordered by the Comptroller. Pursuant to § 19.33(a), a request for a private hearing may be filed within 20 days of service of the notice.
§ 19.132 Disciplinary orders.
(a) In the event of consent, or if on the record filed by the administrative law judge, the Comptroller finds that any act or omission or violation specified in the notice of charges has been established, the Comptroller may serve on the bank or persons concerned a disciplinary order, as provided in the Exchange Act. The order may:
(1) Censure, limit the activities, functions or operations, or suspend or revoke the registration of a bank which is a municipal securities dealer;
(2) Censure, suspend or bar any person associated or seeking to become associated with a municipal securities dealer;
(3) Censure, limit the activities, functions or operations, or suspend or bar a bank which is a government securities broker or dealer;
(4) Censure, limit the activities, functions or operations, or suspend or bar any person associated with a government securities broker or dealer;
(5) Deny registration to, limit the activities, functions, or operations or suspend or revoke the registration of a bank which is a transfer agent; or
(6) Censure or limit the activities or functions, or suspend or bar, any person associated or seeking to become associated with a transfer agent.
(b) A disciplinary order is effective when served on the party or parties involved and remains effective and enforceable until it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by action of the Comptroller or a reviewing court.
§ 19.135 Applications for stay or review of disciplinary actions imposed by registered clearing agencies.
(a)
Stays.
The rules adopted by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to section 19 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78s) regarding applications by persons for whom the SEC is the appropriate regulatory agency for stays of disciplinary sanctions or summary suspensions imposed by registered clearing agencies (17 CFR 240.19d-2) apply to applications by national banks. References to the “Commission” are deemed to refer to the “OCC.”
(b)
Reviews.
The regulations adopted by the SEC pursuant to section 19 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78s) regarding applications by persons for whom the SEC is the appropriate regulatory agency for reviews of final disciplinary sanctions, denials of participation, or prohibitions or limitations of access to services imposed by registered clearing agencies (17 CFR 240.19d-3(a)-(f)) apply to applications by national banks. References to the “Commission” are deemed to refer to the “OCC.”
Subpart F—Civil Money Penalty Authority Under the Securities Laws
§ 19.140 Scope.
(a) Except as provided in this subpart, subpart A of this part applies to proceedings by the Comptroller to determine whether, pursuant to authority contained in section 21B of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-2), in proceedings commenced pursuant to sections 15B, 15C, and 17A of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-4, 78o-5, or 78q-1) for which the OCC is the appropriate regulatory agency under section 3(a)(34) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)), the Comptroller may impose a civil money penalty against the following:
(1) A bank which is a municipal securities dealer, or any person associated or seeking to become associated with such a municipal securities dealer;
(2) A bank which is a government securities broker or dealer, or any person associated with such government securities broker or dealer; or
(3) A bank which is a transfer agent, or any person associated or seeking to become associated with such transfer agent.
(b) All proceedings under this subpart must be commenced, and the notice of assessment must be filed, on a public basis, unless otherwise ordered by the Comptroller. Pursuant to § 19.33(a), any request for a private hearing must be filed within 20 days of service of the notice.
Subpart G—Cease-and-Desist Authority Under the Securities Laws
§ 19.150 Scope.
(a) Except as provided in this subpart, subpart A of this part applies to proceedings by the Comptroller to determine whether, pursuant to authority contained in sections 12(i) and 21C of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(i) and 78u-3), the Comptroller may initiate cease-and-desist proceedings against a national bank for violations of sections 12, 13, 14(a), 14(c), 14(d), 14(f), and 16 of the Exchange Act or regulations or rules issued thereunder (15 U.S.C. 78
l,
78m, 78n(a), 78n(c), 78n(d), 78n(f), and 78p).
(b) All proceedings under this subpart must be commenced, and the notice of charges must be filed, on a public basis, unless otherwise ordered by the Comptroller. Pursuant to § 19.33(a), any request for a private hearing must be filed within 20 days of service of the notice.
Subpart H—Change in Bank Control
§ 19.160 Scope.
(a) Section 7(j) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)) provides that no person may acquire control of an insured depository institution unless the appropriate Federal bank regulatory agency has been given prior written notice of the proposed acquisition. If, after investigating and soliciting comment on the proposed acquisition, the agency decides that the acquisition should be disapproved, the agency shall mail a written notification to the proposed acquiring person in writing within three days of the decision. The party can then request an agency hearing on the proposed acquisition. The OCC's procedures for reviewing notices of proposed acquisitions in change-in-control proceedings are set forth in § 5.50 of this chapter.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in this subpart, the rules in subpart A of this part set forth the procedures applicable to requests for OCC hearings.
§ 19.161 Notice of disapproval and hearing initiation.
(a)
Notice of disapproval.
The OCC's written disapproval of a proposed acquisition of control of a national bank must:
(1) Contain a statement of the basis for the disapproval; and
(2) Indicate that the filer may request a hearing.
(b)
Hearing request.
Following receipt of a notice of disapproval, a filer may request a hearing on the proposed acquisition. A hearing request must:
(1) Be in writing; and
(2) Be filed with the Hearing Clerk of the OCC within ten days after service on the filer of the notice of disapproval. If a filer fails to request a hearing with a timely written request, the notice of disapproval constitutes a final and unappealable order.
(c)
Hearing order.
Following receipt of a hearing request, the Comptroller shall issue, within 20 days, an order that sets forth:
(1) The legal authority for the proceeding and for the OCC's jurisdiction over the proceeding;
(2) The matters of fact or law upon which the disapproval is based; and
(3) The requirement for filing an answer to the hearing order with OFIA within 20 days after service of the hearing order.
(d)
Answer.
An answer to a hearing order must specifically deny those portions of the order that are disputed. Those portions of the order that the filer does not specifically deny are deemed admitted by the filer. Any hearing under this subpart is limited to those portions of the order that are specifically denied.
(e)
Effect of failure to answer.
Failure of a filer to file an answer within 20 days after service of the hearing order constitutes a waiver of the filer's right to appear and contest the allegations in the hearing order. If a filer does not file a timely answer, enforcement counsel may file a motion for entry of an order of default. Upon a finding that no good cause has been shown for the failure to file a timely answer, the administrative law judge shall file with the Comptroller a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the hearing order. Any final order issued by the Comptroller based upon a filer's failure to answer is deemed to be an order issued upon consent and is a final and unappealable order.
Subpart I—Discovery Depositions and Subpoenas
§ 19.170 Discovery depositions.
(a)
General rule.
In any proceeding instituted under or subject to the provisions of subpart A of this part, a party may take the deposition of an expert, or of a person, including another party, who has direct knowledge of matters that are non-privileged, relevant, and material to the proceeding, and where there is need for the deposition. The deposition of experts shall be limited to those experts who are expected to testify at the hearing.
(b)
Notice.
A party desiring to take a deposition shall give reasonable notice in writing to the deponent and to every other party to the proceeding. The notice must state the time and place for taking the deposition, and the name and address of the person to be deposed.
(c)
Time limits.
A party may take depositions at any time after the commencement of the proceeding, but no later than ten days before the scheduled hearing date, except with permission of the administrative law judge for good cause shown.
(d)
Conduct of the deposition.
The witness must be duly sworn, and each party will have the right to examine the witness with respect to all non-privileged, relevant, and material matters of which the witness has factual, direct, and personal knowledge. Objections to questions or exhibits must be in short form and must state the grounds for the objection. Failure to object to questions or exhibits is not a waiver except where the grounds for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented.
(e)
Recording the testimony
—(1)
Generally.
The party taking the deposition must have a certified court reporter record the witness's testimony:
(i) By stenotype machine or electronic sound recording device;
(ii) Upon agreement of the parties, by any other method; or
(iii) For good cause and with leave of the administrative law judge, by any other method.
(2)
Cost.
The party taking the deposition must bear the cost of the recording and transcribing the witness's testimony.
(3)
Transcript.
Unless the parties agree that a transcription is not necessary, the court reporter must provide a transcript of the witness's testimony to the party taking the deposition and must make a copy of the transcript available to each party upon payment by that party of the cost of the copy.
(f)
Protective orders.
At any time after notice of a deposition has been given, a party may file a motion for the issuance of a protective order. Such protective order may prohibit, terminate, or limit the scope or manner of the taking of a deposition. The administrative law judge shall grant such protective order upon a showing of sufficient grounds, including that the deposition:
(1) Is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome;
(2) Involves privileged, irrelevant, or immaterial matters;
(3) Involves unwarranted attempts to pry into a party's preparation for trial; or
(4) Is being conducted in bad faith or in such manner as to unreasonably annoy, embarrass, or oppress the witness.
(g)
Fees.
Deposition witnesses, including expert witnesses, shall be paid the same expenses in the same manner as are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States in proceedings in which the United States is a party. Expenses in accordance with this paragraph shall be paid by the party seeking to take the deposition.
§ 19.171 Deposition subpoenas.
(a)
Issuance.
At the request of a party, the administrative law judge shall issue a subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a discovery deposition under paragraph (a) of this section. The attendance of a witness may be required from any place in any state or territory that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or as otherwise permitted by law.
(b)
Service
—(1)
Methods of service.
The party requesting the subpoena must serve it on the person named therein, or on that person's counsel, by any of the methods identified in § 19.11(d).
(2)
Proof of service.
The party serving the subpoena must file proof of service with the administrative law judge.
(c)
Motion to quash.
A person named in a subpoena may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena. A statement of the reasons for the motion must accompany it and a copy of the motion must be served on the party which requested the subpoena. The motion must be made prior to the time for compliance specified in the subpoena and not more than ten days after the date of service of the subpoena, or if the subpoena is served within 15 days of the hearing, within five days after the date of service.
(d)
Enforcement of deposition subpoena.
Enforcement of a deposition subpoena shall be in accordance with the procedures of § 19.27(d).
Subpart J—Formal Investigations
§ 19.180 Scope.
This subpart and § 19.8 apply to formal investigations initiated by order of the Comptroller or the Comptroller's delegate and pertain to the exercise of powers specified in 12 U.S.C. 481, 1818(n) and 1820(c), and section 21 of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u). This subpart does not restrict or in any way affect the authority of the Comptroller to conduct examinations into the affairs or ownership of banks and their affiliates.
§ 19.181 Confidentiality of formal investigations.
Information or documents obtained in the course of a formal investigation are confidential and may be disclosed only in accordance with the provisions of part 4 of this chapter.
§ 19.182 Order to conduct a formal investigation.
A formal investigation begins with the issuance of an order signed by the Comptroller or the Comptroller's delegate. The order must designate the person or persons who will conduct the investigation. Such persons are authorized, among other things, to issue subpoenas duces tecum, to administer oaths, and receive affirmations as to any matter under investigation by the Comptroller. Upon application and for good cause shown, the Comptroller may limit, modify, or withdraw the order at any stage of the proceedings.
§ 19.183 Rights of witnesses.
(a) Any person who is compelled or requested to furnish testimony, documentary evidence, or other information with respect to any matter under formal investigation shall, on request, be shown the order initiating the investigation.
(b) Any person who, in a formal investigation, is compelled to appear and testify, or who appears and testifies by request or permission of the Comptroller, may be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel. The right to be accompanied, represented, and advised by counsel means the right of a person testifying to have an attorney present at all times while testifying and to have the attorney—
(1) Advise the person before, during and after the conclusion of testimony;
(2) Question the person briefly at the conclusion of testimony to clarify any of the answers given; and
(3) Make summary notes during the testimony solely for the use of the person.
(c) Any person who has given or will give testimony and counsel representing the person may be excluded from the proceedings during the taking of testimony of any other witness.
(d) Any person who is compelled to give testimony is entitled to inspect any transcript that has been made of the testimony but may not obtain a copy if the Comptroller's representatives conducting the proceedings have cause to believe that the contents should not be disclosed pending completion of the investigation.
(e) Any designated representative conducting an investigative proceeding shall report to the Comptroller any instances where a person has been guilty of dilatory, obstructionist or insubordinate conduct during the course of the proceeding or any other instance involving a violation of this part. The Comptroller may take such action as the circumstances warrant, including exclusion of the offending individual or individuals from participation in the proceedings.
§ 19.184 Service of subpoena and payment of witness expenses.
(a)
Methods of service.
Service of a subpoena may be made by any of the methods identified in § 19.11(d).
(b)
Expenses.
A witness who is subpoenaed will be paid the same expenses in the same manner as witnesses in the district courts of the United States. The expenses need not be tendered at the time a subpoena is served.
Subpart K—Parties and Representational Practice Before the OCC; Standards of Conduct
§ 19.190 Scope.
This subpart contains rules relating to parties and representational practice before the OCC. This subpart includes the imposition of sanctions by the administrative law judge, any other presiding officer appointed pursuant to subparts C and D of this part, or the Comptroller against parties or their counsel in an adjudicatory proceeding under this part. This subpart also covers other disciplinary sanctions—censure, suspension or debarment—against individuals who appear before the OCC in a representational capacity either in an adjudicatory proceeding under this part or in any other matters connected with presentations to the OCC relating to a client's rights, privileges, or liabilities. This representation includes, but is not limited to, the practice of attorneys and accountants. Employees of the OCC are not subject to disciplinary proceedings under this subpart.
§ 19.191 Definitions.
As used in §§ 19.190 through 19.201, the following terms shall have the meaning given in this section unless the context otherwise requires:
(a)
Practice before the OCC
includes any matters connected with presentations to the OCC or any of its officers or employees relating to a client's rights, privileges or liabilities under laws or regulations administered by the OCC. Such matters include, but are not limited to, representation of a client in an adjudicatory proceeding under this part; the preparation of any statement, opinion or other paper or document by an attorney, accountant, or other licensed professional which is filed with, or submitted to, the OCC, on behalf of another person in, or in connection with, any application, notification, report or document; the representation of a person at conferences, hearings and meetings; and the transaction of other business before the OCC on behalf of another person. The term “practice before the OCC” does not include work prepared for a bank solely at its request for use in the ordinary course of its business.
(b)
Attorney
means any individual who is a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, possession, territory, commonwealth, of the United States or the District of Columbia.
(c)
Accountant
means any individual who is duly qualified to practice as a certified public accountant or a public accountant in any state, possession, territory, commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia.
§ 19.192 Sanctions relating to conduct in an adjudicatory proceeding.
(a)
General rule.
Appropriate sanctions may be imposed when any party or person representing a party in an adjudicatory proceeding under this part has failed to comply with an applicable statute, regulation, or order, and that failure to comply:
(1) Constitutes contemptuous conduct;
(2) Materially injures or prejudices another party in terms of substantive injury, incurring additional expenses including attorney's fees, prejudicial delay, or otherwise;
(3) Is a clear and unexcused violation of an applicable statute, regulation, or order; or
(4) Unduly delays the proceeding.
(b)
Sanctions.
Sanctions which may be imposed include any one or more of the following:
(1) Issuing an order against the party;
(2) Rejecting or striking any testimony or documentary evidence offered, or other papers filed, by the party;
(3) Precluding the party from contesting specific issues or findings;
(4) Precluding the party from offering certain evidence or from challenging or contesting certain evidence offered by another party;
(5) Precluding the party from making a late filing or conditioning a late filing on any terms that are just; and
(6) Assessing reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by any other party as a result of the improper action or failure to act.
(c)
Procedure for imposition of sanctions.
(1) Upon the motion of any party, or on his or her own motion, the administrative law judge or other presiding officer may impose sanctions in accordance with this section. The administrative law judge or other presiding officer shall submit to the Comptroller for final ruling any sanction entering a final order that determines the case on the merits.
(2) No sanction authorized by this section, other than refusal to accept late filings, shall be imposed without prior notice to all parties and an opportunity for any party against whom sanctions would be imposed to be heard. Such opportunity to be heard may be on such notice, and the response may be in such form as the administrative law judge or other presiding officer directs. The administrative law judge or other presiding officer may limit the opportunity to be heard to an opportunity of a party or a party's representative to respond orally immediately after the act or inaction covered by this section is noted by the administrative law judge or other presiding officer.
(3) Requests for the imposition of sanctions by any party, and the imposition of sanctions, are subject to interlocutory review pursuant to § 19.25 in the same manner as any other ruling.
(d)
Section not exclusive.
Nothing in this section shall be read as precluding the administrative law judge or other presiding officer or the Comptroller from taking any other action, or imposing any restriction or sanction, authorized by applicable statute or regulation.
§ 19.193 Censure, suspension or debarment.
The Comptroller may censure an individual or suspend or debar such individual from practice before the OCC if he or she is incompetent in representing a client's rights or interest in a significant matter before the OCC; or engages, or has engaged, in disreputable conduct; or refuses to comply with the rules and regulations in this part; or with intent to defraud in any manner, willfully and knowingly deceives, misleads, or threatens any client or prospective client. The suspension or debarment of an individual may be initiated only upon a finding by the Comptroller that the basis for the disciplinary action is sufficiently egregious.
§ 19.194 Eligibility of attorneys and accountants to practice.
(a)
Attorneys.
Any attorney who is qualified to practice as an attorney and is not currently under suspension or debarment pursuant to this subpart may practice before the OCC.
(b)
Accountants.
Any accountant who is qualified to practice as a certified public accountant or public accountant and is not currently under suspension or debarment by the OCC may practice before the OCC.
§ 19.195 Incompetence.
Incompetence in the representation of a client's rights and interests in a significant matter before the OCC is grounds for suspension or debarment. The term “incompetence” encompasses conduct that reflects a lack of the knowledge, judgment and skill that a professional would ordinarily and reasonably be expected to exercise in adequately representing the rights and interests of a client. Such conduct includes, but is not limited to:
(a) Handling a matter which the individual knows or should know that he or she is not competent to handle, without associating with a professional who is competent to handle such matter.
(b) Handling a matter without adequate preparation under the circumstances.
(c) Neglect in a matter entrusted to him or her.
§ 19.196 Disreputable conduct.
Disreputable conduct for which an individual may be censured, debarred, or suspended from practice before the OCC includes:
(a) Willfully or recklessly violating or willfully or recklessly aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal banking or applicable securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder or conviction of any offense involving dishonesty or breach of trust;
(b) Knowingly or recklessly giving false or misleading information, or participating in any way in the giving of false information to the OCC or any officer or employee thereof, or to any tribunal authorized to pass upon matters administered by the OCC in connection with any matter pending or likely to be pending before it. The term “information” includes facts or other statements contained in testimony, financial statements, applications for enrollment, affidavits, declarations, or any other document or written or oral statement;
(c) Directly or indirectly attempting to influence, or offering or agreeing to attempt to influence, the official action of any officer or employee of the OCC by the use of threats, false accusations, duress or coercion, by the offer of any special inducement or promise of advantage or by the bestowing of any gift, favor, or thing of value.
(d) Disbarment or suspension from practice as an attorney, or debarment or suspension from practice as a certified public accountant or public accountant, by any duly constituted authority of any state, possession, or commonwealth of the United States, or the District of Columbia for the conviction of a felony or misdemeanor involving moral turpitude in matters relating to the supervisory responsibilities of the OCC, where the conviction has not been reversed on appeal.
(e) Knowingly aiding or abetting another individual to practice before the OCC during that individual's period of suspension, debarment, or ineligibility.
(f) Contemptuous conduct in connection with practice before the OCC, and knowingly making false accusations and statements, or circulating or publishing malicious or libelous matter.
(g) Suspension, debarment or removal from practice before the Board of Governors, the FDIC, the OTS, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or any other Federal or state agency; and
(h) Willful violation of any of the regulations contained in this part.
§ 19.197 Initiation of disciplinary proceeding.
(a)
Receipt of information.
An individual, including any employee of the OCC, who has reason to believe that an individual practicing before the OCC in a representative capacity has engaged in any conduct that would serve as a basis for censure, suspension or debarment under § 19.192, may make a report thereof and forward it to the OCC or to such person as may be delegated responsibility for such matters by the Comptroller.
(b)
Censure without formal proceeding.
Upon receipt of information regarding an individual's qualification to practice before the OCC, the Comptroller or the Comptroller's delegate may, after giving the individual notice and opportunity to respond, censure such individual.
(c)
Institution of formal disciplinary proceeding.
When the Comptroller has reason to believe that any individual who practices before the OCC in a representative capacity has engaged in conduct that would serve as a basis for censure, suspension or debarment under § 19.192, the Comptroller may, after giving the individual notice and opportunity to respond, institute a formal disciplinary proceeding against such individual. The proceeding will be conducted pursuant to § 19.199 and initiated by a complaint which names the individual as a respondent and is signed by the Comptroller or the Comptroller's delegate. Except in cases of willfulness, or when time, the nature of the proceeding, or the public interest do not permit, a proceeding under this section may not be commenced until the respondent has been informed, in writing, of the facts or conduct which warrant institution of a proceeding and the respondent has been accorded the opportunity to comply with all lawful requirements or take whatever action may be necessary to remedy the conduct that is the basis for the commencement of the proceeding.
§ 19.198 Conferences.
(a)
General.
The Comptroller may confer with a proposed respondent concerning allegations of misconduct or other grounds for censure, debarment or suspension, regardless of whether a proceeding for debarment or suspension has been commenced. If a conference results in a stipulation in connection with a proceeding in which the individual is the respondent, the stipulation may be entered in the record at the request of either party to the proceeding.
(b)
Resignation or voluntary suspension.
In order to avoid the institution of, or a decision in, a debarment or suspension proceeding, a person who practices before the OCC may consent to suspension from practice. At the discretion of the Comptroller, the individual may be suspended or debarred in accordance with the consent offered.
§ 19.199 Proceedings under this subpart.
Any hearing held under this subpart is held before an administrative law judge pursuant to procedures set forth in subpart A of this part. The Comptroller or the Comptroller's delegate shall appoint a person to represent the OCC in the hearing. Any person having prior involvement in the matter which is the basis for the suspension or debarment proceeding is disqualified from representing the OCC in the hearing. The hearing will be closed to the public unless the Comptroller on his or her own initiative, or on the request of a party, otherwise directs. The administrative law judge shall issue a recommended decision to the Comptroller who shall issue the final decision and order. The Comptroller may censure, debar or suspend an individual, or take such other disciplinary action as the Comptroller deems appropriate.
§ 19.200 Effect of suspension, debarment or censure.
(a)
Debarment.
If the final order against the respondent is for debarment, the individual may not practice before the OCC unless otherwise permitted to do so by the Comptroller.
(b) S
uspension.
If the final order against the respondent is for suspension, the individual may not practice before the OCC during the period of suspension.
(c)
Censure.
If the final order against the respondent is for censure, the individual may be permitted to practice before the OCC, but such individual's future representations may be subject to conditions designed to promote high standards of conduct. If a written letter of censure is issued, a copy will be maintained in the OCC's files.
(d)
Notice of debarment or suspension.
Upon the issuance of a final order for suspension or debarment, the Comptroller shall give notice of the order to appropriate officers and employees of the OCC and to interested departments and agencies of the Federal government. The Comptroller or the Comptroller's delegate shall also give notice to the appropriate authorities of the state in which any debarred or suspended individual is or was licensed to practice.
§ 19.201 Petition for reinstatement.
At the expiration of the period of time designated in the order of debarment, the Comptroller may entertain a petition for reinstatement from any person debarred from practice before the OCC. The Comptroller may grant reinstatement only if satisfied that the petitioner is likely to act in accordance with the regulations in this part, and that granting reinstatement would not be contrary to the public interest. Any request for reinstatement shall be limited to written submissions unless the Comptroller, in his or her discretion, affords the petitioner a hearing.
Subpart L—Equal Access to Justice Act
§ 19.210 Scope.
The Equal Access to Justice Act regulations applicable to formal OCC adjudicatory proceedings under this part are set forth at 31 CFR part 6.
Subpart M—Procedures for Reclassifying a Bank Based on Criteria Other Than Capital
§ 19.220 Scope.
This subpart applies to the procedures afforded to any bank that has been reclassified to a lower capital category by a notice or order issued by the OCC pursuant to section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and this part.
§ 19.221 Reclassification of a bank based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice.
(a)
Issuance of notice of proposed reclassification
—(1)
Grounds for reclassification.
(i) Pursuant to § 6.4 of this chapter, the OCC may reclassify a well capitalized bank as adequately capitalized or subject an adequately capitalized bank or undercapitalized bank to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower capital category if:
(A) The OCC determines that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition; or
(B) The OCC deems the bank to be engaging in an unsafe or unsound practice and not to have corrected the deficiency.
(ii) Any action pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1) shall hereinafter be referred to as “reclassification.”
(2)
Prior notice to institution.
Prior to taking action pursuant to § 6.4 of this chapter, the OCC shall issue and serve on the bank a written notice of the OCC's intention to reclassify the bank.
(b)
Contents of notice.
A notice of intention to reclassify a bank based on unsafe or unsound condition will include:
(1) A statement of the bank's capital measures and capital levels and the category to which the bank would be reclassified;
(2) The reasons for reclassification of the bank;
(3) The date by which the bank subject to the notice of reclassification may file with the OCC a written appeal of the proposed reclassification and a request for a hearing, which shall be at least 14 calendar days from the date of service of the notice unless the OCC determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the bank or other relevant circumstances.
(c)
Response to notice of proposed reclassification.
A bank may file a written response to a notice of proposed reclassification within the time period set by the OCC. The response should include:
(1) An explanation of why the bank is not in unsafe or unsound condition or otherwise should not be reclassified;
(2) Any other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the position of the bank or company regarding the reclassification.
(d)
Failure to file response.
Failure by a bank to file, within the specified time period, a written response with the OCC to a notice of proposed reclassification shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to the reclassification.
(e)
Request for hearing and presentation of oral testimony or witnesses.
The response may include a request for an informal hearing before the OCC under this section. If the bank desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, the bank shall include a request to do so with the request for an informal hearing. A request to present oral testimony or witnesses shall specify the names of the witnesses and the general nature of their expected testimony. Failure to request a hearing shall constitute a waiver of any right to a hearing, and failure to request the opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses shall constitute a waiver of any right to present oral testimony or witnesses.
(f)
Order for informal hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely written request that includes a request for a hearing, the OCC shall issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the OCC allows further time at the request of the bank. The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC or at such other place as may be designated by the OCC, before a presiding officer(s) designated by the OCC to conduct the hearing.
(g)
Hearing procedures.
(1) The bank shall have the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present oral argument at the hearing. The bank may introduce oral testimony and present witnesses only if expressly authorized by the OCC or the presiding officer(s). Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure in subpart A of this part apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the OCC orders that such procedures shall apply.
(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript furnished to the bank upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer(s). The presiding officer(s) may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officer(s) may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period (normally five business days) following completion of oral testimony or argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(h)
Recommendation of presiding officer(s).
Within 20 calendar days following the date the hearing and the record on the proceeding are closed, the presiding officer(s) shall make a recommendation to the OCC on the reclassification.
(i)
Time for decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the OCC will decide whether to reclassify the bank and notify the bank of the OCC's decision.
§ 19.222 Request for rescission of reclassification.
Any bank that has been reclassified under part 6 of this chapter and this subpart, may, upon a change in circumstances, request in writing that the OCC reconsider the reclassification, and may propose that the reclassification be rescinded and that any directives issued in connection with the reclassification be modified, rescinded, or removed. Unless otherwise ordered by the OCC, the bank shall remain subject to the reclassification and to any directives issued in connection with that reclassification while such request is pending before the OCC.
Subpart N—Order To Dismiss a Director or Senior Executive Officer
§ 19.230 Scope.
This subpart applies to informal hearings afforded to any director or senior executive officer dismissed pursuant to an order issued under 12 U.S.C. 1831o and part 6 of this chapter.
§ 19.231 Order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
(a)
Service of notice.
When the OCC issues and serves a directive on a bank pursuant to subpart B of part 6 of this chapter requiring the bank to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer under section 38(f)(2)(F)(ii) of the FDI Act, the OCC shall also serve a copy of the directive, or the relevant portions of the directive where appropriate, upon the person to be dismissed.
(b)
Response to directive
—(1)
Request for reinstatement.
A director or senior executive officer who has been served with a directive under paragraph (a) of this section (Respondent) may file a written request for reinstatement. The request for reinstatement shall be filed within 10 calendar days of the receipt of the directive by the Respondent, unless further time is allowed by the OCC at the request of the Respondent.
(2)
Contents of request; informal hearing.
The request for reinstatement shall include reasons why the Respondent should be reinstated, and may include a request for an informal hearing before the OCC or its designee under this section. If the Respondent desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, the Respondent shall include a request to do so with the request for an informal hearing. The request to present oral testimony or witnesses shall specify the names of the witnesses and the general nature of their expected testimony. Failure to request a hearing shall constitute a waiver of any right to a hearing and failure to request the opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses shall constitute a waiver of any right or opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses.
(3)
Effective date.
Unless otherwise ordered by the OCC, the dismissal shall remain in effect while a request for reinstatement is pending.
(c)
Order for informal hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely written request from a Respondent for an informal hearing on the portion of a directive requiring a bank to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer, the OCC shall issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the Respondent requests a later date. The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC, or at such other place as may be designated by the OCC, before a presiding officer(s) designated by the OCC to conduct the hearing.
(d)
Hearing procedures.
(1) A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent shall have the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present oral argument. A Respondent may introduce oral testimony and present witnesses only if expressly authorized by the OCC or the presiding officer(s). Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure in subpart A of this part apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the OCC orders that such procedures shall apply.
(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded, and a transcript furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer(s). The presiding officer(s) may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officer(s) may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period (normally five business days) following completion of oral testimony or argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(e)
Standard for review.
A Respondent shall bear the burden of demonstrating that his or her continued employment by or service with the bank would materially strengthen the bank's ability:
(1) To become adequately capitalized, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the bank's capital level or failure to submit or implement a capital restoration plan; and
(2) To correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of classification of the bank based on supervisory criteria other than capital, pursuant to section 38(g) of the FDI Act.
(f)
Recommendation of presiding officer.
Within 20 calendar days following the date the hearing and the record on the proceeding are closed, the presiding officer(s) shall make a recommendation to the OCC concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the bank.
(g)
Time for decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the OCC shall grant or deny the request for reinstatement and notify the Respondent of the OCC's decision. If the OCC denies the request for reinstatement, the OCC shall set forth in the notification the reasons for the OCC's action.
Subpart O—Civil Money Penalty Adjustments
§ 19.240 Inflation adjustments.
(a)
Statutory formula to calculate inflation adjustments.
The OCC is required by statute to annually adjust for inflation the maximum amount of each civil money penalty within its jurisdiction to administer. The inflation adjustment is calculated by multiplying the maximum dollar amount of the civil money penalty for the previous calendar year by the cost-of-living inflation adjustment multiplier provided annually by the Office of Management and Budget and rounding the total to the nearest dollar.
(b)
Notice of inflation adjustments.
The OCC will publish notice in the
Federal Register
of the maximum penalties which may be assessed on an annual basis on or before January 15 of each calendar year based on the formula in paragraph (a) of this section, for penalties assessed on, or after, the date of publication of the most recent notice related to conduct occurring on, or after, November 2, 2015.
Subpart P—Removal, Suspension, and Debarment of Accountants From Performing Audit Services
§ 19.241 Scope.
This subpart, which implements section 36(g)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831m(g)(4)), provides rules and procedures for the removal, suspension, or debarment of independent public accountants and their accounting firms from performing independent audit and attestation services required by section 36 of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831m) for insured national banks, insured Federal savings associations, and insured Federal branches of foreign banks.
§ 19.242 Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the following terms have the meaning given below unless the context requires otherwise:
(a)
Accounting firm
means a corporation, proprietorship, partnership, or other business firm providing audit services.
(b)
Audit services
means any service required to be performed by an independent public accountant by section 36 of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831m) and 12 CFR part 363, including attestation services.
(c)
Independent public accountant (accountant)
means any individual who performs or participates in providing audit services.
§ 19.243 Removal, suspension, or debarment.
(a)
Good cause for removal, suspension, or debarment
—(1)
Individuals.
The Comptroller may remove, suspend, or debar an independent public accountant from performing audit services for insured national banks, insured Federal savings associations, or insured Federal branches of foreign banks that are subject to section 36 of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831m) if, after service of a notice of intention and opportunity for hearing in the matter, the Comptroller finds that the accountant:
(i) Lacks the requisite qualifications to perform audit services;
(ii) Has knowingly or recklessly engaged in conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional standards, including those standards and conflicts of interest provisions applicable to accountants through the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Public Law 107-204, 116 Stat. 745 (2002) (Sarbanes-Oxley Act), and developed by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and the Securities and Exchange Commission;
(iii) Has engaged in negligent conduct in the form of:
(A) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted; or
(B) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to perform audit services;
(iv) Has knowingly or recklessly given false or misleading information, or knowingly or recklessly participated in any way in the giving of false or misleading information, to the OCC or any officer or employee of the OCC;
(v) Has engaged in, or aided and abetted, a material and knowing or reckless violation of any provision of the Federal banking or securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder, or any other law;
(vi) Has been removed, suspended, or debarred from practice before any Federal or State agency regulating the banking, insurance, or securities industries, other than by an action listed in § 19.244, on grounds relevant to the provision of audit services; or
(vii) Is suspended or debarred for cause from practice as an accountant by any duly constituted licensing authority of any State, possession, commonwealth, or the District of Columbia.
(2)
Accounting firms.
If the Comptroller determines that there is good cause for the removal, suspension, or debarment of a member or employee of an accounting firm under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the Comptroller also may remove, suspend, or debar
such firm or one or more offices of such firm. In considering whether to remove, suspend, or debar a firm or an office thereof, and the term of any sanction against a firm under this section, the Comptroller may consider, for example:
(i) The gravity, scope, or repetition of the act or failure to act that constitutes good cause for the removal, suspension, or debarment;
(ii) The adequacy of, and adherence to, applicable policies, practices, or procedures for the accounting firm's conduct of its business and the performance of audit services;
(iii) The selection, training, supervision, and conduct of members or employees of the accounting firm involved in the performance of audit services;
(iv) The extent to which managing partners or senior officers of the accounting firm have participated, directly, or indirectly through oversight or review, in the act or failure to act; and
(v) The extent to which the accounting firm has, since the occurrence of the act or failure to act, implemented corrective internal controls to prevent its recurrence.
(3)
Limited scope orders.
An order of removal, suspension (including an immediate suspension), or debarment may, at the discretion of the Comptroller, be made applicable to a particular insured national bank, insured Federal savings association, or insured Federal branch of a foreign bank or class of insured national banks, insured Federal savings associations, or insured Federal branches of foreign banks.
(4)
Remedies not exclusive.
The remedies provided in this subpart are in addition to any other remedies the OCC may have under any other applicable provisions of law, rule, or regulation.
(b)
Proceedings to remove, suspend, or debar
—(1)
Initiation of formal removal, suspension, or debarment proceedings.
The Comptroller may initiate a proceeding to remove, suspend, or debar an accountant or accounting firm from performing audit services by issuing a written notice of intention to take such action that names the individual or firm as a respondent and describes the nature of the conduct that constitutes good cause for such action.
(2)
Hearings under paragraph (b) of this section.
An accountant or firm named as a respondent in the notice issued under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may request a hearing on the allegations in the notice. Hearings conducted under this paragraph will be conducted in the same manner as other hearings under the Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure (12 CFR part 19, subpart A), subject to the limitations in § 19.243(c)(4).
(c)
Immediate suspension from performing audit services
—(1)
In general.
If the Comptroller serves a written notice of intention to remove, suspend, or debar an accountant or accounting firm from performing audit services, the Comptroller may, with due regard for the public interest and without a preliminary hearing, immediately suspend such accountant or firm from performing audit services for insured national banks, insured Federal savings associations, or insured Federal branches of foreign banks, if the Comptroller:
(i) Has a reasonable basis to believe that the accountant or firm has engaged in conduct (specified in the notice served on the accountant or firm under paragraph (b) of this section) that would constitute grounds for removal, suspension, or debarment under paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) Determines that immediate suspension is necessary to avoid immediate harm to an insured depository institution or its depositors or to the depository system as a whole; and
(iii) Serves such respondent with written notice of the immediate suspension.
(2)
Procedures.
An immediate suspension notice issued under this paragraph will become effective upon service. Such suspension will remain in effect until the date the Comptroller dismisses the charges contained in the notice of intention, or the effective date of a final order of removal, suspension, or debarment issued by the Comptroller to the respondent.
(3)
Petition for stay.
Any accountant or firm immediately suspended from performing audit services in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section may, within 10 calendar days after service of the notice of immediate suspension, file with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, DC 20219 for a stay of such immediate suspension. If no petition is filed within 10 calendar days, the right to a petition is waived and the immediate suspension remains in effect pursuant to paragraph (c)(2).
(4)
Hearing on petition.
Upon receipt of a stay petition, the Comptroller will designate a presiding officer who will fix a place and time (not more than 10 calendar days after receipt of the petition, unless further time is allowed by the presiding officer at the request of petitioner) at which the immediately suspended party may appear, personally or through counsel, to submit written materials and oral argument. Any OCC employee engaged in investigative or prosecuting functions for the OCC in a case may not, in that or a factually related case, serve as a presiding officer or participate or advise in the decision of the presiding officer or of the OCC, except as witness or counsel in the proceeding. In the sole discretion of the presiding officer, upon a specific showing of compelling need, oral testimony of witnesses
may also be presented. In hearings held pursuant to this paragraph there will be no discovery and the provisions of §§ 19.6 through 19.12, 19.16, and 19.21 of this part apply.
(5)
Decision on petition.
Within 30 calendar days after the hearing, the presiding officer will issue a decision. The presiding officer will grant a stay upon a demonstration that a substantial likelihood exists of the respondent's success on the issues raised by the notice of intention and that, absent such relief, the respondent will suffer immediate and irreparable injury, loss, or damage. In the absence of such a demonstration, the presiding officer will notify the parties that the immediate suspension will be continued pending the completion of the administrative proceedings pursuant to the notice.
(6)
Review of presiding officer's decision.
The parties may seek review of the presiding officer's decision by filing a petition for review with the presiding officer within 10 calendar days after service of the decision. Replies must be filed within 10 calendar days after the petition filing date. Upon receipt of a petition for review and any reply, the presiding officer will promptly certify the entire record to the Comptroller. Within 60 calendar days of the presiding officer's certification, the Comptroller will issue an order notifying the affected party whether or not the immediate suspension should be continued or reinstated. The order will state the basis of the Comptroller's decision.
§ 19.244 Automatic removal, suspension, or debarment.
(a) An independent public accountant or accounting firm may not perform audit services for insured national banks, insured Federal savings associations, or insured Federal branches of foreign banks if the accountant or firm:
(1) Is subject to a final order of removal, suspension, or debarment (other than a limited scope order) issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the former Office of Thrift Supervision under section 36 of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1831m).
(2) Is subject to a temporary suspension or permanent revocation of registration or a temporary or permanent suspension or bar from further association with any registered public accounting firm issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission under sections 105(c)(4)(A) or (B) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7215(c)(4)(A) or (B)); or
(3) Is subject to an order of suspension or denial of the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(b) Upon written request, the Comptroller, for good cause shown, may grant written permission to such accountant or firm to perform audit services for insured national banks, insured Federal savings associations, or insured Federal branches of foreign banks. The request must contain a concise statement of the action requested. The Comptroller may require the applicant to submit additional information.
§ 19.245 Notice of removal, suspension, or debarment.
(a)
Notice to the public.
Upon the issuance of a final order for removal, suspension, or debarment of an independent public accountant or accounting firm from providing audit services, the Comptroller will make the order publicly available and provide notice of the order to the other Federal banking agencies.
(b)
Notice to the Comptroller by accountants and firms.
An accountant or accounting firm that provides audit services to a insured national bank, insured Federal savings association, or insured Federal branch of a foreign bank must provide the Comptroller with written notice of:
(1) Any currently effective order or other action described in § 19.243(a)(1)(vi) through (vii) or § 19.244(a)(2) and (3); and
(2) Any currently effective action by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board under sections 105(c)(4)(C) or (G) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (15 U.S.C. 7215(c)(4)(C) or (G)).
(c)
Timing of notice.
Written notice required by this paragraph must be given no later than 15 calendar days following the effective date of an order or action, or 15 calendar days before an accountant or firm accepts an engagement to provide audit services, whichever date is earlier.
§ 19.246 Petition for reinstatement.
(a)
Form of petition.
Unless otherwise ordered by the Comptroller, a petition for reinstatement by an independent public accountant, an accounting firm, or an office of a firm that was removed, suspended, or debarred under § 19.243 may be made in writing at any time. The request must contain a concise statement of the action requested. The Comptroller may require the applicant to submit additional information.
(b)
Procedure.
A petitioner for reinstatement under this section may, in the sole discretion of the Comptroller, be afforded a hearing. The accountant or firm bears the burden of going forward with a petition and proving the grounds asserted in support of the petition. In reinstatement proceedings, the person seeking reinstatement bears the burden of going forward with an application and proving the grounds asserted in support of the application. The Comptroller may, in his sole discretion, direct that any reinstatement proceeding be limited to written submissions. The removal, suspension, or debarment will continue until the Comptroller, for good cause shown, has reinstated the petitioner or until the suspension period has
expired. The filing of a petition for reinstatement will not stay the effectiveness of the removal, suspension, or debarment of an accountant or firm.
PART 108—REMOVALS, SUSPENSIONS, AND PROHIBITIONS WHERE A CRIME IS CHARGED OR PROVEN
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1464, 1818, 5412(b)(2)(B).
§ 108.1 Scope.
The rules in this part apply to hearings, which are exempt from the adjudicative provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, afforded to any officer, director, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of a Federal savings association, Federal savings association subsidiary, or affiliate service corporation, where such person has been suspended or removed from office or prohibited from further participation in the conduct of the affairs of one of the aforementioned entities by a Notice or Order served by the OCC upon the grounds set forth in section 8(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, (12 U.S.C. 1818(g)).
§ 108.2 Definitions.
As used in this part—
(a) The term
OCC
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
(b) [Reserved]
(c) The term
Notice
means a Notice of Suspension or Notice of Prohibition issued by the OCC pursuant to section 8(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(d) The term
Order
means an Order of Removal or Order of Prohibition issued by the OCC pursuant to section 8(g) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
(e) The term
association
means a Federal savings association within the meaning of section 2(5) of the Home Owners' Loan Act of 1933, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1462(5) (“HOLA”), Federal savings association subsidiary and an affiliate service corporation within the meaning of section 8(b)(8) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1818(b)(8) (“FDIA”).
(f) The term
subject individual
means a person served with a Notice or Order.
(g) The term
petitioner
means a subject individual who has filed a petition for informal hearing under this part.
§ 108.3 Issuance of Notice or Order.
(a) The OCC may issue and serve a Notice upon an officer, director, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of an association, where the individual is charged in any information, indictment, or complaint with the commission of or participation in a crime involving dishonesty or breach of trust that is punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year under state or Federal law, if the OCC, upon due deliberation, determines that continued service or participation by the individual may pose a threat to the interests of the association's depositors or may threaten to impair public confidence in the association. The Notice shall remain in effect until the information, indictment, or complaint is finally disposed of or until terminated by the OCC.
(b) The OCC may issue and serve an Order upon a subject individual against whom a judgment of conviction, or an agreement to enter a pretrial diversion or other similar program has been rendered, where such judgment is not subject to further appellate review, and the OCC, upon the deliberation, has determined that continued service or participation by the subject individual may pose a threat to the interests of the association's depositors or may threaten to impair public confidence in the association.
§ 108.4 Contents and service of the Notice or Order.
(a) The Notice or Order shall set forth the basis and facts in support of the OCC's issuance of such Notice or Order, and shall inform the subject individual of his right to a hearing, in accordance with this part, for the purpose of determining whether the Notice or Order should be continued, terminated, or otherwise modified.
(b) The OCC shall serve a copy of the Notice or Order upon the subject individual and the related association in the manner set forth in § 109.11 of this chapter.
(c) Upon receipt of the Notice or Order, the subject individual shall immediately comply with the requirements thereof.
§ 108.5 Petition for hearing.
(a) To obtain a hearing, the subject individual must file two copies of a petition with the OCC within 30 days of being served with the Notice or Order.
(b) The petition filed under this section shall admit or deny specifically each allegation in the Notice or Order, unless the petitioner is without knowledge or information, in which case the petition shall so state and the statement shall have the effect of a denial. Any allegation not denied shall be deemed to be admitted. When a petitioner intends in good faith to deny only a part of or to qualify an allegation, he shall specify so much of it as is true and shall deny only the remainder.
(c) The petition shall state whether the petitioner is requesting termination or modification of the Notice or Order, and shall state with particularity how the petitioner intends to show that his continued service to or participation in the conduct of the affairs of the association would not, or is not likely to, pose a threat to the interests of the association's depositors or to impair public confidence in the association.
§ 108.6 Initiation of hearing.
(a) Within 10 days of the filing of a petition for hearing, the OCC shall notify the petitioner of the time and place fixed for hearing, and it shall designate one or more OCC employees to serve as presiding officer.
(b) The hearing shall be scheduled to be held no later than 30 days from the date the petition was filed, unless the time is extended at the request of the petitioner.
(c) A petitioner may appear personally or through counsel, but if represented by counsel, said counsel is required to comply with § 109.6 of this chapter.
(d) A representative(s) of the OCC's Enforcement Division also may attend the hearing and participate therein as a party.
§ 108.7 Conduct of hearings.
(a) Hearings provided by this section are not subject to the adjudicative provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557). The presiding officer is, however, authorized to exercise all of the powers enumerated in § 109.5 of this chapter.
(b) Witnesses may be presented, within time limits specified by the presiding officer, provided that at least 10 days prior to the hearing date, the party presenting the witnesses furnishes the presiding officer and the opposing party with a list of such witnesses and a summary of the proposed testimony. However, the requirement for furnishing such a witness list and summary of testimony shall not apply to the presentation of rebuttal witnesses. The presiding officer may ask questions of any witness, and each party shall have an opportunity to cross-examine any witness presented by an opposing party.
(c) Upon the request of either the petitioner or a representative of the Enforcement Division, the record shall remain open for a period of 5 business days following the hearing, during which time the parties may make any additional submissions for the record. Thereafter, the record shall be closed.
(d) Following the introduction of all evidence, the petitioner and the representative of the Enforcement Division shall have an opportunity for oral argument; however, the parties may jointly waive the right to oral argument, and, in lieu thereof, elect to submit written argument.
(e) All oral testimony and oral argument shall be recorded, and transcripts made available to the petitioner upon payment of the cost thereof. A copy of the transcript shall be sent directly to the presiding officer, who shall have authority to correct the record
sua sponte
or upon the motion of any party.
(f) The parties may, in writing, jointly waive an oral hearing and instead elect a hearing upon a written record in which all evidence and argument would be submitted to the presiding officer in documentary form and statements of individuals would be made by affidavit.
§ 108.8 Default.
If the subject individual fails to file a petition for a hearing, or fails to appear at a hearing, either in person or by attorney, or fails to submit a written argument where oral argument has been waived pursuant to § 108.7(d) or (f) of this part, the Notice shall remain in effect until the information, indictment, or complaint is finally disposed of and the Order shall remain in effect until terminated by the OCC.
§ 108.9 Rules of evidence.
(a) Formal rules of evidence shall not apply to a hearing, but the presiding officer may limit the introduction of irrelevant, immaterial, or unduly repetitious evidence.
(b) All matters officially noticed by the presiding officer shall appear on the record.
§ 108.10 Burden of persuasion.
The petitioner has the burden of showing, by a preponderance of the evidence, that his or her continued service to or participation in the conduct of the affairs of the association does not, or is not likely to, pose a threat to the interests of the association's depositors or threaten to impair public confidence in the association.
§ 108.11 Relevant considerations.
(a) In determining whether the petitioner has shown that his or her continued service to or participation in the conduct of the affairs of the association would not, or is not likely to, pose a threat to the interests of the association's depositors or threaten to impair public confidence in the association, in order to decide whether the Notice or Order should be continued, terminated, or otherwise modified, the OCC will consider:
(1) The nature and extent of the petitioner's participation in the affairs of the association;
(2) The nature of the offense with which the petitioner has been charged;
(3) The extent of the publicity accorded the indictment and trial; and
(4) Such other relevant factors as may be entered on the record.
(b) When considering a request for the termination or modification of a Notice, the OCC will not consider the ultimate guilt or innocence of the petitioner with respect to the criminal charge that is outstanding.
(c) When considering a request for the termination or modification of an Order which has been issued following a final judgment of conviction against a subject individual, the OCC will not collaterally review such final judgment of conviction.
§ 108.12 Proposed findings and conclusions and recommended decision.
(a) Within 30 days after completion of oral argument or the submission of written argument where oral argument has been waived, the presiding officer shall file with and certify to the OCC for decision the entire record of the hearing, which shall include a recommended decision, the Notice or Order, and all other documents filed in connection with the hearing.
(b) The recommended decision shall contain:
(1) A statement of the issue(s) presented,
(2) A statement of findings and conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefor, on all material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record, and
(3) An appropriate recommendation as to whether the suspension, removal, or prohibition should be continued, modified, or terminated.
§ 108.13 Decision of the OCC.
(a) Within 30 days after the recommended decision has been certified to the OCC, the OCC shall issue a final decision.
(b) The OCC's final decision shall contain a statement of the basis therefor. The OCC may satisfy this requirement where it adopts the recommended decision of the presiding officer upon finding that the recommended decision satisfies the requirements of § 109.38 of this chapter.
(c) The OCC shall serve upon the petitioner and the representative of the Enforcement Division a copy of the OCC's final decision and the related recommended decision.
§ 108.14 Miscellaneous.
The provisions of §§ 109.10, 109.11, and 109.12 of this chapter shall apply to proceedings under this part.
PART 109—RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE IN ADJUDICATORY PROCEEDINGS
Authority:
5 U.S.C. 504, 554-557; 12 U.S.C. 1464, 1467, 1467a, 1468, 1817, 1818, 1820(k), 1829(e), 1832, 1884, 1972, 3349, 4717, 5412(b)(2)(B); 15 U.S.C. 78(l), 78o-5, 78u-2, 1639e; 28 U.S.C. 2461 note; 31 U.S.C. 5321; and 42 U.S.C. 4012a.
Subpart A—Uniform Rules of Practice and Procedure
§ 109.1 Scope.
This subpart prescribes Uniform Rules of practice and procedure with regard to Federal savings associations applicable to adjudicatory proceedings as to which hearings on the record are provided for by the following statutory provisions:
(a) Cease-and-desist proceedings under section 8(b) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA) (12 U.S.C. 1818(b));
(b) Removal and prohibition proceedings under section 8(e) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(e));
(c) Change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)) to determine whether the OCC should issue an order to approve or disapprove a person's proposed acquisition of an institution;
(d) Proceedings under section 15C(c)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) (15 U.S.C. 78o-5), to impose sanctions upon any government securities broker or dealer or upon any person associated or seeking to become associated with a government securities broker or dealer for which the OCC is the appropriate agency.
(e) Assessment of civil money penalties by the OCC against institutions, institution-affiliated parties, and certain other persons for which it is the appropriate agency for any violation of:
(1) Section 5 of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA) or any regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1464 (d), (s) and (v);
(2) Section 9 of the HOLA or any regulation or order issued thereunder, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1467(d);
(3) Section 10 of the HOLA, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1467a (i) and (r);
(4) Any provisions of the Change in Bank Control Act, any regulation or order issued thereunder or certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(16);
(5) Sections 22(h) and 23 of the Federal Reserve Act, or any regulation issued thereunder or certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1468;
(6) Certain provisions of the Exchange Act, pursuant to section 21B of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78u-2);
(7) Section 1120 of Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (12 U.S.C. 3349), or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(8) The terms of any final or temporary order issued or enforceable pursuant to section 8 of the FDIA or of any written agreement executed by the OCC, the terms of any conditions imposed in writing by the OCC in connection with the grant of an application or request, certain unsafe or unsound practices or breaches of fiduciary duty, or any law or regulation not otherwise provided herein pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(2);
(9) Any provision of law referenced in section 102 of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(f)) or any order or regulation issued thereunder; and
(10) Any provision of law referenced in 31 U.S.C. 5321 or any order or regulation issued thereunder;
(f) Remedial action under section 102 of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4012a(g));
(g) Proceedings under section 10(k) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1820(k)) to impose penalties
on senior examiners for violation of post-employment prohibitions; and
(h) This subpart also applies to all other adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record after opportunity for an agency hearing, unless otherwise specifically provided for in the Local Rules.
§ 109.2 Rules of construction.
For purposes of this subpart:
(a) Any term in the singular includes the plural, and the plural includes the singular, if such use would be appropriate;
(b) The term
counsel
includes a non-attorney representative; and
(c) Unless the context requires otherwise, a party's counsel of record, if any, may, on behalf of that party, take any action required to be taken by the party.
§ 109.3 Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, unless explicitly stated to the contrary:
(a)
Administrative law judge
means one who presides at an administrative hearing under authority set forth at 5 U.S.C. 556.
(b)
Adjudicatory proceeding
means a proceeding conducted pursuant to these rules and leading to the formulation of a final order other than a regulation.
(c)
Decisional employee
means any member of the OCC's or administrative law judge's staff who has not engaged in an investigative or prosecutorial role in a proceeding and who may assist the OCC or the administrative law judge, respectively, in preparing orders, recommended decisions, decisions, and other documents under the Uniform Rules.
(d)
Comptroller
means the Comptroller of the Currency or his or her designee.
(e)
Enforcement Counsel
means any individual who files a notice of appearance as counsel on behalf of the OCC in an adjudicatory proceeding.
(f)
Final order
means an order issued by the OCC with or without the consent of the affected institution or the institution-affiliated party that has become final, without regard to the pendency of any petition for reconsideration or review.
(g)
Institution
includes any Federal savings association as that term is defined in section 3(b) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(b)).
(h)
Institution-affiliated party
means any institution-affiliated party as that term is defined in section 3(u) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(u)).
(i)
Local Rules
means those rules found in subpart B of this part.
(j)
OCC
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
(k)
Office of Financial Institution Adjudication
(OFIA) means the executive body charged with overseeing the administration of administrative enforcement proceedings for the OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the National Credit Union Administration.
(l)
Party
means the OCC and any person named as a party in any notice.
(m)
Person
means an individual, sole proprietor, partnership, corporation, unincorporated association, trust, joint venture, pool, syndicate, agency or other entity or organization, including an institution as defined in paragraph (g) of this section.
(n)
Respondent
means any party other than the OCC.
(o)
Uniform Rules
means those rules in subpart A of this part.
(p)
Violation
includes any action (alone or with another or others) for or toward causing, bringing about, participating in, counseling, or aiding or abetting a violation.
§ 109.4 Authority of the Comptroller.
The Comptroller may, at any time during the pendency of a proceeding perform, direct the performance of, or waive performance of, any act which could be done or ordered by the administrative law judge.
§ 109.5 Authority of the administrative law judge.
(a)
General rule.
All proceedings governed by this part shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of chapter 5 of title 5 of the United States Code. The administrative law judge shall have all powers necessary to conduct a proceeding in a fair and impartial manner and to avoid unnecessary delay.
(b)
Powers.
The administrative law judge shall have all powers necessary to conduct the proceeding in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, including the following powers:
(1) To administer oaths and affirmations;
(2) To issue subpoenas, subpoenas
duces tecum,
and protective orders, as authorized by this part, and to quash or modify any such subpoenas and orders;
(3) To receive relevant evidence and to rule upon the admission of evidence and offers of proof;
(4) To take or cause depositions to be taken as authorized by this subpart;
(5) To regulate the course of the hearing and the conduct of the parties and their counsel;
(6) To hold scheduling and/or pre-hearing conferences as set forth in § 109.31 of this subpart;
(7) To consider and rule upon all procedural and other motions appropriate in an adjudicatory proceeding, provided that only the Comptroller shall have the power to grant any motion to dismiss the proceeding or to decide any other motion that results in a final determination of the merits of the proceeding;
(8) To prepare and present to the Comptroller a recommended decision as provided herein;
(9) To recuse himself or herself by motion made by a party or on his or her own motion;
(10) To establish time, place and manner limitations on the attendance of the public and the media for any public hearing; and
(11) To do all other things necessary and appropriate to discharge the duties of a presiding officer.
§ 109.6 Appearance and practice in adjudicatory proceedings.
(a)
Appearance before the OCC or an administrative law judge
—(1)
By attorneys.
Any member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, commonwealth, possession, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia may represent others before the OCC if such attorney is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the OCC.
(2)
By non-attorneys.
An individual may appear on his or her own behalf; a member of a partnership may represent the partnership; a duly authorized officer, director, or employee of any government unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority may represent that unit, agency, institution, corporation or authority if such officer, director, or employee is not currently suspended or debarred from practice before the OCC.
(3)
Notice of appearance.
Any individual acting as counsel on behalf of a party, including the Comptroller, shall file a notice of appearance with OFIA at or before the time that individual submits papers or otherwise appears on behalf of a party in the adjudicatory proceeding. The notice of appearance must include a written declaration that the individual is currently qualified as provided in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and is authorized to represent the particular party. By filing a notice of appearance on behalf of a party in an adjudicatory proceeding, the counsel agrees and represents that he or she is authorized to accept service on behalf of the represented party and that, in the event of withdrawal from representation, he or she will, if required by the administrative law judge, continue to accept service until new counsel has filed a notice of appearance or until the represented party indicates that he or she will proceed on a
pro se
basis.
(b)
Sanctions.
Dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous or contumacious conduct at any phase of any adjudicatory proceeding may be grounds for exclusion or suspension of counsel from the proceeding.
§ 109.7 Good faith certification.
(a)
General requirement.
Every filing or submission of record following the issuance of a notice shall be signed by at least one counsel of record in his or her individual name and shall state that counsel's address and telephone number. A party who acts as his or her own counsel shall sign his or her individual name and state his or her address and telephone number on every filing or submission of record.
(b)
Effect of signature.
(1) The signature of counsel or a party shall constitute a certification that: the counsel or party has read the filing or submission of record; to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the filing or submission of record is well-grounded in fact and is warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law; and the filing or submission of record is not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
(2) If a filing or submission of record is not signed, the administrative law judge shall strike the filing or submission of record, unless it is signed promptly after the omission is called to the attention of the pleader or movant.
(c)
Effect of making oral motion or argument.
The act of making any oral motion or oral argument by any counsel or party constitutes a certification that to the best of his or her knowledge, information, and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, his or her statements are well-grounded in fact and are warranted by existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, and are not made for any improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation.
§ 109.8 Conflicts of interest.
(a)
Conflict of interest in representation.
No person shall appear as counsel for another person in an adjudicatory proceeding if it reasonably appears that such representation may be materially limited by that counsel's responsibilities to a third person or by the counsel's own interests. The administrative law judge may take corrective measures at any stage of a proceeding to cure a conflict of interest in representation, including the issuance of an order limiting the scope of representation or disqualifying an individual from appearing in a representative capacity for the duration of the proceeding.
(b)
Certification and waiver.
If any person appearing as counsel represents two or more parties to an adjudicatory proceeding or also represents a non-party on a matter relevant to an issue in the proceeding, counsel must certify in writing at the time of filing the notice of appearance required by § 109.6(a):
(1) That the counsel has personally and fully discussed the possibility of conflicts of interest with each such party and non-party; and
(2) That each such party and non-party waives any right it might otherwise have had to assert any known conflicts of interest or to assert any non-material conflicts of interest during the course of the proceeding.
§ 109.9 Ex parte communications.
(a)
Definition
—(1)
Ex parte communication
means any material oral or written communication relevant to the merits of an adjudicatory proceeding that was neither on the record nor on reasonable prior notice to all parties that takes place between:
(i) An interested person outside the OCC (including such person's counsel); and
(ii) The administrative law judge handling that proceeding, the Comptroller, or a decisional employee.
(2)
Exception.
A request for status of the proceeding does not constitute an
ex parte
communication.
(b)
Prohibition of ex parte communications.
From the time the notice is issued by the Comptroller until the date that the Comptroller issues the final decision pursuant to § 109.40(c) of this subpart:
(1) No interested person outside the OCC shall make or knowingly cause to be made an
ex parte
communication to the Comptroller, the administrative law judge, or a decisional employee; and
(2) The Comptroller, administrative law judge, or decisional employee shall not make or knowingly cause to be made to any interested person outside the OCC any
ex parte
communication.
(c)
Procedure upon occurrence of ex parte communication.
If an ex parte communication is received by the administrative law judge, the Comptroller or other person identified in paragraph (a) of this section, that person shall cause all such written communications (or, if the communication is oral, a memorandum stating the substance of the communication) to be placed on the record of the proceeding and served on all parties. All other parties to the proceeding shall have an opportunity, within ten days of receipt of service of the ex parte communication to file responses thereto and to recommend any sanctions, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, that they believe to be appropriate under the circumstances.
(d)
Sanctions.
Any party or his or her counsel who makes a prohibited
ex parte
communication, or who encourages or solicits another to make any such communication, may be subject to any appropriate sanction or sanctions imposed by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge including, but not limited to, exclusion from the proceedings and an adverse ruling on the issue which is the subject of the prohibited communication.
(e)
Separation-of-functions.
Except to the extent required for the disposition of
ex parte
matters as authorized by law, the administrative law judge may not consult a person or party on any matter relevant to the merits of the adjudication, unless on notice and opportunity for all parties to participate. An employee or agent engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions for the OCC in a case may not, in that or a factually related case, participate or advise in the decision, recommended decision, or agency review of the recommended decision under § 109.40 of this subpart, except as witness or counsel in public proceedings.
§ 109.10 Filing of papers.
(a)
Filing.
Any papers required to be filed, excluding documents produced in response to a discovery request pursuant to §§ 109.25 and 109.26 of this subpart, shall be filed with the OFIA, except as otherwise provided.
(b)
Manner of filing.
Unless otherwise specified by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge, filing may be accomplished by:
(1) Personal service;
(2) Delivering the papers to a reliable commercial courier service, overnight delivery service, or to the U.S. Post Office for Express Mail delivery;
(3) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail; or
(4) Transmission by electronic media, only if expressly authorized, and upon any conditions specified, by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge. All papers filed by electronic media shall also concurrently be filed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section as to form.
(c)
Formal requirements as to papers filed
—(1)
Form.
All papers filed must set forth the name, address, and telephone number of the counsel or party making the filing and must be accompanied by a certification setting forth when and how service has been made on all other parties. All papers filed must be double-spaced and printed or typewritten on 8 1-2 × 11 inch paper, and must be clear and legible.
(2)
Signature.
All papers must be dated and signed as provided in § 109.7 of this subpart.
(3)
Caption.
All papers filed must include at the head thereof, or on a title page, the name of the OCC and of the filing party, the title and docket number of the proceeding, and the subject of the particular paper.
(4)
Number of copies.
Unless otherwise specified by the Comptroller, or the administrative law judge, an original and one copy of all documents and papers shall be filed, except that only one copy of transcripts of testimony and exhibits shall be filed.
§ 109.11 Service of papers.
(a)
By the parties.
Except as otherwise provided, a party filing papers shall serve a copy upon the counsel of record for all other parties to the proceeding so represented, and upon any party not so represented.
(b)
Method of service.
Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (d) of this section, a serving party shall use one or more of the following methods of service:
(1) Personal service;
(2) Delivering the papers to a reliable commercial courier service, overnight delivery
service, or to the U.S. Post Office for Express Mail delivery;
(3) Mailing the papers by first class, registered, or certified mail; or
(4) Transmission by electronic media, only if the parties mutually agree. Any papers served by electronic media shall also concurrently be served in accordance with the requirements of § 109.10(c) of this subpart as to form.
(c)
By the Comptroller or the administrative law judge.
(1) All papers required to be served by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge upon a party who has appeared in the proceeding through a counsel of record, shall be served by any means specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) If a party has not appeared in the proceeding in accordance with § 109.6 of this subpart, the Comptroller or the administrative law judge shall make service by any of the following methods:
(i) By personal service;
(ii) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(iii) If the person to be served is a corporation or other association, by delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(iv) By registered or certified mail addressed to the person's last known address; or
(v) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(d)
Subpoenas.
Service of a subpoena may be made:
(1) By personal service;
(2) If the person to be served is an individual, by delivery to a person of suitable age and discretion at the physical location where the individual resides or works;
(3) By delivery to an agent, which in the case of a corporation or other association, is delivery to an officer, managing or general agent, or to any other agent authorized by appointment or by law to receive service and, if the agent is one authorized by statute to receive service and the statute so requires, by also mailing a copy to the party;
(4) By registered or certified mail addressed to the person's last known address; or
(5) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice.
(e)
Area of service.
Service in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or on any person as otherwise provided by law, is effective without regard to the place where the hearing is held, provided that if service is made on a foreign bank in connection with an action or proceeding involving one or more of its branches or agencies located in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, service shall be made on at least one branch or agency so involved.
§ 109.12 Construction of time limits.
(a)
General rule.
In computing any period of time prescribed by this subpart, the date of the act or event that commences the designated period of time is not included. The last day so computed is included unless it is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. When the last day is a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, the period runs until the end of the next day that is not a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday. Intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are included in the computation of time. However, when the time period within which an act is to be performed is ten days or less, not including any additional time allowed for in paragraph (c) of this section, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays are not included.
(b)
When papers are deemed to be filed or served.
(1) Filing and service are deemed to be effective:
(i) In the case of personal service or same day commercial courier delivery, upon actual service;
(ii) In the case of overnight commercial delivery service, U.S. Express mail delivery, or first class, registered, or certified mail, upon deposit in or delivery to an appropriate point of collection; or
(iii) In the case of transmission by electronic media, as specified by the authority receiving the filing, in the case of filing, and as agreed among the parties, in the case of service.
(2) The effective filing and service dates specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be modified by the Comptroller or administrative law judge in the case of filing or by agreement of the parties in the case of service.
(c)
Calculation of time for service and filing of responsive papers.
Whenever a time limit is measured by a prescribed period from the service of any notice or paper, the applicable time limits are calculated as follows:
(1) If service is made by first class, registered, or certified mail, add three calendar days to the prescribed period;
(2) If service is made by express mail or overnight delivery service, add one calendar day to the prescribed period; or
(3) If service is made by electronic media transmission, add one calendar day to the prescribed period, unless otherwise determined by the Comptroller or the administrative law judge in the case of filing, or by
agreement among the parties in the case of service.
§ 109.13 Change of time limits.
Except as otherwise provided by law, the administrative law judge may, for good cause shown, extend the time limits prescribed by the Uniform Rules or any notice or order issued in the proceedings. After the referral of the case to the Comptroller pursuant to § 109.38 of this subpart, the Comptroller may grant extensions of the time limits for good cause shown. Extensions may be granted at the motion of a party or on the Comptroller's or the administrative law judge's own motion after notice and opportunity to respond is afforded all non-moving parties.
§ 109.14 Witness fees and expenses.
Witnesses subpoenaed for testimony or deposition shall be paid the same fees for attendance and mileage as are paid in the United States district courts in proceedings in which the United States is a party, provided that, in the case of a discovery subpoena addressed to a party, no witness fees or mileage need be paid. Fees for witnesses shall be tendered in advance by the party requesting the subpoena, except that fees and mileage need not be tendered in advance where the OCC is the party requesting the subpoena. The OCC shall not be required to pay any fees to, or expenses of, any witness not subpoenaed by the OCC.
§ 109.15 Opportunity for informal settlement.
Any respondent may, at any time in the proceeding, unilaterally submit to Enforcement Counsel written offers or proposals for settlement of a proceeding, without prejudice to the rights of any of the parties. No such offer or proposal shall be made to any OCC representative other than Enforcement Counsel. Submission of a written settlement offer does not provide a basis for adjourning or otherwise delaying all or any portion of a proceeding under this part. No settlement offer or proposal, or any subsequent negotiation or resolution, is admissible as evidence in any proceeding.
§ 109.16 OCC's right to conduct examination.
Nothing contained in this subpart limits in any manner the right of the OCC to conduct any examination, inspection, or visitation of any institution or institution-affiliated party, or the right of the OCC to conduct or continue any form of investigation authorized by law.
§ 109.17 Collateral attacks on adjudicatory proceeding.
If an interlocutory appeal or collateral attack is brought in any court concerning all or any part of an adjudicatory proceeding, the challenged adjudicatory proceeding shall continue without regard to the pendency of that court proceeding. No default or other failure to act as directed in the adjudicatory proceeding within the times prescribed in this subpart shall be excused based on the pendency before any court of any interlocutory appeal or collateral attack.
§ 109.18 Commencement of proceeding and contents of notice.
(a)
Commencement of proceeding.
(1)(i) Except for change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)), a proceeding governed by this subpart is commenced by issuance of a notice by the Comptroller.
(ii) The notice must be served by the Comptroller upon the respondent and given to any other appropriate financial institution supervisory authority where required by law.
(iii) The notice must be filed with the OFIA.
(2) Change-in control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)) commence with the issuance of an order by the Comptroller.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The notice must set forth:
(1) The legal authority for the proceeding and for the OCC's jurisdiction over the proceeding;
(2) A statement of the matters of fact or law showing that the OCC is entitled to relief;
(3) A proposed order or prayer for an order granting the requested relief;
(4) The time, place, and nature of the hearing as required by law or regulation;
(5) The time within which to file an answer as required by law or regulation;
(6) The time within which to request a hearing as required by law or regulation; and
(7) The answer and/or request for a hearing shall be filed with OFIA.
§ 109.19 Answer.
(a)
When.
Within 20 days of service of the notice, respondent shall file an answer as designated in the notice. In a civil money penalty proceeding, respondent shall also file a request for a hearing within 20 days of service of the notice.
(b)
Content of answer.
An answer must specifically respond to each paragraph or allegation of fact contained in the notice and must admit, deny, or state that the party lacks sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation of fact. A statement of lack of information has the effect of a denial. Denials must fairly meet the substance of each allegation of fact denied; general denials are not permitted. When a respondent denies part of an allegation, that part must be denied and the remainder specifically admitted. Any allegation of fact in the notice which is not denied in the answer must be
deemed admitted for purposes of the proceeding. A respondent is not required to respond to the portion of a notice that constitutes the prayer for relief or proposed order. The answer must set forth affirmative defenses, if any, asserted by the respondent.
(c)
Default
—(1)
Effect of failure to answer.
Failure of a respondent to file an answer required by this section within the time provided constitutes a waiver of his or her right to appear and contest the allegations in the notice. If no timely answer is filed, Enforcement Counsel may file a motion for entry of an order of default. Upon a finding that no good cause has been shown for the failure to file a timely answer, the administrative law judge shall file with the Comptroller a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice. Any final order issued by the Comptroller based upon a respondent's failure to answer is deemed to be an order issued upon consent.
(2)
Effect of failure to request a hearing in civil money penalty proceedings.
If respondent fails to request a hearing as required by law within the time provided, the notice of assessment constitutes a final and unappealable order.
§ 109.20 Amended pleadings.
(a)
Amendments.
The notice or answer may be amended or supplemented at any stage of the proceeding. The respondent must answer an amended notice within the time remaining for the respondent's answer to the original notice, or within ten days after service of the amended notice, whichever period is longer, unless the Comptroller or administrative law judge orders otherwise for good cause.
(b)
Amendments to conform to the evidence.
When issues not raised in the notice or answer are tried at the hearing by express or implied consent of the parties, they will be treated in all respects as if they had been raised in the notice or answer, and no formal amendments are required. If evidence is objected to at the hearing on the ground that it is not within the issues raised by the notice or answer, the administrative law judge may admit the evidence when admission is likely to assist in adjudicating the merits of the action and the objecting party fails to satisfy the administrative law judge that the admission of such evidence would unfairly prejudice that party's action or defense upon the merits. The administrative law judge may grant a continuance to enable the objecting party to meet such evidence.
§ 109.21 Failure to appear.
Failure of a respondent to appear in person at the hearing or by a duly authorized counsel constitutes a waiver of respondent's right to a hearing and is deemed an admission of the facts as alleged and consent to the relief sought in the notice. Without further proceedings or notice to the respondent, the administrative law judge shall file with the Comptroller a recommended decision containing the findings and the relief sought in the notice.
§ 109.22 Consolidation and severance of actions.
(a)
Consolidation.
(1) On the motion of any party, or on the administrative law judge's own motion, the administrative law judge may consolidate, for some or all purposes, any two or more proceedings, if each such proceeding involves or arises out of the same transaction, occurrence or series of transactions or occurrences, or involves at least one common respondent or a material common question of law or fact, unless such consolidation would cause unreasonable delay or injustice.
(2) In the event of consolidation under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, appropriate adjustment to the prehearing schedule must be made to avoid unnecessary expense, inconvenience, or delay.
(b)
Severance.
The administrative law judge may, upon the motion of any party, sever the proceeding for separate resolution of the matter as to any respondent only if the administrative law judge finds that:
(1) Undue prejudice or injustice to the moving party would result from not severing the proceeding; and
(2) Such undue prejudice or injustice would outweigh the interests of judicial economy and expedition in the complete and final resolution of the proceeding.
§ 109.23 Motions.
(a)
In writing.
(1) Except as otherwise provided herein, an application or request for an order or ruling must be made by written motion.
(2) All written motions must state with particularity the relief sought and must be accompanied by a proposed order.
(3) No oral argument may be held on written motions except as otherwise directed by the administrative law judge. Written memoranda, briefs, affidavits or other relevant material or documents may be filed in support of or in opposition to a motion.
(b)
Oral motions.
A motion may be made orally on the record unless the administrative law judge directs that such motion be reduced to writing.
(c)
Filing of motions.
Motions must be filed with the administrative law judge, but upon the filing of the recommended decision, motions must be filed with the Comptroller.
(d)
Responses.
(1) Except as otherwise provided herein, within ten days after service of any written motion, or within such other period of time as may be established by the administrative law judge or the Comptroller, any party may file a written response to a motion. The administrative law judge shall
not rule on any oral or written motion before each party has had an opportunity to file a response.
(2) The failure of a party to oppose a written motion or an oral motion made on the record is deemed a consent by that party to the entry of an order substantially in the form of the order accompanying the motion.
(e)
Dilatory motions.
Frivolous, dilatory or repetitive motions are prohibited. The filing of such motions may form the basis for sanctions.
(f)
Dispositive motions.
Dispositive motions are governed by §§ 109.29 and 109.30 of this subpart.
§ 109.24 Scope of document discovery.
(a)
Limits on discovery.
(1) Subject to the limitations set out in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section, a party to a proceeding under this subpart may obtain document discovery by serving a written request to produce documents. For purposes of a request to produce documents, the term “documents” may be defined to include drawings, graphs, charts, photographs, recordings, data stored in electronic form, and other data compilations from which information can be obtained, or translated, if necessary, by the parties through detection devices into reasonably usable form, as well as written material of all kinds.
(2) Discovery by use of deposition is governed by § 109.102 of this part.
(3) Discovery by use of interrogatories is not permitted.
(b)
Relevance.
A party may obtain document discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that has material relevance to the merits of the pending action. Any request to produce documents that calls for irrelevant material, that is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or that seeks to obtain privileged documents will be denied or modified. A request is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope or unduly burdensome if, among other things, it fails to include justifiable limitations on the time period covered and the geographic locations to be searched, the time provided to respond in the request is inadequate, or the request calls for copies of documents to be delivered to the requesting party and fails to include the requestor's written agreement to pay in advance for the copying, in accordance with § 109.25 of this subpart.
(c)
Privileged matter.
Privileged documents are not discoverable. Privileges include the attorney-client privilege, work-product privilege, any government's or government agency's deliberative-process privilege, and any other privileges the Constitution, any applicable act of Congress, or the principles of common law provide.
(d)
Time limits.
All discovery, including all responses to discovery requests, shall be completed at least 20 days prior to the date scheduled for the commencement of the hearing, except as provided in the Local Rules. No exceptions to this time limit shall be permitted, unless the administrative law judge finds on the record that good cause exists for waiving the requirements of this paragraph.
§ 109.25 Request for document discovery from parties.
(a)
General rule.
Any party may serve on any other party a request to produce for inspection any discoverable documents that are in the possession, custody, or control of the party upon whom the request is served. The request must identify the documents to be produced either by individual item or by category, and must describe each item and category with reasonable particularity. Documents must be produced as they are kept in the usual course of business or must be organized to correspond with the categories in the request.
(b)
Production or copying.
The request must specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for production and performing any related acts. In lieu of inspecting the documents, the requesting party may specify that all or some of the responsive documents be copied and the copies delivered to the requesting party. If copying of fewer than 250 pages is requested, the party to whom the request is addressed shall bear the cost of copying and shipping charges. If a party requests 250 pages or more of copying, the requesting party shall pay for the copying and shipping charges. Copying charges are the current per-page copying rate imposed under 12 CFR 4.17 for requests under the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552). The party to whom the request is addressed may require payment in advance before producing the documents.
(c)
Obligation to update responses.
A party who has responded to a discovery request with a response that was complete when made is not required to supplement the response to include documents thereafter acquired, unless the responding party learns that:
(1) The response was materially incorrect when made; or
(2) The response, though correct when made, is no longer true and a failure to amend the response is, in substance, a knowing concealment.
(d)
Motions to limit discovery.
(1) Any party that objects to a discovery request may, within ten days of being served with such request, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 109.23 of this subpart to revoke or otherwise limit the request. If an objection is made to only a portion of an item or category in a request, the portion objected to shall be specified. Any objections not
made in accordance with this paragraph and § 109.23 of this subpart are waived.
(2) The party who served the request that is the subject of a motion to revoke or limit may file a written response within five days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(e)
Privilege.
At the time other documents are produced, the producing party must reasonably identify all documents withheld on the grounds of privilege and must produce a statement of the basis for the assertion of privilege. When similar documents that are protected by deliberative process, attorney-work-product, or attorney-client privilege are voluminous, these documents may be identified by category instead of by individual document. The administrative law judge retains discretion to determine when the identification by category is insufficient.
(f)
Motions to compel production.
(1) If a party withholds any documents as privileged or fails to comply fully with a discovery request, the requesting party may, within ten days of the assertion of privilege or of the time the failure to comply becomes known to the requesting party, file a motion in accordance with the provisions of § 109.23 of this subpart for the issuance of a subpoena compelling production.
(2) The party who asserted the privilege or failed to comply with the request may file a written response to a motion to compel within five days of service of the motion. No other party may file a response.
(g)
Ruling on motions.
After the time for filing responses pursuant to this section has expired, the administrative law judge shall rule promptly on all motions filed pursuant to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that a discovery request, or any of its terms, calls for irrelevant material, is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, unduly burdensome, or repetitive of previous requests, or seeks to obtain privileged documents, he or she may deny or modify the request, and may issue appropriate protective orders, upon such conditions as justice may require. The pendency of a motion to strike or limit discovery or to compel production is not a basis for staying or continuing the proceeding, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge. Notwithstanding any other provision in this part, the administrative law judge may not release, or order a party to produce, documents withheld on grounds of privilege if the party has stated to the administrative law judge its intention to file a timely motion for interlocutory review of the administrative law judge's order to produce the documents, and until the motion for interlocutory review has been decided.
(h)
Enforcing discovery subpoenas.
If the administrative law judge issues a subpoena compelling production of documents by a party, the subpoenaing party may, in the event of noncompliance and to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to any appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the subpoena. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a subpoena shall not in any manner limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge against a party who fails to produce subpoenaed documents.
§ 109.26 Document subpoenas to nonparties.
(a)
General rules.
(1) Any party may apply to the administrative law judge for the issuance of a document discovery subpoena addressed to any person who is not a party to the proceeding. The application must contain a proposed document subpoena and a brief statement showing the general relevance and reasonableness of the scope of documents sought. The subpoenaing party shall specify a reasonable time, place, and manner for making production in response to the document subpoena.
(2) A party shall only apply for a document subpoena under this section within the time period during which such party could serve a discovery request under § 109.24(d) of this subpart. The party obtaining the document subpoena is responsible for serving it on the subpoenaed person and for serving copies on all parties. Document subpoenas may be served in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law.
(3) The administrative law judge shall promptly issue any document subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon such conditions as may be consistent with the Uniform Rules.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a document subpoena is directed may file a motion to quash or modify such subpoena, accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant shall serve the motion on all parties, and any party may respond to such motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a document subpoena must be filed on the same basis, including the assertion of privilege, upon which a party could object to a discovery request under § 109.25(d) of this subpart, and during the same time limits during which such an objection could be filed.
(c)
Enforcing document subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the administrative law judge which
directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with so much of the document subpoena as the administrative law judge has not quashed or modified. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a document subpoena shall in no way limit the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge on a party who induces a failure to comply with subpoenas issued under this section.
§ 109.27 Deposition of witness unavailable for hearing.
(a)
General rules.
(1) If a witness will not be available for the hearing, a party may apply in accordance with the procedures set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, to the administrative law judge for the issuance of a subpoena, including a subpoena
duces tecum,
requiring the attendance of the witness at a deposition. The administrative law judge may issue a deposition subpoena under this section upon showing that:
(i) The witness will be unable to attend or may be prevented from attending the hearing because of age, sickness or infirmity, or will otherwise be unavailable;
(ii) The witness' unavailability was not procured or caused by the subpoenaing party;
(iii) The testimony is reasonably expected to be material; and
(iv) Taking the deposition will not result in any undue burden to any other party and will not cause undue delay of the proceeding.
(2) The application must contain a proposed deposition subpoena and a brief statement of the reasons for the issuance of the subpoena. The subpoena must name the witness whose deposition is to be taken and specify the time and place for taking the deposition. A deposition subpoena may require the witness to be deposed at any place within the country in which that witness resides or has a regular place of employment or such other convenient place as the administrative law judge shall fix.
(3) Any requested subpoena that sets forth a valid basis for its issuance must be promptly issued, unless the administrative law judge on his or her own motion, requires a written response or requires attendance at a conference concerning whether the requested subpoena should be issued.
(4) The party obtaining a deposition subpoena is responsible for serving it on the witness and for serving copies on all parties. Unless the administrative law judge orders otherwise, no deposition under this section shall be taken on fewer than ten days' notice to the witness and all parties. Deposition subpoenas may be served in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, on any person or company doing business in any state, territory, possession of the United States, or the District of Columbia, or as otherwise permitted by law.
(b)
Objections to deposition subpoenas.
(1) The witness and any party who has not had an opportunity to oppose a deposition subpoena issued under this section may file a motion with the administrative law judge to quash or modify the subpoena prior to the time for compliance specified in the subpoena, but not more than ten days after service of the subpoena.
(2) A statement of the basis for the motion to quash or modify a subpoena issued under this section must accompany the motion. The motion must be served on all parties.
(c)
Procedure upon deposition.
(1) Each witness testifying pursuant to a deposition subpoena must be duly sworn, and each party shall have the right to examine the witness. Objections to questions or documents must be in short form, stating the grounds for the objection. Failure to object to questions or documents is not deemed a waiver except where the ground for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. All questions, answers, and objections must be recorded.
(2) Any party may move before the administrative law judge for an order compelling the witness to answer any questions the witness has refused to answer or submit any evidence the witness has refused to submit during the deposition.
(3) The deposition must be subscribed by the witness, unless the parties and the witness, by stipulation, have waived the signing, or the witness is ill, cannot be found, or has refused to sign. If the deposition is not subscribed by the witness, the court reporter taking the deposition shall certify that the transcript is a true and complete transcript of the deposition.
(d)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any order of the administrative law judge which directs compliance with all or any portion of a deposition subpoena under paragraph (b) or (c)(2) of this section, the subpoenaing party or other aggrieved party may, to the extent authorized by applicable law, apply to an appropriate United States district court for an order requiring compliance with the portions of the subpoena that the administrative law judge has ordered enforced. A party's right to seek court enforcement of a deposition subpoena in no way limits the sanctions that may be imposed by the administrative law judge on a party who fails to comply with or procures a failure to comply with, a subpoena issued under this section.
§ 109.28 Interlocutory review.
(a)
General rule.
The Comptroller may review a ruling of the administrative law judge
prior to the certification of the record to the Comptroller only in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section and § 109.23 of this subpart.
(b)
Scope of review.
The Comptroller may exercise interlocutory review of a ruling of the administrative law judge if the Comptroller finds that:
(1) The ruling involves a controlling question of law or policy as to which substantial grounds exist for a difference of opinion;
(2) Immediate review of the ruling may materially advance the ultimate termination of the proceeding;
(3) Subsequent modification of the ruling at the conclusion of the proceeding would be an inadequate remedy; or
(4) Subsequent modification of the ruling would cause unusual delay or expense.
(c)
Procedure.
Any request for interlocutory review shall be filed by a party with the administrative law judge within ten days of his or her ruling and shall otherwise comply with § 109.23 of this subpart. Any party may file a response to a request for interlocutory review in accordance with § 109.23(d) of this subpart. Upon the expiration of the time for filing all responses, the administrative law judge shall refer the matter to the Comptroller for final disposition.
(d)
Suspension of proceeding.
Neither a request for interlocutory review nor any disposition of such a request by the Comptroller under this section suspends or stays the proceeding unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge or the Comptroller.
§ 109.29 Summary disposition.
(a)
In general.
The administrative law judge shall recommend that the Comptroller issue a final order granting a motion for summary disposition if the undisputed pleaded facts, admissions, affidavits, stipulations, documentary evidence, matters as to which official notice may be taken, and any other evidentiary materials properly submitted in connection with a motion for summary disposition show that:
(1) There is no genuine issue as to any material fact; and
(2) The moving party is entitled to a decision in its favor as a matter of law.
(b)
Filing of motions and responses.
(1) Any party who believes that there is no genuine issue of material fact to be determined and that he or she is entitled to a decision as a matter of law may move at any time for summary disposition in its favor of all or any part of the proceeding. Any party, within 20 days after service of such a motion, or within such time period as allowed by the administrative law judge, may file a response to such motion.
(2) A motion for summary disposition must be accompanied by a statement of the material facts as to which the moving party contends there is no genuine issue. Such motion must be supported by documentary evidence, which may take the form of admissions in pleadings, stipulations, depositions, investigatory depositions, transcripts, affidavits and any other evidentiary materials that the moving party contends support his or her position. The motion must also be accompanied by a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention of the moving party. Any party opposing a motion for summary disposition must file a statement setting forth those material facts as to which he or she contends a genuine dispute exists. Such opposition must be supported by evidence of the same type as that submitted with the motion for summary disposition and a brief containing the points and authorities in support of the contention that summary disposition would be inappropriate.
(c)
Hearing on motion.
At the request of any party or on his or her own motion, the administrative law judge may hear oral argument on the motion for summary disposition.
(d)
Decision on motion.
Following receipt of a motion for summary disposition and all responses thereto, the administrative law judge shall determine whether the moving party is entitled to summary disposition. If the administrative law judge determines that summary disposition is warranted, the administrative law judge shall submit a recommended decision to that effect to the Comptroller. If the administrative law judge finds that no party is entitled to summary disposition, he or she shall make a ruling denying the motion.
§ 109.30 Partial summary disposition.
If the administrative law judge determines that a party is entitled to summary disposition as to certain claims only, he or she shall defer submitting a recommended decision as to those claims. A hearing on the remaining issues must be ordered. Those claims for which the administrative law judge has determined that summary disposition is warranted will be addressed in the recommended decision filed at the conclusion of the hearing.
§ 109.31 Scheduling and prehearing conferences.
(a)
Scheduling conference.
Within 30 days of service of the notice or order commencing a proceeding or such other time as parties may agree, the administrative law judge shall direct counsel for all parties to meet with him or her in person at a specified time and place prior to the hearing or to confer by telephone for the purpose of scheduling the course and conduct of the proceeding. This meeting or telephone conference is called a “scheduling conference.” The identification of potential witnesses, the time for and manner of discovery, and the exchange of any prehearing materials including witness lists, statements of issues, stipulations, exhibits
and any other materials may also be determined at the scheduling conference.
(b)
Prehearing conferences.
The administrative law judge may, in addition to the scheduling conference, on his or her own motion or at the request of any party, direct counsel for the parties to meet with him or her (in person or by telephone) at a prehearing conference to address any or all of the following:
(1) Simplification and clarification of the issues;
(2) Stipulations, admissions of fact, and the contents, authenticity and admissibility into evidence of documents;
(3) Matters of which official notice may be taken;
(4) Limitation of the number of witnesses;
(5) Summary disposition of any or all issues;
(6) Resolution of discovery issues or disputes;
(7) Amendments to pleadings; and
(8) Such other matters as may aid in the orderly disposition of the proceeding.
(c)
Transcript.
The administrative law judge, in his or her discretion, may require that a scheduling or prehearing conference be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the conference and any materials filed, including orders, becomes part of the record of the proceeding. A party may obtain a copy of the transcript at its expense.
(d)
Scheduling or prehearing orders.
At or within a reasonable time following the conclusion of the scheduling conference or any prehearing conference, the administrative law judge shall serve on each party an order setting forth any agreements reached and any procedural determinations made.
§ 109.32 Prehearing submissions.
(a) Within the time set by the administrative law judge, but in no case later than 14 days before the start of the hearing, each party shall serve on every other party, his or her:
(1) Prehearing statement;
(2) Final list of witnesses to be called to testify at the hearing, including name and address of each witness and a short summary of the expected testimony of each witness;
(3) List of the exhibits to be introduced at the hearing along with a copy of each exhibit; and
(4) Stipulations of fact, if any.
(b)
Effect of failure to comply.
No witness may testify and no exhibits may be introduced at the hearing if such witness or exhibit is not listed in the prehearing submissions pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, except for good cause shown.
§ 109.33 Public hearings.
(a)
General rule.
All hearings shall be open to the public, unless the Comptroller, in the Comptroller's discretion, determines that holding an open hearing would be contrary to the public interest. Within 20 days of service of the notice or, in the case of change-in-control proceedings under section 7(j)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(4)), within 20 days from service of the hearing order, any respondent may file with the Comptroller a request for a private hearing, and any party may file a reply to such a request. A party must serve on the administrative law judge a copy of any request or reply the party files with the Comptroller. The form of, and procedure for, these requests and replies are governed by § 109.23 of this subpart. A party's failure to file a request or a reply constitutes a waiver of any objections regarding whether the hearing will be public or private.
(b)
Filing document under seal.
Enforcement Counsel, in his or her discretion, may file any document or part of a document under seal if disclosure of the document would be contrary to the public interest. The administrative law judge shall take all appropriate steps to preserve the confidentiality of such documents or parts thereof, including closing portions of the hearing to the public.
§ 109.34 Hearing subpoenas.
(a)
Issuance.
(1) Upon application of a party showing general relevance and reasonableness of scope of the testimony or other evidence sought, the administrative law judge may issue a subpoena or a subpoena duces tecum requiring the attendance of a witness at the hearing or the production of documentary or physical evidence at the hearing. The application for a hearing subpoena must also contain a proposed subpoena specifying the attendance of a witness or the production of evidence from any state, territory, or possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, or as otherwise provided by law at any designated place where the hearing is being conducted. The party making the application shall serve a copy of the application and the proposed subpoena on every other party.
(2) A party may apply for a hearing subpoena at any time before the commencement of a hearing. During a hearing, a party may make an application for a subpoena orally on the record before the administrative law judge.
(3) The administrative law judge shall promptly issue any hearing subpoena requested pursuant to this section. If the administrative law judge determines that the application does not set forth a valid basis for the issuance of the subpoena, or that any of its terms are unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome, he or she may refuse to issue the subpoena or may issue it in a modified form upon any conditions consistent with this subpart. Upon issuance by the administrative law judge, the party making the application shall serve the subpoena on the person named in the subpoena and on each party.
(b)
Motion to quash or modify.
(1) Any person to whom a hearing subpoena is directed or any party may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena, accompanied by a statement of the basis for quashing or modifying the subpoena. The movant must serve the motion on each party and on the person named in the subpoena. Any party may respond to the motion within ten days of service of the motion.
(2) Any motion to quash or modify a hearing subpoena must be filed prior to the time specified in the subpoena for compliance, but not more than ten days after the date of service of the subpoena upon the movant.
(c)
Enforcing subpoenas.
If a subpoenaed person fails to comply with any subpoena issued pursuant to this section or any order of the administrative law judge which directs compliance with all or any portion of a document subpoena, the subpoenaing party or any other aggrieved party may seek enforcement of the subpoena pursuant to § 109.26(c) of this subpart.
§ 109.35 Conduct of hearings.
(a)
General rules.
(1) Hearings shall be conducted so as to provide a fair and expeditious presentation of the relevant disputed issues. Each party has the right to present its case or defense by oral and documentary evidence and to conduct such cross examination as may be required for full disclosure of the facts.
(2)
Order of hearing.
Enforcement Counsel shall present its case-in-chief first, unless otherwise ordered by the administrative law judge, or unless otherwise expressly specified by law or regulation. Enforcement Counsel shall be the first party to present an opening statement and a closing statement, and may make a rebuttal statement after the respondent's closing statement. If there are multiple respondents, respondents may agree among themselves as to their order of presentation of their cases, but if they do not agree the administrative law judge shall fix the order.
(3)
Examination of witnesses.
Only one counsel for each party may conduct an examination of a witness, except that in the case of extensive direct examination, the administrative law judge may permit more than one counsel for the party presenting the witness to conduct the examination. A party may have one counsel conduct the direct examination and another counsel conduct re-direct examination of a witness, or may have one counsel conduct the cross examination of a witness and another counsel conduct the re-cross examination of a witness.
(4)
Stipulations.
Unless the administrative law judge directs otherwise, all stipulations of fact and law previously agreed upon by the parties, and all documents, the admissibility of which have been previously stipulated, will be admitted into evidence upon commencement of the hearing.
(b)
Transcript.
The hearing must be recorded and transcribed. The reporter will make the transcript available to any party upon payment by that party to the reporter of the cost of the transcript. The administrative law judge may order the record corrected, either upon motion to correct, upon stipulation of the parties, or following notice to the parties upon the administrative law judge's own motion.
§ 109.36 Evidence.
(a)
Admissibility.
(1) Except as is otherwise set forth in this section, relevant, material, and reliable evidence that is not unduly repetitive is admissible to the fullest extent authorized by the APA and other applicable law.
(2) Evidence that would be admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence is admissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart.
(3) Evidence that would be inadmissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence may not be deemed or ruled to be inadmissible in a proceeding conducted pursuant to this subpart if such evidence is relevant, material, reliable and not unduly repetitive.
(b)
Official notice.
(1) Official notice may be taken of any material fact which may be judicially noticed by a United States district court and any material information in the official public records of any Federal or state government agency.
(2) All matters officially noticed by the administrative law judge or Comptroller shall appear on the record.
(3) If official notice is requested or taken of any material fact, the parties, upon timely request, shall be afforded an opportunity to object.
(c)
Documents.
(1) A duplicate copy of a document is admissible to the same extent as the original, unless a genuine issue is raised as to whether the copy is in some material respect not a true and legible copy of the original.
(2) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, any document, including a report of examination, supervisory activity, inspection or visitation, prepared by the appropriate Federal banking agency, as defined in section 3(q) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)), or state regulatory agency, is admissible either with or without a sponsoring witness.
(3) Witnesses may use existing or newly created charts, exhibits, calendars, calculations, outlines or other graphic material to summarize, illustrate, or simplify the presentation of testimony. Such materials may, subject to the administrative law judge's discretion, be used with or without being admitted into evidence.
(d)
Objections.
(1) Objections to the admissibility of evidence must be timely made and rulings on all objections must appear on the record.
(2) When an objection to a question or line of questioning propounded to a witness is sustained, the examining counsel may make a specific proffer on the record of what he or she expected to prove by the expected testimony of the witness, either by representation of counsel or by direct interrogation of the witness.
(3) The administrative law judge shall retain rejected exhibits, adequately marked for identification, for the record, and transmit such exhibits to the Comptroller.
(4) Failure to object to admission of evidence or to any ruling constitutes a waiver of the objection.
(e)
Stipulations.
The parties may stipulate as to any relevant matters of fact or the authentication of any relevant documents. Such stipulations must be received in evidence at a hearing, and are binding on the parties with respect to the matters therein stipulated.
(f)
Depositions of unavailable witnesses.
(1) If a witness is unavailable to testify at a hearing, and that witness has testified in a deposition to which all parties in a proceeding had notice and an opportunity to participate, a party may offer as evidence all or any part of the transcript of the deposition, including deposition exhibits, if any.
(2) Such deposition transcript is admissible to the same extent that testimony would have been admissible had that person testified at the hearing, provided that if a witness refused to answer proper questions during the depositions, the administrative law judge may, on that basis, limit the admissibility of the deposition in any manner that justice requires.
(3) Only those portions of a deposition received in evidence at the hearing constitute a part of the record.
§ 109.37 Post-hearing filings.
(a)
Proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs.
(1) Using the same method of service for each party, the administrative law judge shall serve notice upon each party, that the certified transcript, together with all hearing exhibits and exhibits introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing, has been filed. Any party may file with the administrative law judge proposed findings of fact, proposed conclusions of law, and a proposed order within 30 days following service of this notice by the administrative law judge or within such longer period as may be ordered by the administrative law judge.
(2) Proposed findings and conclusions must be supported by citation to any relevant authorities and by page references to any relevant portions of the record. A post-hearing brief may be filed in support of proposed findings and conclusions, either as part of the same document or in a separate document. Any party who fails to file timely with the administrative law judge any proposed finding or conclusion is deemed to have waived the right to raise in any subsequent filing or submission any issue not addressed in such party's proposed finding or conclusion.
(b)
Reply briefs.
Reply briefs may be filed within 15 days after the date on which the parties' proposed findings, conclusions, and order are due. Reply briefs must be strictly limited to responding to new matters, issues, or arguments raised in another party's papers. A party who has not filed proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law or a post-hearing brief may not file a reply brief.
(c)
Simultaneous filing required.
The administrative law judge shall not order the filing by any party of any brief or reply brief in advance of the other party's filing of its brief.
§ 109.38 Recommended decision and filing of record.
(a)
Filing of recommended decision and record.
Within 45 days after expiration of the time allowed for filing reply briefs under § 109.37(b) of this subpart, the administrative law judge shall file with and certify to the Comptroller, for decision, the record of the proceeding. The record must include the administrative law judge's recommended decision, recommended findings of fact, recommended conclusions of law, and proposed order; all prehearing and hearing transcripts, exhibits, and rulings; and the motions, briefs, memoranda, and other supporting papers filed in connection with the hearing. The administrative law judge shall serve upon each party the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order.
(b)
Filing of index.
At the same time the administrative law judge files with and certifies to the Comptroller for final determination the record of the proceeding, the administrative law judge shall furnish to the Comptroller a certified index of the entire record of the proceeding. The certified index shall include, at a minimum, an entry for each paper, document or motion filed with the administrative law judge in the proceeding, the date of the filing, and the identity of the filer. The certified index shall also include an exhibit index containing, at a minimum, an entry consisting of exhibit number and title or description for: Each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence at the hearing; each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence at the hearing; each exhibit introduced and admitted into evidence after the completion of the hearing; and each exhibit introduced but not admitted into evidence after the completion of the hearing.
§ 109.39 Exceptions to recommended decision.
(a)
Filing exceptions.
Within 30 days after service of the recommended decision, findings, conclusions, and proposed order under § 109.38 of this subpart, a party may file with the Comptroller written exceptions to the administrative law judge's recommended decision, findings, conclusions or proposed order, to the admission or exclusion of evidence, or to the failure of the administrative law judge to make a ruling proposed by a party. A supporting brief may be filed at the time the exceptions are filed, either as part of the same document or in a separate document.
(b)
Effect of failure to file or raise exceptions.
(1) Failure of a party to file exceptions to those matters specified in paragraph (a) of this section within the time prescribed is deemed a waiver of objection thereto.
(2) No exception need be considered by the Comptroller if the party taking exception had an opportunity to raise the same objection, issue, or argument before the administrative law judge and failed to do so.
(c)
Contents.
(1) All exceptions and briefs in support of such exceptions must be confined to the particular matters in, or omissions from, the administrative law judge's recommendations to which that party takes exception.
(2) All exceptions and briefs in support of exceptions must set forth page or paragraph references to the specific parts of the administrative law judge's recommendations to which exception is taken, the page or paragraph references to those portions of the record relied upon to support each exception, and the legal authority relied upon to support each exception.
§ 109.40 Review by the Comptroller.
(a)
Notice of submission to the Comptroller.
When the Comptroller determines that the record in the proceeding is complete, the Comptroller shall serve notice upon the parties that the proceeding has been submitted to the Comptroller for final decision.
(b)
Oral argument before the Comptroller.
Upon the initiative of the Comptroller or on the written request of any party filed with the Comptroller within the time for filing exceptions, the Comptroller may order and hear oral argument on the recommended findings, conclusions, decision, and order of the administrative law judge. A written request by a party must show good cause for oral argument and state reasons why arguments cannot be presented adequately in writing. A denial of a request for oral argument may be set forth in the Comptroller's final decision. Oral argument before the Comptroller must be on the record.
(c)
Comptroller's final decision.
(1) Decisional employees may advise and assist the Comptroller in the consideration and disposition of the case. The final decision of the Comptroller will be based upon review of the entire record of the proceeding, except that the Comptroller may limit the issues to be reviewed to those findings and conclusions to which opposing arguments or exceptions have been filed by the parties.
(2) The Comptroller shall render a final decision within 90 days after notification of the parties that the case has been submitted for final decision, or 90 days after oral argument, whichever is later, unless the Comptroller orders that the action or any aspect thereof be remanded to the administrative law judge for further proceedings. Copies of the final decision and order of the Comptroller shall be served upon each party to the proceeding, upon other persons required by statute, and, if directed by the Comptroller or required by statute, upon any appropriate state or Federal supervisory authority.
§ 109.41 Stays pending judicial review.
The commencement of proceedings for judicial review of a final decision and order of the OCC may not, unless specifically ordered by the Comptroller or a reviewing court, operate as a stay of any order issued by the Comptroller. The Comptroller may, in its discretion, and on such terms as it finds just, stay the effectiveness of all or any part of its order pending a final decision on a petition for review of the order.
Subpart B—Local Rules
§ 109.100 Scope.
The rules and procedures in this subpart B shall apply to those proceedings covered by subpart A of this part. In addition, subpart A of this part and this subpart shall apply to adjudicatory proceedings for which hearings on the record are provided for by the following statutory provisions:
(a) Proceedings under section 10(a)(2)(D) of the HOLA (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)(2)(D)) to determine whether any person directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over the management or policies of a savings association or any other company; and
(b) [Reserved]
(c) Proceedings under section 15(c)(4) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78o(c)(4)) (Exchange Act) to determine whether any Federal savings association or person subject to the jurisdiction of the OCC pursuant to section 12(i) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78
l
(i)) has failed to comply with the provisions of sections 12, 13, 14(a), 14(c), 14(d) or 14(f) of the Exchange Act.
§ 109.101 Appointment of Office of Financial Institution Adjudication.
Unless otherwise directed by the OCC, all hearings under subpart A of this part and this subpart shall be conducted by administrative law judges under the direction of the Office of Financial Institution Adjudication.
§ 109.102 Discovery.
(a)
In general.
A party may take the deposition of an expert, or of a person, including another party, who has direct knowledge of matters that are non-privileged, relevant and material to the proceeding and where there is a need for the deposition. The deposition of experts shall be limited to those experts who are expected to testify at the hearing.
(b)
Notice.
A party desiring to take a deposition shall give reasonable notice in writing to the deponent and to every other party to the proceeding. The notice must state the time and place for taking the deposition and the name and address of the person to be deposed.
(c)
Time limits.
A party may take depositions at any time after the commencement of the proceeding, but no later than ten days before the scheduled hearing date, except with permission of the administrative law judge for good cause shown.
(d)
Conduct of the deposition.
The witness must be duly sworn, and each party shall have the right to examine the witness with respect to all non-privileged, relevant and material matters of which the witness has factual, direct and personal knowledge.
Objections to questions or exhibits shall be in short form, stating the grounds for objection. Failure to object to questions or exhibits is not a waiver except where the grounds for the objection might have been avoided if the objection had been timely presented. The court reporter shall transcribe or otherwise record the witness's testimony, as agreed among the parties.
(e)
Protective orders.
At any time after notice of a deposition has been given, a party may file a motion for the issuance of a protective order. Such protective order may prohibit, terminate, or limit the scope or manner of the taking of a deposition. The administrative law judge shall grant such protective order upon a showing of sufficient grounds, including that the deposition:
(1) Is unreasonable, oppressive, excessive in scope, or unduly burdensome;
(2) Involves privileged, investigative, trial preparation, irrelevant or immaterial matters; or
(3) Is being conducted in bad faith or in such manner as to unreasonably annoy, embarrass, or oppress the deponent.
(f)
Fees.
Deposition witnesses, including expert witnesses, shall be paid the same expenses in the same manner as are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States in proceedings in which the United States Government is a party. Expenses in accordance with this paragraph shall be paid by the party seeking to take the deposition.
(g)
Deposition subpoenas
—(1)
Issuance.
At the request of a party, the administrative law judge shall issue a subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a deposition. The attendance of a witness may be required from any place in any state or territory that is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States or as otherwise permitted by law.
(2)
Service.
The party requesting the subpoena must serve it on the person named therein or upon that person's counsel, by any of the methods identified in § 109.11(d) of this part. The party serving the subpoena must file proof of service with the administrative law judge.
(3)
Motion to quash.
A person named in the subpoena or a party may file a motion to quash or modify the subpoena. A statement of the reasons for the motion must accompany it and a copy of the motion must be served on the party that requested the subpoena. The motion must be made prior to the time for compliance specified in the subpoena and not more than ten days after the date of service of the subpoena, or if the subpoena is served within 15 days of the hearing, within five days after the date of service.
(4)
Enforcement of deposition subpoena.
Enforcement of a deposition subpoena shall be in accordance with the procedures of § 109.27(d) of this part.
§ 109.103 Civil money penalties.
(a)
Assessment.
In the event of consent, or if upon the record developed at the hearing the OCC finds that any of the grounds specified in the notice issued pursuant to § 109.18 of this part have been established, the OCC may serve an order of assessment of civil money penalty upon the party concerned. The assessment order shall be effective immediately upon service or upon such other date as may be specified therein and shall remain effective and enforceable until it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by the OCC or by a reviewing court.
(b)
Payment.
(1) Civil penalties assessed pursuant to subpart A of this part and this subpart B are payable and to be collected within 60 days after the issuance of the notice of assessment, unless the OCC fixes a different time for payment where it determines that the purpose of the civil money penalty would be better served thereby; however, if a party has made a timely request for a hearing to challenge the assessment of the penalty, the party may not be required to pay such penalty until the OCC has issued a final order of assessment following the hearing. In such instances, the penalty shall be paid within 60 days of service of such order unless the OCC fixes a different time for payment. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the OCC may seek to attach the party's assets or to have a receiver appointed to secure payment of the potential civil money penalty or other obligation in advance of the hearing in accordance with section 8(i)(4) of the FDIA (12 U.S.C. 1818(i)(4)).
(2) Checks in payment of civil penalties shall be made payable to the Treasurer of
the United States and sent to the OCC. Upon receipt, the OCC shall forward the check to the Treasury of the United States.
(c)
Maximum amount of civil money penalties
—(1)
Statutory formula.
The OCC is required by statute to annually adjust for inflation the maximum amount of each civil money penalty within its jurisdiction to administer. The inflation adjustment is calculated by multiplying the maximum dollar amount of the civil money penalty for the previous calendar year by the cost-of-living inflation adjustment multiplier provided annually by the Office of Management and Budget and rounding the total to the nearest dollar.
(2)
Notice of inflation adjustments.
The OCC will publish notice in the
Federal Register
of the maximum penalties which may be assessed on an annual basis on, or before, January 15 of each calendar year based on the formula in paragraph (a) of this section, for penalties assessed on, or after, the date of publication of the most recent notice related to conduct occurring on or after November 2, 2015.
§ 109.104 Additional procedures.
(a)
Replies to exceptions.
Replies to written exceptions to the administrative law judge's recommended decision, findings, conclusions or proposed order pursuant to § 109.39 of this part shall be filed within 10-days of the date such written exceptions were required to be filed.
(b)
Motions.
All motions shall be filed with the administrative law judge and an additional copy shall be filed with the OCC Hearing Clerk who receives adjudicatory filings; provided, however, that once the administrative law judge has certified the record to the Comptroller pursuant to § 109.38 of this part, all motions must be filed with the Comptroller to the attention of the Hearing Clerk within the 10-day period following the filing of exceptions allowed for the filing of replies to exceptions. Responses to such motions filed in a timely manner with the Comptroller, other than motions for oral argument before the Comptroller, shall be allowed pursuant to the procedures at § 109.23(d) of this part. No response is required for the Comptroller to make a determination on a motion for oral argument.
(c)
Authority of administrative law judge.
In addition to the powers listed in § 109.5 of this part, the administrative law judge shall have the authority to deny any dispositive motion and shall follow the procedures set forth for motions for summary disposition at § 109.29 of this part and partial summary disposition at § 109.30 of this part in making determinations on such motions.
(d)
Notification of submission of proceeding to the Comptroller.
Upon the expiration of the time for filing any exceptions, any replies to such exceptions or any motions and any ruling thereon, and after receipt of certified record, the OCC shall notify the parties within ten days of the submission of the proceeding to the Comptroller for final determination.
(e)
Extensions of time for final determination.
The Comptroller may,
sua sponte,
extend the time for final determination by signing an order of extension of time within the 90-day time period and notifying the parties of such extension thereafter.
(f)
Service upon the OCC.
Service of any document upon the OCC shall be made by filing with the Hearing Clerk, in addition to the individuals and/or offices designated by the OCC in its Notice issued pursuant to § 109.18 of this part, or such other means reasonably suited to provide notice of the person and/or offices designated to receive filings.
(g)
Filings with the Comptroller.
An additional copy of all materials required or permitted to be filed with or referred to the administrative law judge pursuant to subpart A and B of this part shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk. This rule shall not apply to the transcript of testimony and exhibits adduced at the hearing or to proposed exhibits submitted in advance of the hearing pursuant to an order of the administrative law judge under § 109.32 of this part. Materials required or permitted to be filed with or referred to the Comptroller pursuant to subparts A and B of this part shall be filed with the Comptroller, to the attention of the Hearing Clerk.
(h)
Presence of cameras and other recording devices.
The use of cameras and other recording devices, other than those used by the court reporter, shall be prohibited and excluded from the proceedings.
PART 112—RULES FOR INVESTIGATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND FORMAL EXAMINATION PROCEEDINGS
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1467, 1467a, 1813, 1817(j), 1818(n), 1820(c), 5412(b)(2)(B); 15 U.S.C. 78
l.
§ 112.1 Scope of part.
This part prescribes rules of practice and procedure applicable to the conduct of formal examination proceedings with respect to Federal savings associations and their affiliates under section 5(d)(1)(B) of the HOLA, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1464(d)(1)(B) or section 7(j)(15) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended, 12 U.S.C. 1817(j)(15) (“FDIA”), section 8(n) of the FDIA, 12 U.S.C. 1818(n), or section 10(c) of the FDIA, 12 U.S.C. 1820(c). This part does not apply to adjudicatory proceedings as to which hearings are required by statute, the rules for which are contained in part 109 of this chapter.
§ 112.2 Definitions.
As used in this part:
(a)
OCC
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency;
(b) [Reserved]
(c)
Formal examination proceeding
means the administration of oaths and affirmations, taking and preserving of testimony, requiring the production of books, papers, correspondence, memoranda, and all other records, the issuance of subpoenas, and all related activities in connection with examination of savings associations and their affiliates conducted pursuant to section 5(d)(1)(B) of the HOLA, section 7(j)(15) of the FDIA, section 8(n) of the FDIA or section 10(c) of the FDIA; and
(d)
Designated representative
means the person or persons empowered by the OCC to conduct an investigative proceeding or a formal examination proceeding.
§ 112.3 Confidentiality of proceedings.
All formal examination proceedings shall be private and, unless otherwise ordered by the OCC, all investigative proceedings shall also be private. Unless otherwise ordered or permitted by the OCC, or required by law, and except as provided in §§ 112.4 and 112.5, the entire record of any investigative proceeding or formal examination proceeding, including the resolution of the OCC or its delegate(s) authorizing the proceeding, the transcript of such proceeding, and all documents and information obtained by the designated representative(s) during the course of said proceedings shall be confidential.
§ 112.4 Transcripts.
Transcripts or other recordings, if any, of investigative proceedings or formal examination proceedings shall be prepared solely by an official reporter or by any other person or means authorized by the designated representative. A person who has submitted documentary evidence or given testimony in an investigative proceeding or formal examination proceeding may procure a copy of his own documentary evidence or transcript of his own testimony upon payment of the cost thereof;
provided,
that a person seeking a transcript of his own testimony must file a written request with the OCC's Director for Enforcement stating the reason he desires to procure such transcript, and said persons may for good cause deny such request. In any event, any witness (or his counsel) shall have the right to inspect the transcript of the witness' own testimony.
§ 112.5 Rights of witnesses.
(a) Any person who is compelled or requested to furnish documentary evidence or give testimony at an investigative proceeding or formal examination proceeding shall have the right to examine, upon request, the OCC resolution authorizing such proceeding. Copies of such resolution shall be furnished, for their retention, to such persons only with the written approval of the OCC.
(b) Any witness at an investigative proceeding or formal examination proceeding may be accompanied and advised by an attorney personally representing that witness.
(1) Such attorney shall be a member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of any state, Commonwealth, possession, territory, or the District of Columbia, who has not been suspended or debarred from practice by the bar of any such political entity or before the OCC in accordance with the provisions of part 19 of this chapter and has not been excluded from the particular investigative proceeding or formal examination proceeding in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(2) Such attorney may advise the witness before, during, and after the taking of his testimony and may briefly question the witness, on the record, at the conclusion of his testimony, for the sole purpose of clarifying any of the answers the witness has given. During the taking of the testimony of a witness, such attorney may make summary notes solely for his use in representing his client. All witnesses shall be sequestered, and, unless permitted in the discretion of the designated representative, no witness or accompanying attorney may be permitted to be present during the taking of testimony of any other witness called in such proceeding. Neither attorney(s) for the association(s) that are the subjects of the investigative proceedings or formal examination proceedings, nor attorneys for any other interested persons, shall have any right to be present during the testimony of any witness not personally being represented by such attorney.
(3) The OCC, for good cause, may exclude a particular attorney from further participation in any investigation in which the OCC has found the attorney to have engaged in dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous or contumacious conduct. The person conducting an investigation may report to the OCC instances of apparently dilatory, obstructionist, egregious, contemptuous or contumacious conduct on the part of an attorney. After due notice to the attorney, the OCC may take such action as the circumstances warrant based upon a written record evidencing the conduct of the attorney in that investigation or such other or additional written or oral presentation as the OCC may permit or direct.
§ 112.6 Obstruction of the proceedings.
The designated representative shall report to the Comptroller any instances where any witness or counsel has engaged in dilatory, obstructionist, or contumacious conduct or has otherwise violated any provision of this part during the course of an investigative
proceeding or formal examination proceeding; and the OCC may take such action as the circumstances warrant, including the exclusion of counsel from further participation in such proceeding.
§ 112.7 Subpoenas.
(a)
Service.
Service of a subpoena in connection with any investigative proceeding or formal examination proceeding shall be effected in the following manner:
(1)
Service upon a natural person.
Service of a subpoena upon a natural person may be effected by handing it to such person; by leaving it at his office with the person in charge thereof, or, if there is no one in charge, by leaving it in a conspicuous place therein; by leaving it at his dwelling place or usual place of abode with some person of suitable age and discretion then residing therein; by mailing it to him by registered or certified mail or by an express delivery service at his last known address; or by any method whereby actual notice is given to him.
(2)
Service upon other persons.
When the person to be served is not a natural person, service of the subpoena may be effected by handing the subpoena to a registered agent for service, or to any officer, director, or agent in charge of any office of such person; by mailing it to any such representative by registered or certified mail or by an express delivery service at his last known address; or by any method whereby actual notice is given to such person.
(b)
Motions to quash.
Any person to whom a subpoena is directed may, prior to the time specified therein for compliance, but in no event more than 10 days after the date of service of such subpoena, apply to the Deputy Chief Counsel or his designee to quash or modify such subpoena, accompanying such application with a statement of the reasons therefor. The Deputy Chief Counsel or his designee, as appropriate, may:
(1) Deny the application;
(2) Quash or revoke the subpoena;
(3) Modify the subpoena; or
(4) Condition the granting of the application on such terms as the Deputy Chief Counsel or his designee determines to be just, reasonable, and proper.
(c)
Attendance of witnesses.
Subpoenas issued in connection with an investigative proceeding or formal examination proceeding may require the attendance and/or testimony of witnesses from any state or territory of the United States and the production by such witnesses of documentary or other tangible evidence at any designated place where the proceeding is being (or is to be) conducted. Foreign nationals are subject to such subpoenas if such service is made upon a duly authorized agent located in the United States.
(d)
Witness fees and mileage.
Witnesses summoned in any proceeding under this part shall be paid the same fees and mileage that are paid witnesses in the district courts of the United States. Such fees and mileage need not be tendered when the subpoena is issued on behalf of the OCC by any of its designated representatives.
PART 165—PROMPT CORRECTIVE ACTION
Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1831o, 5412(b)(2)(B).
§§ 165.1-165.7 [Reserved]
§ 165.8 Procedures for reclassifying a Federal savings association based on criteria other than capital.
(a)
Reclassification based on unsafe or unsound condition or practice
—(1)
Issuance of notice of proposed reclassification—(i) Grounds for reclassification.
(A) Pursuant to 12 CFR 6.4(d), the OCC may reclassify a well capitalized Federal savings association as adequately capitalized or subject an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower capital category if:
(
1
) The OCC determines that the savings association is in an unsafe or unsound condition; or
(
2
) The OCC deems the savings association to be engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice and not to have corrected the deficiency.
(B) Any action pursuant to this paragraph (a)(1)(i) shall hereinafter be referred to as “reclassification.”
(ii)
Prior notice to institution.
Prior to taking action pursuant to 12 CFR 6.4(d), the OCC shall issue and serve on the Federal savings association a written notice of the OCC's intention to reclassify the savings association.
(2)
Contents of notice.
A notice of intention to reclassify a Federal savings association based on unsafe or unsound condition shall include:
(i) A statement of the savings association's capital measures and capital levels and the category to which the savings association would be reclassified;
(ii) The reasons for reclassification of the savings association;
(iii) The date by which the savings association subject to the notice of reclassification may file with the OCC a written appeal of the proposed reclassification and a request for a hearing, which shall be at least 14 calendar days from the date of service of the notice unless the OCC determines that a shorter period is appropriate in light of the financial condition of the savings association or other relevant circumstances.
(3)
Response to notice of proposed reclassification.
A Federal savings association may file a written response to a notice of proposed reclassification within the time period set by the OCC. The response should include:
(i) An explanation of why the savings association is not in unsafe or unsound condition or otherwise should not be reclassified; and
(ii) Any other relevant information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other evidence in support of the position of the savings association or company regarding the reclassification.
(4)
Failure to file response.
Failure by a Federal savings association to file, within the specified time period, a written response with the OCC to a notice of proposed reclassification shall constitute a waiver of the opportunity to respond and shall constitute consent to the reclassification.
(5)
Request for hearing and presentation of oral testimony or witnesses.
The response may include a request for an informal hearing before the OCC or its designee under this section. If the Federal savings association desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, the savings association shall include a request to do so with the request for an informal hearing. A request to present oral testimony or witnesses shall specify the names of the witnesses and the general nature of their expected testimony. Failure to request a hearing shall constitute a waiver of any right to a hearing, and failure to request the opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses shall constitute a waiver of any right to present oral testimony or witnesses.
(6)
Order for informal hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely written request that includes a request for a hearing, the OCC shall issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the OCC allows further time at the request of the Federal savings association. The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC or at such other place as may be designated by the OCC, before a presiding officer(s) designated by the OCC to conduct the hearing.
(7)
Hearing procedures.
(i) The Federal savings association shall have the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present oral argument at the hearing. The savings association may introduce oral testimony and present witnesses only if expressly authorized by the OCC or the presiding officer(s). Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 554-557) governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor parts 19 or 109 of this chapter apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the OCC orders that such procedures shall apply.
(ii) The informal hearing shall be recorded and a transcript furnished to the savings association upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer(s). The presiding officer(s) may ask questions of any witness.
(iii) The presiding officer(s) may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period (normally five business days) following completion of oral testimony or argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(8)
Recommendation of presiding officers.
Within 20 calendar days following the date the hearing and the record on the proceeding are closed, the presiding officer(s) shall make a recommendation to the OCC on the reclassification.
(9)
Time for decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed or the date of the response in a case where no hearing was requested, the OCC will decide whether to reclassify the Federal savings association and notify the savings association of the OCC's decision.
(b)
Request for rescission of reclassification.
Any Federal savings association that has been reclassified under this section, may, upon a change in circumstances, request in writing that the OCC reconsider the reclassification, and may propose that the reclassification be rescinded and that any directives issued in connection with the reclassification be modified, rescinded, or removed. Unless otherwise ordered by the OCC, the savings association shall remain subject to the reclassification and to any directives issued in connection with that reclassification while such request is pending before the OCC.
§ 165.9 Order to dismiss a director or senior executive officer.
(a)
Service of notice.
When the OCC issues and serves a directive on a Federal savings association pursuant to subpart B of part 6 of this chapter requiring the savings association to dismiss any director or senior executive officer under section 38(f)(2)(F)(ii) of the FDI Act, the OCC shall also serve a copy of the directive, or the relevant portions of the directive where appropriate, upon the person to be dismissed.
(b)
Response to directive
—(1)
Request for reinstatement.
A director or senior executive officer who has been served with a directive under paragraph (a) of this section (Respondent) may file a written request for reinstatement. The request for reinstatement shall be filed within 10 calendar days of the receipt of the directive by the Respondent, unless further time is allowed by the OCC at the request of the Respondent.
(2)
Contents of request; informal hearing.
The request for reinstatement should include reasons why the Respondent should be reinstated, and may include a request for an informal hearing before the OCC or its designee under this section. If the Respondent desires to present oral testimony or witnesses at the hearing, the Respondent shall include a request to do so with the request for an informal hearing. The request to present oral testimony or witnesses shall specify the names of the witnesses and the general nature of their expected testimony. Failure to request a hearing shall constitute
a waiver of any right to a hearing and failure to request the opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses shall constitute a waiver of any right or opportunity to present oral testimony or witnesses.
(3)
Effective date.
Unless otherwise ordered by the OCC, the dismissal shall remain in effect while a request for reinstatement is pending.
(c)
Order for informal hearing.
Upon receipt of a timely written request from a Respondent for an informal hearing on the portion of a directive requiring a Federal savings association to dismiss from office any director or senior executive officer, the OCC shall issue an order directing an informal hearing to commence no later than 30 days after receipt of the request, unless the Respondent requests a later date. The hearing shall be held in Washington, DC, or at such other place as may be designated by the OCC, before a presiding officer(s) designated by the OCC to conduct the hearing.
(d)
Hearing procedures.
(1) A Respondent may appear at the hearing personally or through counsel. A Respondent shall have the right to introduce relevant written materials and to present oral argument. A Respondent may introduce oral testimony and present witnesses only if expressly authorized by the OCC or the presiding officer(s). Neither the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act governing adjudications required by statute to be determined on the record nor parts 19 or 109 of this chapter apply to an informal hearing under this section unless the OCC orders that such procedures shall apply.
(2) The informal hearing shall be recorded and a transcript furnished to the Respondent upon request and payment of the cost thereof. Witnesses need not be sworn, unless specifically requested by a party or the presiding officer(s). The presiding officer(s) may ask questions of any witness.
(3) The presiding officer(s) may order that the hearing be continued for a reasonable period (normally five business days) following completion of oral testimony or argument to allow additional written submissions to the hearing record.
(e)
Standard for review.
A Respondent shall bear the burden of demonstrating that his or her continued employment by or service with the Federal savings association would materially strengthen the savings association's ability:
(1) To become adequately capitalized, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of the savings association's capital level or failure to submit or implement a capital restoration plan; and
(2) To correct the unsafe or unsound condition or unsafe or unsound practice, to the extent that the directive was issued as a result of classification of the savings association based on supervisory criteria other than capital, pursuant to section 38(g) of the FDI Act.
(f)
Recommendation of presiding officers.
Within 20 calendar days following the date the hearing and the record on the proceeding are closed, the presiding officer(s) shall make a recommendation to the OCC concerning the Respondent's request for reinstatement with the Federal savings association.
(g)
Time for decision.
Not later than 60 calendar days after the date the record is closed or the date of the response in a case where no hearing has been requested, the OCC shall grant or deny the request for reinstatement and notify the Respondent of the OCC's decision. If the OCC denies the request for reinstatement, the OCC shall set forth in the notification the reasons for the OCC's action.
§ 165.10 [Reserved]
Pt. 21

# PART 21—MINIMUM SECURITY DEVICES AND PROCEDURES, REPORTS OF SUSPICIOUS ACTIVITIES, AND BANK SECRECY ACT COMPLIANCE PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Minimum Security Devices and Procedures
Sec.
21.1
Purpose and scope of subpart A of this part.
21.2
Designation of security officer.
21.3
Security program.
21.4
Report.

# Subpart B—Reports of Suspicious Activities
21.11
Suspicious Activity Report.

# Subpart C—Procedures for Monitoring Bank Secrecy Act Compliance
21.21
Procedures for monitoring Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) compliance.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 161, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1818, 1881-1884, and 3401-3422; 31 U.S.C. 5318.

# Subpart A—Minimum Security Devices and Procedures

# Source:
56 FR 29564, June 28, 1991, unless otherwise noted.
§ 21.1
Purpose and scope of subpart A of this part.
(a) This subpart is issued by the Comptroller of the Currency pursuant to section 3 of the Bank Protection Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1882) and is applicable
to all national banking associations. It requires each bank to adopt appropriate security procedures to discourage robberies, burglaries, and larcenies and to assist in identifying and apprehending persons who commit such acts.
(b) It is the responsibility of a bank's board of directors to comply with this regulation and ensure that a security program which equals or exceeds the standards prescribed by this part is developed and implemented for the bank's main office and branches (as the term “branch” is used in 12 U.S.C. 36).
[56 FR 29564, June 28, 1991, as amended at 73 FR 22244, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 21.2
Designation of security officer.
Within 30 days after the opening of a new bank, the Bank's board of directors shall designate a security officer who shall have the authority, subject to the approval of the board of directors, for immediately developing and administering a written security program to protect each banking office from robberies, burglaries, and larcenies and to assist in identifying and apprehending persons who commit such acts.
(Approval by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1557-0180)
§ 21.3
Security program.
(a)
Contents of security program.
The security program shall:
(1) Establish procedures for opening and closing for business and for the safekeeping of all currency, negotiable securities, and similar valuables at all times;
(2) Establish procedures that will assist in identifying persons committing crimes against the institution and that will preserve evidence that may aid in their identification or conviction; such procedures may include, but are not limited to:
(i) Using identification devices, such as prerecorded serial-numbered bills, or chemical and electronic devices;
(ii) Maintaining a camera that records activity in the banking office; and
(iii) Retaining a record of any robbery, burglary or larceny committed or attempted against a banking office;
(3) Provide for initial and periodic training of employees in their responsibilities under the security program and in proper employee conduct during and after a robbery; and
(4) Provide for selecting, testing, operating and maintaining appropriate security devices, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Security devices.
Each national bank shall have, at a minimum, the following security devices:
(1) A means of protecting cash or other liquid assets, such as a vault, safe, or other secure space;
(2) A lighting system for illuminating, during the hours of darkness, the area around the vault, if the vault is visible from outside the banking office;
(3) Tamper-resistant locks on exterior doors and exterior windows designed to be opened;
(4) An alarm system or other appropriate device for promptly notifying the nearest responsible law enforcement officers of an attempted or perpetrated robbery, burglary or larceny; and
(5) Such other devices as the security officer determines to be appropriate, taking into consideration:
(i) The incidence of crimes against financial institutions in the area;
(ii) The amount of currency or other valuables exposed to robbery, burglary, or larceny;
(iii) The distance of the banking office from the nearest responsible law enforcement officers and the time required for such law enforcement officers ordinarily to arrive at the banking office;
(iv) The cost of the security devices;
(v) Other security measures in effect at the banking office; and
(vi) The physical characteristics of the banking office structure and its surroundings.
§ 21.4
Report.
The security officer for a national bank shall report at least annually to the bank's board of directors on the effectiveness of the security program. The substance of such report shall be
reflected in the minutes of the Board meeting in which it is given.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1557-0180)

# Subpart B—Reports of Suspicious Activities
§ 21.11
Suspicious Activity Report.
(a)
Purpose and scope.
This section ensures that national banks file a Suspicious Activity Report when they detect a known or suspected violation of Federal law or a suspicious transaction related to a money laundering activity or a violation of the Bank Secrecy Act. This section applies to all national banks as well as any Federal branches and agencies of foreign banks licensed or chartered by the OCC.
(b)
Definitions.
For the purposes of this section:
(1)
FinCEN
means the Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the Department of the Treasury.
(2)
Institution-affiliated party
means any institution-affiliated party as that term is defined in sections 3(u) and 8(b)(5) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(u) and 1818(b)(5)).
(3)
SAR
means a Suspicious Activity Report.
(c)
SARs required.
A national bank shall file a SAR with the appropriate Federal law enforcement agencies and the Department of the Treasury on the form prescribed by the OCC and in accordance with the form's instructions. The bank shall send the completed SAR to FinCEN in the following circumstances:
(1)
Insider abuse involving any amount.
Whenever the national bank detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violation, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the bank or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the bank, where the bank believes that it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation, or series of criminal violations, or that the bank was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, and the bank has a substantial basis for identifying one of its directors, officers, employees, agents or other institution-affiliated parties as having committed or aided in the commission of a criminal act, regardless of the amount involved in the violation.
(2)
Violations aggregating $5,000 or more where a suspect can be identified.
Whenever the national bank detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violation, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the bank or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the bank and involving or aggregating $5,000 or more in funds or other assets where the bank believes that it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation, or series of criminal violations or that it was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, and the bank has a substantial basis for identifying a possible suspect or group of suspects. If it is determined prior to filing this report that the identified suspect or group of suspects has used an alias, then information regarding the true identity of the suspect or group of suspects, as well as alias identifiers, such as drivers' license or social security numbers, addresses and telephone numbers, must be reported.
(3)
Violations aggregating $25,000 or more regardless of potential suspects.
Whenever the national bank detects any known or suspected Federal criminal violation, or pattern of criminal violations, committed or attempted against the bank or involving a transaction or transactions conducted through the bank and involving or aggregating $25,000 or more in funds or other assets where the bank believes that it was either an actual or potential victim of a criminal violation, or series of criminal violations, or that the bank was used to facilitate a criminal transaction, even though there is no substantial basis for identifying a possible suspect or group of suspects.
(4)
Transactions aggregating $5,000 or more that involve potential money laundering or violate the Bank Secrecy Act.
Any transaction (which for purposes of this paragraph (c)(4) means a deposit, withdrawal, transfer between accounts, exchange of currency, loan, extension of credit, or purchase or sale of any stock, bond, certificate of deposit, or other monetary instrument or investment security, or any other payment, transfer, or delivery by, through, or to
a financial institution, by whatever means effected) conducted or attempted by, at or through the national bank and involving or aggregating $5,000 or more in funds or other assets, if the bank knows, suspects, or has reason to suspect that:
(i) The transaction involves funds derived from illegal activities or is intended or conducted in order to hide or disguise funds or assets derived from illegal activities (including, without limitation, the ownership, nature, source, location, or control of such funds or assets) as part of a plan to violate or evade any law or regulation or to avoid any transaction reporting requirement under Federal law;
(ii) The transaction is designed to evade any regulations promulgated under the Bank Secrecy Act; or
(iii) The transaction has no business or apparent lawful purpose or is not the sort in which the particular customer would normally be expected to engage, and the institution knows of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after examining the available facts, including the background and possible purpose of the transaction.
(d)
Time for reporting.
A national bank is required to file a SAR no later than 30 calendar days after the date of the initial detection of facts that may constitute a basis for filing a SAR. If no suspect was identified on the date of detection of the incident requiring the filing, a national bank may delay filing a SAR for an additional 30 calendar days to identify a suspect. In no case shall reporting be delayed more than 60 calendar days after the date of initial detection of a reportable transaction. In situations involving violations requiring immediate attention, such as when a reportable violation is ongoing, the financial institution shall immediately notify, by telephone, an appropriate law enforcement authority and the OCC in addition to filing a timely SAR.
(e)
Reports to state and local authorities.
National banks are encouraged to file a copy of the SAR with state and local law enforcement agencies where appropriate.
(f)
Exceptions.
(1) A national bank need not file a SAR for a robbery or burglary committed or attempted that is reported to appropriate law enforcement authorities.
(2) A national bank need not file a SAR for lost, missing, counterfeit, or stolen securities if it files a report pursuant to the reporting requirements of 17 CFR 240.17f-1.
(g)
Retention of records.
A national bank shall maintain a copy of any SAR filed and the original or business record equivalent of any supporting documentation for a period of five years from the date of the filing of the SAR. Supporting documentation shall be identified and maintained by the bank as such, and shall be deemed to have been filed with the SAR. A national bank shall make all supporting documentation available to appropriate law enforcement agencies upon request.
(h)
Notification to board of directors
—(1)
Generally.
Whenever a national bank files a SAR pursuant to this section, the management of the bank shall promptly notify its board of directors, or a committee of directors or executive officers designated by the board of directors to receive notice.
(2)
Suspect is a director or executive officer.
If the bank files a SAR pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section and the suspect is a director or executive officer, the bank may not notify the suspect, pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2), but shall notify all directors who are not suspects.
(i)
Compliance.
Failure to file a SAR in accordance with this section and the instructions may subject the national bank, its directors, officers, employees, agents, or other institution-affiliated parties to supervisory action.
(j)
Obtaining SARs.
A national bank may obtain SARs and the Instructions from the appropriate OCC District Office listed in 12 CFR part 4.
(k)
Confidentiality of SARs.
A SAR, and any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, are confidential, and shall not be disclosed except as authorized in this paragraph (k).
(1)
Prohibition on disclosure by national banks
—(i)
General rule.
No national bank, and no director, officer, employee, or agent of a national bank, shall disclose a SAR or any information that would reveal the existence of
a SAR. Any national bank, and any director, officer, employee, or agent of any national bank that is subpoenaed or otherwise requested to disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, shall decline to produce the SAR or such information, citing this section and 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(A)(i), and shall notify the following of any such request and the response thereto:
(A) Director, Litigation Division, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; and
(B) The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (FinCEN).
(ii)
Rules of construction.
Provided that no person involved in any reported suspicious transaction is notified that the transaction has been reported, this paragraph (k)(1) shall not be construed as prohibiting:
(A) The disclosure by a national bank, or any director, officer, employee or agent of a national bank of:
(
1
) A SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, to the OCC, FinCEN, or any Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency; or
(
2
) The underlying facts, transactions, and documents upon which a SAR is based, including, but not limited to, disclosures:
(
i
) To another financial institution, or any director, officer, employee or agent of a financial institution, for the preparation of a joint SAR; or
(
ii
) In connection with certain employment references or termination notices, to the full extent authorized in 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(2)(B); or
(B) The sharing by a national bank, or any director, officer, employee, or agent of a national bank, of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, within the bank's corporate organizational structure for purposes consistent with title II of the Bank Secrecy Act as determined by regulation or in guidance.
(2)
Prohibition on disclosure by the OCC.
The OCC will not, and no officer, employee or agent of the OCC, shall disclose a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, except as necessary to fulfill official duties consistent with title II of the Bank Secrecy Act. For purposes of this section, official duties shall not include the disclosure of a SAR, or any information that would reveal the existence of a SAR, in response to a request for use in a private legal proceeding or in response to a request for disclosure of non-public OCC information under 12 CFR 4.33.
(l)
Limitation on liability.
A national bank and any director, officer, employee or agent of a national bank that makes a voluntary disclosure of any possible violation of law or regulation to a government agency or makes a disclosure pursuant to this section or any other authority, including a disclosure made jointly with another financial institution, shall be protected from liability to any person for any such disclosure, or for failure to provide notice of such disclosure to any person identified in the disclosure, or both, to the full extent provided by 31 U.S.C. 5318(g)(3).
(m)
Exemptions.
(1) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) may grant a national bank an exemption from the requirements of this section. A national bank requesting an exemption must submit a request in writing to the OCC. In reviewing such requests, the OCC will consider whether the exemption is consistent with the purposes of the Bank Secrecy Act (if applicable) and safe and sound banking, and may consider other appropriate factors. Any exemption will apply only as expressly stated in the exemption. (A national bank requesting an exemption that also requires relief from the requirements of applicable regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR chapter X must submit a request in writing to both the OCC and FinCEN for approval.)
(2) The OCC will respond in writing to a national bank that submits a request pursuant to paragraph (m)(1) of this section after considering whether the exemption is consistent with the factors in paragraph (m)(1) of this section. Any exemption granted by the OCC under paragraph (m)(1) of this section will continue for the time specified by the OCC.
(3) The OCC may extend the period of time or may revoke an exemption granted under paragraph (m)(1) of this section. Exemptions or extensions may
be revoked in the sole discretion of the OCC. Before revoking an exemption, the OCC will provide written notice to the national bank of the OCC's intention to revoke an exemption. Such notice will include the basis for the revocation and will provide an opportunity for the national bank to submit a response to the OCC. The OCC will consider any response before deciding whether or not to revoke an exemption and provide written notice to the national bank of the OCC's final decision to revoke an exemption.
(4) With respect to requests for exemptions that will also require relief from the requirements of applicable regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR chapter X, upon receiving approval from both the OCC and FinCEN, the requestor will be relieved of its obligations under this section to the extent stated in such approvals.
[61 FR 4337, Feb. 5, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 75583, Dec. 3, 2010; 87 FR 15332, Mar. 18, 2022]

# Subpart C—Procedures for Monitoring Bank Secrecy Act Compliance
§ 21.21
Procedures for monitoring Bank Secrecy Act (BSA) compliance.
(a)
Purpose.
This subpart is issued to assure that all national banks and savings associations establish and maintain procedures reasonably designed to assure and monitor their compliance with the requirements of subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code, and the implementing regulations promulgated thereunder by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR Chapter X.
(b)
Definition of savings association.
For purposes of this subpart C, the term
savings association
means a savings association as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act), the deposits of which are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. It includes a Federal savings association or Federal savings bank, chartered under section 5 of the FDI Act, or a building and loan, savings and loan, or homestead association, or a cooperative bank (other than a cooperative bank which is a state bank as defined in section 3(a)(2) of the FDI Act) organized and operating according to the laws of the state in which it is chartered or organized, or a corporation (other than a bank as defined in section 3(a)(1) of the FDI Act) that the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller jointly determine to be operating substantially in the same manner as a savings association.
(c)
Establishment of a BSA compliance program
—(1)
Program requirement.
Each national bank and each savings association shall develop and provide for the continued administration of a program reasonably designed to assure and monitor compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements set forth in subchapter II of chapter 53 of title 31, United States Code and the implementing regulations issued by the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR Chapter X. The compliance program must be written, approved by the national bank's or savings association's board of directors, and reflected in the minutes of the national bank or savings association.
(2)
Customer identification program.
Each national bank and each savings association is subject to the requirements of 31 U.S.C. 5318(l) and the implementing regulations jointly promulgated by the OCC and the Department of the Treasury at 31 CFR 1020.220, which require a customer identification program to be implemented as part of the BSA compliance program required under this section.
(d)
Contents of compliance program.
The compliance program shall, at a minimum:
(1) Provide for a system of internal controls to assure ongoing compliance;
(2) Provide for independent testing for compliance to be conducted by national bank or savings association personnel or by an outside party;
(3) Designate an individual or individuals responsible for coordinating and monitoring day-to-day compliance; and
(4) Provide training for appropriate personnel.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1557-0180)
[52 FR 2859, Jan. 27, 1987, as amended at 68 FR 25111, May 9, 2003; 76 FR 6687, Feb. 8, 2011; 79 FR 28399, May 16, 2014]
Pt. 22

# PART 22—LOANS IN AREAS HAVING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARDS
Sec.
22.1
Purpose and scope.
22.2
Definitions.
22.3
Requirement to purchase flood insurance where available.
22.4
Exemptions.
22.5
Escrow requirement.
22.6
Required use of standard flood hazard determination form.
22.7
Force placement of flood insurance.
22.8
Determination fees.
22.9
Notice of special flood hazards and availability of Federal disaster relief assistance.
22.10
Notice of servicer's identity.
Appendix A to Part 22—Sample Form of Notice of Special Flood Hazards and Availability of Federal Disaster Relief Assistance
Appendix B to Part 22—Sample Clause for Option to Escrow for Outstanding Loans

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, and 5412(b)(2)(B); 42 U.S.C. 4012a, 4104a, 4104b, 4106, and 4128.

# Source:
80 FR 43240, July 21, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 22.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to implement the requirements of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 and the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129).
(b)
Scope.
This part, except for §§ 22.6 and 22.8, applies to loans secured by buildings or mobile homes located or to be located in areas determined by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to have special flood hazards. Sections 22.6 and 22.8 apply to loans secured by buildings or mobile homes, regardless of location.
§ 22.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part:
(a)
Act
means the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129).
(b)
Administrator of FEMA
means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(c)
Building
means a walled and roofed structure, other than a gas or liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground and affixed to a permanent site, and a walled and roofed structure while in the course of construction, alteration, or repair.
(d)
Community
means a State or a political subdivision of a State that has zoning and building code jurisdiction over a particular area having special flood hazards.
(e)
Designated loan
means a loan secured by a building or mobile home that is located or to be located in a special flood hazard area in which flood insurance is available under the Act.
(f)
Federal savings association
means, for purposes of this part, a Federal savings association as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(b)(2) and any service corporations thereof.
(g)
Mobile home
means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, that is built on a permanent chassis and designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when attached to the required utilities. The term
mobile home
does not include a recreational vehicle. For purposes of this part, the term
mobile home
means a mobile home on a permanent foundation. The term
mobile home
includes a manufactured home as that term is used in the NFIP.
(h)
Mutual aid society
means an organization—
(1) Whose members share a common religious, charitable, educational, or fraternal bond;
(2) That covers losses caused by damage to members' property pursuant to an agreement, including damage caused by flooding, in accordance with this common bond; and
(3) That has a demonstrated history of fulfilling the terms of agreements to cover losses to members' property caused by flooding.
(i)
National bank
means a national bank or a Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank.
(j)
NFIP
means the National Flood Insurance Program authorized under the Act.
(k)
Private flood insurance
means an insurance policy that:
(1) Is issued by an insurance company that is:
(i) Licensed, admitted, or otherwise approved to engage in the business of insurance by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction in which the property to be insured is located; or
(ii) Recognized, or not disapproved, as a surplus lines insurer by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction in which the property to be insured is located in the case of a policy of difference in conditions, multiple peril, all risk, or other blanket coverage insuring nonresidential commercial property;
(2) Provides flood insurance coverage that is at least as broad as the coverage provided under an SFIP for the same type of property, including when considering deductibles, exclusions, and conditions offered by the insurer. To be at least as broad as the coverage provided under an SFIP, the policy must, at a minimum:
(i) Define the term “flood” to include the events defined as a “flood” in an SFIP;
(ii) Contain the coverage specified in an SFIP, including that relating to building property coverage; personal property coverage, if purchased by the insured mortgagor(s); other coverages; and increased cost of compliance coverage;
(iii) Contain deductibles no higher than the specified maximum, and include similar non-applicability provisions, as under an SFIP, for any total policy coverage amount up to the maximum available under the NFIP at the time the policy is provided to the lender;
(iv) Provide coverage for direct physical loss caused by a flood and may only exclude other causes of loss that are excluded in an SFIP. Any exclusions other than those in an SFIP may pertain only to coverage that is in addition to the amount and type of coverage that could be provided by an SFIP or have the effect of providing broader coverage to the policyholder; and
(v) Not contain conditions that narrow the coverage provided in an SFIP;
(3) Includes all of the following:
(i) A requirement for the insurer to give written notice 45 days before cancellation or non-renewal of flood insurance coverage to:
(A) The insured; and
(B) The national bank or Federal savings association that made the designated loan secured by the property covered by the flood insurance, or the servicer acting on its behalf;
(ii) Information about the availability of flood insurance coverage under the NFIP;
(iii) A mortgage interest clause similar to the clause contained in an SFIP; and
(iv) A provision requiring an insured to file suit not later than one year after the date of a written denial of all or part of a claim under the policy; and
(4) Contains cancellation provisions that are as restrictive as the provisions contained in an SFIP.
(l)
Residential improved real estate
means real estate upon which a home or other residential building is located or to be located.
(m)
Servicer
means the person responsible for:
(1) Receiving any scheduled, periodic payments from a borrower under the terms of a loan, including amounts for taxes, insurance premiums, and other charges with respect to the property securing the loan; and
(2) Making payments of principal and interest and any other payments from the amounts received from the borrower as may be required under the terms of the loan.
(n)
SFIP
means, for purposes of §§ 22.2(k), a standard flood insurance policy issued under the NFIP in effect as of the date private flood insurance is provided to a national bank or Federal savings association.
(o)
Special flood hazard area
means the land in the flood plain within a community having at least a one percent chance of flooding in any given year, as designated by the Administrator of FEMA.
(p)
Table funding
means a settlement at which a loan is funded by a contemporaneous advance of loan funds and an
assignment of the loan to the person advancing the funds.
[80 FR 43240, July 21, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 4969, Feb. 20, 2019]
§ 22.3
Requirement to purchase flood insurance where available.
(a)
In general.
A national bank or Federal savings association shall not make, increase, extend, or renew any designated loan unless the building or mobile home and any personal property securing the loan is covered by flood insurance for the term of the loan. The amount of insurance must be at least equal to the lesser of the outstanding principal balance of the designated loan or the maximum limit of coverage available for the particular type of property under the Act. Flood insurance coverage under the Act is limited to the building or mobile home and any personal property that secures a loan and not the land itself.
(b)
Table funded loans.
A national bank or Federal savings association that acquires a loan from a mortgage broker or other entity through table funding shall be considered to be making a loan for the purposes of this part.
(c)
Private flood insurance
—(1)
Mandatory acceptance.
A national bank or Federal savings association must accept private flood insurance, as defined in § 22.2(k), in satisfaction of the flood insurance purchase requirement in paragraph (a) of this section if the policy meets the requirements for coverage in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Compliance aid for mandatory acceptance.
A national bank or Federal savings association may determine that a policy meets the definition of private flood insurance in § 22.2(k), without further review of the policy, if the following statement is included within the policy or as an endorsement to the policy: “This policy meets the definition of private flood insurance contained in 42 U.S.C. 4012a(b)(7) and the corresponding regulation.”
(3)
Discretionary acceptance.
A national bank or Federal savings association may accept a flood insurance policy issued by a private insurer that is not issued under the NFIP and that does not meet the definition of private flood insurance in § 22.2(k) in satisfaction of the flood insurance purchase requirement in paragraph (a) of this section if the policy:
(i) Provides coverage in the amount required by paragraph (a) of this section;
(ii) Is issued by an insurer that is licensed, admitted, or otherwise approved to engage in the business of insurance by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction in which the property to be insured is located; or in the case of a policy of difference in conditions, multiple peril, all risk, or other blanket coverage insuring nonresidential commercial property, is issued by a surplus lines insurer recognized, or not disapproved, by the insurance regulator of the State or jurisdiction where the property to be insured is located;
(iii) Covers both the mortgagor(s) and the mortgagee(s) as loss payees, except in the case of a policy that is provided by a condominium association, cooperative, homeowners association, or other applicable group and for which the premium is paid by the condominium association, cooperative, homeowners association, or other applicable group as a common expense; and
(iv) Provides sufficient protection of the designated loan, consistent with general safety and soundness principles, and the national bank or Federal savings association documents its conclusion regarding sufficiency of the protection of the loan in writing.
(4)
Mutual aid societies.
Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association may accept a plan issued by a mutual aid society, as defined in § 22.2(h), in satisfaction of the flood insurance purchase requirement in paragraph (a) of this section if:
(i) The OCC has determined that such plans qualify as flood insurance for purposes of the Act;
(ii) The plan provides coverage in the amount required by paragraph (a) of this section;
(iii) The plan covers both the mortgagor(s) and the mortgagee(s) as loss payees; and
(iv) The plan provides sufficient protection of the designated loan, consistent with general safety and soundness principles, and the national bank or Federal savings association documents its conclusion regarding sufficiency of the protection of the loan in writing.
[80 FR 43240, July 21, 2015, as amended at 84 FR 4970, Feb. 20, 2019]
§ 22.4
Exemptions.
The flood insurance requirement prescribed by § 22.3 does not apply with respect to:
(a) Any State-owned property covered under a policy of self-insurance satisfactory to the Administrator of FEMA, who publishes and periodically revises the list of States falling within this exemption;
(b) Property securing any loan with an original principal balance of $5,000 or less and a repayment term of one year or less; or
(c) Any structure that is a part of any residential property but is detached from the primary residential structure of such property and does not serve as a residence. For purposes of this paragraph (c):
(1) “A structure that is a part of a residential property” is a structure used primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, and not used primarily for agricultural, commercial, industrial, or other business purposes;
(2) A structure is “detached” from the primary residential structure if it is not joined by any structural connection to that structure; and
(3) “Serve as a residence” shall be based upon the good faith determination of the national bank or Federal savings association that the structure is intended for use or actually used as a residence, which generally includes sleeping, bathroom, or kitchen facilities.
§ 22.5
Escrow requirement.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Applicability.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) or (c) of this section, a national bank or a Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on its behalf, shall require the escrow of all premiums and fees for any flood insurance required under § 22.3(a) for any designated loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home that is made, increased, extended, or renewed on or after January 1, 2016, payable with the same frequency as payments on the designated loan are required to be made for the duration of the loan.
(2)
Exceptions.
Paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not apply if:
(i) The loan is an extension of credit primarily for business, commercial, or agricultural purposes;
(ii) The loan is in a subordinate position to a senior lien secured by the same residential improved real estate or mobile home for which the borrower has obtained flood insurance coverage that meets the requirements of § 22.3(a);
(iii) Flood insurance coverage for the residential improved real estate or mobile home is provided by a policy that:
(A) Meets the requirements of § 22.3(a);
(B) Is provided by a condominium association, cooperative, homeowners association, or other applicable group; and
(C) The premium for which is paid by the condominium association, cooperative, homeowners association, or other applicable group as a common expense;
(iv) The loan is a home equity line of credit;
(v) The loan is a nonperforming loan, which is a loan that is 90 or more days past due and remains nonperforming until it is permanently modified or until the entire amount past due, including principal, accrued interest, and penalty interest incurred as the result of past due status, is collected or otherwise discharged in full; or
(vi) The loan has a term of no longer than 12 months.
(3)
Duration of exception.
If a national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting its behalf, determines at any time during the term of a designated loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home that is made, increased, extended, or renewed on or after January 1, 2016, that an exception under paragraph (a)(2) of this section does not apply, then the bank or savings association, or the servicer acting on its behalf, shall require the escrow of all premiums and fees for any flood insurance
required under § 22.3(a) as soon as reasonably practicable and, if applicable, shall provide any disclosure required under section 10 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act of 1974 (12 U.S.C. 2609) (RESPA).
(4)
Escrow account.
The national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on its behalf, shall deposit the flood insurance premiums and fees on behalf of the borrower in an escrow account. This escrow account will be subject to escrow requirements adopted pursuant to section 10 of RESPA, which generally limits the amount that may be maintained in escrow accounts for certain types of loans and requires escrow account statements for those accounts, only if the loan is otherwise subject to RESPA. Following receipt of a notice from the Administrator of FEMA or other provider of flood insurance that premiums are due, the national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on its behalf, shall pay the amount owed to the insurance provider from the escrow account by the date when such premiums are due.
(b)
Notice.
For any loan for which a national bank or Federal savings association is required to escrow under paragraphs (a)(1) or (c)(2) of this section or may be required to escrow under paragraphs (a)(3) of this section during the term of the loan, the national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on its behalf, shall mail or deliver a written notice with the notice provided under § 22.9 informing the borrower that the national bank or Federal savings association is required to escrow all premiums and fees for required flood insurance, using language that is substantially similar to model clauses on the escrow requirement in appendix A to this part.
(c)
Small lender exception
—(1)
Qualification.
Except as may be required under applicable State law, paragraphs (a), (b), and (d) of this section do not apply to a national bank or Federal savings association:
(i) That has total assets of less than $1 billion as of December 31 of either of the two prior calendar years; and
(ii) On or before July 6, 2012:
(A) Was not required under Federal or State law to deposit taxes, insurance premiums, fees, or any other charges in an escrow account for the entire term of any loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home; and
(B) Did not have a policy of consistently and uniformly requiring the deposit of taxes, insurance premiums, fees, or any other charges in an escrow account for any loans secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home.
(2)
Change in status.
If a national bank or Federal savings association previously qualified for the exception in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, but no longer qualifies for the exception because it had assets of $1 billion or more for two consecutive calendar year ends, the national bank or Federal savings association must escrow premiums and fees for flood insurance pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section for any designated loan made, increased, extended, or renewed on or after July 1 of the first calendar year of changed status.
(d)
Option to escrow
—(1)
In general.
A national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on its behalf, shall offer and make available to the borrower the option to escrow all premiums and fees for any flood insurance required under § 22.3 for any loan secured by residential improved real estate or a mobile home that is outstanding on January 1, 2016, or July 1 of the first calendar year in which the national bank or Federal savings association has had a change in status pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, unless:
(i) The loan or the national bank or Federal savings association qualifies for an exception from the escrow requirement under paragraphs (a)(2) or (c) of this section, respectively;
(ii) The borrower is already escrowing all premiums and fees for flood insurance for the loan; or
(iii) The national bank or Federal savings association is required to escrow flood insurance premiums and fees pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Notice.
For any loan subject to paragraph (d) of this section, the national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on its behalf,
shall mail or deliver to the borrower no later than June 30, 2016, or September 30 of the first calendar year in which the national bank or Federal savings association has had a change in status pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, a notice in writing, or if the borrower agrees, electronically, informing the borrower of the option to escrow all premiums and fees for any required flood insurance and the method(s) by which the borrower may request the escrow, using language similar to the model clause in appendix B.
(3)
Timing.
The national bank or Federal savings association or the servicer acting on its behalf, must begin escrowing premiums and fees for flood insurance as soon as reasonably practicable after the bank or savings association, or servicer, receives the borrower's request to escrow.
[80 FR 43243, July 21, 2015]
§ 22.6
Required use of standard flood hazard determination form.
(a)
Use of form.
A national bank or Federal savings association shall use the standard flood hazard determination form developed by the Administrator of FEMA when determining whether the building or mobile home offered as collateral security for a loan is or will be located in a special flood hazard area in which flood insurance is available under the Act. The standard flood hazard determination form may be used in a printed, computerized, or electronic manner. A national bank or Federal savings association may obtain the standard flood hazard determination form from FEMA's Web site at
www.fema.gov.
(b)
Retention of form.
A national bank or Federal savings association shall retain a copy of the completed standard flood hazard determination form, in either hard copy or electronic form, for the period of time the bank or savings association owns the loan.
§ 22.7
Force placement of flood insurance.
(a)
Notice and purchase of coverage.
If a national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on behalf of the bank or savings association, determines at any time during the term of a designated loan, that the building or mobile home and any personal property securing the designated loan is not covered by flood insurance or is covered by flood insurance in an amount less than the amount required under § 22.3, then the national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on its behalf, shall notify the borrower that the borrower should obtain flood insurance, at the borrower's expense, in an amount at least equal to the amount required under § 22.3, for the remaining term of the loan. If the borrower fails to obtain flood insurance within 45 days after notification, then the national bank or Federal savings association, or its servicer, shall purchase insurance on the borrower's behalf. The national bank or Federal savings association, or its servicer, may charge the borrower for the cost of premiums and fees incurred in purchasing the insurance, including premiums or fees incurred for coverage beginning on the date on which flood insurance coverage lapsed or did not provide a sufficient coverage amount.
(b)
Termination of force-placed insurance
—(1)
Termination and refund.
Within 30 days of receipt by a national bank or Federal savings association, or by a servicer acting on its behalf, of a confirmation of a borrower's existing flood insurance coverage, the national bank or Federal savings association, or its servicer, shall:
(i) Notify the insurance provider to terminate any insurance purchased by the national bank or Federal savings association, or its servicer, under paragraph (a) of this section; and
(ii) Refund to the borrower all premiums paid by the borrower for any insurance purchased by the national bank or Federal savings association, or by its servicer, under paragraph (a) of this section during any period during which the borrower's flood insurance coverage and the insurance coverage purchased by the national bank or Federal savings association, or its servicer, were each in effect, and any related fees charged to the borrower with respect to the insurance purchased by the national bank or Federal savings association, or its servicer, during such period.
(2)
Sufficiency of demonstration.
For purposes of confirming a borrower's existing flood insurance coverage under paragraph (b) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on its behalf, shall accept from the borrower an insurance policy declarations page that includes the existing flood insurance policy number and the identity of, and contact information for, the insurance company or agent.
§ 22.8
Determination fees.
(a)
General.
Notwithstanding any Federal or State law other than the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4001-4129), any national bank or Federal savings association, or a servicer acting on behalf of the national bank or Federal savings association, may charge a reasonable fee for determining whether the building or mobile home securing the loan is located or will be located in a special flood hazard area. A determination fee may also include, but is not limited to, a fee for life-of-loan monitoring.
(b)
Borrower fee.
The determination fee authorized by paragraph (a) of this section may be charged to the borrower if the determination:
(1) Is made in connection with a making, increasing, extending, or renewing of the loan that is initiated by the borrower;
(2) Reflects the Administrator of FEMA's revision or updating of flood plain areas or flood-risk zones;
(3) Reflects the Administrator of FEMA's publication of a notice or compendium that:
(i) Affects the area in which the building or mobile home securing the loan is located; or
(ii) By determination of the Administrator of FEMA, may reasonably require a determination whether the building or mobile home securing the loan is located in a special flood hazard area; or
(4) Results in the purchase of flood insurance coverage by the lender, or its servicer, on behalf of the borrower under § 22.7.
(c)
Purchaser or transferee fee.
The determination fee authorized by paragraph (a) of this section may be charged to the purchaser or transferee of a loan in the case of the sale or transfer of the loan.
§ 22.9
Notice of special flood hazards and availability of Federal disaster relief assistance.
(a)
Notice requirement.
When a national bank or Federal savings association makes, increases, extends, or renews a loan secured by a building or a mobile home located or to be located in a special flood hazard area, the bank or savings association shall mail or deliver a written notice to the borrower and to the servicer in all cases whether or not flood insurance is available under the Act for the collateral securing the loan.
(b)
Contents of notice.
The written notice must include the following information:
(1) A warning, in a form approved by the Administrator of FEMA, that the building or the mobile home is or will be located in a special flood hazard area;
(2) A description of the flood insurance purchase requirements set forth in section 102(b) of the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended (42 U.S.C. 4012a(b));
(3) A statement, where applicable, that flood insurance coverage is available from private insurance companies that issue standard flood insurance policies on behalf of the NFIP or directly from the NFIP;
(4) A statement that flood insurance that provides the same level of coverage as a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP also may be available from a private insurance company that issues policies on behalf of the company;
(5) A statement that the borrower is encouraged to compare the flood insurance coverage, deductibles, exclusions, conditions, and premiums associated with flood insurance policies issued on behalf of the NFIP and policies issued on behalf of private insurance companies and that the borrower should direct inquiries regarding the availability, cost, and comparisons of flood insurance coverage to an insurance agent; and
(6) A statement whether Federal disaster relief assistance may be available in the event of damage to the building
or mobile home caused by flooding in a Federally declared disaster.
(c)
Timing of notice.
The national bank or Federal savings association shall provide the notice required by paragraph (a) of this section to the borrower within a reasonable time before the completion of the transaction, and to the servicer as promptly as practicable after the bank or savings association provides notice to the borrower and in any event no later than the time the bank or savings association provides other similar notices to the servicer concerning hazard insurance and taxes. Notice to the servicer may be made electronically or may take the form of a copy of the notice to the borrower.
(d)
Record of receipt.
The national bank or Federal savings association shall retain a record of the receipt of the notices by the borrower and the servicer for the period of time it owns the loan.
(e)
Alternate method of notice.
Instead of providing the notice to the borrower required by paragraph (a) of this section, a national bank or Federal savings association may obtain satisfactory written assurance from a seller or lessor that, within a reasonable time before the completion of the sale or lease transaction, the seller or lessor has provided such notice to the purchaser or lessee. The national bank or Federal savings association shall retain a record of the written assurance from the seller or lessor for the period of time it owns the loan.
(f)
Use of sample form of notice.
A national bank or Federal savings association will be considered to be in compliance with the requirement for notice to the borrower of this section by providing written notice to the borrower containing the language presented in appendix A to this part within a reasonable time before the completion of the transaction. The notice presented in appendix A to this part satisfies the borrower notice requirements of the Act.
[80 FR 43240, July 21, 2015, as amended at 80 FR 43244, July 21, 2015]
§ 22.10
Notice of servicer's identity.
(a)
Notice requirement.
When a national bank or Federal savings association makes, increases, extends, renews, sells, or transfers a loan secured by a building or mobile home located or to be located in a special flood hazard area, it shall notify the Administrator of FEMA (or the Administrator's designee) in writing of the identity of the servicer of the loan. The Administrator of FEMA has designated the insurance provider to receive the national bank's or Federal savings association's notice of the servicer's identity. This notice may be provided electronically if electronic transmission is satisfactory to the Administrator of FEMA's designee.
(b)
Transfer of servicing rights.
The national bank or Federal savings association shall notify the Administrator of FEMA (or the Administrator's designee) of any change in the servicer of a loan described in paragraph (a) of this section within 60 days after the effective date of the change. This notice may be provided electronically if electronic transmission is satisfactory to the Administrator of FEMA's designee. Upon any change in the servicing of a loan described in paragraph (a) of this section, the duty to provide notice under this paragraph (b) shall transfer to the transferee servicer.
Pt. 22, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 22—Sample Form of Notice of Special Flood Hazards and Availability of Federal Disaster Relief Assistance

# Notice of Special Flood Hazards and Availability of Federal Disaster Relief Assistance
We are giving you this notice to inform you that:
The building or mobile home securing the loan for which you have applied is or will be located in an area with special flood hazards.
The area has been identified by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) as a special flood hazard area using FEMA's
Flood Insurance Rate Map
or the
Flood Hazard Boundary Map
for the following community: ___. This area has a one percent (1%) chance of a flood equal to or exceeding the base flood elevation (a 100-year flood) in any given year. During the life of a 30-year mortgage loan, the risk of a 100-year flood in a special flood hazard area is 26 percent (26%).
Federal law allows a lender and borrower jointly to request the Administrator of FEMA to review the determination of whether the property securing the loan is located in a special flood hazard area. If you would
like to make such a request, please contact us for further information.
__The community in which the property securing the loan is located participates in the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP). Federal law will not allow us to make you the loan that you have applied for if you do not purchase flood insurance. The flood insurance must be maintained for the life of the loan. If you fail to purchase or renew flood insurance on the property, Federal law authorizes and requires us to purchase the flood insurance for you at your expense.
• At a minimum, flood insurance purchased must cover
the lesser of:
(1) the outstanding principal balance of the loan;
or
(2) the maximum amount of coverage allowed for the type of property under the NFIP.
Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP is limited to the building or mobile home and any personal property that secures your loan and not the land itself.
• Federal disaster relief assistance (usually in the form of a low-interest loan) may be available for damages incurred in excess of your flood insurance if your community's participation in the NFIP is in accordance with NFIP requirements.
• Although you may not be required to maintain flood insurance on all structures, you may still wish to do so, and your mortgage lender may still require you to do so to protect the collateral securing the mortgage. If you choose not to maintain flood insurance on a structure and it floods, you are responsible for all flood losses relating to that structure.

# Availability of Private Flood Insurance Coverage
Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP may be purchased through an insurance agent who will obtain the policy either directly through the NFIP or through an insurance company that participates in the NFIP. Flood insurance that provides the same level of coverage as a standard flood insurance policy under the NFIP may be available from private insurers that do not participate in the NFIP. You should compare the flood insurance coverage, deductibles, exclusions, conditions, and premiums associated with flood insurance policies issued on behalf of the NFIP and policies issued on behalf of private insurance companies and contact an insurance agent as to the availability, cost, and comparisons of flood insurance coverage.

# [Escrow Requirement for Residential Loans
Federal law may require a lender or its servicer to escrow all premiums and fees for flood insurance that covers any residential building or mobile home securing a loan that is located in an area with special flood hazards. If your lender notifies you that an escrow account is required for your loan, then you must pay your flood insurance premiums and fees to the lender or its servicer with the same frequency as you make loan payments for the duration of your loan. These premiums and fees will be deposited in the escrow account, which will be used to pay the flood insurance provider.]
__Flood insurance coverage under the NFIP is not available for the property securing the loan because the community in which the property is located does not participate in the NFIP. In addition, if the non-participating community has been identified for at least one year as containing a special flood hazard area, properties located in the community will not be eligible for Federal disaster relief assistance in the event of a Federally declared flood disaster.
[80 FR 43244, July 21, 2015]
Pt. 22, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 22—Sample Clause for Option to Escrow for Outstanding Loans

# Escrow Option Clause
You have the option to escrow all premiums and fees for the payment on your flood insurance policy that covers any residential building or mobile home that is located in an area with special flood hazards and that secures your loan. If you choose this option:
• Your payments will be deposited in an escrow account to be paid to the flood insurance provider.
• The escrow amount for flood insurance will be added to the regular mortgage payment that you make to your lender or its servicer.
• The payments you make into the escrow account will accumulate over time and the funds will be used to pay your flood insurance policy when your lender or servicer receives a notice from your flood insurance provider that the flood insurance premium is due.
To choose this option, follow the instructions below. If you have any questions about the option, contact [Insert Name of Lender or Servicer] at [Insert Contact Information].
[Insert Instructions for Selecting to Escrow]
[80 FR 43244, July 21, 2015]
Pt. 23

# PART 23—LEASING

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
23.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
23.2
Definitions.
23.3
Lease requirements.
23.4
Investment in personal property.
23.5
Requirement for separate records.
23.6
Application of lending limits; restrictions on transactions with affiliates.

# Subpart B—CEBA Leases
23.10
General rule.
23.11
Lease term.
23.12
Transition rule.

# Subpart C—Section 24(Seventh) Leases
23.20
General rule.
23.21
Estimated residual value.
23.22
Transition rule.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
24(Seventh), 24(Tenth), and 93a.

# Source:
61 FR 66560, Dec. 18, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions
§ 23.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
A national bank may engage in personal property lease financing transactions pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh) or 12 U.S.C. 24(Tenth).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to set forth standards for personal property lease financing transactions authorized for national banks.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to the acquisition of personal property by a national bank for the purpose of, or in connection with, the leasing of that property.
§ 23.2
Definitions.
(a)
Affiliate
means an affiliate as described in § 23.6.
(b)
Capital and surplus
means:
(1) For qualifying community banking organizations that have elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework, as set forth under the OCC's Capital Adequacy Standards at part 3 of this chapter:
(i) A qualifying community banking organization's tier 1 capital, as used under § 3.12 of this chapter; plus.
(ii) A qualifying community banking organization's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowances for credit losses, as applicable, as reported in the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report); or
(2) For all other national banks:
(i) A bank's tier 1 and tier 2 capital calculated under the OCC's risk-based capital standards set forth in part 3 of this chapter, as applicable, as reported in the Call Report; plus
(ii) The balance of a bank's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowances for credit losses, as applicable, not included in the bank's Tier 2 capital, for purposes of the calculation of risk-based capital described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, as reported in the Call Report.
(c)
CEBA Lease
means a personal property lease authorized under 12 U.S.C. 24(Tenth).
(d)
Conforming lease
means:
(1) A CEBA Lease that conforms with the requirements of subparts A and B of this part; or
(2) A Section 24(Seventh) Lease that conforms with the requirements of subparts A and C of this part.
(e)
Full-payout lease
means a lease in which the national bank reasonably expects to realize the return of its full investment in the leased property, plus the estimated cost of financing the property over the term of the lease, from:
(1) Rentals;
(2) Estimated tax benefits; and
(3) The estimated residual value of the property at the expiration of the lease term.
(f)
Net lease
means a lease under which the national bank will not, directly or indirectly, provide or be obligated to provide for:
(1) Servicing, repair, or maintenance of the leased property during the lease term;
(2) Parts or accessories for the leased property;
(3) Loan of replacement or substitute property while the leased property is being serviced;
(4) Payment of insurance for the lessee, except where the lessee has failed in its contractual obligation to purchase or maintain required insurance; or
(5) Renewal of any license or registration for the property unless renewal by the bank is necessary to protect its interest as owner or financier of the property.
(g)
Off-lease property
means property that reverts to a national bank's possession or control upon the expiration of a lease or upon the default of the lessee.
(h)
Section 24(Seventh) Lease
means a personal property lease authorized under 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh).
[61 FR 66560, Dec. 18, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 11312, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 4240, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 61794, Nov. 13, 2019; 84 FR 69297, Dec. 18, 2019]
§ 23.3
Lease requirements.
(a)
General requirements.
A national bank may acquire personal property for the purpose of, or in connection with leasing that property, and may engage in activities incidental thereto, if the lease qualifies as a full-payout lease and a net lease.
(b)
Exceptions
—(1)
Change in condition.
If, in good faith, a national bank believes that there has been a change in condition that threatens its financial position by increasing its exposure to loss, then the bank may:
(i) Take reasonable and appropriate action, including the actions specified in § 23.2(f), to salvage or protect the value of the leased property or its interests arising under the lease; and
(ii) Acquire or perfect title to the leased property pursuant to any existing rights.
(2)
Provisions to protect the bank's interests.
A national bank may include any provision in a lease, or make any additional agreement, to protect its financial position or investment in the event of a change in conditions that would increase its exposure to loss.
(3)
Arranging for services by a third party.
A national bank may arrange for a third party to provide any of the services enumerated in § 23.2(f) to the lessee at the expense of the lessee.
§ 23.4
Investment in personal property.
(a)
General rule.
A national bank may acquire specific property to be leased only after the bank has entered into:
(1) A conforming lease;
(2) A legally binding written agreement that indemnifies the bank against loss in connection with its acquisition of the property; or
(3) A legally binding written commitment to enter into a conforming lease.
(b)
Exception.
A national bank may acquire property to be leased without complying with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, if:
(1) The acquisition of the property is consistent with the leasing business then conducted by the bank or is consistent with a business plan for expansion of the bank's existing leasing business or for entry into the leasing business; and
(2) The bank's aggregate investment in property held pursuant to this paragraph (b) does not exceed 15 percent of the bank's capital and surplus.
(c)
Holding period.
At the expiration of the lease (including any renewals or extensions with the same lessee), or in the event of a default on a lease agreement prior to the expiration of the lease term, a national bank shall either liquidate the off-lease property or re-lease it under a conforming lease as soon as practicable. Liquidation or re-lease must occur not later than five years from the date that the bank acquires the legal right to possession or control of the property, except the OCC may extend the period for up to an additional five years, if the bank provides a clearly convincing demonstration why any additional holding period is necessary. The bank must value off-lease property at the lower of current fair market value or book value promptly after the property becomes off-lease property.
(d)
Bridge or interim leases.
During the holding period allowed by paragraph (c) of this section, a national bank may enter into a short-term bridge or interim lease pending the liquidation of off-lease property or the re-lease of the property under a conforming lease. A short-term bridge or interim lease must be a net lease, but need not comply with any requirement of subpart B or C of this part.
§ 23.5
Requirement for separate records.
If a national bank enters into both CEBA Leases and Section 24(Seventh) Leases, the bank's records must distinguish the CEBA Leases from the Section 24(Seventh) Leases.
§ 23.6
Application of lending limits; restrictions on transactions with affiliates.
All leases entered into pursuant to this part are subject to the lending limits prescribed by 12 U.S.C. 84, as implemented by 12 CFR part 32, or, if the lessee is an affiliate of the bank, to the restrictions on transactions with affiliates prescribed by 12 U.S.C. 371c and 371c-1 and Regulation W, 12 CFR part 223. The OCC may also determine that other limits or restrictions apply. The term affiliate means an affiliate as defined in 12 U.S.C. 371c or 371c-1, as implemented by Regulation W, 12 CFR part 223, as applicable. For the purpose of measuring compliance with the lending limits prescribed by 12 U.S.C. 84 as implemented by part 32, a national bank records the investment in a lease net of any nonrecourse debt the bank has incurred to finance the acquisition of the leased asset.
[61 FR 66560, Dec. 18, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 22244, Apr. 24, 2008; 85 FR 42642, July 14, 2020]

# Subpart B—CEBA Leases
§ 23.10
General rule.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 24(Tenth) a national bank may invest in tangible personal property, including vehicles, manufactured homes, machinery, equipment, or furniture, for the purpose of, or in connection with leasing that property, if the aggregate book value of the property does not exceed 10 percent of the bank's consolidated assets and the related lease is a conforming lease. For the purpose of measuring compliance with the 10 percent limit prescribed by this section, a national bank records the investment in a lease entered into pursuant to this subpart net of any nonrecourse debt the bank has incurred to finance the acquisition of the leased asset.
§ 23.11
Lease term.
A CEBA Lease must have an initial term of not less than 90 days. A national bank may acquire property subject to an existing lease with a remaining maturity of less than 90 days if, at its inception, the lease was a conforming lease.
§ 23.12
Transition rule.
(a)
General rule.
A CEBA Lease entered into prior to July 22, 1991, may continue to be administered in accordance with the lease terms in effect as of that date. For purposes of applying the lending limits and the restrictions on transactions with affiliates described in § 23.6, however, a national bank that enters into a new extension of credit to a customer, including a lease, on or after July 22, 1991, shall include all outstanding leases regardless of the date on which they were made.
(b)
Renewal of non-conforming leases.
A national bank may renew a CEBA Lease that was entered into prior to July 22, 1991, and that is not a conforming lease only if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The bank entered into the CEBA Lease in good faith;
(2) The expiring lease contains a binding agreement requiring that the bank renew the lease at the lessee's option, and the bank cannot reasonably avoid its commitment to do so; and
(3) The bank determines in good faith, and demonstrates by appropriate documentation, that renewal of the lease is necessary to avoid financial loss and to recover its investment in, and its cost of financing, the leased property.

# Subpart C—Section 24(Seventh) Leases
§ 23.20
General rule.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh) a national bank may invest in tangible or intangible personal property, including vehicles, manufactured homes, machinery, equipment, furniture, patents, copyrights, and other intellectual property, for the purpose of, or in connection with leasing that property, if the related lease is a conforming lease representing a noncancelable obligation of the lessee (notwithstanding the possible early termination of that lease).
§ 23.21
Estimated residual value.
(a)
Recovery of investment and costs.
A national bank's estimate of the residual value of the property that the bank relies upon to satisfy the requirements
of a full-payout lease, for purposes of this subpart:
(1) Must be reasonable in light of the nature of the leased property and all circumstances relevant to the transaction; and
(2) Any unguaranteed amount must not exceed 25 percent of the original cost of the property to the bank or the percentage for a particular type of property specified in published OCC guidance.
(b)
Estimated residual value subject to guarantee.
The amount of any estimated residual value guaranteed by the manufacturer, the lessee, or other third party may exceed 25 percent of the original cost of the property if the bank determines, and demonstrates by appropriate documentation, that the guarantor has the resources to meet the guarantee and the guarantor is not an affiliate of the bank.
(c)
Leases to government entities.
A bank's calculations of estimated residual value in connection with leases of personal property to Federal, State, or local governmental entities may be based on future transactions or renewals that the bank reasonably anticipates will occur.
[61 FR 66560, Dec. 18, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 34792, July 2, 2001]
§ 23.22
Transition rule.
(a)
Exclusion.
A Section 24(Seventh) Lease entered into prior to June 12, 1979, may continue to be administered in accordance with the lease terms in effect as of that date. For purposes of applying the lending limits and the restrictions on transactions with affiliates described in § 23.6, however, a national bank that enters into a new extension of credit to a customer, including a lease, on or after June 12, 1979, shall include all outstanding leases regardless of the date on which they were made.
(b)
Renewal of non-conforming leases.
A national bank may renew a Section 24(Seventh) Lease that was entered into prior to June 12, 1979, and that is not a conforming lease only if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The bank entered into the Section 24(Seventh) Lease in good faith;
(2) The expiring lease contains a binding agreement requiring that the bank renew the lease at the lessee's option, and the bank cannot reasonably avoid its commitment to do so; and
(3) The bank determines in good faith, and demonstrates by appropriate documentation, that renewal of the lease is necessary to avoid financial loss and to recover its investment in, and its cost of financing, the leased property.
Pt. 24

# PART 24—COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ENTITIES, COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS, AND OTHER PUBLIC WELFARE INVESTMENTS
Sec.
24.1
Authority, purpose, and OMB control number.
24.2
Definitions.
24.3
Public welfare investments.
24.4
Investment limits.
24.5
Public welfare investment after-the-fact notice and prior procedures.
24.6
Examples of qualifying public welfare investments.
24.7
Examination, records, and remedial action.
Appendix 1 to Part 24—CD-1—National Bank Community Development (Part 24) Investments

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 24(Eleventh), 93a, 481, and 1818.

# Source:
61 FR 49660, Sept. 23, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 24.1
Authority, purpose, and OMB control number.
(a)
Authority.
The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) issues this part pursuant to its authority under 12 U.S.C. 24(Eleventh), 93a, and 481.
(b)
Purpose.
This part implements 12 U.S.C. 24 (Eleventh). It is the OCC's policy to encourage a national bank to make investments described in § 24.3, consistent with safety and soundness. This part provides the standards and procedures that apply to these investments.
(c)
OMB control number.
The collection of information requirements contained in this part were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 1557-0194.
(d) A national bank that makes loans or investments that are authorized under both 12 U.S.C. 24 (Eleventh) and
other provisions of the Federal banking laws may do so under such other provisions without regard to the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 24 (Eleventh) or this part.
(e) Investments made, or written commitments to make investments made, prior to October 13, 2006, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 24 (Eleventh) and this part, continue to be subject to the statutes and regulations in effect prior to the enactment of the Financial Services Regulatory Relief Act of 2006 (Pub. L. 109-351).
[61 FR 49660, Sept. 23, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 70990, Dec. 20, 1999; 68 FR 48775, Aug. 15, 2003; 73 FR 22244, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 24.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Adequately capitalized
has the same meaning as adequately capitalized in 12 CFR 6.4.
(b)
Capital and surplus
means:
(1) For qualifying community banking organizations that have elected to use the community bank leverage ratio framework, as set forth under the OCC's Capital Adequacy Standards at part 3 of this chapter:
(i) A qualifying community banking organization's tier 1 capital, as used under § 3.12 of this chapter; plus
(ii) A qualifying community banking organization's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowances for credit losses, as applicable, as reported in the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (Call Report); or
(2) For all other national banks:
(i) A bank's tier 1 and tier 2 capital calculated under the OCC's risk-based capital standards set forth in part 3 of this chapter, as applicable, as reported in the Call Report; plus
(ii) The balance of a bank's allowance for loan and lease losses or adjusted allowances for credit losses, as applicable, not included in the bank's tier 2 capital, for purposes of the calculation of risk-based capital described in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, as reported in the Call Report.
(c)
Community and economic development entity
(CEDE) means an entity that makes investments or conducts activities that primarily benefit low- and moderate-income individuals, low- and moderate-income areas, or other areas targeted by a governmental entity for redevelopment, or would receive consideration as “qualified investments” under § 25.23 of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25. The following is a non-exclusive list of examples of the types of entities that may be CEDEs:
(1) National bank community development corporation subsidiaries;
(2) Private or nonbank community development corporations;
(3) CDFI Fund-certified Community Development Financial Institutions or Community Development Entities;
(4) Limited liability companies or limited partnerships;
(5) Community development loan funds or lending consortia;
(6) Community development real estate investment trusts;
(7) Business development companies;
(8) Community development closed-end mutual funds;
(9) Non-diversified closed-end investment companies; and
(10) Community development venture or equity capital funds.
(d)
Community development Project (CD Project)
means a project to make an investment that meets the requirements of § 24.3.
(e)
Eligible bank
means, for purposes of § 24.5, a national bank that:
(1) Is well capitalized;
(2) Has a composite rating of 1 or 2 under the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System;
(3) Has a Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) rating of “Outstanding” or “Satisfactory”; and
(4) Is not subject to a cease and desist order, consent order, formal written agreement, or Prompt Corrective Action directive (
see
12 CFR part 6, subpart B) or, if subject to any such order, agreement or directive, is informed in writing by the OCC that the bank may be treated as an “eligible bank” for purposes of this part.
(f)
Low-income and moderate-income
have the same meanings as “low-income” and “moderate-income” in § 25.12(m) of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25.
(g)
Significant risk to the deposit insurance fund
means a substantial probability that any Federal deposit insurance fund could suffer a loss.
(h)
Small business
means a business, including a small farm or minority-owned small business, that meets the qualifications for Small Business Administration Development Company or Small Business Investment Company loan programs in 13 CFR 121.301.
(i)
Well capitalized
has the same meaning as well capitalized in 12 CFR 6.4.
[61 FR 49660, Sept. 23, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 48775, Aug. 15, 2003; 73 FR 22244, Apr. 24, 2008; 73 FR 46534, Aug. 11, 2008; 79 FR 11312, Feb. 28, 2014; 84 FR 4240, Feb. 14, 2019; 84 FR 61795, Nov. 13, 2019; 84 FR 69298, Dec. 18, 2019; 89 FR 22067, Mar. 29, 2024]
§ 24.3
Public welfare investments.
A national bank or national bank subsidiary may make an investment directly or indirectly under this part if the investment primarily benefits low- and moderate income individuals, low- and moderate income areas, or other areas targeted by a governmental entity for redevelopment, or the investment would receive consideration under § 25.23 of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25 as a “qualified investment.”
[73 FR 46534, Aug. 11, 2008, as amended at 89 FR 22067, Mar. 29, 2024]
§ 24.4
Investment limits.
(a)
Limits on aggregate outstanding investments.
A national bank's aggregate outstanding investments under this part may not exceed 5 percent of its capital and surplus, unless the bank is at least adequately capitalized and the OCC determines, by written approval of a written request by the bank to exceed the 5 percent limit, that a higher amount of investments will not pose a significant risk to the deposit insurance fund. In no case may a bank's aggregate outstanding investments under this part exceed 15 percent of its capital and surplus. When calculating the aggregate amount of its aggregate outstanding investments under this part, a national bank should follow generally accepted accounting principles, unless otherwise directed or permitted in writing by the OCC for prudential or safety and soundness reasons.
(b)
Limited liability.
A national bank may not make an investment under this part that would expose the bank to unlimited liability.
[61 FR 49660, Sept. 23, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 70991, Dec. 20, 1999; 68 FR 48776, Aug. 15, 2003; 73 FR 22244, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 24.5
Public welfare investment after-the-fact notice and prior approval procedures.
(a)
After-the-fact notice of public welfare investments.
(1) Subject to § 24.4(a), an eligible bank may make an investment authorized by 12 U.S.C. 24 (Eleventh) and this part without prior notification to, or approval by, the OCC if the bank follows the after-the-fact notice procedures described in this section.
(2) An eligible bank shall provide an after-the-fact notification of an investment, within 10 working days after it makes the investment, to the Community Affairs Department, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, DC 20219. The after-the-fact notification may also be e-mailed to
CommunityAffairs@occ.treas.gov
, faxed to (202) 649-5709, or provided electronically via National BankNet at
www.occ.gov.
(3) The bank's after-the-fact-notice must include:
(i) A description of the bank's investment;
(ii) The amount of the investment;
(iii) The percentage of the bank's capital and surplus represented by the investment that is the subject of the notice and by the bank's aggregate outstanding public welfare investments and commitments, including the investment that is the subject of the notice; and
(iv) A statement certifying that the investment complies with the requirements of §§ 24.3 and 24.4.
(4) A bank may satisfy the notice requirements of paragraph (3) of this section by completing form CD-1, attached as appendix 1 to this part.
(5) A national bank that is not an eligible bank but that is at least adequately capitalized, and has a composite rating of at least 3 with improving trends under the Uniform Financial Institutions Rating System, may submit a letter to the Community Affairs Department requesting authority to
submit after-the-fact notices of its investments. The Community Affairs Department considers these requests on a case-by-case basis.
(6) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section, a bank may not submit an after-the-fact notice of an investment if:
(i) The investment involves properties carried on the bank's books as “other real estate owned”; or
(ii) The OCC determines, in published guidance, that the investment is inappropriate for after-the-fact notice.
(b)
Investments requiring prior approval.
(1) If a national bank does not meet the requirements for after-the-fact investment notification set forth in this part, the bank must submit an investment proposal to the Community Affairs Department, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Washington, DC 20219. The investment proposal may also be e-mailed to
CommunityAffairs@occ.treas.gov
, faxed to (202) 874-4652, or submitted electronically via National BankNet at
www.occ.gov.
The bank may use form CD-1, attached to this part as appendix 1, to satisfy this requirement.
(2) The bank's investment proposal must include:
(i) A description of the bank's investment;
(ii) The amount of the investment;
(iii) The percentage of the bank's capital and surplus represented by the proposed investment and by the bank's aggregate outstanding public welfare investments and commitments, including the proposed investment; and
(iv) A statement certifying that the investment complies with the requirements of §§ 24.3 and 24.4.
(3) In reviewing a proposal, the OCC considers the following factors and other available information:
(i) Whether the investment satisfies the requirements of §§ 24.3 and 24.4;
(ii) Whether the investment is consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank; and
(iii) Whether the investment is consistent with the requirements of this part and the OCC's policies.
(4) Unless otherwise notified in writing by the OCC, and subject to § 24.4(a), the proposed investment is deemed approved after 30 calendar days from the date on which the OCC receives the bank's investment proposal.
(5) The OCC, by notifying the bank, may extend its period for reviewing the investment proposal. If so notified, the bank may make the investment only with the OCC's written approval.
(6) The OCC may impose one or more conditions in connection with its approval of an investment under this part. All approvals are subject to the condition that a national bank must conduct the approved activity in a manner consistent with any published guidance issued by the OCC regarding the activity.
[61 FR 49660, Sept. 23, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 70991, Dec. 20, 1999; 68 FR 48776, Aug. 15, 2003; 73 FR 22245, Apr. 24, 2008; 79 FR 15641, Mar. 21, 2014; 80 FR 28472, May 18, 2015]
§ 24.6
Examples of qualifying public welfare investments.
Investments that primarily support the following types of activities are examples of investments that meet the requirements of § 24.3:
(a) Affordable housing activities, including:
(1) Investments in an entity that finances, acquires, develops, rehabilitates, manages, sells, or rents housing primarily for low- and moderate-income individuals;
(2) Investments in a project that develops or operates transitional housing for the homeless;
(3) Investments in a project that develops or operates special needs housing for disabled or elderly low- and moderate-income individuals; and
(4) Investments in a project that qualifies for the Federal low-income housing tax credit;
(b) Economic development and job creation investments, including:
(1) Investments that finance small businesses (including equity or debt financing and investments in an entity that provides loan guarantees) that are located in low- and moderate-income areas or other targeted redevelopment areas or that produce or retain permanent jobs, the majority of which are held by low- and moderate-income individuals;
(2) Investments that finance small businesses or small farms, including minority- and women-owned small
businesses or small farms, that, although not located in low- and moderate-income areas or targeted redevelopment areas, create a significant number of permanent jobs for low- and moderate-income individuals;
(3) Investments in an entity that acquires, develops, rehabilitates, manages, sells, or rents commercial or industrial property that is located in a low- and moderate-income area or targeted redevelopment area and occupied primarily by small businesses, or that is occupied primarily by small businesses that produce or retain permanent jobs, the majority of which are held by low- and moderate-income individuals; and
(4) Investments in low- and moderate-income areas or targeted redevelopment areas that produce or retain permanent jobs, the majority of which are held by low- and moderate-income individuals;
(c) Investments in CEDEs, including:
(1) Investments in a national bank that has been approved by the OCC as a national bank with a community development focus;
(2) Investments in a community development financial institution, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 4742(5);
(3) Investments in a CEDE that is eligible to receive New Markets tax credits under 26 U.S.C. 45D; and
(d) Other public welfare investments, including:
(1) Investments that provide credit counseling, financial literacy, job training, community development research, and similar technical assistance for non-profit community development organizations, low- and moderate-income individuals or areas or targeted redevelopment areas, or small businesses, including minority- and women-owned small businesses, located in low- and moderate-income areas or that produce or retain permanent jobs, the majority of which are held by low- and moderate-income individuals;
(2) Investments of a type approved by the Federal Reserve Board under 12 CFR 208.22 for state member banks that are consistent with the requirements of § 24.3;
(3) Investments of a type determined by the OCC to be permissible under this part; and
(4) Investments in minority- and women-owned depository institutions that serve primarily low- and moderate-income individuals or low- and moderate-income areas or targeted redevelopment areas.
[68 FR 48776, Aug. 15, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 22245, Apr. 24, 2008; 73 FR 46534, Aug. 11, 2008]
§ 24.7
Examination, records, and remedial action.
(a)
Examination.
National bank investments under this part are subject to the examination provisions of 12 U.S.C. 481.
(b)
Records.
Each national bank shall maintain in its files information adequate to demonstrate that its investments meet the standards set out in § 24.3 of this part, including, where applicable, the criteria of § 25.23 of appendix G to 12 CFR part 25, and that the bank is otherwise in compliance with the requirements of this part.
(c)
Remedial action.
If the OCC finds that an investment under this part is in violation of law or regulation, is inconsistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank, or poses a significant risk to a Federal deposit insurance fund, the national bank shall take appropriate remedial action as determined by the OCC.
[61 FR 49660, Sept. 23, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 48777, Aug. 15, 2003; 89 FR 22067, Mar. 29, 2024]
Pt. 24, App. 1

# Appendix 1 to Part 24—CD-1—National Bank Community Development (Part 24) Investments
ER19SE23.092
ER19SE23.093
ER19SE23.094
ER19SE23.095
ER19SE23.096
[88 FR 64360, Sept. 19, 2023]
Pt. 25

# PART 25—COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT ACT AND INTERSTATE DEPOSIT PRODUCTION REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
25.11
Authority, purposes, and scope.
25.12
Definitions.
25.13
Consideration of community development loans, community development investments, and community development services.
25.14
Community development illustrative list; Confirmation of eligibility.
25.15
Impact and responsiveness review of community development loans, community development investments, and community development services.

# Subpart B—Geographic Considerations
25.16
Facility-based assessment areas.
25.17
Retail lending assessment areas.
25.18
Outside retail lending areas.
25.19
Areas for eligible community development loans, community development investments, and community development services.
25.20
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Standards for Assessing Performance
25.21
Evaluation of CRA performance in general.
25.22
Retail lending test.
25.23
Retail services and products test.
25.24
Community development financing test.
25.25
Community development services test.
25.26
Limited purpose banks and savings associations.
25.27
Strategic plan.
25.28
Assigned conclusions and ratings.
25.29
Small bank and savings association performance evaluation.
25.30
Intermediate bank and savings association performance evaluation.
25.31
Effect of CRA performance on applications.

# Subpart D—Records, Reporting, Disclosure, and Public Engagement Requirements
25.42
Data collection, reporting, and disclosure.
25.43
Content and availability of public file.
25.44
Public notice by banks and savings associations.
25.45
Publication of planned examination schedule.
25.46
Public engagement.

# Subpart E—Transition Rules
25.51
Applicability dates and transition provisions.

# Subpart F—Prohibition Against Use of Interstate Branches Primarily for Deposit Production
25.61
Purpose and scope.
25.62
Definitions.
25.63
Loan-to-deposit ratio screen.
25.64
Credit needs determination.
25.65
Sanctions.
Appendix A to Part 25—Calculations for the Retail Lending Test
Appendix B to Part 25—Calculations for the Community Development Tests
Appendix C to Part 25—Performance Test Conclusions
Appendix D to Part 25—Ratings
Appendix E to Part 25—Small Bank and Savings Association and Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Performance Evaluation Conclusions and Ratings
Appendix F to Part 25—CRA Notice
Appendix G to Part 25— Community Reinvestment Act and Interstate Deposit Production Regulations

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 36, 93a, 161, 215, 215a, 481, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1814, 1816, 1828(c), 1835a, 2901 through 2908, 3101 through 3111, and 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
86 FR 71339, Dec. 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General

# Source:
89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.11
Authority, purposes, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
The authority for this part is 12 U.S.C. 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 36, 93a, 161, 215, 215a, 481, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1814, 1816, 1828(c), 1835a, 2901 through 2908, 3101 through 3111, and 5412(b)(2)(B).
(b)
Purposes.
This part implements the requirement in the Community Reinvestment Act (12 U.S.C. 2901
et seq.
) (CRA) that the appropriate Federal banking agency assess a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the local communities in which the bank or savings association is chartered, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association, and to take this record into account in the agency's evaluation of an application for a deposit facility by the bank or
savings association. Accordingly, this part:
(1) Establishes the framework and criteria by which the appropriate Federal banking agency assesses a bank's or savings association's record of responding to the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association; and
(2) Provides that the appropriate Federal banking agency takes that record into account in considering certain applications.
(c)
Scope
—(1)
General.
(i) This subpart, subparts B through E of this part, and appendices A through G to this part apply to all banks and savings associations except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. Subpart F of this part only applies to banks.
(ii) With respect to this subpart, subparts B through E of this part, and appendices A through F to this part:
(A) The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) has the authority to prescribe the regulations in this part for national banks, Federal savings associations, Federal branches of foreign banks, and State savings associations and has the authority to enforce the regulations in this part for national banks, Federal branches of foreign banks, and Federal savings associations; and
(B) The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has the authority to enforce the regulations in this part for State savings associations.
(2)
Federal branches and agencies.
(i) This part applies to all insured Federal branches and to any Federal branch that is uninsured that results from an acquisition described in section 5(a)(8) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(8)).
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, this part does not apply to uninsured Federal branches, limited Federal branches, or Federal agencies, as those terms are defined or used in part 28 of this chapter.
(3)
Certain special purpose banks and savings associations.
This part does not apply to special purpose banks or special purpose savings associations that do not perform commercial or retail banking services by granting credit to the public in the ordinary course of business, other than as incident to their specialized operations. These banks or savings associations include banker's banks, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh), and banks or savings associations that engage only in one or more of the following activities: providing cash management controlled disbursement services or serving as correspondent banks or savings associations, trust companies, or clearing agents.
§ 25.12
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
Affiliate
means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company. The term “control” has the same meaning given to that term in 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2), and a company is under common control with another company if both companies are directly or indirectly controlled by the same company.
Affordable housing
means activities described in § 25.13(b).
Appropriate Federal banking agency
means, with respect to this subpart (except in the definition of
minority depository institution
in this section), subparts B through E of this part, and appendices A through E to this part:
(1) The OCC when the institution is a bank or Federal savings association; and
(2) The FDIC when the institution is a State savings association.
Area median income
means:
(1) The median family income for the MSA (as defined in this section), if an individual, family, household, or census tract is located in an MSA that has not been subdivided into metropolitan divisions, or for the metropolitan division, if an individual, family, household, or census tract is located in an MSA that has been subdivided into metropolitan divisions; or
(2) The statewide nonmetropolitan median family income, if an individual, family, household, or census tract is located in a nonmetropolitan area.
Assets
means a bank's or savings association's total assets as reported in Schedule RC of the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income as filed under 12 U.S.C. 161, 324, 1464, or 1817, as applicable (Call Report), or Schedule RAL of the Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks as filed under 12 U.S.C. 1817(a), 3102(b), or 3105(c)(2), as applicable.
Bank
means a national bank (including a Federal branch as defined in part 28 of this chapter) with federally insured deposits, except as provided in § 25.11(c).
Branch
means a staffed banking facility, whether shared or unshared, that the appropriate Federal banking agency approved or authorized as a branch and that is open to, and accepts deposits from, the general public.
Census tract
means a census tract delineated by the U.S. Census Bureau.
Closed-end home mortgage loan
has the same meaning given to the term “closed-end mortgage loan” in 12 CFR 1003.2, excluding loan transactions set forth in 12 CFR 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) and (13) and multifamily loans as defined in this section.
Combination of loan dollars and loan count
means, when applied to a particular ratio, the average of:
(1) The ratio calculated using loans measured in dollar volume; and
(2) The ratio calculated using loans measured in number of loans.
Community development
means activities described in § 25.13(b) through (l).
Community Development Financial Institution (CDFI) means an entity that satisfies the definition in section 103(5)(A) of the Community Development Banking and Financial Institutions Act of 1994 (12 U.S.C. 4702(5)) and is certified by the U.S. Department of the Treasury's Community Development Financial Institutions Fund as meeting the requirements set forth in 12 CFR 1805.201(b).
Community development investment
means a lawful investment, including a legally binding commitment to invest, that is reported on Schedule RC-L of the Call Report or on Schedule L of the Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks, as applicable; deposit; membership share; grant; or monetary or in-kind donation that supports community development, as described in § 25.13.
Community development loan
means a loan, including a legally binding commitment to extend credit, such as a standby letter of credit, that supports community development, as described in § 25.13. A community development loan does not include any home mortgage loan considered under the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, with the exception of one-to-four family home mortgage loans for rental housing with affordable rents in nonmetropolitan areas under § 25.13(b)(3).
Community development services
means the performance of volunteer services by a bank's or savings association's or its affiliate's board members or employees, performed on behalf of the bank or savings association, where those services:
(1) Support community development, as described in § 25.13; and
(2) Are related to the provision of financial services, which include credit, deposit, and other personal and business financial services, or services that reflect a board member's or an employee's expertise at the bank or savings association or affiliate, such as human resources, information technology, and legal services.
Consumer loan
means a loan to one or more individuals for household, family, or other personal expenditures and that is one of the following types of loans:
(1)
Automobile loan,
as reported in Schedule RC-C of the Call Report;
(2)
Credit card loan,
as reported as “credit card” in Schedule RC-C of the Call Report;
(3)
Other revolving credit plan,
as reported in Schedule RC-C of the Call Report; and
(4)
Other consumer loan,
as reported in Schedule RC-C of the Call Report.
County
means any county, county equivalent, or statistically equivalent entity as used by the U.S. Census Bureau pursuant to title 13 of the U.S. Code.
Deposit location
means:
(1) For banks or savings associations that collect, maintain, and report deposits data as provided in § 25.42, the
address on file with the bank or savings association for purposes of the Customer Identification Program required by 31 CFR 1020.220 or another documented address at which the depositor resides or is located.
(2) For banks or savings associations that do not collect, maintain, and report deposits data as provided in § 25.42, the county of the bank or savings association facility to which the deposits are assigned in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits.
Depository institution
means any institution subject to the CRA, as described in § 25.11 and 12 CFR 228.11 and 345.11.
Deposits
has the following meanings:
(1) For banks or savings associations that collect, maintain, and report deposits data as provided in § 25.42,
deposits
means deposits in domestic offices of individuals, partnerships, and corporations, and of commercial banks and other depository institutions in the United States as defined in Schedule RC-E of the Call Report; deposits does not include U.S. Government deposits, State and local government deposits, domestically held deposits of foreign governments or official institutions, or domestically held deposits of foreign banks or other foreign financial institutions; and
(2) For banks or savings associations that do not collect, maintain, and report deposits data as provided in § 25.42,
deposits
means a bank's or savings association's deposits as reported in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits as required under 12 CFR 304.3(c).
Digital delivery system
means a channel through which banks or savings associations offer retail banking services electronically, such as online banking or mobile banking.
Distressed or underserved nonmetropolitan middle-income census tract
means a census tract publicly designated as such by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board), the FDIC, and the OCC, based on the criteria in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this definition, compiled in a list, and published annually by the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC).
(1) A nonmetropolitan middle-income census tract is designated as distressed if it is in a county that meets one or more of the following criteria:
(i) An unemployment rate of at least 1.5 times the national average;
(ii) A poverty rate of 20 percent or more; or
(iii) A population loss of 10 percent or more between the previous and most recent decennial census or a net population loss of five percent or more over the five-year period preceding the most recent census.
(2) A nonmetropolitan middle-income census tract is designated as underserved if it meets the criteria for population size, density, and dispersion that indicate the area's population is sufficiently small, thin, and distant from a population center that the census tract is likely to have difficulty financing the fixed costs of meeting essential community needs. The criteria for these designations are based on the Urban Influence Codes established by the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Economic Research Service numbered “7,” “10,” “11,” or “12.”
Evaluation period
means the period, generally in calendar years, during which a bank or savings association conducted the activities that the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates in a CRA examination, in accordance with the appropriate Federal banking agency's guidelines and procedures.
Facility-based assessment area
means a geographic area delineated pursuant to § 25.16.
High Opportunity Area
means an area identified by the Federal Housing Finance Agency for purposes of the Duty to Serve Underserved Markets regulation in 12 CFR part 1282, subpart C.
Home mortgage loan
means a closed-end home mortgage loan or an open-end home mortgage loan as these terms are defined in this section.
Income level includes:
(1)
Low-income,
which means:
(i) For individuals, families, or households, income that is less than 50 percent of the area median income; or
(ii) For a census tract, a median family income that is less than 50 percent of the area median income.
(2)
Moderate-income,
which means:
(i) For individuals, families, or households, income that is at least 50
percent and less than 80 percent of the area median income; or
(ii) For a census tract, a median family income that is at least 50 percent and less than 80 percent of the area median income.
(3)
Middle-income,
which means:
(i) For individuals, families, or households, income that is at least 80 percent and less than 120 percent of the area median income; or
(ii) For a census tract, a median family income that is at least 80 percent and less than 120 percent of the area median income.
(4)
Upper-income,
which means:
(i) For individuals, families, or households, income that is 120 percent or more of the area median income; or
(ii) For a census tract, a median family income that is 120 percent or more of the area median income.
Intermediate bank or savings association
means a bank or savings association, excluding a bank or savings association designated as a limited purpose bank or savings association pursuant to § 25.26, that had assets of at least $600 million as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years and less than $2 billion as of December 31 in either of the prior two calendar years. The OCC adjusts and publishes the figures in this definition annually, based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, for each 12-month period ending in November, with rounding to the nearest million.
Large bank or savings association
means a bank or savings association, excluding a bank or savings association designated as a limited purpose bank or savings association pursuant to § 25.26, that had assets of at least $2 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years. The OCC adjusts and publishes the figure in this definition annually, based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, for each 12-month period ending in November, with rounding to the nearest million.
Large depository institution
means any depository institution, excluding depository institutions designated as limited purpose banks or savings associations pursuant to § 25.26(a) and depository institutions designated as limited purpose banks pursuant to 12 CFR 228.26(a) or 345.26(a), that meets the asset size threshold of a large bank or savings association.
Limited purpose bank or savings association
means a bank or savings association that is not in the business of extending closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, or automobile loans evaluated under § 25.22 to retail customers, except on an incidental and accommodation basis, and for which a designation as a limited purpose bank or savings association is in effect, pursuant to § 25.26.
Loan location.
A loan is located as follows:
(1) A consumer loan is located in the census tract where the borrower resides at the time that the borrower submits the loan application;
(2) A home mortgage loan or a multifamily loan is located in the census tract where the property securing the loan is located; and
(3) A small business loan or small farm loan is located in the census tract where the main business facility or farm is located or where the borrower will otherwise apply the loan proceeds, as indicated by the borrower.
Low-cost education loan
means any private education loan, as defined in section 140(a)(7) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1650(a)(8)) (including a loan under a State or local education loan program), originated by the bank or savings association for a student at an “institution of higher education,” as generally defined in sections 101 and 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 and 1002), implemented in 34 CFR part 600, with interest rates and fees no greater than those of comparable education loans offered directly by the U.S. Department of Education. Such rates and fees are specified in section 455 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e).
Low-income credit union (LICU
) has the same meaning given to that term in 12 CFR 701.34.
Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC)
means a Federal tax credit for
housing persons of low income pursuant to section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 42).
Major product line
means a product line that the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates in a particular Retail Lending Test Area, pursuant to § 25.22(d)(2) and paragraphs II.b.1 and II.b.2 of appendix A to this part.
Majority automobile lender
means a bank or savings association for which more than 50 percent of its home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans were automobile loans, as determined pursuant to paragraph II.b.3 of appendix A to this part.
Metropolitan area
means any MSA.
Metropolitan division
has the same meaning as that term is defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
Military bank or savings association
means a bank or savings association whose business predominantly consists of serving the needs of military personnel who serve or have served in the U.S. Armed Forces (including the U.S. Air Force, U.S. Army, U.S. Coast Guard, U.S. Marine Corps, U.S. Navy, and U.S. Space Force) or their dependents. A bank or savings association whose business predominantly consists of serving the needs of military personnel or their dependents means a bank or savings association whose most important customer group is military personnel or their dependents.
Minority depository institution (MDI) means:
(1) For purposes of activities conducted pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2907(a), “minority depository institution” as defined in 12 U.S.C. 2907(b)(1); and
(2) For all other purposes:
(i) “Minority depository institution” as defined in 12 U.S.C. 2907(b)(1);
(ii) “Minority depository institution” as defined in section 308 of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) (12 U.S.C. 1463 note); or
(iii) A depository institution considered to be a minority depository institution by the appropriate Federal banking agency. For purposes of this paragraph (2)(iii), “appropriate Federal banking agency” has the meaning given to it in 12 U.S.C. 1813(q).
Mission-driven nonprofit organization
means an organization described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)) and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code that benefits or serves primarily low- or moderate-income individuals or communities, small businesses, or small farms.
MSA
means a metropolitan statistical area delineated by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, pursuant to 44 U.S.C. 3504(e)(3) and (10), 31 U.S.C. 1104(d), and Executive Order 10253 (June 11, 1951).
Multifamily loan
means an extension of credit that is secured by a lien on a “multifamily dwelling” as defined in 12 CFR 1003.2.
Multistate MSA
means an MSA that crosses a State boundary.
Nationwide area
means the entire United States and its territories.
Native Land Area means:
(1) All land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States, as described in 18 U.S.C. 1151(a);
(2) All dependent Indian communities within the borders of the United States whether within the original or subsequently acquired territory thereof, and whether within or without the limits of a State, as described in 18 U.S.C. 1151(b);
(3) All Indian allotments, the Indian titles to which have not been extinguished, including rights-of-way running through the same, as defined in 18 U.S.C. 1151(c);
(4) Any land held in trust by the United States for tribes or Native Americans or tribally-held restricted fee land;
(5) Reservations established by a State government for a tribe or tribes recognized by the State;
(6) Any Native village, as defined in 43 U.S.C. 1602(c), in Alaska;
(7) Lands that have the status of Hawaiian Home Lands as defined in section 204 of the Hawaiian Homes Commission Act, 1920 (42 Stat. 108), as amended;
(8) Areas defined by the U.S. Census Bureau as Alaska Native Village Statistical Areas, Oklahoma Tribal Statistical Areas, Tribal-Designated Statistical Areas, or American Indian Joint-Use Areas; and
(9) Land areas of State-recognized Indian tribes and heritage groups that are defined and recognized by individual States and included in the U.S. Census Bureau's annual Boundary and Annexation Survey.
New Markets Tax Credit (NMTC)
means a Federal tax credit pursuant to section 45D of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 45D).
Nonmetropolitan area
means any area that is not located in an MSA.
Open-end home mortgage loan
has the same meaning as given to the term “open-end line of credit” in 12 CFR 1003.2, excluding loan transactions set forth in 12 CFR 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) and (13) and multifamily loans as defined in this section.
Operating subsidiary
means an operating subsidiary as described in 12 CFR 5.34 in the case of an operating subsidiary of a national bank or an operating subsidiary as described in 12 CFR 5.38 in the case of a savings association.
Other delivery system
means a channel, other than branches, remote services facilities, or digital delivery systems, through which banks or savings associations offer retail banking services.
Outside retail lending area
means the geographic area delineated pursuant to § 25.18.
Persistent poverty county
means a county that has had poverty rates of 20 percent or more for 30 years, as publicly designated by the Board, FDIC, and OCC, compiled in a list, and published annually by the FFIEC.
Product line
means a bank's or savings association's loans in one of the following, separate categories in a particular Retail Lending Test Area:
(1) Closed-end home mortgage loans;
(2) Small business loans;
(3) Small farm loans; and
(4) Automobile loans, if a bank or savings association is a majority automobile lender or opts to have its automobile loans evaluated pursuant to § 25.22.
Remote service facility
means an automated, virtually staffed, or unstaffed banking facility owned or operated by, or operated exclusively for, a bank or savings association, such as an automated teller machine (ATM), interactive teller machine, cash dispensing machine, or other remote electronic facility, that is open to the general public and at which deposits are accepted, cash dispersed, or money lent.
Reported loan
means:
(1) A home mortgage loan or a multifamily loan reported by a bank or savings association pursuant to the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, as implemented by 12 CFR part 1003; or
(2) A small business loan or a small farm loan reported by a bank or savings association pursuant to § 25.42.
Retail banking products
means credit and deposit products or programs that facilitate a lending or depository relationship between the bank or savings association and consumers, small businesses, or small farms.
Retail banking services
means retail financial services provided by a bank or savings association to consumers, small businesses, or small farms and include a bank's or savings association's systems for delivering retail financial services.
Retail lending assessment area
means a geographic area delineated pursuant to § 25.17.
Retail Lending Test Area
means a facility-based assessment area, a retail lending assessment area, or an outside retail lending area.
Savings association
means a Federal savings association or a State savings association.
Small bank or savings association
means a bank or savings association, excluding a bank or savings association designated as a limited purpose bank or savings association pursuant to § 25.26, that had assets of less than $600 million as of December 31 in either of the prior two calendar years. The appropriate Federal banking agency adjusts and publishes the dollar figure in this definition annually based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, for each 12-
month period ending in November, with rounding to the nearest million.
Small business
means a business, other than a farm, that had gross annual revenues for its preceding fiscal year of $5 million or less.
Small business loan
means, notwithstanding the definition of “small business” in this section, a loan included in “loans to small businesses” as reported in Schedule RC-C of the Call Report.
Small farm
means a farm that had gross annual revenues for its preceding fiscal year of $5 million or less.
Small farm loan
means, notwithstanding the definition of “small farm” in this section, a loan included in “loans to small farms” as reported in Schedule RC-C of the Call Report.
State
means a U.S. State or territory, and includes the District of Columbia.
Targeted census tract
means:
(1) A low-income census tract or a moderate-income census tract; or
(2) A distressed or underserved nonmetropolitan middle-income census tract.
Tribal government
means the recognized governing body of any Indian or Alaska Native tribe, band, nation, pueblo, village, community, component band, or component reservation, individually identified (including parenthetically) in the list most recently published pursuant to section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 5131).
Women's depository institution (WDI)
means “women's depository institution” as defined in 12 U.S.C. 2907(b)(2).

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 7166, Feb. 1, 2024, § 25.12 was amended in part by removing “appropriate Federal banking agency” and adding “OCC” in the definition of “Small bank and savings association”; however, the amendment could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 25.12, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 7167, Feb. 1, 2024, § 25.12 was amended by:
a. In the definition of “Loan location,” revising paragraph (3);
b. In the definition of “Reported loan,” revising paragraph (2); and
c. Revising the definitions of “Small business,” “Small business loan,” “Small farm,” and “Small farm loan.”
The effective date is delayed indefinitely. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 25.12
Definitions.
Loan location
* * *
(3) A small business loan or small farm loan is located in the census tract reported pursuant to subpart B of 12 CFR part 1002.
Reported loan
* * *
(2) A small business loan or small farm loan reported by a bank pursuant to subpart B of 12 CFR part 1002.
Small business
means a small business, other than a small farm, as defined in section 704B of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691c-2) and implemented by 12 CFR 1002.106.
Small business loan
means a loan to a small business as defined in this section.
Small farm
means a small business, as defined in section 704B of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691c-2) and implemented by 12 CFR 1002.106, and that is identified with one of the 3-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes 111-115.
Small farm loan
means a loan to a small farm as defined in this section.
§ 25.13
Consideration of community development loans, community development investments, and community development services.
As provided in paragraph (a) of this section, a bank or savings association may receive consideration for a loan, investment, or service that supports community development as described in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section.
(a)
Full and partial credit for community development loans, community development investments, and community development services
—(1)
Full credit.
A bank or savings association will receive credit for its entire loan, investment, or service if it meets the majority standard in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; meets the bona fide intent standard in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section; involves an MDI, WDI, LICU, or CDFI as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section; or involves a LIHTC as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.
(i)
Majority standard.
A loan, investment, or service meets the majority standard if:
(A) The loan, investment, or service supports community development under one or more of paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section; and
(B)(
1
) For loans, investments, or services supporting community development under paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, the majority of the housing units are affordable to low- or moderate-income individuals, families, or households;
(
2
) For loans, investments, or services supporting community development under paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) and (d) of this section, the majority of the beneficiaries are, or the majority of dollars benefit or serve, low- or moderate-income individuals, families, or households;
(
3
) For loans, investments, or services supporting community development under paragraph (c) of this section, the majority of the beneficiaries are, or the majority of dollars benefit or serve, small businesses or small farms;
(
4
) For loans, investments, or services supporting community development under paragraphs (e), (f), (g), and (i) of this section, the majority of the beneficiaries are, or the majority of dollars benefit or serve, residents of targeted census tracts;
(
5
) For loans, investments, or services supporting community development under paragraph (h) of this section, the majority of the beneficiaries are, or the majority of dollars benefit or serve, residents of designated disaster areas;
(
6
) For loans, investments, or services supporting community development under paragraph (j) of this section, the majority of the beneficiaries are, or the majority of dollars benefit or serve, residents of Native Land Areas; or
(
7
) For loans, investments, or services supporting community development under paragraph (l) of this section, the loan, investment, or service primarily supports community development under paragraph (l) of this section.
(ii)
Bona fide intent standard.
A loan, investment, or service meets the bona fide intent standard if:
(A) The housing units, beneficiaries, or proportion of dollars necessary to meet the majority standard are not reasonably quantifiable pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(B) The loan, investment, or service has the express, bona fide intent of community development under one or more of paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section; and
(C) The loan, investment, or service is specifically structured to achieve community development under one or more of paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section.
(iii)
MDI, WDI, LICU, or CDFI.
The loan, investment, or service supports community development under paragraph (k) of this section.
(iv)
LIHTC.
The loan, investment, or service supports LIHTC-financed affordable housing under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2)
Partial credit.
If a loan, investment, or service supporting affordable housing under paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not meet the majority standard under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, a bank or savings association will receive partial credit for the loan, investment, or service in proportion to the percentage of total housing units in any development that are affordable to low- or moderate-income individuals.
(b)
Affordable housing.
Affordable housing comprises the following:
(1)
Rental housing in conjunction with a government affordable housing plan, program, initiative, tax credit, or subsidy.
Rental housing for low- or moderate-income individuals purchased, developed, financed, rehabilitated, improved, or preserved in conjunction with a Federal, State, local, or tribal government affordable housing plan, program, initiative, tax credit, or subsidy.
(2)
Multifamily rental housing with affordable rents.
Multifamily rental housing purchased, developed, financed, rehabilitated, improved, or preserved if:
(i) For the majority of units, the monthly rent as underwritten by the bank or savings association, reflecting post-construction or post-renovation
changes as applicable, does not exceed 30 percent of 80 percent of the area median income; and
(ii) One or more of the following additional criteria are met:
(A) The housing is located in a low- or moderate-income census tract;
(B) The housing is located in a census tract in which the median income of renters is low- or moderate-income and the median rent does not exceed 30 percent of 80 percent of the area median income;
(C) The housing is purchased, developed, financed, rehabilitated, improved, or preserved by any nonprofit organization with a stated mission of, or that otherwise directly supports, providing affordable housing; or
(D) The bank or savings association provides documentation that a majority of the housing units are occupied by low- or moderate-income individuals, families, or households.
(3)
One-to-four family rental housing with affordable rents in a nonmetropolitan area.
One-to-four family rental housing purchased, developed, financed, rehabilitated, improved, or preserved in a nonmetropolitan area that meets the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(4)
Affordable owner-occupied housing for low- or moderate-income individuals.
Assistance for low- or moderate-income individuals to obtain, maintain, rehabilitate, or improve affordable owner-occupied housing, excluding loans by a bank or savings association directly to one or more owner-occupants of such housing.
(5)
Mortgage-backed securities.
Purchases of mortgage-backed securities where a majority of the underlying loans are not loans that the bank or savings association originated or purchased and:
(i) Are home mortgage loans made to low- or moderate-income individuals; or
(ii) Are loans that finance multifamily affordable housing that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c)
Economic development.
Economic development comprises:
(1)
Government-related support for small businesses and small farms.
Loans, investments, and services undertaken in conjunction or in syndication with Federal, State, local, or tribal government plans, programs, or initiatives that support small businesses or small farms, as follows:
(i)
Loans, investments, and services other than direct loans to small businesses and small farms.
Loans, investments, and services that support small businesses or small farms in accordance with how small businesses and small farms are defined in the applicable plan, program, or initiative, but excluding loans by a bank or savings association directly to small businesses or small farms (either as defined in a government plan, program, or initiative or in § 25.12). If the government plan, program, or initiative does not identify a standard for the size of the small businesses or small farms supported by the plan, program, or initiative, the small businesses or small farms supported must meet the definition of small business or small farm in § 25.12. Loans to, investments in, or services provided to the following are presumed to meet the criteria of this paragraph (c)(1)(i):
(A) Small Business Investment Company (13 CFR part 107);
(B) New Markets Venture Capital Company (13 CFR part 108);
(C) Qualified Community Development Entity (26 U.S.C. 45D(c)); or
(D) U.S. Department of Agriculture Rural Business Investment Company (7 CFR 4290.50).
(ii)
Direct loans to small businesses and small farms.
Loans by a bank or savings association directly to businesses or farms, including, but not limited to, loans in conjunction or syndicated with a U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA) Certified Development Company (13 CFR 120.10) or Small Business Investment Company (13 CFR part 107), that meet the following size and purpose criteria:
(A)
Size eligibility standard.
Loans that may be considered under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section must be to businesses and farms that meet the size eligibility standards of the U.S. Small Business Administration Development Company (13 CFR 121.301) or Small Business Investment Company (13 CFR 121.301 and 121.201) programs or
that meet the definition of small business or small farm in § 25.12.
(B)
Purpose test.
Loans that may be considered under paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section must have the purpose of promoting permanent job creation or retention for low- or moderate-income individuals or in low- or moderate-income census tracts.
(2)
Intermediary support for small businesses and small farms.
Loans, investments, or services provided to intermediaries that lend to, invest in, or provide assistance, such as financial counseling, shared space, technology, or administrative assistance, to small businesses or small farms.
(3)
Other support for small businesses and small farms.
Assistance, such as financial counseling, shared space, technology, or administrative assistance, to small businesses or small farms.
(d)
Community supportive services.
Community supportive services are activities that assist, benefit, or contribute to the health, stability, or well-being of low- or moderate-income individuals, such as childcare, education, workforce development and job training programs, health services programs, and housing services programs. Community supportive services include, but are not limited to, activities that:
(1) Are conducted with a mission-driven nonprofit organization;
(2) Are conducted with a nonprofit organization located in and serving low- or moderate-income census tracts;
(3) Are conducted in a low- or moderate-income census tract and targeted to the residents of the census tract;
(4) Are offered to individuals at a workplace where the majority of employees are low- or moderate-income, based on U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics data for the average wage for workers in that particular occupation or industry;
(5) Are provided to students or their families through a school at which the majority of students qualify for free or reduced-price meals under the U.S. Department of Agriculture's National School Lunch Program;
(6) Primarily benefit or serve individuals who receive or are eligible to receive Medicaid;
(7) Primarily benefit or serve individuals who receive or are eligible to receive Federal Supplemental Security Income, Social Security Disability Insurance, or support through other Federal disability assistance programs; or
(8) Primarily benefit or serve recipients of government assistance plans, programs, or initiatives that have income qualifications equivalent to, or stricter than, the definitions of low- and moderate-income as defined in this part. Examples include, but are not limited to, the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's section 8, 202, 515, and 811 programs or the U.S. Department of Agriculture's section 514, 516, and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance programs.
(e)
Revitalization or stabilization
—(1)
In general.
Revitalization or stabilization comprises activities that support revitalization or stabilization of targeted census tracts, including adaptive reuse of vacant or blighted buildings, brownfield redevelopment, support of a plan for a business improvement district or main street program, or any other activity that supports revitalization or stabilization, and that:
(i) Are undertaken in conjunction with a plan, program, or initiative of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government or a mission-driven nonprofit organization, where the plan, program, or initiative includes a focus on revitalizing or stabilizing targeted census tracts;
(ii) Benefit or serve residents, including low- or moderate-income individuals, of targeted census tracts; and
(iii) Do not directly result in the forced or involuntary relocation of low- or moderate-income individuals in targeted census tracts.
(2)
Mixed-use revitalization or stabilization project.
Projects to revitalize or stabilize a targeted census tract that include both commercial and residential components qualify as revitalization or stabilization activities under this paragraph (e)(2), if:
(i) The criteria in paragraph (e)(1) of this section are met; and
(ii) More than 50 percent of the project is non-residential as measured by the percentage of total square footage or dollar amount of the project.
(f)
Essential community facilities.
Essential community facilities are public facilities that provide essential services generally accessible by a local community, including, but not limited to, schools, libraries, childcare facilities, parks, hospitals, healthcare facilities, and community centers that benefit or serve targeted census tracts, and that:
(1) Are undertaken in conjunction with a plan, program, or initiative of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government or a mission-driven nonprofit organization, where the plan, program, or initiative includes a focus on benefitting or serving targeted census tracts;
(2) Benefit or serve residents, including low- or moderate-income individuals, of targeted census tracts; and
(3) Do not directly result in the forced or involuntary relocation of low- or moderate-income individuals in targeted census tracts.
(g)
Essential community infrastructure.
Essential community infrastructure comprises activities benefitting or serving targeted census tracts, including, but not limited to, broadband, telecommunications, mass transit, water supply and distribution, and sewage treatment and collection systems, and that:
(1) Are undertaken in conjunction with a plan, program, or initiative of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government or a mission-driven nonprofit organization, where the plan, program, or initiative includes a focus on benefitting or serving targeted census tracts;
(2) Benefit or serve residents, including low- or moderate-income individuals, of targeted census tracts; and
(3) Do not directly result in the forced or involuntary relocation of low- or moderate-income individuals in targeted census tracts.
(h)
Recovery of designated disaster areas
—(1)
In general.
Activities that promote recovery of a designated disaster area are those that revitalize or stabilize geographic areas subject to a Major Disaster Declaration administered by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and that:
(i) Are undertaken in conjunction with a disaster plan, program, or initiative of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government or a mission-driven nonprofit organization, where the plan, program, or initiative includes a focus on benefitting or serving the designated disaster area;
(ii) Benefit or serve residents, including low- or moderate-income individuals, of the designated disaster area; and
(iii) Do not directly result in the forced or involuntary relocation of low- or moderate-income individuals in the designated disaster area.
(2)
Eligibility limitations for loans, investments, or services supporting recovery of a designated disaster area.
(i) Loans, investments, or services that support recovery from a designated disaster in counties designated to receive only FEMA Public Assistance Emergency Work Category A (Debris Removal) and/or Category B (Emergency Protective Measures) are not eligible for consideration under this paragraph (h)(2), unless the Board, the FDIC, and the OCC announce a temporary exception.
(ii) The appropriate Federal banking agency will consider loans, investments, and services that support recovery from a designated disaster under this paragraph (h)(2) for 36 months after a Major Disaster Declaration, unless that time period is extended by the Board, the FDIC, and the OCC.
(i)
Disaster preparedness and weather resiliency.
Disaster preparedness and weather resiliency activities assist individuals and communities to prepare for, adapt to, and withstand natural disasters or weather-related risks or disasters. Disaster preparedness and weather resiliency activities benefit or serve targeted census tracts and:
(1) Are undertaken in conjunction with a plan, program, or initiative of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government or a mission-driven nonprofit organization, where the plan, program, or initiative includes a focus on benefitting or serving targeted census tracts;
(2) Benefit or serve residents, including low- or moderate-income individuals, in targeted census tracts; and
(3) Do not directly result in the forced or involuntary relocation of low- or moderate-income individuals in targeted census tracts.
(j)
Revitalization or stabilization, essential community facilities, essential community infrastructure, and disaster preparedness and weather resiliency in Native Land Areas.
(1) Revitalization or stabilization, essential community facilities, essential community infrastructure, and disaster preparedness and weather resiliency activities in Native Land Areas are activities specifically targeted to and conducted in Native Land Areas.
(2) Revitalization or stabilization activities in Native Land Areas are defined consistent with paragraph (e) of this section, but specifically:
(i) Are undertaken in conjunction with a plan, program, or initiative of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government or a mission-driven nonprofit organization, where the plan, program, or initiative includes an explicit focus on revitalizing or stabilizing Native Land Areas and a particular focus on low- or moderate-income households;
(ii) Benefit or serve residents in Native Land Areas, with substantial benefits for low- or moderate-income individuals in Native Land Areas; and
(iii) Do not directly result in the forced or involuntary relocation of low- or moderate-income individuals in Native Land Areas.
(3) Essential community facilities, essential community infrastructure, and disaster preparedness and weather resiliency activities in Native Land Areas are defined consistent with paragraphs (f), (g), and (i) of this section, respectively, but specifically:
(i) Are undertaken in conjunction with a plan, program, or initiative of a Federal, State, local, or tribal government or a mission-driven nonprofit organization, where the plan, program, or initiative includes an explicit focus on benefitting or serving Native Land Areas;
(ii) Benefit or serve residents, including low- or moderate-income individuals, in Native Land Areas; and
(iii) Do not directly result in the forced or involuntary relocation of low- or moderate-income individuals in Native Land Areas.
(k)
Activities with MDIs, WDIs, LICUs, or CDFIs.
Activities with MDIs, WDIs, LICUs, or CDFIs are loans, investments, or services undertaken by any bank or savings association, including by an MDI, WDI, or CDFI bank or savings association evaluated under this part or 12 CFR part 228 or 345, in cooperation with an MDI, WDI, LICU, or CDFI. Such activities do not include investments by an MDI, WDI, or CDFI bank or savings association in itself.
(l)
Financial literacy.
Activities that promote financial literacy are those that assist individuals, families, and households, including low- or moderate-income individuals, families, and households, to make informed financial decisions regarding managing income, savings, credit, and expenses, including with respect to homeownership.

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 7167, Feb. 1, 2024, § 25.13 was amended in part by removing “CDFI bank or savings associations” wherever it appears in paragraph (k) and adding “CDFI bank” in its place; however, the amendment could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.
§ 25.14
Community development illustrative list; Confirmation of eligibility.
(a)
Illustrative list
—(1)
Issuing and maintaining the illustrative list.
The Board, the FDIC, and the OCC jointly issue and maintain a publicly available illustrative list of non-exhaustive examples of loans, investments, and services that qualify for community development consideration as provided in § 25.13.
(2)
Modifying the illustrative list.
(i) The Board, the FDIC, and the OCC update the illustrative list in paragraph (a)(1) of this section periodically.
(ii) If the Board, the FDIC, and the OCC determine that a loan or investment is no longer eligible for community development consideration, the owner of the loan or investment at the time of the determination will continue to receive community development consideration for the remaining term or period of the loan or investment. However, these loans or investments will not be considered eligible for community development consideration for any new purchasers of that loan or investment after the agencies make a determination that the loan or investment is no longer eligible for community development consideration.
(b)
Confirmation of eligibility
—(1)
Request for confirmation of eligibility.
A bank or savings association subject to this part may request that the appropriate Federal banking agency confirm that a loan, investment, or service is eligible for community development consideration by submitting a request to, and in a format prescribed by, the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(2)
Determination of eligibility.
(i) To determine the eligibility of a loan, investment, or service for which a request has been submitted under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers:
(A) Information that describes and supports the request; and
(B) Any other information that the appropriate Federal banking agency deems relevant.
(ii) The Board, the FDIC, and the OCC expect and are presumed to jointly determine eligibility of a loan, investment, or service under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section to promote consistency. Before making a determination under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency consults with the Board and the FDIC or the Board and the OCC, as appropriate, regarding the eligibility of a loan, investment, or service.
(iii) The appropriate Federal banking agency may impose limitations or requirements on a determination of the eligibility of a loan, investment, or service to ensure consistency with this part.
(3)
Notification of eligibility.
The appropriate Federal banking agency notifies the requestor and the Board and the FDIC or the Board and the OCC, as appropriate, in writing of any determination under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, as well as the rationale for such determination.
§ 25.15
Impact and responsiveness review of community development loans, community development investments, and community development services.
(a)
Impact and responsiveness review, in general.
Under the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25, and the Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the extent to which a bank's or savings association's community development loans, community development investments, and community development services are impactful and responsive in meeting community development needs in each facility-based assessment area and, as applicable, each State, multistate MSA, and the nationwide area. The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the impact and responsiveness of a bank's or savings association's community development loans, community development investments, or community development services based on paragraph (b) of this section, and may take into account performance context information pursuant to § 25.21(d).
(b)
Impact and responsiveness review factors.
Factors considered in evaluating the impact and responsiveness of a bank's or savings association's community development loans, community development investments, and community development services include, but are not limited to, whether the community development loan, community development investment, or community development service:
(1) Benefits or serves one or more persistent poverty counties;
(2) Benefits or serves one or more census tracts with a poverty rate of 40 percent or higher;
(3) Benefits or serves one or more geographic areas with low levels of community development financing;
(4) Supports an MDI, WDI, LICU, or CDFI, excluding certificates of deposit with a term of less than one year;
(5) Benefits or serves low-income individuals, families, or households;
(6) Supports small businesses or small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less;
(7) Directly facilitates the acquisition, construction, development, preservation, or improvement of affordable housing in High Opportunity Areas;
(8) Benefits or serves residents of Native Land Areas;
(9) Is a grant or donation;
(10) Is an investment in projects financed with LIHTCs or NMTCs;
(11) Reflects bank or savings association leadership through multi-faceted or instrumental support; or
(12) Is a new community development financing product or service that addresses community development needs for low- or moderate-income individuals, families, or households.

# Subpart B—Geographic Considerations

# Source:
89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.16
Facility-based assessment areas.
(a)
In general.
A bank or savings association must delineate one or more facility-based assessment areas within which the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community pursuant to the performance tests and strategic plan described in § 25.21.
(b)
Geographic requirements for facility-based assessment areas.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas must include each county in which a bank or savings association has a main office, a branch, or a deposit-taking remote service facility, as well as the surrounding counties in which the bank or savings association has originated or purchased a substantial portion of its loans (including home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans).
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, each of a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas must consist of a single MSA, one or more contiguous counties within an MSA, or one or more contiguous counties within the nonmetropolitan area of a State.
(3) An intermediate bank or savings association or a small bank or savings association may adjust the boundaries of its facility-based assessment areas to include only the portion of a county that it reasonably can be expected to serve, subject to paragraph (c) of this section. A facility-based assessment area that includes a partial county must consist of contiguous whole census tracts.
(c)
Other limitations on the delineation of a facility-based assessment area.
Each of a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas:
(1) May not reflect illegal discrimination; and
(2) May not arbitrarily exclude low- or moderate-income census tracts. In determining whether a bank or savings association has arbitrarily excluded low- or moderate-income census tracts from a facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency takes into account the bank's or savings association's capacity and constraints, including its size and financial condition.
(d)
Military banks or savings associations.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, a military bank or savings association whose customers are not located within a defined geographic area may delineate the entire United States and its territories as its sole facility-based assessment area.
(e)
Use of facility-based assessment areas.
The appropriate Federal banking agency uses the facility-based assessment areas delineated by a bank or savings association in its evaluation of the bank's or savings association's CRA performance unless the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the facility-based assessment areas do not comply with the requirements of this section.
§ 25.17
Retail lending assessment areas.
(a)
In general.
(1) Based upon the criteria described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a large bank or savings association must delineate retail lending assessment areas within which the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community pursuant to § 25.22.
(2) A large bank or savings association is not required to delineate retail lending assessment areas for a particular calendar year if, in the prior two calendar years, the large bank or savings association originated or purchased within its facility-based assessment areas more than 80 percent of its
home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans if automobile loans are a product line for the large bank or savings association as described in paragraph II.a.1 of appendix A to this part.
(3) If, in a retail lending assessment area delineated pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, the large bank or savings association did not originate or purchase any reported loans in any of the product lines that formed the basis of the retail lending assessment area delineation pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency will not consider the retail lending assessment area to have been delineated for that calendar year.
(b)
Geographic requirements for retail lending assessment areas.
(1) A large bank's or savings association's retail lending assessment area must consist of either:
(i) The entirety of a single MSA (using the MSA boundaries that were in effect as of January 1 of the calendar year in which the delineation applies), excluding any counties inside the large bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas; or
(ii) All of the counties in the nonmetropolitan area of a State (using the MSA boundaries that were in effect as of January 1 of the calendar year in which the delineation applies), excluding:
(A) Any counties included in the large bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas; and
(B) Any counties in which the large bank or savings association did not originate any closed-end home mortgage loans or small business loans that are reported loans during that calendar year.
(2) A retail lending assessment area may not extend beyond a State boundary unless the retail lending assessment area consists of counties in a multistate MSA.
(c)
Delineation of retail lending assessment areas.
Subject to the geographic requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, a large bank or savings association must delineate, for a particular calendar year, a retail lending assessment area in any MSA or in the nonmetropolitan area of any State in which it originated:
(1) At least 150 closed-end home mortgage loans that are reported loans in each year of the prior two calendar years; or
(2) At least 400 small business loans that are reported loans in each year of the prior two calendar years.
(d)
Use of retail lending assessment areas.
The appropriate Federal banking agency uses the retail lending assessment areas delineated by a large bank or savings association in its evaluation of the bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage lending and small business lending performance unless the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the retail lending assessment areas do not comply with the requirements of this section.
§ 25.18
Outside retail lending areas.
(a)
In general
—(1)
Large banks or savings associations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a large bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community in its outside retail lending area pursuant to § 25.22. However, the appropriate Federal banking agency will not evaluate a large bank or savings association in its outside retail lending area if it did not originate or purchase loans in any product lines in the outside retail lending area during the evaluation period.
(2)
Intermediate or small banks or savings associations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the record of an intermediate bank or savings association, or a small bank or savings association that opts to be evaluated under the Retail Lending Test, of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community in its outside retail lending area pursuant to § 25.22, for a particular calendar year, if:
(i) The bank or savings association opts to have its major product lines evaluated in its outside retail lending area; or
(ii) In the prior two calendar years, the bank or savings association originated or purchased outside the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas more than 50 percent of the bank's or savings association's
home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans if automobile loans are a product line for the bank or savings association, as described in paragraph II.a.2 of appendix A to this part.
(b)
Geographic requirements of outside retail lending areas
—(1)
In general.
A bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area consists of the nationwide area, excluding:
(i) The bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas; and
(ii) Any county in a nonmetropolitan area in which the bank or savings association did not originate or purchase any closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, or automobile loans if automobile loans are a product line for the bank or savings association.
(2)
Component geographic area.
The outside retail lending area is comprised of component geographic areas. A component geographic area is any MSA or the nonmetropolitan area of any State, or portion thereof, included within the outside retail lending area.
§ 25.19
Areas for eligible community development loans, community development investments, and community development services.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may consider a bank's or savings association's community development loans, community development investments, and community development services provided outside of its facility-based assessment areas, as provided in this part.
§ 25.20
[Reserved]

# Subpart C—Standards for Assessing Performance

# Source:
89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.21
Evaluation of CRA performance in general.
(a)
Application of performance tests and strategic plans
—(1)
Large banks or savings associations.
To evaluate the performance of a large bank or savings association, the appropriate Federal banking agency applies the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, the Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23, the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, and the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25.
(2)
Intermediate banks or savings associations
—(i)
In general.
To evaluate the performance of an intermediate bank or savings association, the appropriate Federal banking agency applies the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22 and either the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test in § 25.30(a)(2) or, at the bank's or savings association's option, the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24.
(ii)
Intermediate banks or savings associations evaluated under § 25.24.
If an intermediate bank or savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the intermediate bank or savings association for the evaluation period preceding the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination pursuant to the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 and continues evaluations pursuant to this performance test for subsequent evaluation periods until the bank or savings association opts out. If an intermediate bank or savings association opts out of the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, the appropriate Federal banking agency reverts to evaluating the bank or savings association pursuant to the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test in § 25.30(a)(2), starting with the evaluation period preceding the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination.
(iii)
Additional consideration.
An intermediate bank or savings association may request additional consideration pursuant to § 25.30(b).
(3)
Small banks or savings associations
—(i)
In general.
To evaluate the performance of a small bank or savings association, the appropriate Federal banking agency applies the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test in § 25.29(a)(2), unless the bank or
savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22.
(ii)
Small banks or savings associations evaluated under the Retail Lending Test.
If a small bank or savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, the following applies:
(A) The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the small bank or savings association using the same provisions used to evaluate intermediate banks or savings associations pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22.
(B) The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the small bank or savings association for the evaluation period preceding the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22 and continues evaluations under this performance test for subsequent evaluation periods until the bank or savings association opts out. If a small bank or savings association opts out of the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, the appropriate Federal banking agency reverts to evaluating the bank or savings association pursuant to the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test in § 25.29(a)(2), starting with the evaluation period preceding the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination.
(iii)
Additional consideration.
A small bank or savings association may request additional consideration pursuant to § 25.29(b).
(4)
Limited purpose banks or savings associations
—(i)
In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a limited purpose bank or savings association pursuant to the Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26.
(ii)
Additional consideration.
A limited purpose bank or savings association may request additional consideration pursuant to § 25.26(b)(2).
(5)
Military banks or savings associations
—(i)
In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a military bank or savings association pursuant to the applicable performance tests described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(ii)
Evaluation approach for military banks or savings associations operating under § 25.16(d).
If a military bank or savings association delineates the entire United States and its territories as its sole facility-based assessment area pursuant to § 25.16(d), the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank or savings association exclusively at the institution level based on its performance in its sole facility-based assessment area.
(6)
Banks and savings associations operating under a strategic plan.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the performance of a bank or savings association that has an approved strategic plan pursuant to § 25.27.
(b)
Loans, investments, services, and products of operating subsidiaries and other affiliates
—(1)
In general.
In the performance evaluation of a bank or savings association, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers the loans, investments, services, and products of a bank's or savings association's operating subsidiaries and other affiliates, as applicable, as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, so long as no other depository institution claims the loan, investment, service, or product for purposes of this part or 12 CFR part 228 or 345.
(2)
Loans, investments, services, and products of operating subsidiaries.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the loans, investment, services, and products of a bank's or savings association's operating subsidiaries under this part, unless an operating subsidiary is independently subject to the CRA. The bank or savings association must collect, maintain, and report data on the loans, investments, services, and products of its operating subsidiaries as provided in § 25.42(c).
(3)
Loans, investments, services, and products of other affiliates.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the loans, investments, services, and products of affiliates of a bank or savings association that are not operating subsidiaries, at the bank's or savings association's option, subject to the following:
(i) The affiliate is not independently subject to the CRA.
(ii) The bank or savings association collects, maintains, and reports data
on the loans, investments, services, or products of the affiliate as provided in § 25.42(d).
(iii) Pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, if a bank or savings association opts to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider the closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, or automobile loans that are originated or purchased by one or more of the bank's or savings association's affiliates in a particular Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider, subject to paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, all of the loans in that product line originated or purchased by all of the bank's or savings association's affiliates in the particular Retail Lending Test Area.
(iv) Pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, if a large bank or savings association opts to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider the closed-end home mortgage loans or small business loans that are originated or purchased by any of the bank's or savings association's affiliates in any Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider, subject to paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, the closed-end home mortgage loans or small business loans originated by all of the bank's or savings association's affiliates in the nationwide area when delineating retail lending assessment areas pursuant to § 25.17(c).
(v) Pursuant to the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, the Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26, the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test in § 25.30(a)(2), or pursuant to an approved strategic plan in § 25.27, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider, at the bank's or savings association's option, community development loans or community development investments that are originated, purchased, refinanced, or renewed by one or more of the bank's or savings association's affiliates, subject to paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(c)
Community development lending and community development investment by a consortium or a third party.
If a bank or savings association invests in or participates in a consortium that originates, purchases, refinances, or renews community development loans or community development investments, or if a bank or savings association invests in a third party that originates, purchases, refinances, or renews community development loans or community development investments, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider, at the bank's or savings association's option, either those loans or investments, subject to the limitations in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, or the investment in the consortium or third party.
(1) The bank or savings association must collect, maintain, and report the data pertaining to the community development loans and community development investments as provided in § 25.42(e), as applicable;
(2) If the participants or investors choose to allocate community development loans or community development investments among themselves for consideration under this section, no participant or investor may claim a loan origination, loan purchase, or investment for community development consideration if another participant or investor claims the same loan origination, loan purchase, or investment; and
(3) The bank or savings association may not claim community development loans or community development investments accounting for more than its percentage share (based on the level of its participation or investment) of the total loans or investments made by the consortium or third party.
(d)
Performance context information considered.
When applying performance tests and strategic plans pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, and when determining whether to approve a strategic plan pursuant to § 25.27(h), the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider the following performance context information to the extent that it is not considered as part of the performance tests as provided in paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Any information regarding a bank's or savings association's institutional capacity or constraints, including the size and financial condition of
the bank or savings association, safety and soundness limitations, or any other bank-specific factors that significantly affect the bank's or savings association's ability to provide retail lending, retail banking services and retail banking products, community development loans, community development investments, or community development services;
(2) Any information regarding the bank's or savings association's past performance;
(3) Demographic data on income levels and income distribution, nature of housing stock, housing costs, economic climate, or other relevant data;
(4) Any information about retail banking and community development needs and opportunities provided by the bank or savings association or other relevant sources, including, but not limited to, members of the community, community organizations, State, local, and tribal governments, and economic development agencies;
(5) Data and information provided by the bank or savings association regarding the bank's or savings association's business strategy and product offerings;
(6) The bank's or savings association's public file, as provided in § 25.43, including any written comments about the bank's or savings association's CRA performance submitted to the bank or savings association or the appropriate Federal banking agency and the bank's or savings association's responses to those comments; and
(7) Any other information deemed relevant by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(e)
Conclusions and ratings
—(1)
Conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions to a large bank's or savings association's or limited purpose bank's or savings association's performance on the applicable tests described in paragraph (a) of this section pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix C to this part. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions to a small bank's or savings association's or intermediate bank's or savings association's performance on the applicable tests described in paragraph (a) of this section pursuant to § 25.28 and appendices C and E to this part. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions to a bank or savings association that has an approved strategic plan pursuant to § 25.28 and paragraph g of appendix C to this part.
(2)
Ratings.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns an overall CRA performance rating to a bank or savings association in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution pursuant to § 25.28 and appendices D and E to this part.
(f)
Safe and sound operations.
The CRA and this part do not require a bank or savings association to originate or purchase loans or investments or to provide services that are inconsistent with safe and sound banking practices, including underwriting standards. Banks and savings associations are permitted to develop and apply flexible underwriting standards for loans that benefit low- or moderate-income individuals, small businesses or small farms, and low- or moderate-income census tracts, only if consistent with safe and sound operations.
§ 25.22
Retail lending test.
(a)
Retail Lending Test
—(1)
In general.
Pursuant to § 25.21, the Retail Lending Test evaluates a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community through the bank's or savings association's origination and purchase of home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, and small farm loans.
(2)
Automobile loans.
The Retail Lending Test evaluates a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community through the bank's or savings association's origination and purchase of automobile loans if the bank or savings association is a majority automobile lender. A bank or savings association that is not a majority automobile lender may opt to have automobile loans evaluated under this section.
(b)
Methodology overview
—(1)
Retail Lending Volume Screen.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates whether a bank or savings association meets or surpasses the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in each facility-based assessment area pursuant to the
Retail Lending Volume Screen as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Retail lending distribution analysis.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the geographic and borrower distributions of each of a bank's or savings association's major product lines in each Retail Lending Test Area, as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(3)
Retail Lending Test recommended conclusions.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops a Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section for each Retail Lending Test Area.
(4)
Retail Lending Test conclusions.
Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency's determination of a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test conclusion for a Retail Lending Test Area is informed by the bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion for the Retail Lending Test Area, performance context factors provided in § 25.21(d), and the additional factors provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(5)
Exceptions
—(i)
No major product line.
If a bank or savings association has no major product line in a facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns the bank or savings association a Retail Lending Test conclusion for that facility-based assessment area based upon its performance on the Retail Lending Volume Screen pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, performance context factors provided in § 25.21(d), and the additional factors provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(ii)
Banks and savings associations that lack an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Lending Test conclusion for a facility-based assessment area in which a bank or savings association lacks an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section.
(c)
Retail Lending Volume Screen
—(1)
Retail Lending Volume Threshold.
A bank or savings association meets or surpasses the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area if the bank or savings association has a Bank Volume Metric of 30 percent or greater of the Market Volume Benchmark for that facility-based assessment area. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Bank Volume Metric and the Market Volume Benchmark pursuant to section I of appendix A to this part.
(2)
Banks and savings associations that meet or surpass the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area.
If a bank or savings association meets or surpasses the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops a Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion for the facility-based assessment area pursuant to paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section.
(3)
Banks and savings associations that do not meet the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area
—(i)
Acceptable basis factors.
If a bank or savings association does not meet the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area pursuant to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency determines whether the bank or savings association has an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in the facility-based assessment area by considering:
(A) The bank's or savings association's dollar volume of non-automobile consumer loans;
(B) The bank's or savings association's institutional capacity and constraints, including the financial condition of the bank or savings association;
(C) The presence or lack of other lenders in the facility-based assessment area;
(D) Safety and soundness limitations;
(E) The bank's or savings association's business strategy; and
(F) Any other factors that limit the bank's or savings association's ability
to lend in the facility-based assessment area.
(ii)
Banks and savings associations that have an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area.
If, after reviewing the factors described in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that a bank or savings association has an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops a Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion for the facility-based assessment area in the same manner as for a bank or savings association that meets or surpasses the Retail Lending Volume Threshold under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(iii)
Banks and savings associations that lack an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area
—(A)
Large banks or savings associations.
If, after reviewing the factors in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that a large bank or savings association lacks an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns the bank or savings association a Retail Lending Test conclusion of “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance” for that facility-based assessment area. In determining whether “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance” is the appropriate conclusion, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers:
(
1
) The bank's or savings association's retail lending volume and the extent by which it did not meet the Retail Lending Volume Threshold;
(
2
) The bank's or savings association's distribution analysis pursuant to paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section;
(
3
) Performance context factors provided in § 25.21(d); and
(
4
) Additional factors provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(B)
Intermediate or small banks or savings associations.
If, after reviewing the factors in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that an intermediate bank or savings association, or a small bank or savings association that opts to be evaluated under the Retail Lending Test, lacks an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops a Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion for the facility-based assessment area pursuant to paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. The appropriate Federal banking agency's determination of a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test conclusion for the facility-based assessment area is informed by:
(
1
) The bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion for the facility-based assessment area;
(
2
) The bank's or savings association's retail lending volume and the extent by which it did not meet the Retail Lending Volume Threshold;
(
3
) Performance context factors provided in § 25.21(d); and
(
4
) Additional factors provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(d)
Scope of Retail Lending Test distribution analysis
—(1)
Product lines evaluated in a Retail Lending Test Area.
In each applicable Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates originated and purchased loans in each of the following product lines that is a major product line, as described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section:
(i) Closed-end home mortgage loans in a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and, as applicable, retail lending assessment areas and outside retail lending area;
(ii) Small business loans in a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and, as applicable, retail lending assessment areas and outside retail lending area;
(iii) Small farm loans in a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and, as applicable, outside retail lending area; and
(iv) Automobile loans in a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and, as applicable, outside retail lending area.
(2)
Major product line standards
—(i)
Major product line standard for facility-based assessment areas and outside retail lending areas.
In a facility-based assessment area or outside retail lending area, a product line is a major product line if the bank's or savings association's loans in that product line comprise 15 percent or more of the bank's or savings association's loans across all of the bank's or savings association's product lines in the facility-based assessment area or outside retail lending area, as determined pursuant to paragraph II.b.1 of appendix A to this part.
(ii)
Major product line standards for retail lending assessment areas.
In a retail lending assessment area:
(A) Closed-end home mortgage loans are a major product line in any calendar year in the evaluation period in which the bank or savings association delineates a retail lending assessment area based on its closed-end home mortgage loans as determined by the standard in § 25.17(c)(1); and
(B) Small business loans are a major product line in any calendar year in the evaluation period in which the bank or savings association delineates a retail lending assessment area based on its small business loans as determined by the standard in § 25.17(c)(2).
(e)
Retail Lending Test distribution analysis.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test performance in each of its Retail Lending Test Areas by considering the geographic and borrower distributions of a bank's or savings association's loans in its major product lines.
(1)
Distribution analysis in general
—(i)
Distribution analysis for closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans.
For closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans, respectively, the appropriate Federal banking agency compares a bank's or savings association's geographic and borrower distributions to performance ranges based on the applicable market and community benchmarks, as provided in paragraph (f) of this section and section V of appendix A to this part.
(ii)
Distribution analysis for automobile loans.
For automobile loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency compares a bank's or savings association's geographic and borrower distributions to the applicable community benchmarks, as provided in paragraph (f) of this section and section VI of appendix A to this part.
(2)
Categories of lending evaluated
—(i)
Geographic distributions.
For each major product line in each Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the geographic distributions separately for the following categories of census tracts:
(A) Low-income census tracts; and
(B) Moderate-income census tracts.
(ii)
Borrower distributions.
For each major product line in each Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the borrower distributions separately for, as applicable, the following categories of borrowers:
(A) Low-income borrowers;
(B) Moderate-income borrowers;
(C) Businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less;
(D) Businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million;
(E) Farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less; and
(F) Farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million.
(3)
Geographic distribution measures.
To evaluate the geographic distributions in a Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers the following measures:
(i)
Geographic Bank Metric.
For each major product line, a Geographic Bank Metric, calculated pursuant to paragraph III.a of appendix A to this part;
(ii)
Geographic Market Benchmark.
For each major product line except automobile loans, a Geographic Market Benchmark, calculated pursuant to paragraph III.b of appendix A to this part for facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas, and paragraph III.d of appendix A to this part for outside retail lending areas; and
(iii)
Geographic Community Benchmark.
For each major product line, a Geographic Community Benchmark, calculated pursuant to paragraph III.c of appendix A to this part for facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas, and paragraph III.e of appendix A to this part for outside retail lending areas.
(4)
Borrower distribution measures.
To evaluate the borrower distributions in a Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers the following measures:
(i)
Borrower Bank Metric.
For each major product line, a Borrower Bank Metric, calculated pursuant to paragraph IV.a of appendix A to this part;
(ii)
Borrower Market Benchmark.
For each major product line except automobile loans, a Borrower Market Benchmark, calculated pursuant to paragraph IV.b of appendix A to this part for facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas, and paragraph IV.d of appendix A to this part for outside retail lending areas; and
(iii)
Borrower Community Benchmark.
For each major product line, a Borrower Community Benchmark, calculated pursuant to paragraph IV.c of appendix A to this part for facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas, and paragraph IV.e of appendix A to this part for outside retail lending areas.
(f)
Retail Lending Test recommended conclusions
—(1)
In general.
Except as described in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (c)(3)(iii)(A) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops a Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion for each of a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test Areas based on the distribution analysis described in paragraph (e) of this section and using performance ranges, supporting conclusions, and product line scores as provided in sections V through VII of appendix A to this part. For each major product line, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops a separate supporting conclusion for each category of census tracts and each category of borrowers described in paragraphs V.a and VI.a of appendix A to this part.
(2)
Geographic distribution supporting conclusions
—(i)
Geographic distribution supporting conclusions for closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans.
To develop supporting conclusions for geographic distributions of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's performance by comparing the Geographic Bank Metric to performance ranges, based on the Geographic Market Benchmark, the Geographic Community Benchmark, and multipliers, as described in paragraphs V.b and V.c of appendix A to this part.
(ii)
Geographic distribution supporting conclusions for automobile loans.
To develop supporting conclusions for geographic distributions for automobile loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's performance by comparing the Geographic Bank Metric to the Geographic Community Benchmark, as described in paragraph VI.b of appendix A to this part.
(3)
Borrower distribution supporting conclusions
—(i)
Borrower distribution supporting conclusions for closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans.
To develop supporting conclusions for borrower distributions of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's performance by comparing the Borrower Bank Metric to performance ranges, based on the Borrower Market Benchmark, Borrower Community Benchmark, and multipliers, as described in paragraphs V.d and V.e of appendix A to this part.
(ii)
Borrower distribution supporting conclusions for automobile loans.
To develop supporting conclusions for borrower distributions for automobile loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's performance by comparing the Borrower Bank Metric to the Borrower Community Benchmark, as described in paragraph VI.c of appendix A to this part.
(4)
Development of Retail Lending Test recommended conclusions
—(i)
Assignment of performance scores.
For each supporting conclusion developed pursuant to paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a corresponding performance score as described in sections V and VI of appendix A to this part.
(ii)
Combination of performance scores.
As described in section VII of appendix A to this part, for each Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency:
(A) Combines the performance scores for each supporting conclusion for each major product line into a product line score; and
(B) Calculates a weighted average of product line scores across all major product lines.
(iii)
Retail Lending Test recommended conclusions.
For each Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops the Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion that corresponds to the weighted average of product line scores developed pursuant to paragraph (f)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, as described in section VII of appendix A to this part.
(g)
Additional factors considered when evaluating retail lending performance.
The factors in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section, as appropriate, inform the appropriate Federal banking agency's determination of a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test conclusion for a Retail Lending Test Area:
(1) Information indicating that a bank or savings association purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, or automobile loans for the sole or primary purpose of inappropriately enhancing its retail lending performance, including, but not limited to, information indicating subsequent resale of such loans or any indication that such loans have been considered in multiple depository institutions' CRA evaluations, in which case the appropriate Federal banking agency does not consider such loans in the bank's or savings association's performance evaluation;
(2) The dispersion of a bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, small farm lending, or automobile lending within a facility-based assessment area to determine whether there are gaps in lending that are not explained by performance context;
(3) The number of lenders whose home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, and small farm loans and deposits data are used to establish the applicable Retail Lending Volume Threshold, geographic distribution market benchmarks, and borrower distribution market benchmarks;
(4) Missing or faulty data that would be necessary to calculate the relevant metrics and benchmarks or any other factors that prevent the appropriate Federal banking agency from calculating a Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion. If unable to calculate a Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Lending Test conclusion based on consideration of the relevant available data;
(5) Whether the Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion does not accurately reflect the bank's or savings association's performance in a Retail Lending Test Area in which one or more of the bank's or savings association's major product lines consists of fewer than 30 loans;
(6) A bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, small farm lending, or automobile lending in distressed or underserved nonmetropolitan middle-income census tracts where a bank's or savings association's nonmetropolitan facility-based assessment area or nonmetropolitan retail lending assessment area includes very few or no low- and moderate-income census tracts; and
(7) Information indicating that the credit needs of the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area are not being met by lenders in the aggregate, such that the relevant benchmarks do not adequately reflect community credit needs.
(h)
Retail Lending Test performance conclusions and ratings
—(1)
Conclusions
—(i)
In general.
Pursuant to § 25.28, section VIII of appendix A to this part,
and appendix C to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test performance in each Retail Lending Test Area, State, and multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution.
(ii)
Retail Lending Test Area conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Lending Test conclusion for each Retail Lending Test Area based on the Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion, performance context factors provided in § 25.21(d), and the additional factors provided in paragraph (g) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section:
(A)
Facility-based assessment areas with no major product line.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Lending Test conclusion for a facility-based assessment area in which a bank or savings association has no major product line based on the bank's or savings association's performance on the Retail Lending Volume Screen pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, performance context information provided in § 25.21(d), and the additional factors provided in paragraph (g) of this section.
(B)
Facility-based assessment areas in which a bank or savings association lacks an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Lending Test conclusion for a facility-based assessment area in which a bank or savings association lacks an acceptable basis for not meeting the Retail Lending Volume Threshold as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section.
(2)
Ratings.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix D to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency incorporates a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test conclusions into its State or multistate MSA ratings, as applicable, and its institution rating.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 7167, Feb. 1, 2024, § 25.22 was amended by removing the term “Businesses” from paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(C) and (D) and adding “Small businesses” in its place; and removing the term “Farms” from paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(E) and (F) and adding “Small farms” in its place, delayed indefinitely.
§ 25.23
Retail services and products test.
(a)
Retail Services and Products Test
—(1)
In general.
Pursuant to § 25.21, the Retail Services and Products Test evaluates the availability of a bank's or savings association's retail banking services and retail banking products and the responsiveness of those services and products to the credit needs of the bank's or savings association's entire community, including low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households, low- and moderate-income census tracts, small businesses, and small farms. The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's retail banking services, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, and the bank's or savings association's retail banking products, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2)
Main offices.
For purposes of this section, references to a branch also include a main office that is open to, and accepts deposits from, the general public.
(3)
Exclusion.
If the appropriate Federal banking agency considers services under the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25, the appropriate Federal banking agency does not consider those services under the Retail Services and Products Test.
(b)
Retail banking services
—(1)
Scope of evaluation.
To evaluate a bank's or savings association's retail banking services, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's branch availability and services provided at branches, remote service facility availability, and digital delivery systems and other delivery systems, as follows:
(i)
Branch availability and services.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the branch availability and services provided at branches of banks or savings associations that operate one or more branches pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Remote service facility availability.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the remote service facility availability of banks or savings associations that operate one or more remote service facilities pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(iii)
Digital delivery systems and other delivery systems.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the digital delivery systems and other delivery systems of banks or savings associations pursuant to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, as follows:
(A) The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the digital delivery systems and other delivery systems of the following banks or savings associations:
(
1
) Large banks or savings associations that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years; and
(
2
) Large banks or savings associations that had assets less than or equal to $10 billion as of December 31 in either of the prior two calendar years and that do not operate branches.
(B) For a large bank or savings association that had assets less than or equal $10 billion as of December 31 in either of the prior two calendar years and that operates at least one branch, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers the bank's or savings association's digital delivery systems and other delivery systems at the bank's or savings association's option.
(2)
Branch availability and services.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's branch availability and services in a facility-based assessment area based on the following:
(i)
Branch distribution.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's branch distribution using the following:
(A)
Branch distribution metrics.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the number and percentage of the bank's or savings association's branches within low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts.
(B)
Benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency's consideration of the branch distribution metrics is informed by the following benchmarks:
(
1
) Percentage of census tracts in the facility-based assessment area that are low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts;
(
2
) Percentage of households in the facility-based assessment area that are in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts;
(
3
) Percentage of total businesses in the facility-based assessment area that are in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts; and
(
4
) Percentage of all full-service depository institution branches in the facility-based assessment area that are in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts.
(C)
Additional geographic considerations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the availability of branches in the following geographic areas:
(
1
) Middle- and upper-income census tracts in which a branch delivers services to low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households to the extent that these individuals, families, or households use the services offered;
(
2
) Distressed or underserved nonmetropolitan middle-income census tracts; and
(
3
) Native Land Areas.
(ii)
Branch openings and closings.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's record of opening and closing branches since the previous CRA examination to inform the degree of accessibility of services to low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households, small businesses, and small farms, and low- and moderate-income census tracts.
(iii)
Branch hours of operation and services.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the following:
(A) The reasonableness of branch hours in low- and moderate-income census tracts compared to middle- and upper-income census tracts, including, but not limited to, whether branches offer extended and weekend hours.
(B) The range of services provided at branches in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts, respectively, including, but not limited to:
(
1
) Bilingual and translation services;
(
2
) Free or low-cost check cashing services, including, but not limited to, check cashing services for government-issued and payroll checks;
(
3
) Reasonably priced international remittance services; and
(
4
) Electronic benefit transfers.
(C) The degree to which branch-provided retail banking services are responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households in a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas.
(3)
Remote service facility availability.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's remote service facility availability in a facility-based assessment area based on the following:
(i)
Remote service facility distribution.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's remote service facility distribution using the following:
(A)
Remote service facility distribution metrics.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the number and percentage of the bank's or savings association's remote service facilities within low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts.
(B)
Benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency's consideration of the remote service facility distribution metrics is informed by the following benchmarks:
(
1
) Percentage of census tracts in the facility-based assessment area that are low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts;
(
2
) Percentage of households in the facility-based assessment area that are in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts; and
(
3
) Percentage of total businesses in the facility-based assessment area that are in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts.
(C)
Additional geographic considerations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the availability of remote service facilities in the following geographic areas:
(
1
) Middle- and upper-income census tracts in which a remote service facility delivers services to low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households to the extent that these individuals, families, or households use the services offered;
(
2
) Distressed or underserved nonmetropolitan middle-income census tracts; and
(
3
) Native Land Areas.
(ii)
Access to out-of-network ATMs.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers whether the bank or savings association offers customers fee-free access to out-of-network ATMs in low- and moderate-income census tracts.
(4)
Digital delivery systems and other delivery systems.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the availability and responsiveness of a bank's or savings association's digital delivery systems and other delivery systems, including to low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households at the institution level by considering:
(i) The range of retail banking services and retail banking products offered through digital delivery systems and other delivery systems;
(ii) The bank's or savings association's strategy and initiatives to serve low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households with digital delivery systems and other delivery systems as reflected by, for example, the costs, features, and marketing of the delivery systems; and
(iii) Digital delivery systems and other delivery systems activity by individuals, families or households in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts as evidenced by:
(A) The number of checking and savings accounts opened each calendar year during the evaluation period digitally and through other delivery systems in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts;
(B) The number of checking and savings accounts opened digitally and through other delivery systems and that are active at the end of each calendar year during the evaluation period in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts; and
(C) Any other bank or savings association data that demonstrates digital delivery systems and other delivery systems are available to individuals and in census tracts of different income levels, including low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households and low- and moderate-income census tracts.
(c)
Retail banking products evaluation
—(1)
Scope of evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's retail banking products offered in the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and nationwide, as applicable, at the institution level as follows:
(i)
Credit products and programs.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's credit products and programs pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(ii)
Deposit products.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's deposit products pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section as follows:
(A) For large banks or savings associations that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years; and
(B) For large banks or savings associations that had assets less than or equal to $10 billion as of December 31 in either of the prior two calendar years, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's deposit products only at the bank's or savings association's option.
(2)
Credit products and programs.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates whether a bank's or savings association's credit products and programs are, consistent with safe and sound operations, responsive to the credit needs of the bank's or savings association's entire community, including the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households, residents of low- and moderate-income census tracts, small businesses, or small farms. Responsive credit products and programs may include, but are not limited to, credit products and programs that:
(i) Facilitate home mortgage and consumer lending targeted to low- or moderate-income borrowers;
(ii) Meet the needs of small businesses and small farms, including small businesses and small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less;
(iii) Are conducted in cooperation with MDIs, WDIs, LICUs, or CDFIs;
(iv) Are low-cost education loans; or
(v) Are special purpose credit programs pursuant to 12 CFR 1002.8.
(3)
Deposit products.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the availability and usage of a bank's or savings association's deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households as follows:
(i)
Availability of deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the availability of deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households based on the extent to which a bank or savings association offers deposit products that, consistent with safe and sound operations, have features and cost characteristics responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households. Deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households include but are not limited to, deposit products with the following types of features:
(A) Low-cost features, including, but not limited to, deposit products with no overdraft or insufficient funds fees, no or low minimum opening balance, no or low monthly maintenance fees, or free or low-cost check-cashing and bill-pay services;
(B) Features facilitating broad functionality and accessibility, including, but not limited to, deposit products with in-network ATM access, debit cards for point-of-sale and bill payments, and immediate access to funds for customers cashing government, payroll, or bank-issued checks; or
(C) Features facilitating inclusivity of access by individuals without banking or credit histories or with adverse banking histories.
(ii)
Usage of deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the usage of a bank's or savings association's deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households based on the following information:
(A) The number of responsive deposit accounts opened and closed during each year of the evaluation period in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts;
(B) In connection with paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, the percentage of responsive deposit accounts compared to total deposit accounts for each year of the evaluation period;
(C) Marketing, partnerships, and other activities that the bank or savings association has undertaken to promote awareness and use of responsive deposit accounts by low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households; and
(D) Optionally, any other information the bank or savings association provides that demonstrates usage of the bank's or savings association's deposit products that have features and cost characteristics responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households and low- and moderate-income census tracts.
(d)
Retail Services and Products Test performance conclusions and ratings
—(1)
Conclusions.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix C to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for a bank's or savings association's Retail Services and Products Test performance in each facility-based assessment area, State and multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution. In assigning conclusions under this performance test, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider performance context information as provided in § 25.21(d). The evaluation of a bank's or savings association's retail banking products under paragraph (c) of this section may only contribute positively to the bank's or savings association's Retail Services and Products Test conclusion.
(2)
Ratings.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix D to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency incorporates a bank's or savings association's Retail Services and Products Test conclusions into its State or multistate MSA ratings, as applicable, and its institution rating.
§ 25.24
Community development financing test.
(a)
Community Development Financing Test
—(1)
In general.
Pursuant to § 25.21, the Community Development Financing Test evaluates the bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community through community development loans and community development investments (
i.e.,
the bank's or savings association's community development financing performance).
(2)
Allocation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers community development loans and community development investments allocated pursuant to paragraph I.b of appendix B to this part.
(b)
Facility-based assessment area evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in a facility-based assessment area using the metric in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, benchmarks in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and a review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, and assigns a conclusion for a facility-based assessment area pursuant to paragraph d.1 of appendix C to this part.
(1)
Bank Assessment Area Community Development Financing Metric.
The Bank Assessment Area Community Development Financing Metric measures the dollar volume of a bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a facility-based assessment area compared to deposits in the bank or savings association that are located in the facility-based assessment area, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.a of appendix B to this part.
(2)
Benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency compares the Bank Assessment Area Community Development Financing Metric to the following benchmarks:
(i)
Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark.
For each
of a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas, the Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the facility-based assessment area for all large depository institutions compared to deposits located in the facility-based assessment area for all large depository institutions, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.b of appendix B to this part.
(ii)
MSA and Nonmetropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmarks.
(A) For each of a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas within an MSA, the MSA Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve MSAs in the nationwide area for all large depository institutions compared to deposits located in the MSAs in the nationwide area for all large depository institutions.
(B) For each of a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas within a nonmetropolitan area, the Nonmetropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve nonmetropolitan areas in the nationwide area for all large depository institutions compared to deposits located in nonmetropolitan areas in the nationwide area for all large depository institutions.
(C) The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the MSA and Nonmetropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmarks pursuant to paragraph II.c of appendix B to this part.
(3)
Impact and responsiveness review.
The appropriate Federal banking agency reviews the impact and responsiveness of a bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a facility-based assessment area, as provided in § 25.15.
(c)
State evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in a State, pursuant to §§ 25.19 and 25.28(c), using the two components in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section and assigns a conclusion for each State based on a weighted combination of those components pursuant to paragraph II.p of appendix B to this part.
(1)
Component one—weighted average of facility-based assessment area performance conclusions in a State.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the weighted average of the performance scores corresponding to the bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test conclusions for its facility-based assessment areas within the State, pursuant to section IV of appendix B to this part.
(2)
Component two—State performance.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in a State using the metric and benchmarks in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and a review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i)
Bank State Community Development Financing Metric.
The Bank State Community Development Financing Metric measures the dollar volume of a bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of a State compared to deposits in the bank or savings association that are located in the State, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.d of appendix B to this part.
(ii)
Benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency compares the Bank State Community Development Financing Metric to the following benchmarks:
(A)
State Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The State Community Development Financing Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments
that benefit or serve all or part of a State for all large depository institutions compared to deposits located in the State for all large depository institutions, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.e of appendix B to this part.
(B)
State Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The State Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is the weighted average of the bank's or savings association's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks for each facility-based assessment area within the State, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.f of appendix B to this part.
(iii)
Impact and responsiveness review.
The appropriate Federal banking agency reviews the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a State, as provided in § 25.15.
(d)
Multistate MSA evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in a multistate MSA, pursuant to §§ 25.19 and 25.28(c), using the two components in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section and assigns a conclusion in each multistate MSA based on a weighted combination of those components pursuant to paragraph II.p of appendix B to this part.
(1)
Component one—weighted average of facility-based assessment area performance in a multistate MSA.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the weighted average of the performance scores corresponding to the bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test conclusions for its facility-based assessment areas within the multistate MSA, calculated pursuant to section IV of appendix B to this part.
(2)
Component two—multistate MSA performance.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in a multistate MSA using the metric and benchmarks in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and a review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.
(i)
Bank Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Metric.
The Bank Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Metric measures the dollar volume of a bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a multistate MSA compared to deposits in the bank or savings association located in the multistate MSA, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.g of appendix B to this part.
(ii)
Benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency compares the Bank Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Metric to the following benchmarks:
(A)
Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a multistate MSA for all large depository institutions compared to deposits located in the multistate MSA for all large depository institutions, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.h of appendix B to this part.
(B)
Multistate MSA Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The Multistate MSA Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is the weighted average of the bank's or savings association's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks for each facility-based assessment area within the multistate MSA, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.i of appendix B to this part.
(iii)
Impact and responsiveness review.
The appropriate Federal banking agency reviews the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a multistate MSA, as provided in § 25.15.
(e)
Nationwide area evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency
evaluates a bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in the nationwide area, pursuant to § 25.19, using the two components in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section and assigns a conclusion for the institution based on a weighted combination of those components pursuant to paragraph II.p of appendix B to this part.
(1)
Component one—weighted average of facility-based assessment area performance in the nationwide area.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the weighted average of the performance scores corresponding to the bank's or savings association's conclusions for the Community Development Financing Test for its facility-based assessment areas within the nationwide area, calculated pursuant to section IV of appendix B to this part.
(2)
Component two—nationwide area performance.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in the nationwide area using the metrics and benchmarks in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section and a review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments in paragraph (e)(2)(v) of this section.
(i)
Bank Nationwide Community Development Financing Metric.
The Bank Nationwide Community Development Financing Metric measures the dollar volume of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area compared to deposits in the bank or savings association located in the nationwide area, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.j of appendix B to this part.
(ii)
Community Development Financing Benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency compares the Bank Nationwide Community Development Financing Metric to the following benchmarks:
(A)
Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area for all large depository institutions compared to the deposits located in the nationwide area for all large depository institutions, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.k of appendix B to this part.
(B)
Nationwide Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The Nationwide Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is the weighted average of the bank's or savings association's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks for each facility-based assessment area within the nationwide area, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.l of appendix B to this part.
(iii)
Bank Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric.
For a large bank or savings association that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, the Bank Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric measures the dollar volume of the bank's or savings association's community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area, excluding mortgage-backed securities, compared to the deposits in the bank or savings association located in the nationwide area, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.m of appendix B to this part.
(iv)
Nationwide Community Development Investment Benchmark.
(A) For a large bank or savings association that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, the appropriate Federal banking agency compares the Bank Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric to the Nationwide Community Development Investment Benchmark. This comparison may only contribute positively to the bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test conclusion for the institution.
(B) The Nationwide Community Development Investment Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area, excluding mortgage-
backed securities, of all large depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years compared to deposits located in the nationwide area for those depository institutions, calculated pursuant to paragraph II.n of appendix B to this part.
(v)
Impact and responsiveness review.
The appropriate Federal banking agency reviews the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area, as provided in § 25.15.
(f)
Community Development Financing Test performance conclusions and ratings
—(1)
Conclusions.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix C to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for a bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test performance in each facility-based assessment area, each State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution. In assigning conclusions under this performance test, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider performance context information as provided in § 25.21(d).
(2)
Ratings.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix D to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency incorporates a bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test conclusions into its State or multistate MSA ratings, as applicable, and its institution rating.
§ 25.25
Community development services test.
(a)
Community Development Services Test
—(1)
In general.
Pursuant to § 25.21, the Community Development Services Test evaluates a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the community development services needs of its entire community.
(2)
Allocation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers information provided by the bank or savings association and may consider publicly available information and information provided by government or community sources that demonstrates that a community development service benefits or serves a facility-based assessment area, State, or multistate MSA, or the nationwide area.
(b)
Facility-based assessment area evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's community development services performance in a facility-based assessment area and assigns a conclusion for a facility-based assessment area, by considering one or more of the following:
(1) The number of community development services attributable to each type of community development described in § 25.13(b) through (l);
(2) The capacities in which a bank's or savings association's or its affiliate's board members or employees serve (
e.g.,
board member of a nonprofit organization, technical assistance, financial education, general volunteer);
(3) Total hours of community development services performed by the bank or savings association;
(4) Any other evidence demonstrating that the bank's or savings association's community development services are responsive to community development needs, such as the number of low- and moderate-income individuals that are participants, or number of organizations served; and
(5) The impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development services that benefit or serve the facility-based assessment area, as provided in § 25.15.
(c)
State, multistate MSA, or nationwide area evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's community development services performance in a State or multistate MSA, as applicable, or nationwide area, and assigns a conclusion for those areas, based on the following two components:
(1)
Component one—weighted average of facility-based assessment area performance in a State, multistate MSA, or nationwide area.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the weighted average of the performance scores corresponding to the bank's or savings association's Community Development Services Test conclusions for its facility-based assessment areas within a State, multistate MSA, or the institution pursuant to section IV of appendix B to this part.
(2)
Component two—evaluation of community development services outside of facility-based assessment areas.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust upwards the conclusion based on the weighted average derived under paragraph (c)(1) of this section and an evaluation of the bank's or savings association's community development services performed outside of its facility-based assessment areas pursuant to § 25.19, which may consider one or more of the factors in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.
(d)
Community Development Services Test performance conclusions and ratings
—(1)
Conclusions.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix C to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for a bank's or savings association's Community Development Services Test performance in each facility-based assessment area, each State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution. In assigning conclusions under this performance test, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider performance context information as provided in § 25.21(d).
(2)
Ratings.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix D to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency incorporates a bank's or savings association's Community Development Services Test conclusions into its State or multistate MSA ratings, as applicable, and its institution rating.
§ 25.26
Limited purpose banks and savings associations.
(a)
Bank and savings association request for designation as a limited purpose bank or savings association.
To receive a designation as a limited purpose bank or savings association, a bank or savings association must file a written request with the appropriate Federal banking agency at least 90 days prior to the proposed effective date of the designation. If the appropriate Federal banking agency approves the designation, it remains in effect until the bank or savings association requests revocation of the designation or until one year after the appropriate Federal banking agency notifies a limited purpose bank or savings association that the appropriate Federal banking agency has revoked the designation on the appropriate Federal banking agency's own initiative.
(b)
Performance evaluation
—(1)
In general.
To evaluate a limited purpose bank or savings association, the appropriate Federal banking agency applies the Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations as described in paragraphs (c) through (f) of this section.
(2)
Additional consideration
—(i)
Community development services.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust a limited purpose bank's or savings association's institution rating from “Satisfactory” to “Outstanding” where a bank or savings association requests and receives additional consideration for services that would qualify under the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25.
(ii)
Additional consideration for low-cost education loans.
A limited purpose bank or savings association may request and receive additional consideration at the institution level for providing low-cost education loans to low-income borrowers pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2903(d), regardless of the limited purpose bank's or savings association's overall institution rating.
(c)
Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations
—(1)
In general.
Pursuant to § 25.21, the Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations evaluates a limited purpose bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community through community development loans and community development investments (
i.e.,
the bank's or savings association's community development financing performance).
(2)
Allocation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers community development loans and community development investments allocated pursuant to paragraph I.b of appendix B to this part.
(d)
Facility-based assessment area evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in a facility-based assessment
area and assigns a conclusion in the facility-based assessment area based on the appropriate Federal banking agency's:
(1) Consideration of the dollar volume of the limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the facility-based assessment area; and
(2) A review of the impact and responsiveness of the limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a facility-based assessment area, as provided in § 25.15.
(e)
State or multistate MSA evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to §§ 25.19 and 25.28(c), and assigns a conclusion for the bank's or savings association's performance in the State or multistate MSA based on the appropriate Federal banking agency's consideration of the following two components:
(1)
Component one—facility-based assessment area performance conclusions in a State or multistate MSA.
A limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in its facility-based assessment areas in the State or multistate MSA; and
(2)
Component two—State or multistate MSA performance.
The dollar volume of the limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the State or multistate MSA and a review of the impact and responsiveness of those loans and investments, as provided in § 25.15.
(f)
Nationwide area evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in the nationwide area, pursuant to § 25.19, and assigns a conclusion for the institution based on the appropriate Federal banking agency's consideration of the following two components:
(1)
Component one—facility-based assessment area performance.
The limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in all of its facility-based assessment areas; and
(2)
Component two—nationwide area performance.
The limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in the nationwide area based on the following metrics and benchmarks in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section and a review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments in paragraph (f)(2)(v) of this section.
(i)
Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Metric.
The Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Metric measures the dollar volume of a bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area compared to the bank's or savings association's assets calculated pursuant to paragraph III.a of appendix B to this part.
(ii)
Community Development Financing Benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency compares the Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Metric to the following benchmarks:
(A)
Nationwide Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The Nationwide Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments of depository institutions designated as limited purpose banks or savings associations or savings associations pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or designated as limited purpose banks or savings associations pursuant to 12 CFR 228.26(a) or 345.26(a) reported pursuant to § 25.42(b) or 12 CFR 228.42(b) or 345.42(b) that benefit and serve all or part of the nationwide area compared to assets for those depository institutions, calculated pursuant to paragraph III.b of appendix B to this part; and
(B)
Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Financing Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area of all depository institutions that reported pursuant to § 25.42(b) or 12 CFR 228.42(b) or 345.42(b) compared to assets for those depository institutions, calculated pursuant to paragraph III.c of appendix B to this part.
(iii)
Limited Purpose Bank and savings association Community Development Investment Metric.
For a limited purpose bank or savings association that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, the Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Investment Metric measures the dollar volume of the bank's or savings association's community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area, excluding mortgage-backed securities, compared to the bank's or savings association's assets, calculated pursuant to paragraph III.d of appendix B to this part.
(iv)
Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Investment Benchmark.
(A) For a limited purpose bank or savings association that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, the appropriate Federal banking agency compares the Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Investment Metric to the Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Investment Benchmark. This comparison may only contribute positively to the bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations conclusion for the institution.
(B) The Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Investment Benchmark measures the dollar volume of community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area, excluding mortgage-backed securities, of all depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, compared to assets for those depository institutions, calculated pursuant to paragraph III.e of appendix B to this part.
(v)
Impact and responsiveness review.
The appropriate Federal banking agency reviews the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area, as provided in § 25.15.
(g)
Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations performance conclusions and ratings
—(1)
Conclusions.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix C to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for a limited purpose bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations performance in each facility-based assessment area, each State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution. In assigning conclusions under this performance test, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider performance context information as provided in § 25.21(d).
(2)
Ratings.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix D to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency incorporates a limited purpose bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations conclusions into its State or multistate MSA ratings, as applicable, and its institution rating.
§ 25.27
Strategic plan.
(a)
Alternative election.
Pursuant to § 25.21, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community under a strategic plan, if:
(1) The appropriate Federal banking agency has approved the plan pursuant to this section;
(2) The plan is in effect; and
(3) The bank or savings association has been operating under an approved plan for at least one year.
(b)
Data requirements.
The appropriate Federal banking agency's approval of a
plan does not affect the bank's or savings association's obligation, if any, to collect, maintain, and report data as required by § 25.42.
(c)
Plans in general
—(1)
Term.
A plan may have a term of not more than five years.
(2)
Performance tests in plan.
(i) A bank's or savings association's plan must include the same performance tests that would apply in the absence of an approved plan, except as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.
(ii) Consistent with paragraph (g) of this section, a bank's or savings association's plan may include optional evaluation components or eligible modifications and additions to the performance tests that would apply in the absence of an approved plan.
(3)
Assessment areas and other geographic areas
—(i)
Multiple geographic areas.
A bank or savings association may prepare a single plan or separate plans for its facility-based assessment areas, retail lending assessment areas, outside retail lending area, or other geographic areas that would be evaluated in the absence of an approved plan.
(ii)
Geographic areas not included in a plan.
Any facility-based assessment area, retail lending assessment area, outside retail lending area, or other geographic area that would be evaluated in the absence of an approved plan, but is not included in an approved plan, will be evaluated pursuant to the performance tests that would apply in the absence of an approved plan.
(4)
Operating subsidiaries and affiliates
—(i)
Operating subsidiaries.
The loans, investments, services, and products of a bank's or savings association's operating subsidiary must be included in the bank's or savings association's plan, unless the operating subsidiary is independently subject to CRA requirements.
(ii)
Affiliates
—(A)
Optional inclusion of other affiliates' loans, investments, services, and products.
Consistent with § 25.21(b)(3), a bank or savings association may include loans, investments, services, and products of affiliates of a bank or savings association that are not operating subsidiaries in a plan, if those loans, investments, services, and products are not included in the CRA performance evaluation of any other depository institution.
(B)
Joint plans.
Affiliated depository institutions supervised by the same Federal financial supervisory agency may prepare a joint plan, provided that the plan includes, for each bank or savings association, the applicable performance tests that would apply in the absence of an approved plan. The joint plan may include optional evaluation components or eligible modifications and additions to the performance tests that would apply in the absence of an approved plan.
(C)
Allocation.
The inclusion of an affiliate's loans, investments, services, and products in a bank's or savings association's plan, or in a joint plan of affiliated depository institutions, is subject to the following:
(
1
) The loans, investments, services, and products may not be included in the CRA performance evaluation of another depository institution; and
(
2
) The allocation of loans, investments, services, and products to a bank or savings association, or among affiliated banks or savings associations, must reflect a reasonable basis for the allocation and may not be for the sole or primary purpose of inappropriately enhancing any bank's or savings association's CRA evaluation.
(d)
Justification and appropriateness of plan election
—(1)
Justification requirements.
A bank's or savings association's plan must provide a justification that demonstrates the need for the following aspects of a plan due to the bank's or savings association's business model (
e.g.,
its retail banking services and retail banking products):
(i) Optional evaluation components pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section;
(ii) Eligible modifications or additions to the applicable performance tests pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section;
(iii) Additional geographic areas pursuant to paragraph (g)(3) of this section; and
(iv) The conclusions and ratings methodology pursuant to paragraph (g)(6) of this section.
(2)
Justification elements.
Each justification must specify the following:
(i) Why the bank's or savings association's business model is outside the scope of, or inconsistent with, one or more aspects of the performance tests that would apply in the absence of an approved plan;
(ii) Why an evaluation of the bank or savings association pursuant to any aspect of a plan in paragraph (d)(1) of this section would more meaningfully reflect a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its community than if it were evaluated under the performance tests that would apply in the absence of an approved plan; and
(iii) Why the optional performance components and eligible modifications or additions meet the standards of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable.
(e)
Public participation in initial draft plan development
—(1)
In general.
Before submitting a draft plan to the appropriate Federal banking agency for approval pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section, a bank or savings association must:
(i) Informally seek suggestions from members of the public while developing the plan;
(ii) Once the bank or savings association has developed its initial draft plan, formally solicit public comment on the initial draft plan for at least 60 days by:
(A) Submitting the initial draft plan for publication on the appropriate Federal banking agency's website and by publishing the initial draft plan on the bank's or savings association's website, if the bank or savings association maintains one; and
(B)(
1
) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(B)(
2
) of this section, publishing notice in at least one print newspaper of general circulation (if available, otherwise a digital publication) in each facility-based assessment area covered by the plan; and
(
2
) For a military bank or savings association, publishing notice in at least one print newspaper of general circulation targeted to members of the military (if available, otherwise a digital publication targeted to members of the military); and
(iii) Include in the notice required under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section a means by which members of the public can electronically submit and mail comments to the bank or savings association on its initial draft plan.
(2)
Availability of initial draft plan.
During the period when the bank or savings association is formally soliciting public comment on its initial draft plan, the bank or savings association must make copies of the initial draft plan available for review at no cost at all offices of the bank or savings association in any facility-based assessment area covered by the plan and provide copies of the initial draft plan upon request for a reasonable fee to cover copying and mailing, if applicable.
(f)
Submission of a draft plan.
The bank or savings association must submit its draft plan to the appropriate Federal banking agency at least 90 days prior to the proposed effective date of the plan. The bank or savings association must also submit with its draft plan:
(1) Proof of notice publication and a description of its efforts to seek input from members of the public, including individuals and organizations the bank or savings association contacted and how the bank or savings association gathered information;
(2) Any written comments or other public input received;
(3) If the bank or savings association revised the initial draft plan in response to the public input received, the initial draft plan as released for public comment with an explanation of the relevant changes; and
(4) If the bank or savings association did not revise the initial draft plan in response to suggestions or concerns from public input received, an explanation for why any suggestion or concern was not addressed in the draft plan.
(g)
Plan content.
In addition to meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, the plan must meet the following requirements:
(1)
Applicable performance tests and optional evaluation components.
A bank or savings association must include in its plan a focus on the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income individuals, families,
or households, low- and moderate-income census tracts, and small businesses and small farms. The bank or savings association must describe how its plan is responsive to the characteristics and credit needs of its facility-based assessment areas, retail lending assessment areas, outside retail lending area, or other geographic areas served by the bank or savings association, considering public comment and the bank's or savings association's capacity and constraints, product offerings, and business strategy. As applicable, a bank or savings association must specify components in its plan for helping to meet:
(i) The retail lending needs of its facility-based assessment areas, retail lending assessment areas, and outside retail lending area that are covered by the plan. A bank or savings association that originates or purchases loans in a product line evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22 or originates or purchases loans evaluated pursuant to the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test in § 25.29(a)(2) must include the applicable test in its plan, subject to eligible modifications or additions specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(ii) The retail banking services and retail banking products needs of its facility-based assessment areas and at the institution level that are covered by the plan.
(A) A large bank or savings association that maintains delivery systems evaluated pursuant to the Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23(b) must include this component of the test in its plan, subject to eligible modifications or additions specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(B) A large bank or savings association that does not maintain delivery systems evaluated pursuant to the Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23(b) may include retail banking products components in § 25.23(c) and accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan.
(C) A bank or savings association other than a large bank or savings association may include components of retail banking services or retail banking products and accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan.
(iii) The community development loan and community development investment needs of its facility-based assessment areas, States, or multistate MSAs, as applicable, and the nationwide area that are covered by the plan. Subject to eligible modifications or additions as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section:
(A) A large bank or savings association must include the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 in its plan.
(B) An intermediate bank or savings association must include either the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 or the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test in § 25.30(a)(2) in its plan.
(C) A limited purpose bank or savings association must include the Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26 in its plan.
(D) A small bank or savings association may include a community development loan or community development investment component and accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan.
(iv) The community development services needs of its facility-based assessment areas served by the bank or savings association that are covered by the plan.
(A) A large bank or savings association must include the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25 in its plan, subject to eligible modifications or additions as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, for each facility-based assessment area where the bank or savings association has employees.
(B) A bank or savings association other than a large bank or savings association may include a community development services component and accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan.
(2)
Eligible modifications or additions to applicable performance tests
—(i)
Retail lending.
(A) For a bank or savings association that the appropriate Federal banking agency would otherwise evaluate pursuant to the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test in § 25.29(a)(2):
(
1
) A bank or savings association may omit, as applicable, the evaluation of performance criteria related to the loan-to-deposit ratio or the percentage of loans located in the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment area(s).
(
2
) A bank or savings association may add annual measurable goals for any aspect of the bank's or savings association's retail lending.
(B) For a bank or savings association the appropriate Federal banking agency would otherwise evaluate pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22:
(
1
) A bank or savings association may add additional loan products, such as non-automobile consumer loans or open-end home mortgage loans, or additional goals for major product lines, such as closed-end home mortgage loans to first-time homebuyers, with accompanying annual measurable goals.
(
2
) Where annual measurable goals for additional loan products or additional goals for major product lines have been added pursuant to paragraph (g)(2)(i)(B)(
1
) of this section, a bank or savings association may provide different weights for averaging together the performance across these loan products and may include those loan products in the numerator of the Bank Volume Metric.
(
3
) A bank or savings association may use alternative weights for combining the borrower and geographic distribution analyses for major product line(s) or other loan products.
(ii)
Retail banking services and retail banking products.
(A) A large bank or savings association may add annual measurable goals for any component of the Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23.
(B) A large bank or savings association may modify the Retail Services and Products Test by removing a component of the test.
(C) A large bank or savings association may assign specific weights to applicable components in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) of this section in reaching a Retail Services and Products Test conclusion.
(D) A bank or savings association other than a large bank or savings association may include retail banking services or retail banking products component(s) and accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan.
(iii)
Community development loans and community development investments.
(A) A bank or savings association may specify annual measurable goals for community development loans, community development investments, or both. The bank or savings association must base any annual measurable goals as a percentage or ratio of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments for all or certain types of community development described in § 25.13(b) through (l), presented either on a combined or separate basis, relative to the bank's or savings association's capacity and should account for community development needs and opportunities.
(B) A bank or savings association may specify using assets as an alternative denominator for a community development financing metric if it better measures a bank's or savings association's capacity.
(C) A bank or savings association may specify additional benchmarks to evaluate a community development financing metric.
(D) A small bank or savings association may include community development loans, community development investments, or both, and accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan.
(iv)
Community development services.
(A) A bank or savings association may specify annual measurable goals for community development services activity, by number of activity hours, number of hours per full-time equivalent employee, or some other measure.
(B) A bank or savings association other than a large bank or savings association may include a community development services component and accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan.
(v)
Weights for assessing performance across geographic areas.
A bank or savings association may specify alternative weights for averaging test performance across assessment areas or other geographic areas. These alternative weights must be based on the
bank's or savings association's capacity and community needs and opportunities in specific geographic areas.
(vi)
Test weights.
For ratings at the State, multistate MSA, and institution levels pursuant to § 25.28(b) and paragraph g.2 of appendix D to this part, as applicable:
(A) A bank or savings association may request an alternate weighting method for combining performance under the applicable performance tests and optional evaluation components. In specifying alternative test weights for each applicable test, a bank or savings association must emphasize retail lending, community development financing, or both. Alternative weights must be responsive to the characteristics and credit needs of a bank's or savings association's assessment areas and public comments and must be based on the bank's or savings association's capacity and constraints, product offerings, and business strategy.
(B) A bank or savings association that requests an alternate weighting method pursuant to paragraph (g)(2)(vi)(A) of this section must compensate for decreasing the weight under one test by committing to enhance its efforts to help meet the credit needs of its community under another performance test.
(3)
Geographic coverage of plan.
(i) A bank or savings association may incorporate performance evaluation components and accompanying annual measurable goals for additional geographic areas but may not eliminate the evaluation of its performance in any geographic area that would be included in its performance evaluation in the absence of an approved plan.
(ii) If a large bank or savings association is no longer required to delineate a retail lending assessment area previously identified in the plan as a result of not meeting the required retail lending assessment area thresholds pursuant to § 25.17, the appropriate Federal banking agency will not evaluate the bank or savings association for its performance in that area for the applicable years of the plan in which the area is no longer a retail lending assessment area.
(iii) A bank or savings association that includes additional performance evaluation components with accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan must specify the geographic areas where those components and goals apply.
(4)
Confidential information.
A bank or savings association may submit additional information to the appropriate Federal banking agency on a confidential basis, but the goals stated in the plan must be sufficiently specific to enable the public and the appropriate Federal banking agency to judge the merits of the plan.
(5)
“Satisfactory” and “Outstanding” performance goals.
A bank or savings association that includes modified or additional performance evaluation components with accompanying annual measurable goals in its plan must specify in its plan annual measurable goals that constitute “Satisfactory” performance and may specify annual measurable goals that constitute “Outstanding” performance.
(6)
Conclusions and rating methodology.
A bank or savings association must specify in its plan how all elements of a plan covered in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section, in conjunction with any other applicable performance tests not included in an approved strategic plan, should be considered to assign:
(i)
Conclusions.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix C to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for each facility-based assessment area, retail lending assessment area, outside retail lending area, State, and multistate MSA, as applicable, and the institution. In assigning conclusions under a strategic plan, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider performance context information as provided in § 25.21(d).
(ii)
Ratings.
Pursuant to § 25.28 and paragraph f of appendix D to this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency incorporates the conclusions of a bank or savings association evaluated under an approved plan into its State or multistate MSA ratings, as applicable, and its institution rating, accounting for paragraph g.2 of appendix D to this part, as applicable.
(h)
Draft plan evaluation
—(1)
Timing.
The appropriate Federal banking agency seeks to act upon a draft plan within 90 calendar days after the appropriate Federal banking agency receives the complete draft plan and other materials required pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section. If the appropriate Federal banking agency does not act within this time period, the appropriate Federal banking agency will communicate to the bank or savings association the rationale for the delay and an expected timeframe for a decision on the draft plan.
(2)
Public participation.
In evaluating the draft plan, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers:
(i) The public's involvement in formulating the draft plan, including specific information regarding the members of the public and organizations the bank or savings association contacted and how the bank or savings association collected information relevant to the draft plan;
(ii) Written public comments and other public input on the draft plan;
(iii) Any response by the bank or savings association to public input on the draft plan; and
(iv) Whether to solicit additional public input or require the bank or savings association to provide any additional response to public input already received.
(3)
Criteria for evaluating plan for approval.
(i) The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates all plans using the following criteria:
(A) The extent to which the plan meets the standards set forth in this section; and
(B) The extent to which the plan has adequately justified the need for a plan and each aspect of the plan as required in paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii) The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a plan under the following criteria, as applicable, considering performance context information pursuant to § 25.21(d):
(A) The extent and breadth of retail lending or retail lending-related activities to address credit needs, including the distribution of loans among census tracts of different income levels, businesses and farms of different sizes, and individuals of different income levels, pursuant to §§ 25.22, and 25.29, as applicable;
(B) The effectiveness of the bank's or savings association's systems for delivering retail banking services and the availability and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's retail banking products, pursuant to § 25.23, as applicable;
(C) The extent, breadth, impact, and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments, pursuant to §§ 25.24, 25.26, and 25.30, as applicable; and
(D) The number, hours, and types of community development services performed and the extent to which the bank's or savings association's community development services are impactful and responsive, pursuant to §§ 25.25 and 25.30, as applicable.
(4)
Plan decisions
—(i)
Approval.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may approve a plan after considering the criteria in paragraph (h)(3) of this section and if it determines that the bank or savings association has provided adequate justification for the plan and each aspect of the plan as required in paragraph (d) of this section.
(ii)
Denial.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may deny a bank's or savings association's request to be evaluated under a plan for any of the following reasons:
(A) The Agency determines that the bank or savings association has not provided adequate justification for the plan and each aspect of the plan as required pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section;
(B) The appropriate Federal banking agency determines that evaluation under the plan would not provide a more meaningful reflection of the bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the bank's or savings association's community;
(C) The plan is not responsive to public comment received pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section;
(D) The appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the plan otherwise fails to meet the requirements of this section; or
(E) The bank or savings association fails to provide information requested
by the appropriate Federal banking agency that is necessary for the appropriate Federal banking agency to make an informed decision.
(5)
Publication of approved plan.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will publish an approved plan on the appropriate Federal banking agency's website.
(i)
Plan amendment
—(1)
Mandatory plan amendment.
During the term of a plan, a bank or savings association must submit to the appropriate Federal banking agency for approval an amendment to its plan if a material change in circumstances:
(i) Impedes its ability to perform at a satisfactory level under the plan, such as financial constraints caused by significant events that impact the local or national economy; or
(ii) Significantly increases its financial capacity and ability to engage in retail lending, retail banking services, retail banking products, community development loans, community development investments, or community development services referenced in an approved plan, such as a merger or consolidation.
(2)
Elective plan amendment.
During the term of a plan, a bank or savings association may request the appropriate Federal banking agency to approve an amendment to the plan in the absence of a material change in circumstances.
(3)
Requirements for plan amendments
—(i)
Amendment explanation.
When submitting a plan amendment for approval, a bank or savings association must explain:
(A) The material change in circumstances necessitating the amendment; or
(B) Why it is necessary and appropriate to amend its plan in the absence of a material change in circumstances.
(ii)
Compliance requirement.
An amendment to a plan must comply with all relevant requirements of this section, unless the appropriate Federal banking agency waives a requirement as not applicable.
(j)
Performance evaluation under a plan
—(1)
In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's performance under an approved plan based on the performance tests that would apply in the absence of an approved plan and any optional evaluation components or eligible modifications and additions to the applicable performance tests set forth in the bank's or savings association's approved plan.
(2)
Goal considerations.
If a bank or savings association established annual measurable goals and does not meet one or more of its satisfactory goals, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider the following factors to determine the effect on a bank's or savings association's CRA performance evaluation:
(i) The degree to which the goal was not met;
(ii) The importance of the unmet goals to the plan as a whole; and
(iii) Any circumstances beyond the control of the bank or savings association, such as economic conditions or other market factors or events, that have adversely impacted the bank's or savings association's ability to perform.
(3)
Ratings.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates the performance of a bank or savings association under this section pursuant to appendix D to this part.
[89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024; 89 FR 22067, Mar. 29, 2024]
§ 25.28
Assigned conclusions and ratings.
(a)
Conclusions
—(1)
State, multistate MSA, and institution test conclusions and performance scores
—(i)
In general.
For each of the applicable performance tests pursuant to §§ 25.22 through 25.26 and 25.30, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions and associated test performance scores of “Outstanding,” “High Satisfactory,” “Low Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance” for the performance of a bank or savings association in each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, and for the institution.
(ii)
Small banks or savings associations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions of “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance” for the performance of a small
bank or savings association evaluated under the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test in § 25.29(a)(2) in each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, and for the institution pursuant to § 25.29 and appendix E to this part.
(iii)
Banks and savings associations operating under a strategic plan.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for the performance of a bank or savings association operating under a strategic plan pursuant to § 25.27 in each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, and for the institution in accordance with the methodology of the plan and appendix C to this part.
(2)
Bank and savings association performance in metropolitan and nonmetropolitan areas.
Pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2906, the appropriate Federal banking agency provides conclusions derived under this part separately for metropolitan areas in which a bank or savings association maintains one or more domestic branch offices and for the nonmetropolitan area of a State if a bank or savings association maintains one or more domestic branch offices in such nonmetropolitan area.
(b)
Ratings
—(1)
In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating for a bank's or savings association's overall CRA performance of “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance” in each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, and for the institution, as provided in this section and appendices D and E to this part. The ratings assigned by the appropriate Federal banking agency reflect the bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association.
(2)
State, multistate MSA, and institution ratings and overall performance scores.
(i) For large banks or savings associations, intermediate banks or savings associations, small banks or savings associations that opt into the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, and limited purpose banks or savings associations, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates and discloses the bank's or savings association's overall performance score for each State and multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution. The appropriate Federal banking agency uses a bank's or savings association's overall performance scores described in this section to assign a rating for the bank's or savings association's overall performance in each State and multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution, subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(ii) Overall performance scores are based on the bank's or savings association's performance score for each applicable performance test and derived as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, as applicable, and appendix D to this part.
(3)
Weighting of performance scores.
In calculating a large bank's or savings association's or intermediate bank's or savings association's overall performance score for each State and multistate MSA, as applicable, and the institution, the appropriate Federal banking agency weights the performance scores for the bank or savings association for each applicable performance test as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i)
Large bank or savings association performance test weights.
The appropriate Federal banking agency weights the bank's or savings association's performance score for the performance tests applicable to a large bank or savings association as follows:
(A) Retail Lending Test, 40 percent;
(B) Retail Services and Products Test, 10 percent;
(C) Community Development Financing Test, 40 percent; and
(D) Community Development Services Test, 10 percent.
(ii)
Intermediate bank or savings association performance test weights.
The appropriate Federal banking agency weights the bank's or savings association's performance score for the performance tests applicable to an intermediate bank or savings association as follows:
(A) Retail Lending Test, 50 percent; and
(B) Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test or Community Development Financing Test, as applicable, 50 percent.
(4)
Minimum conclusion requirements
—(i)
Retail Lending Test minimum conclusion.
An intermediate bank or savings association or a large bank or savings association must receive at least a “Low Satisfactory” Retail Lending Test conclusion for the State, multistate MSA, or institution to receive, respectively, a State, multistate MSA, or institution rating of “Satisfactory” or “Outstanding.”
(ii)
Minimum of “Low Satisfactory” overall facility-based assessment area and retail lending assessment area conclusion.
(A) For purposes of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A), the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a large bank or savings association an overall conclusion for each facility-based assessment area and, as applicable, each retail lending assessment area, as provided in paragraph g.2.ii of appendix D to this part.
(B) Except as provided in § 25.51(e), a large bank or savings association with a combined total of 10 or more facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas in any State or multistate MSA, as applicable, or for the institution may not receive a rating of “Satisfactory” or “Outstanding” in that State or multistate MSA, as applicable, or for the institution, unless the bank or savings association receives an overall conclusion of at least “Low Satisfactory” in 60 percent or more of the total number of its facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas in that State or multistate MSA, as applicable, or for the institution.
(c)
Conclusions and ratings for States and multistate MSAs
—(1)
States
—(i)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank or savings association and assigns conclusions and ratings for any State in which the bank or savings association maintains a main office, branch, or deposit-taking remote service facility.
(ii)
States with rated multistate MSAs.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank or savings association and assigns conclusions and ratings for a State only if the bank or savings association maintains a main office, branch, or deposit-taking remote service facility outside the portion of the State comprising any multistate MSA identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. In evaluating a bank or savings association and assigning conclusions and ratings for a State, the appropriate Federal banking agency does not consider activities to be in the State if those activities take place in the portion of the State comprising any multistate MSA identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(iii)
States with non-rated multistate MSAs.
If a facility-based assessment area of a bank or savings association comprises a geographic area spanning two or more States within a multistate MSA that is not identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers activities in the entire facility-based assessment area to be in the State in which the bank or savings association maintains, within the multistate MSA, a main office, branch, or deposit-taking remote service facility. In evaluating a bank or savings association and assigning conclusions and ratings for a State, the appropriate Federal banking agency does not consider activities to be in the State if those activities take place in any facility-based assessment area that is considered to be in another State pursuant to this paragraph (c)(1)(iii).
(iv)
States with multistate retail lending assessment areas.
In assigning Retail Lending Test conclusions for a State pursuant to § 25.22(h), the appropriate Federal banking agency does not consider a bank's or savings association's activities to be in the State if those activities take place in a retail lending assessment area consisting of counties in more than one State.
(2)
Rated multistate MSAs.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank or savings association and assigns conclusions and ratings under this part in any multistate MSA in which the bank or savings association maintains a main office, a branch, or a
deposit-taking remote service facility in two or more States within that multistate MSA.
(d)
Effect of evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices
—(1)
Scope.
For each State and multistate MSA, as applicable, and the institution, the appropriate Federal banking agency's evaluation of a bank's or savings association's performance under this part is adversely affected by evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices, as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The appropriate Federal banking agency considers evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices described in this section by:
(i) The bank or savings association, including by an operating subsidiary of the bank or savings association; or
(ii) Any other affiliate related to any activities considered in the evaluation of the bank or savings association.
(2)
Discriminatory or other illegal credit practices.
For purposes of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, discriminatory or other illegal credit practices consist of the following:
(i) Discrimination on a prohibited basis, including in violation of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act (15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.
) or the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.
);
(ii) Violations of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act (15 U.S.C. 1639);
(iii) Violations of section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 45);
(iv) Violations of section 1031 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5531, 5536);
(v) Violations of section 8 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (12 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
);
(vi) Violations of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
);
(vii) Violations of the Military Lending Act (10 U.S.C. 987);
(viii) Violations of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3901
et seq.
); and
(ix) Any other violation of a law, rule, or regulation consistent with the types of violations in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section, as determined by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(3)
Agency considerations.
In determining the effect of evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section on the bank's or savings association's assigned State, multistate MSA, and institution ratings, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider:
(i) The root cause or causes of any such violations of law, rule, or regulation;
(ii) The severity of any harm to any communities, individuals, small businesses, and small farms resulting from such violations;
(iii) The duration of time over which the violations occurred;
(iv) The pervasiveness of the violations;
(v) The degree to which the bank or savings association, operating subsidiary, or affiliate, as applicable, has established an effective compliance management system across the institution to self-identify risks and to take the necessary actions to reduce the risk of noncompliance and harm to communities, individuals, small businesses, and small farms; and
(vi) Any other relevant information.
(e)
Consideration of past performance.
When assigning ratings, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers a bank's or savings association's past performance. If a bank's or savings association's prior rating was “Needs to Improve,” the appropriate Federal banking agency may determine that a “Substantial Noncompliance” rating is appropriate where the bank or savings association failed to improve its performance since the previous evaluation period, with no acceptable basis for such failure.
§ 25.29
Small bank and savings association performance evaluation.
(a)
Small bank or savings association performance evaluation
—(1)
In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a small bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community pursuant to the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test as
provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, unless the small bank or savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22.
(2)
Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test.
A small bank's or savings association's retail lending performance is evaluated pursuant to the following criteria:
(i) The bank's or savings association's loan-to-deposit ratio, adjusted for seasonal variation, and, as appropriate, other retail and community development lending-related activities, such as loan originations for sale to the secondary markets, community development loans, or community development investments;
(ii) The percentage of loans and, as appropriate, other retail and community development lending-related activities located in the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas;
(iii) The bank's or savings association's record of lending to and, as appropriate, engaging in other retail and community development lending-related activities for borrowers of different income levels and businesses and farms of different sizes;
(iv) The geographic distribution of the bank's or savings association's loans; and
(v) The bank's or savings association's record of taking action, if warranted, in response to written complaints about its performance in helping to meet credit needs in its facility-based assessment areas.
(b)
Additional consideration
—(1)
Small banks or savings associations evaluated pursuant to the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust a small bank or savings association rating from “Satisfactory” to “Outstanding” at the institution level where the bank or savings association requests and receives additional consideration for the following activities, without regard to whether the activity is in one or more of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas, as applicable:
(i) Making community development investments;
(ii) Providing community development services; and
(iii) Providing branches and other services, digital delivery systems and other delivery systems, and deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households, residents of low- and moderate-income census tracts, small businesses, and small farms.
(2)
Small banks or savings associations that opt to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust a small bank or savings association rating from “Satisfactory” to “Outstanding” at the institution level where the bank or savings association requests and receives additional consideration for activities that would qualify pursuant to the Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23, the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, or the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25.
(3)
Additional consideration for activities with MDIs, WDIs, and LICUs, and for providing low-cost education loans.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, a small bank or savings association may request and receive additional consideration at the institution level for activities with MDIs, WDIs, and LICUs pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2903(b) and 2907(a) and for providing low-cost education loans to low-income borrowers pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2903(d), regardless of the small bank's or savings association's overall institution rating.
(c)
Small bank or savings association performance conclusions and ratings
—(1)
Conclusions.
Except for a small bank or savings association that opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for the performance of a small bank or savings association evaluated under this section as provided in appendix E to this part. If a bank or savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for the bank's or savings association's Retail Lending
Test performance as provided in appendix C to this part. In assigning conclusions for a small bank or savings association, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider performance context information as provided in § 25.21(d).
(2)
Ratings.
For a small bank or savings association evaluated under the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test, the appropriate Federal banking agency rates the bank's or savings association's performance under this section as provided in appendix E to this part. If a small bank or savings association opts to be evaluated under the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, the appropriate Federal banking agency rates the performance of a small bank or savings association as provided in appendix D to this part.
§ 25.30
Intermediate bank and savings association performance evaluation.
(a)
Intermediate bank or savings association performance evaluation
—(1)
In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates an intermediate bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22 and the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, unless an intermediate bank or savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24.
(2)
Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test.
(i) An intermediate bank's or savings association's community development performance is evaluated pursuant to the following criteria:
(A) The number and dollar amount of community development loans;
(B) The number and dollar amount of community development investments;
(C) The extent to which the bank or savings association provides community development services; and
(D) The bank's or savings association's responsiveness through such community development loans, community development investments, and community development services to community development needs. The appropriate Federal banking agency's evaluation of the responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's activities is informed by information provided by the bank or savings association, and may be informed by the impact and responsiveness review factors described in § 25.15(b).
(ii) The appropriate Federal banking agency considers an intermediate bank's or savings association's community development loans, community development investments, and community development services without regard to whether the activity is made in one or more of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas. The extent of the appropriate Federal banking agency's consideration of community development loans, community development investments, and community development services outside of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas will depend on the adequacy of the bank's or savings association's responsiveness to community development needs and opportunities within the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and applicable performance context information.
(b)
Additional consideration
—(1)
Intermediate banks or savings associations evaluated pursuant to theIntermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust the rating of an intermediate bank or savings association evaluated as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section from “Satisfactory” to “Outstanding” at the institution level where the bank or savings association requests and receives additional consideration for activities that would qualify pursuant to the Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23.
(2)
Intermediate banks or savings associations evaluated pursuant to the Community Development Financing Test.
The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust the rating of an intermediate bank or savings association that opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 from “Satisfactory” to “Outstanding” at the institution
level where the bank or savings association requests and receives additional consideration for activities that would qualify pursuant to the Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23, the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25, or both.
(3)
Additional consideration for low-cost education loans.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, an intermediate bank or savings association may request and receive additional consideration at the institution level for providing low-cost education loans to low-income borrowers pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2903(d), regardless of the intermediate bank's or savings association's overall institution rating.
(c)
Intermediate bank or savings association performance conclusions and ratings
—(1)
Conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a conclusion for the performance of an intermediate bank or savings association evaluated pursuant to this section as provided in appendices C and E to this part. In assigning conclusions for an intermediate bank or savings association, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider performance context information as provided in § 25.21(d).
(2)
Ratings.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates the performance of an intermediate bank or savings association evaluated under this section as provided in appendix D to this part.
§ 25.31
Effect of CRA performance on applications.
(a)
CRA performance.
Among other factors, the appropriate Federal banking agency takes into account the record of performance under the CRA of each applicant bank or savings association, and for applications under 10(e) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(e)), of each proposed subsidiary savings association, in considering an application for:
(1) The establishment of:
(i) A domestic branch for insured banks; or
(ii) A domestic branch or other facility that would be authorized to take deposits for savings associations;
(2) The relocation of the main office or a branch;
(3) The merger or consolidation with or the acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities of an insured depository institution requiring approval under the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c));
(4) The conversion of an insured depository institution to a national bank or Federal savings association charter; and
(5) Acquisitions subject to section 10(e) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(e)).
(b)
Charter application.
(1) An applicant (other than an insured depository institution) for a national bank charter must submit with its application a description of how it will meet its CRA objectives. The OCC takes the description into account in considering the application and may deny or condition approval on that basis.
(2) An applicant for a Federal savings association charter must submit with its application a description of how it will meet its CRA objectives. The appropriate Federal banking agency takes the description into account in considering the application and may deny or condition approval on that basis.
(c)
Interested parties.
The appropriate Federal banking agency takes into account any views expressed by interested parties that are submitted in accordance with the applicable comment procedures in considering CRA performance in an application listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)
Denial or conditional approval of application.
A bank's or savings association's record of performance may be the basis for denying or conditioning approval of an application listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Insured depository institution.
For purposes of this section, the term “insured depository institution” has the meaning given to that term in 12 U.S.C. 1813.

# Subpart D—Records, Reporting, Disclosure, and Public Engagement Requirements

# Source:
89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.42
Data collection, reporting, and disclosure.
(a)
Information required to be collected and maintained
—(1)
Small business loans and small farm loans data.
A large bank or savings association must collect and maintain in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the following data for each small business loan or small farm loan originated or purchased by the bank or savings association during the evaluation period:
(i) A unique number or alpha-numeric symbol that can be used to identify the relevant loan file;
(ii) An indicator for the loan type as reported on the bank's or savings association's Call Report or Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks, as applicable.
(iii) The date of the loan origination or purchase;
(iv) The loan amount at origination or purchase;
(v) The loan location, including State, county, and census tract;
(vi) An indicator for whether the loan was originated or purchased by the bank or savings association;
(vii) An indicator for whether the loan was to a business or farm with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less;
(viii) An indicator for whether the loan was to a business or farm with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million;
(ix) An indicator for whether the loan was to a business or farm with gross annual revenues greater than $1 million; and
(x) An indicator for whether the loan was to a business or farm for which gross annual revenues are not known by the bank or savings association.
(2)
Consumer loans data
—
automobile loans
—(i)
Large banks or savings associations.
A large bank or savings association for which automobile loans are a product line must collect and maintain in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data is evaluated, the data described in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section for each automobile loan originated or purchased by the bank or savings association during the evaluation period.
(ii)
Intermediate or small banks or savings associations.
An intermediate bank or savings association or a small bank or savings association for which automobile loans are a product line may collect and maintain in a format of the bank's or savings association's choosing, including in an electronic form prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the data described in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section for each automobile loan originated or purchased by the bank or savings association during the evaluation period.
(iii)
Data collected and maintained.
Data collected and maintained pursuant to paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section include the following:
(A) A unique number or alpha-numeric symbol that can be used to identify the relevant loan file;
(B) The date of the loan origination or purchase;
(C) The loan amount at origination or purchase;
(D) The loan location, including State, county, and census tract;
(E) An indicator for whether the loan was originated or purchased by the bank or savings association; and
(F) The gross annual income relied on in making the credit decision.
(3)
Home mortgage loans.
(i) If a large bank or savings association is subject to reporting under 12 CFR part 1003, the bank or savings association must collect and maintain, in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the location of each home mortgage loan application, origination, or purchase outside the MSAs in which the bank or savings association has a home or branch office (or outside any MSA) pursuant to the requirements in 12 CFR 1003.4(e).
(ii) If a large bank or savings association is not subject to reporting under 12 CFR part 1003 due to the location of its branches, but would otherwise meet the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) size and lending activity requirements pursuant to 12 CFR part 1003, the bank or savings association must collect and maintain, in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the following data, for each closed-end home mortgage loan, excluding multifamily loans, originated or purchased during the evaluation period:
(A) A unique number or alpha-numeric symbol that can be used to identify the relevant loan file;
(B) The date of the loan origination or purchase;
(C) The loan amount at origination or purchase;
(D) The location of each home mortgage loan origination or purchase, including State, county, and census tract;
(E) The gross annual income relied on in making the credit decision; and
(F) An indicator for whether the loan was originated or purchased by the bank or savings association.
(4)
Retail banking services and retail banking products data
—(i)
Branches and remote service facilities.
A large bank or savings association must collect and maintain in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the following data with respect to retail banking services and retail banking products offered and provided by the bank or savings association during each calendar year:
(A) Location of branches, main offices described in § 25.23(a)(2), and remote service facilities. Location information must include:
(
1
) Street address;
(
2
) City;
(
3
) County;
(
4
) State;
(
5
) Zip code; and
(
6
) Census tract;
(B) An indicator for whether each branch is full-service or limited-service, and for each remote service facility whether it is deposit-taking, cash-advancing, or both;
(C) Locations and dates of branch, main office described in § 25.23(a)(2), and remote service facility openings and closings, as applicable;
(D) Hours of operation of each branch, main office described in § 25.23(a)(2), and remote service facility, as applicable; and
(E) Services offered at each branch or main office described in § 25.23(a)(2) that are responsive to low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households and low- and moderate-income census tracts.
(ii)
Digital delivery systems and other delivery systems data
—(A)
In general.
A large bank or savings association that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, a large bank or savings association that had assets less than or equal to $10 billion as of December 31 in either of the prior two calendar years that does not operate any branches or a main office described in § 25.23(a)(2), and a large bank or savings association that had assets less than or equal to $10 billion as of December 31 in either of the prior two calendar years that requests additional consideration for digital delivery systems and other delivery systems pursuant to § 25.23(b)(4), must collect and maintain in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the data described in paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. A bank or savings association may opt to collect and maintain additional data pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(C) of this section in a format of the bank's or savings association's own choosing.
(B)
Required data.
Pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, a bank or savings association must collect and maintain the following data:
(
1
) The range of retail banking services and retail banking products offered through digital delivery systems and other delivery systems; and
(
2
) The digital delivery systems and other delivery systems activity by individuals, families, or households in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts, as evidenced by:
(
i
) The number of checking and savings accounts opened digitally and through other delivery systems by census tract income level for each calendar year; and
(
ii
) The number of checking and savings accounts opened digitally and through other delivery systems that are active at the end of each calendar year by census tract income level for each calendar year.
(C)
Optional data.
Pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, a bank or savings association may collect and maintain any additional information not required in paragraph (a)(4)(ii)(B) of this section that demonstrates that digital delivery systems and other delivery systems serve low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households and low- and moderate-income census tracts.
(iii)
Data for deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households
—(A)
In general.
A large bank or savings association that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years and a large bank or savings association that had assets less than or equal to $10 billion as of December 31 in either of the prior two calendar years that requests additional consideration for deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households pursuant to § 25.23(c)(3), must collect and maintain in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the data described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(B) of this section. A bank or savings association may opt to collect and maintain additional data pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(C) of this section in a format of the bank's or savings association's choosing.
(B)
Required data.
Pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, a bank or savings association must collect and maintain the following data:
(
1
) The number of responsive deposit accounts opened and closed during each year of the evaluation period in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts; and
(
2
) In connection with paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(B)(
1
) of this section, the percentage of responsive deposit accounts compared to total deposit accounts for each year of the evaluation period.
(C)
Optional data.
Pursuant to paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(A) of this section, a bank or savings association may collect and maintain any other information that demonstrates the availability and usage of the bank's or savings association's deposit products responsive to the needs of low- and moderate-income individuals, families, or households and low- and moderate-income census tracts.
(5)
Community development loans and community development investments data.
(i)(A) A large bank or savings association and a limited purpose bank or savings association that would be a large bank or savings association based on the asset size described in the definition of a large bank or savings association, must collect and maintain in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the data listed in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section for community development loans and community development investments originated, purchased, refinanced, renewed, or modified by the bank or savings association during the evaluation period.
(B) An intermediate bank or savings association that opts to be evaluated under the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 must collect and maintain in the format used by the bank or savings association in the normal course of business, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the data listed in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section for community development loans and community development investments originated, purchased, refinanced, renewed, or modified by the
bank or savings association during the evaluation period.
(ii) Pursuant to paragraphs (a)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, a bank or savings association must collect and maintain, on an annual basis, the following data for community development loans and community development investments:
(A) General information on the loan or investment:
(
1
) A unique number or alpha-numeric symbol that can be used to identify the loan or investment;
(
2
) Date of origination, purchase, refinance, or renewal of the loan or investment;
(
3
) Date the loan or investment was sold or paid off; and
(
4
) The dollar amount of:
(
i
) A community development loan originated or purchased, or a community development investment made, including a legally binding commitment to extend credit or a legally binding commitment to invest, in the calendar year, as described in paragraph I.a.1.i of appendix B to this part;
(
ii
) Any increase in the calendar year to an existing community development loan that is refinanced or renewed or to an existing community development investment that is renewed;
(
iii
) The outstanding balance of a community development loan originated, purchased, refinanced, or renewed in previous years or community development investment made or renewed in previous years, as of December 31 for each year that the loan or investment remains on the bank's or savings association's balance sheet; or
(
iv
) The outstanding balance, less any increase reported in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A)(
4
)(
ii
) of this section in the same calendar year, of a community development loan refinanced or renewed in a year subsequent to the year of origination or purchase, as of December 31 of the calendar year for each year that the loan remains on the bank's or savings association's balance sheet; or an existing community development investment renewed in a year subsequent to the year the investment was made as of December 31 for each year that the investment remains on the bank's or savings association's balance sheet.
(B) Community development loan or community development investment information:
(
1
) Name of organization or entity;
(
2
) Activity type (loan or investment);
(
3
) The type of community development described in § 25.13(b) through (l); and
(
4
) Community development loan or community development investment detail, such as the specific type of financing and type of entity supported (
e.g.,
LIHTC, NMTC, Small Business Investment Company, multifamily mortgage, private business, or mission-driven nonprofit organization, mortgage-backed security, or other).
(C) Indicators of the impact and responsiveness, including whether the community development loan or community development investment:
(
1
) Benefits or serves one or more persistent poverty counties;
(
2
) Benefits or serves one or more census tracts with a poverty rate of 40 percent or higher;
(
3
) Benefits or serves one or more geographic areas with low levels of community development financing;
(
4
) Supports an MDI, WDI, LICU, or CDFI, excluding certificates of deposit with a term of less than one year;
(
5
) Benefits or serves low-income individuals, families, or households;
(
6
) Supports small businesses or small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less;
(
7
) Directly facilitates the acquisition, construction, development, preservation, or improvement of affordable housing in High Opportunity Areas;
(
8
) Benefits or serves residents of Native Land Areas;
(
9
) Is a grant or donation;
(
10
) Is an investment in a project financed with LIHTCs or NMTCs;
(
11
) Reflects bank or savings association leadership through multi-faceted or instrumental support; or
(
12
) Is a new community development financing product that addresses community development needs for low- or moderate-income individuals, families, or households.
(D) Specific location information, if applicable:
(
1
) Street address;
(
2
) City;
(
3
) County;
(
4
) State;
(
5
) Zip code; and
(
6
) Census tract.
(E) Allocation of the dollar amount of the community development loan or community development investment to geographic areas served by the loan or investment:
(
1
) A list of the geographic areas served by the community development loan or community development investment, specifying any county, State, multistate MSA, or nationwide area served; and
(
2
) Specific information about the dollar amount of the community development loan or community development investment that was allocated to each county served by the loan or investment, if available.
(F) Other information relevant to determining that the community development loan or community development investment meets the standards pursuant to § 25.13.
(6)
Community development services data.
A large bank or savings association must collect and maintain, in a format of the bank's or savings association's choosing or in a standardized format, as provided by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the following community development services data:
(i) Community development services information as follows:
(A) Date of service;
(B) Number of board member or employee service hours;
(C) Name of organization or entity;
(D) The type of community development described in § 25.13(b) through (l);
(E) Capacity in which a bank's or savings association's or its affiliate's board member or employee serves (
e.g.,
board member of a nonprofit organization, technical assistance, financial education, general volunteer); and
(F) Indicators of the impact and responsiveness, including whether the community development service:
(
1
) Benefits or serves one or more persistent poverty counties;
(
2
) Benefits or serves one or more census tracts with a poverty rate of 40 percent or higher;
(
3
) Benefits or serves one or more geographic areas with low levels of community development financing;
(
4
) Supports an MDI, WDI, LICU, or CDFI, excluding certificates of deposit with a term of less than one year;
(
5
) Benefits or serves low-income individuals, families, or households;
(
6
) Supports small businesses or small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less;
(
7
) Directly facilitates the acquisition, construction, development, preservation, or improvement of affordable housing in High Opportunity Areas;
(
8
) Benefits or serves residents of Native Land Areas;
(
9
) Reflects bank or savings association leadership through multi-faceted or instrumental support; or
(
10
) Is a new community development service that addresses community development needs for low- or moderate-income individuals, families, or households.
(ii) Location information as follows:
(A)
Location list.
A list of the geographic areas served by the activity, specifying any census tracts, counties, States, or nationwide area served; and
(B)
Geographic-level.
Whether the bank or savings association is seeking consideration in a facility-based assessment area, State, multistate MSA, or nationwide area.
(7)
Deposits data.
A large bank or savings association that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years must collect and maintain annually, in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, until the completion of the bank's or savings association's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the dollar amount of its deposits at the county level based on deposit location. The bank or savings association allocates the deposits for which a deposit location is not available to the nationwide area. Annual deposits must be calculated based on average daily balances as provided in statements
such as monthly or quarterly statements. Any other bank or savings association that opts to collect and maintain the data in this paragraph (a)(7) must do so in the same form and for the same duration as described in this paragraph (a)(7).
(b)
Information required to be reported
—(1)
Small business loan and small farm loan data.
A large bank or savings association must report annually by April 1 to the appropriate Federal banking agency in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, the small business loan and small farm loan data described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section for the prior calendar year. For each census tract in which the bank or savings association originated or purchased a small business loan or small farm loan, the bank or savings association must report the aggregate number and dollar amount of small business loans and small farm loans:
(i) With an amount at origination of $100,000 or less;
(ii) With an amount at origination of greater than $100,000 but less than or equal to $250,000;
(iii) With an amount at origination of greater than $250,000;
(iv) To businesses and farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less (using the revenues relied on in making the credit decision);
(v) To businesses and farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million (using the revenues relied on in making the credit decision);
(vi) To businesses and farms with gross annual revenues greater than $1 million; and
(vii) To businesses and farms for which gross annual revenues are not known by the bank or savings association.
(2)
Community development loans and community development investments data.
A large bank or savings association and a limited purpose bank or savings association that would be a large bank or savings association based on the asset size described in the definition of a large bank or savings association must report annually by April 1 to the appropriate Federal banking agency in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, the community development loan and community development investment data described in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section for the prior calendar year, except for the data described in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(B)(
1
) of this section and paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(D)(
1
) through (
5
) of this section.
(3)
Deposits data.
(i) A large bank or savings association that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years must report annually by April 1 to the appropriate Federal banking agency in electronic form, as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency, the deposits data for the prior calendar year collected and maintained pursuant to paragraph (a)(7) of this section. This reporting must include, for each county, State, and multistate MSA, and for the institution overall, the average annual deposit balances (calculated based on average daily balances as provided in statements such as monthly or quarterly statements, as applicable), in aggregate, of deposit accounts with associated addresses located in such county, State, or multistate MSA, where available, and for the institution overall. Any other bank or savings association that opts to collect and maintain the data in paragraph (a)(7) of this section must report these data in the same form and for the same duration as described in this paragraph (b)(3)(i).
(ii) A bank or savings association that reports deposits data pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section for which a deposit location is not available must report these deposits at the nationwide area.
(c)
Data on operating subsidiaries.
To the extent that its operating subsidiaries engage in retail banking services, retail banking products, community development lending, community development investments, or community development services, a bank or savings association must collect, maintain, and report these loans, investments, services, and products of its operating subsidiaries pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as applicable, for purposes of evaluating the
bank's or savings association's performance. For home mortgage loans, the bank or savings association must identify the home mortgage loans reported by its operating subsidiary under 12 CFR part 1003, if applicable, or collect and maintain data on home mortgage loans by its operating subsidiary that the bank or savings association would have collected and maintained pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section had the bank or savings association originated or purchased the loans.
(d)
Data on other affiliates.
A bank or savings association that elects to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider retail banking services, retail banking products, community development lending, community development investments, or community development services engaged in by affiliates of a bank or savings association (other than an operating subsidiary), for purposes of this part must collect, maintain, and report the data that the bank or savings association would have collected, maintained, and reported pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section had the loans, investments, services, or products been engaged in by the bank or savings association. For home mortgage loans, the bank or savings association must identify the home mortgage loans reported by bank or savings association affiliates under 12 CFR part 1003, if applicable, or collect and maintain data on home mortgage loans by the affiliate that the bank or savings association would have collected and maintained pursuant to paragraphs (a)(3) of this section had the loans been originated or purchased by the bank or savings association.
(e)
Data on community development loans and community development investments by a consortium or a third party.
A bank or savings association that elects to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider community development loans and community development investments by a consortium or third party for purposes of this part must collect, maintain, and report the loans and investments data that the bank or savings association would have collected, maintained, and reported pursuant to paragraphs (a)(5) and (b)(2) of this section had the bank or savings association originated, purchased, refinanced, or renewed the loans or investments.
(f)
Assessment area data
—(1)
Facility-based assessment areas.
A large bank or savings association and a limited purpose bank or savings association that would be a large bank or savings association based on the asset size described in the definition of a large bank or savings association must collect and report to the appropriate Federal banking agency annually by April 1 a list of each facility-based assessment area showing the States, MSAs, and counties in the facility-based assessment area, as of December 31 of the prior calendar year or the last date the facility-based assessment area was in effect, provided the facility-based assessment area was delineated for at least six months of the prior calendar year.
(2)
Retail lending assessment areas.
A large bank or savings association must collect and report to the appropriate Federal banking agency annually by April 1 a list of each retail lending assessment area showing the States, MSAs, and counties in the retail lending assessment area for the prior calendar year.
(g)
CRA Disclosure Statement.
The appropriate Federal banking agency or its appointed agent, prepares annually, for each bank or savings association that reports data pursuant to this section, a CRA Disclosure Statement that contains, on a State-by-State basis:
(1) For each county with a population of 500,000 persons or fewer in which the bank or savings association reported a small business loan or a small farm loan:
(i) The number and dollar volume of small business loans and small farm loans reported as originated or purchased located in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts;
(ii) A list grouping each census tract according to whether the census tract is low-, moderate-, middle-, or upper-income;
(iii) A list showing each census tract in which the bank or savings association reported a small business loan or a small farm loan;
(iv) The number and dollar volume of small business loans and small farm
loans to businesses and farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less; and
(v) The number and dollar volume of small business loans and small farm loans to businesses and farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million;
(2) For each county with a population in excess of 500,000 persons in which the bank or savings association reported a small business loan or a small farm loan:
(i) The number and dollar volume of small business loans and small farm loans reported as originated or purchased located in census tracts with median income relative to the area median income of less than 10 percent, equal to or greater than 10 percent but less than 20 percent, equal to or greater than 20 percent but less than 30 percent, equal to or greater than 30 percent but less than 40 percent, equal to or greater than 40 percent but less than 50 percent, equal to or greater than 50 percent but less than 60 percent, equal to or greater than 60 percent but less than 70 percent, equal to or greater than 70 percent but less than 80 percent, equal to or greater than 80 percent but less than 90 percent, equal to or greater than 90 percent but less than 100 percent, equal to or greater than 100 percent but less than 110 percent, equal to or greater than 110 percent but less than 120 percent, and equal to or greater than 120 percent;
(ii) A list grouping each census tract in the county, facility-based assessment area, or retail lending assessment area according to whether the median income in the census tract relative to the area median income is less than 10 percent, equal to or greater than 10 percent but less than 20 percent, equal to or greater than 20 percent but less than 30 percent, equal to or greater than 30 percent but less than 40 percent, equal to or greater than 40 percent but less than 50 percent, equal to or greater than 50 percent but less than 60 percent, equal to or greater than 60 percent but less than 70 percent, equal to or greater than 70 percent but less than 80 percent, equal to or greater than 80 percent but less than 90 percent, equal to or greater than 90 percent but less than 100 percent, equal to or greater than 100 percent but less than 110 percent, equal to or greater than 110 percent but less than 120 percent, and equal to or greater than 120 percent; and
(iii) A list showing each census tract in which the bank or savings association reported a small business loan or a small farm loan;
(3) The number and dollar volume of small business loans and small farm loans located inside each facility-based assessment area and retail lending assessment area reported by the bank or savings association and the number and dollar volume of small business loans and small farm loans located outside of the facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas reported by the bank or savings association; and
(4) The number and dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments reported as originated or purchased inside each facility-based assessment area, each State in which the bank or savings association has a branch, each multistate MSA in which a bank or savings association has a branch in two or more States of the multistate MSA, and nationwide area outside of these States and multistate MSAs.
(h)
Aggregate disclosure statements.
The appropriate Federal banking agency or its appointed agent, prepares annually, for each MSA or metropolitan division (including an MSA or metropolitan division that crosses a State boundary) and the nonmetropolitan portion of each State, an aggregate disclosure statement of reported small business lending, small farm lending, community development lending, and community development investments by all depository institutions subject to reporting under this part or 12 CFR part 228 or 345. These disclosure statements indicate the number and dollar amount of all small business loans and small farm loans originated or purchased for each census tract and the number and dollar amount of all community development loans and community development investments for each county by reporting banks or savings
associations, except that the appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust the form of the disclosure if necessary, because of special circumstances, to protect the privacy of a borrower or the competitive position of a bank or savings association.
(i)
Availability of disclosure statements.
The appropriate Federal banking agency makes the individual bank or savings association CRA Disclosure Statements, described in paragraph (g) of this section, and the aggregate disclosure statements, described in paragraph (h) of this section, available on the FFIEC's website at:
https://www.ffiec.gov
.
(j)
HMDA data disclosure
—(1)
In general.
For a large bank or savings association required to report home mortgage loan data pursuant to 12 CFR part 1003, the appropriate Federal banking agency will publish on the appropriate Federal banking agency's website the data required by paragraph (j)(2) of this section concerning the distribution of a large bank's or savings association's originations and applications of home mortgage loans by borrower or applicant income level, race, and ethnicity in each of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas, and as applicable, its retail lending assessment areas. This information is published annually based on data reported pursuant to 12 CFR part 1003.
(2)
Data to be published on the appropriate Federal banking agency's website.
For each of the large bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas, and as applicable, its retail lending assessment areas, the appropriate Federal banking agency publishes on the appropriate Federal banking agency's website:
(i) The number and percentage of originations and applications of the large bank's or savings association's home mortgage loans by borrower or applicant income level, race, and ethnicity;
(ii) The number and percentage of originations and applications of aggregate mortgage lending of all lenders reporting HMDA data in the facility-based assessment area and as applicable, the retail lending assessment area; and
(iii) Demographic data of the geographic area.
(3)
Announcement of data publication.
Upon publishing the data required pursuant to paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency will publicly announce that the information is available on the appropriate Federal banking agency's public website.
(4)
Effect on CRA conclusions and ratings.
The race and ethnicity information published pursuant to paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section does not impact the conclusions or ratings of the large bank or savings association.
§ 25.42, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 7168, Feb. 1, 2024, § 25.42 was amended by:
a. Revising paragraph (a)(1);
b. Removing and reserving paragraph (b)(1); and
c. Removing the phrase “small business loans and small farm loans reported as originated or purchased” from paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (g)(2)(i) and adding “small business loans and small farm loans reported as originated” in its place.
The effective date is delayed indefinitely. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 25.42
Data collection, reporting, and disclosure.
(a) * * *
(1)
Purchases of small business loans and small farm loans data.
A bank that opts to have the OCC consider its purchases of small business loans and small farm loans must collect and maintain in electronic form, as prescribed by the OCC, until the completion of the bank's next CRA examination in which the data are evaluated, the following data for each small business loan or small farm loan purchased by the bank during the evaluation period:
(i) A unique number or alpha-numeric symbol that can be used to identify the relevant loan file;
(ii) An indicator for the loan type as reported on the bank's Call Report or Report of Assets and Liabilities of U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks, as applicable;
(iii) The date of the loan purchase;
(iv) The loan amount at purchase;
(v) The loan location, including State, county, and census tract;
(vi) An indicator for whether the purchased loan was to a business or farm with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less;
(vii) An indicator for whether the purchased loan was to a business or farm with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million;
(viii) An indicator for whether the purchased loan was to a business or farm with gross annual revenues greater than $1 million; and
(ix) An indicator for whether the purchased loan was to a business or farm for which gross annual revenues are not known by the bank.
§ 25.43
Content and availability of public file.
(a)
Information available to the public.
A bank or savings association must maintain a public file, in either paper or digital format, that includes the following information:
(1) All written comments received from the public for the current year (updated on a quarterly basis for the prior quarter by March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31) and each of the prior two calendar years that specifically relate to the bank's or savings association's performance in helping to meet community credit needs, and any response to the comments by the bank or savings association, if neither the comments nor the responses contain statements that reflect adversely on the good name or reputation of any persons other than the bank or savings association or publication of which would violate specific provisions of law;
(2) A copy of the public section of the bank's or savings association's most recent CRA performance evaluation prepared by the appropriate Federal banking agency. The bank or savings association must include this copy in the public file within 30 business days after its receipt from the appropriate Federal banking agency;
(3) A list of the bank's or savings association's branches, their street addresses, and census tracts;
(4) A list of branches opened or closed by the bank or savings association during the current year (updated on a quarterly basis for the prior quarter by March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31) and each of the prior two calendar years, their street addresses, and census tracts;
(5) A list of retail banking services (including hours of operation, available loan and deposit products, and transaction fees) generally offered at the bank's or savings association's branches and descriptions of material differences in the availability or cost of services at particular branches, if any. A bank or savings association may elect to include information regarding the availability of other systems for delivering retail banking services (for example, mobile or online banking, loan production offices, and bank-at-work or mobile branch programs);
(6) A map of each facility-based assessment area and, as applicable, each retail lending assessment area showing the boundaries of the area and identifying the census tracts contained in the area, either on the map or in a separate list; and
(7) Any other information the bank or savings association chooses.
(b)
Additional information available to the public
—(1)
Banks and savings associations subject to data reporting requirements pursuant to § 25.42.
A bank or savings association subject to data reporting requirements pursuant to § 25.42 must include in its public file a written notice that the CRA Disclosure Statement pertaining to the bank or savings association, its operating subsidiaries, and its other affiliates, if applicable, may be obtained on the FFIEC's website at:
https://www.ffiec.gov
. The bank or savings association must include the written notice in the public file within three business days after receiving notification from the FFIEC of the availability of the disclosure statement.
(2)
Banks and savings associations required to report HMDA data
—(i)
HMDA Disclosure Statement.
A bank or savings association required to report home mortgage loan data pursuant to 12 CFR part 1003 must include in its public file a written notice that the bank's or savings association's HMDA Disclosure Statement may be obtained on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's (CFPB's) website at:
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
. In addition, if the appropriate Federal banking agency considered the home mortgage lending of a bank's or savings association's operating subsidiaries or, at a bank's or savings association's election, the appropriate Federal banking agency considered the home mortgage
lending of other bank or savings association affiliates, the bank or savings association must include in its public file the names of the operating subsidiaries and the names of the affiliates and a written notice that the operating subsidiaries' and other affiliates' HMDA Disclosure Statements may be obtained at the CFPB's website. The bank or savings association must include the written notices in the public file within three business days after receiving notification from the FFIEC of the availability of the disclosure statements.
(ii)
Availability of bank or savings association HMDA data.
A large bank or savings association required to report home mortgage loan data pursuant to 12 CFR part 1003 must include in its public file a written notice that the home mortgage loan data published by the appropriate Federal banking agency under § 25.42(j) are available at the appropriate Federal banking agency's website.
(3)
Small banks or savings associations.
A small bank or savings association, or a bank or savings association that was a small bank or savings association during the prior calendar year, must include in its public file the bank's or savings association's loan-to-deposit ratio for each quarter of the prior calendar year and, at its option, additional data on its loan-to-deposit ratio.
(4)
Banks and savings associations with strategic plans.
A bank or savings association that has been approved to be evaluated under a strategic plan must include in its public file a copy of that plan while it is in effect. A bank or savings association need not include information submitted to the appropriate Federal banking agency on a confidential basis in conjunction with the plan.
(5)
Banks and savings associations with less than “Satisfactory” ratings.
A bank or savings association that received a less than “Satisfactory” institution rating during its most recent examination must include in its public file a description of its current efforts to improve its performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community. The bank or savings association must update the description quarterly by March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31, respectively.
(c)
Location of public information.
A bank or savings association must make available to the public for inspection, upon request and at no cost, the information required in this section as follows:
(1) For banks or savings associations that maintain a website, all information required for the bank's or savings association's public file under this section must be maintained on the bank's or savings association's website.
(2) For banks or savings associations that do not maintain a website:
(i) All the information required for the bank's or savings association's public file must be maintained at the main office and, if an interstate bank or savings association, at one branch office in each State; and
(ii) At each branch, the following must be maintained:
(A) A copy of the public section of the bank's or savings association's most recent CRA performance evaluation and a list of services provided by the branch; and
(B) Within five calendar days of the request, all the information that the bank or savings association is required to maintain under this section in the public file relating to the facility-based assessment area in which the branch is located.
(d)
Copies.
Upon request, a bank or savings association must provide copies, either on paper or in digital form acceptable to the person making the request, of the information in its public file. The bank or savings association may charge a reasonable fee not to exceed the cost of copying and mailing (if not provided in digital form).
(e)
Timing requirements.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a bank or savings association must ensure that its public file contains the information required by this section for each of the previous three calendar years, with the most recent calendar year included in its file annually by April 1 of the current calendar year.
§ 25.43, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 7168, Feb. 1, 2024, § 25.43 was amended by revising the heading of paragraph (b)(2) and adding paragraph (b)(2)(iii), delayed indefinitely. For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 25.43
Content and availability of public file.
(b) * * *
(2)
Banks required to report HMDA data and small business lending data.
* * *
(iii)
Small business lending data notice.
A bank required to report small business loan or small farm loan data pursuant to 12 CFR part 1002 must include in its public file a written notice that the bank's small business loan and small farm loan data may be obtained on the CFPB's website at:
https://www.consumerfinance.gov/data-research/small-business-lending/
.
§ 25.44
Public notice by banks and savings associations.
A bank or savings association must provide in the public area of its main office and each of its branches the appropriate public notice set forth in appendix F to this part. Only a branch of a bank or savings association having more than one facility-based assessment area must include the bracketed material in the notice for branch offices. Only a bank or savings association that is an affiliate of a holding company must include the next to the last sentence of the notices. A bank or savings association must include the last sentence of the notices only if it is an affiliate of a holding company that is not prevented by statute from acquiring additional depository institutions.
§ 25.45
Publication of planned examination schedule.
The appropriate Federal banking agency publishes on its public website, at least 30 days in advance of the beginning of each calendar quarter, a list of banks or savings associations scheduled for CRA examinations for the next two quarters.
§ 25.46
Public engagement.
(a)
In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency encourages communication between members of the public and banks or savings associations, including through members of the public submitting written public comments regarding community credit needs and opportunities as well as a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet community credit needs. The appropriate Federal banking agency will take these comments into account in connection with the bank's or savings association's next scheduled CRA examination.
(b)
Submission of public comments.
Members of the public may submit public comments regarding community credit needs and a bank's or savings association's CRA performance by submitting comments to the appropriate Federal banking agency at
“CRAComments@occ.treas.gov
, or by mailing comments to: Compliance Risk Policy Division, Bank Supervision Policy, OCC, Washington, DC 20219, for banks and Federal savings associations; or
CRACommentCollector@fdic.gov
, or by mailing comments to the address of the appropriate FDIC regional office found at
https://www.fdic.gov/resources/bankers/community-reinvestment-act/cra-regional-contacts-list.html
, for State savings associations.
(c)
Timing of public comments.
If the appropriate Federal banking agency receives a public comment before the close date of a bank's or savings association's CRA examination, the public comment will be considered in connection with that CRA examination. If the appropriate Federal banking agency receives a public comment after the close date of a bank's or savings association's CRA examination, it will be considered in connection with the bank's or savings association's subsequent CRA examination.
(d)
Distribution of public comments.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will forward all public comments received regarding a bank's or savings association's CRA performance to the bank or savings association.

# Subpart E—Transition Rules

# Source:
89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 25.51
Applicability dates and transition provisions.
(a)
Applicability dates
—(1)
In general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2), (b), and (d) of this section, this part is applicable, beginning on April 1, 2024.
(2)
Specific applicability dates.
The following sections are applicable as follows:
(i) On January 1, 2026, §§ 25.12 through 25.30, 25.42(a), 25.43, and 25.44; the data collection and maintenance requirements in § 25.42(c) through (f); and appendices A through F to this part become applicable.
(ii) On January 1, 2027, § 25.42(b) and (g) through (i) and the reporting requirements in § 25.42(c) through (f) become applicable.
(iii)
Rules during transition period.
Prior to the applicability dates in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, banks and savings associations must comply with the relevant provisions of this part in effect on March 31, 2024, as set forth in appendix G to this part. The relevant provisions set forth in appendix G to this part are applicable to CRA performance evaluations pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 2903(a)(1) that assess activities that a bank or savings association conducted prior to the dates set forth in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, except as provided in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
(b)
HMDA data disclosures.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will publish the data pursuant to § 25.42(j) beginning January 1, 2027.
(c)
Consideration of bank or savings association activities.
(1) In assessing a bank's or savings association's CRA performance, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider any loan, investment, service, or product that was eligible for CRA consideration at the time the bank or savings association conducted the activity.
(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(1) of this section, in assessing a bank's or savings association's CRA performance, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider any loan or investment that was eligible for CRA consideration at the time that the bank or savings association entered into a legally binding commitment to make the loan or investment.
(d)
Strategic plans
—(1)
New and replaced strategic plans.
The CRA regulatory requirements in effect on March 31, 2024, as set forth in appendix G to this part, apply to any new strategic plan, including a plan that replaces an expired strategic plan, submitted to the appropriate Federal banking agency for approval on or after April 1, 2024, but before November 1, 2025, and that the agency has determined is a complete plan consistent with the requirements under 12 CFR 25.27 in effect on March 31, 2024, as set forth in appendix G to this part. These strategic plans remain in effect until the expiration date of the plan. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not accept any strategic plan submitted on or after November 1, 2025, and before January 1, 2026.
(2)
Existing strategic plans.
A strategic plan in effect as of February 1, 2024, remains in effect until the expiration date of the plan except for provisions that were not permissible under this part as of January 1, 2022.
(e)
First evaluation under this part on or after February 1, 2024.
In its first performance evaluation under this part on or after February 1, 2024, a large bank or savings association that has a total of 10 or more facility-based assessment areas in any State or multistate MSA, or nationwide, as applicable, and that was a bank or savings association subject to evaluation under this part or [other Agencies' regulations]prior to February 1, 2024, may not receive a rating of “Satisfactory” or “Outstanding” in that State or multistate MSA, or for the institution, unless the bank or savings association received an overall facility-based assessment area conclusion, calculated as described in paragraph g.2.ii of appendix D to this part, of at least “Low Satisfactory” in 60 percent or more of the total number of its facility-based assessment areas in that State or multistate MSA, or nationwide, as applicable.
[89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024; 89 FR 22067, Mar. 29, 2024]

# Editorial Note:
At 89 FR 7168, Feb. 1, 2024, § 25.51 was amended by removing “[other Agencies' CRA regulations]” and adding “12 CFR part 228 or 345” in its place in paragraph (e); however, the amendment could not be incorporated due to inaccurate amendatory instruction.

# Subpart F—Prohibition Against Use of Interstate Branches Primarily for Deposit Production

# Source:
86 FR 71339, Dec. 15, 2021, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated at 89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024.
§ 25.61
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement section 109 (12 U.S.C. 1835a) of the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (Interstate Act).
(b)
Scope.
(1) This subpart applies to any national bank or savings association that has operated a covered interstate branch for a period of at least one year, and any foreign bank or savings association that has operated a covered interstate branch that is a Federal branch for a period of at least one year.
(2) This subpart describes the requirements imposed under 12 U.S.C. 1835a, which requires the appropriate Federal banking agencies (the OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the FDIC) to prescribe uniform rules that prohibit a bank or savings association from using any authority to engage in interstate branching pursuant to the Interstate Act, or any amendment made by the Interstate Act to any other provision of law, primarily for the purpose of deposit production.
§ 25.62
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Bank and savings association
means, unless the context indicates otherwise:
(1) A national bank or savings association; and
(2) A foreign bank or savings association as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7) and 12 CFR 28.11(i).
(b)
Covered interstate branch
means:
(1) Any branch of a national bank or savings association, and any Federal branch of a foreign bank or savings association, that:
(i) Is established or acquired outside the bank's or savings association's home State pursuant to the interstate branching authority granted by the Interstate Act or by any amendment made by the Interstate Act to any other provision of law; or
(ii) Could not have been established or acquired outside of the bank's or savings association's home State but for the establishment or acquisition of a branch described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and
(2) Any bank or savings association or branch of a bank or savings association controlled by an out-of-State bank or savings association holding company.
(c)
Federal branch
means Federal branch as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101(6) and 12 CFR 28.11(h).
(d)
Home State
means:
(1) With respect to a State bank or savings association, the State that chartered the bank or savings association;
(2) With respect to a national bank or savings association, the State in which the main office of the bank or savings association is located;
(3) With respect to a bank or savings association holding company, the State in which the total deposits of all banking subsidiaries of such company are the largest on the later of:
(i) July 1, 1966; or
(ii) The date on which the company becomes a bank or savings association holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act;
(4) With respect to a foreign bank or savings association:
(i) For purposes of determining whether a U.S. branch of a foreign bank or savings association is a covered interstate branch, the home State of the foreign bank or savings association as determined in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 3103(c) and 12 CFR 28.11(n); and
(ii) For purposes of determining whether a branch of a U.S. bank or savings association controlled by a foreign bank or savings association is a covered interstate branch, the State in which the total deposits of all banking subsidiaries of such foreign bank or savings association are the largest on the later of:
(A) July 1, 1966; or
(B) The date on which the foreign bank or savings association becomes a bank or savings association holding
company under the Bank Holding Company Act.
(e)
Host State
means a State in which a covered interstate branch is established or acquired.
(f)
Host state loan-to-deposit ratio
generally means, with respect to a particular host state, the ratio of total loans in the host state relative to total deposits from the host state for all banks or savings associations (including institutions covered under the definition of “ bank or savings association” in 12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(1)) that have that state as their home state, as determined and updated periodically by the appropriate Federal banking agencies and made available to the public.
(g)
Out-of-State bank or savings association holding company
means, with respect to any State, a bank or savings association holding company whose home State is another State.
(h)
State
means state as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(3).
(i)
Statewide loan-to-deposit ratio
means, with respect to a bank or savings association, the ratio of the bank's or savings association's loans to its deposits in a state in which the bank or savings association has one or more covered interstate branches, as determined by the OCC.
§ 25.63
Loan-to-deposit ratio screen.
(a)
Application of screen.
Beginning no earlier than one year after a covered interstate branch is acquired or established, the OCC will consider whether the bank's or savings association's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the relevant host State loan-to-deposit ratio.
(b)
Results of screen.
(1) If the OCC determines that the bank's or savings association's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is 50 percent or more of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, no further consideration under this subpart is required.
(2) If the OCC determines that the bank's or savings association's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, or if reasonably available data are insufficient to calculate the bank's or savings association's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio, the OCC will make a credit needs determination for the bank or savings association as provided in § 25.64.
§ 25.64
Credit needs determination.
(a)
In general.
The OCC will review the loan portfolio of the bank or savings association and determine whether the bank or savings association is reasonably helping to meet the credit needs of the communities in the host state that are served by the bank or savings association.
(b)
Guidelines.
The OCC will use the following considerations as guidelines when making the determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Whether covered interstate branches were formerly part of a failed or failing depository institution;
(2) Whether covered interstate branches were acquired under circumstances where there was a low loan-to-deposit ratio because of the nature of the acquired institution's business or loan portfolio;
(3) Whether covered interstate branches have a high concentration of commercial or credit card lending, trust services, or other specialized activities, including the extent to which the covered interstate branches accept deposits in the host state;
(4) The CRA ratings received by the bank or savings association, if any;
(5) Economic conditions, including the level of loan demand, within the communities served by the covered interstate branches;
(6) The safe and sound operation and condition of the bank or savings association; and
(7) The OCC's CRA regulations (subparts A through D of this part) and interpretations of those regulations.
§ 25.65
Sanctions.
(a)
In general.
If the OCC determines that a bank or savings association is not reasonably helping to meet the credit needs of the communities served by the bank or savings association in the host state, and that the bank's or savings association's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, the OCC:
(1) May order that a bank's or savings association's covered interstate branch or branches be closed unless the
bank or savings association provides reasonable assurances to the satisfaction of the OCC, after an opportunity for public comment, that the bank or savings association has an acceptable plan under which the bank or savings association will reasonably help to meet the credit needs of the communities served by the bank or savings association in the host state; and
(2) Will not permit the bank or savings association to open a new branch in the host state that would be considered to be a covered interstate branch unless the bank or savings association provides reasonable assurances to the satisfaction of the OCC, after an opportunity for public comment, that the bank or savings association will reasonably help to meet the credit needs of the community that the new branch will serve.
(b)
Notice prior to closure of a covered interstate branch.
Before exercising the OCC's authority to order the bank or savings association to close a covered interstate branch, the OCC will issue to the bank or savings association a notice of the OCC's intent to order the closure and will schedule a hearing within 60 days of issuing the notice.
(c)
Hearing.
The OCC will conduct a hearing scheduled under paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 1818(h) and 12 CFR part 19.
Pt. 25, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 25—Calculations for the Retail Lending Test
This appendix, based on requirements described in §§ 25.22 and 25.28, includes the following sections:
I. Retail Lending Volume Screen
II. Retail Lending Test Distribution Metrics—Scope of Evaluation
III. Geographic Distribution Metrics and Benchmarks
IV. Borrower Distribution Metrics and Benchmarks
V. Supporting Conclusions for Major Product Lines Other Than Automobile Lending
VI. Supporting Conclusions for Automobile Lending
VII. Retail Lending Test Conclusions—All Major Product Lines
VIII. Retail Lending Test Weighting and Conclusions for States, Multistate MSAs, and the Institution

# I. Retail Lending Volume Screen
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Bank Volume Metric and the Market Volume Benchmark for a facility-based assessment area and determines whether the bank or savings association has met or surpassed the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in that facility-based assessment area.
a.
Bank Volume Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Bank Volume Metric for each facility-based assessment area by:
1. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of loans included in the Bank Volume Metric (
i.e., volume metric loans
). The bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of volume metric loans is the total dollar amount of all home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans originated or purchased by the bank or savings association in the facility-based assessment area in that year. Automobile loans are included in the bank's or savings association's annual dollar amount of volume metric loans only if automobile loans are a product line for the bank or savings association.
2. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in the facility-based assessment area. For a bank or savings association that reports deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a facility-based assessment area is the total of annual average daily balances of deposits reported by the bank or savings association in counties in the facility-based assessment area for that year. For a bank or savings association that does not report deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a facility-based assessment area is the total of deposits assigned to facilities reported by the bank or savings association in the facility-based assessment area in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits for that year.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph I.a.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph I.a.2 of this appendix.
Example A-1:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period. The bank's annual dollar amounts of
volume metric loans
are $300,000 (year 1), $300,000 (year 2), and $400,000 (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar amount of
volume metric loans
in a facility-based assessment area, over the years in the evaluation period, is therefore $1 million. The annual dollar volumes of deposits in the bank located in the facility-based assessment area are $1.7 million (year 1), $1.6 million (year 2), and $1.7 million (year 3). The
sum of the annual dollar volume of deposits in the facility-based assessment area, over the years in the evaluation period, is therefore $5 million. The Bank Volume Metric for the facility-based assessment area would be $1 million divided by $5 million, or 0.2 (equivalently, 20 percent).
ER01FE24.064
b.
Market Volume Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Market Volume Benchmark for the facility-based assessment area. For purposes of calculating the Market Volume Benchmark, a
benchmark depository institution
for a particular year is a depository institution that, in that year, was subject to reporting pursuant to § 25.42(b)(1), 12 CFR 228.42(b)(1) or 345.42(b)(1), or 12 CFR part 1003, and operated a facility included in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits data in the facility-based assessment area. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Market Volume Benchmark by:
1. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual dollar volume of volume benchmark loans. The annual dollar volume of volume benchmark loans is the total dollar volume of all home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in the facility-based assessment area in that year that are reported loans originated by benchmark depository institutions.
2. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual dollar volume of deposits for benchmark depository institutions in the facility-based assessment area. The annual dollar volume of deposits for benchmark depository institutions in the facility-based assessment area is the sum across benchmark depository institutions of: (i) for a benchmark depository institution that reports data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3) or 12 CFR 228.42(b)(3) or 345.42(b)(3), the total of annual average daily balances of deposits reported by that depository institution in counties in the facility-based assessment area for that year; and (ii) for a benchmark depository institution that does not report data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3) or 12 CFR 228.42(b)(3) or 345.42(b)(3), the total of deposits assigned to facilities reported by that depository institution in counties in the facility-based assessment area in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits for that year.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph I.b.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph I.b.2 of this appendix.
Example A-2:
With reference to example A-1 to this appendix, the annual dollar volume of volume benchmark loans is $6 million (year 1), $7 million (year 2), and $7 million (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volume of volume benchmark loans, over the years in the evaluation period, is therefore $20 million. The annual dollar volume of deposits for benchmark depository institutions is $17 million (year 1), $15 million (year 2), and $18 million (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volume of deposits for benchmark depository institutions, over the years in the evaluation period, is therefore $50 million. The Market Volume Benchmark for that facility-based assessment area would be $20 million divided by $50 million, or 0.4 (equivalently, 40 percent).
ER01FE24.065
c.
Retail Lending Volume Threshold.
For each facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Retail Lending Volume Threshold by multiplying the Market Volume Benchmark for that facility-based assessment area by 0.3 (equivalently, 30 percent). A bank or savings association meets or surpasses the Retail Lending Volume Threshold in a facility-based assessment area if the Bank Volume Metric is equal to or greater than the Retail Lending Volume Threshold.
Example A-3:
Based on examples A-1 and A-2 to this appendix, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Retail Lending Volume Threshold by multiplying the Market Volume Benchmark of 40 percent by 0.3, equal to 0.12 (equivalently, 12 percent). The Bank Volume Metric, 0.2 (equivalently, 20 percent), is greater than the Retail Lending Volume Threshold. Accordingly, the bank surpasses the Retail Lending Volume Threshold.
Bank Volume Metric (20%)
Retail Lending Volume Threshold [(40%) × 0.3 = 12%]

# II. Retail Lending Distribution Metrics—Scope Of Evaluation
a.
Retail Lending Test Areas evaluated.
A bank's or savings association's major product lines are evaluated in its Retail Lending Test Areas, as provided in § 25.22(d) and as described in paragraphs II.a.1 and 2 of this appendix.
1.
Large banks or savings associations exempt from evaluation in retail lending assessment areas.
Pursuant to § 25.17(a)(2), a large bank or savings association is not required to delineate retail lending assessment areas in a particular calendar year if the following ratio exceeds 80 percent, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12:
i. The sum, over the prior two calendar years, of the large bank's or savings association's home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans if automobile loans are a product line for the large bank or savings association, originated or purchased in its facility-based assessment areas; divided by
ii. The sum, over the prior two calendar years, of the large bank's or savings association's home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans if automobile loans are a product line for the large bank or savings association, originated or purchased overall.
Example A-4:
A large bank (for which automobile loans are not a product line) originated or purchased 20,000 closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in the prior two calendar years, representing $6 billion in loan dollars. Of these loans, 18,000 loans, representing $4.5 billion in loan dollars, were originated or purchased in the large bank's facility-based assessment areas. As such, the large bank originated or purchased 75 percent of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans ($4.5 billion/$6 billion) by loan dollars and 90 percent (18,000/20,000) of these loans by loan count within its facility-based assessment areas. The combination of loan dollars and loan count is 82.5 percent, or (75 + 90)/2. Thus, this large bank is not required to delineate retail lending assessment areas pursuant to § 25.17(a)(2) in the current calendar year because the 82.5 percent exceeds the 80 percent threshold.
2.
Small banks or savings associations and intermediate banks or savings associations evaluated in outside retail lending areas.
Pursuant to § 25.18(a)(2), the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the geographic and borrower distributions of the major product lines of an intermediate bank or savings association, or a small bank or savings association that opts to be evaluated under the Retail Lending Test, in the bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area if either:
i. The bank or savings association opts to have its major product lines evaluated in its outside retail lending area; or
ii. The following ratio exceeds 50 percent, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12:
A. The sum, over the prior two calendar years, of the bank's or savings association's home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans if automobile loans are a product line for the bank or savings association, originated or purchased outside of its facility-based assessment areas; divided by
B. The sum, over the prior two calendar years, of the bank's or savings association's home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and automobile loans if automobile loans are a product line for the bank or savings association, originated or purchased overall.
b.
Product lines and major product lines.
In each of a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test Areas, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates each of a bank's or savings association's major product lines, as provided in § 25.22(d)(2) and as described in paragraphs II.b.1 through 3 of this appendix.
1.
Major product line standard for facility-based assessment areas and outside retail lending areas.
Except as provided in paragraph II.b.1.iii of this appendix, a product line is a major product line in a facility-based assessment area or outside retail lending area if the following ratio is 15 percent or more, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12:
i. The sum, over the years of the evaluation period, of the bank's or savings association's loans in the product line originated or purchased in the facility-based assessment area or outside retail lending area; divided by
ii. The sum, over the years of the evaluation period, of the bank's or savings association's loans in all product lines originated or purchased in the facility-based assessment area or outside retail lending area.
iii. If a bank or savings association has not collected, maintained, or reported loan data on a product line in a facility-based assessment area or outside retail lending area for one or more years of an evaluation period, the product line is a major product line if the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the product line is material to the bank's or savings association's business in the facility-based assessment area or outside retail lending area.
2.
Major product line standard for retail lending assessment areas.
In a retail lending assessment area:
(i) Closed-end home mortgage loans are a major product line in any calendar year in the evaluation period in which the bank or savings association delineates a retail lending assessment area based on its closed-end home mortgage loans as determined by the standard in § 25.17(c)(1); and
(ii) Small business loans are a major product line in any calendar year in the evaluation period in which the bank or savings association delineates a retail lending assessment area based on its small business loans as determined by the standard in § 25.17(c)(2).
3.
Banks and savings associations for which automobile loans are a product line.
i. If a bank's or savings association's automobile loans are a product line (either because the bank or savings association is a majority automobile lender or opts to have its automobile loans evaluated pursuant to § 25.22), automobile loans are a product line for the bank or savings association for the entire evaluation period.
ii. A bank or savings association is a majority automobile lender if the following ratio, calculated at the institution level, exceeds 50 percent, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12:
A. The sum, over the two calendar years preceding the first year of the evaluation period, of the bank's or savings association's automobile loans originated or purchased overall; divided by
B. The sum, over the two calendar years preceding the first year of the evaluation period, of the bank's or savings association's automobile loans, home mortgage loans, multifamily loans, small business loans, and small farm loans originated or purchased overall.

# III. Geographic Distribution Metrics and Benchmarks
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Geographic Bank Metric, the Geographic Market Benchmark, and the Geographic Community Benchmark for low-income census tracts and for moderate-income census tracts, respectively, as set forth in this section. For each facility-based assessment area, retail lending assessment area, and component geographic area of the bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area, the appropriate Federal banking agency includes either low-income census tracts or moderate-income census tracts (
i.e., designated census tracts
) in the numerator of the metrics and benchmarks calculations for a particular year. To evaluate small banks or savings associations and intermediate banks or savings associations without data collection, maintenance and reporting requirements, the appropriate Federal banking agency will use data collected by the bank or savings association in the ordinary course of business or through sampling of bank or savings association loan data.
a.
Calculation of Geographic Bank Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Geographic Bank Metric for low-income census tracts and for moderate-income census tracts, respectively, for each major product line in each Retail Lending Test Area. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Geographic Bank Metric by:
1. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual number of originated and purchased loans in the major product line in designated census tracts in the Retail Lending Test Area.
2. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual number of originated and purchased loans in the major product line in the Retail Lending Test Area.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph III.a.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.a.2 of this appendix.
Example A-5:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period, and small farm loans are a major product line for the bank in a facility-based assessment area (FBAA-1). The bank's annual numbers of originated and purchased small farm loans (
i.e.,
the bank's originated and purchased small farm loans) are 100 (year 1), 75 (year 2), and 75 (year 3) in FBAA-1. The sum of the annual numbers of originated and purchased small farm loans is therefore 250 in the evaluation period. In the low-income census tracts within FBAA-1, the bank originated and purchased 25 small farm loans (year 1), 15 small farm loans (year 2), and 10 small farm loans (year 3) (a total of 50 small farm loans). In FBAA-1, the Geographic Bank Metric for small farm loans in low-income census tracts would be 50 divided by 250, or 0.2 (equivalently, 20 percent).
In the moderate-income census tracts within FBAA-1, the bank originated and purchased 30 small farm loans (year 1), 20 small farm loans (year 2), and 10 small farm loans (year 3) (a total of 60 small farm loans). In FBAA-1, the Geographic Bank Metric for small farm loans in moderate-income census tracts would be 60 divided by 250, or 0.24 (equivalently, 24 percent).
ER01FE24.066
b.
Calculation of Geographic Market Benchmarks for facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas.
For each facility-based assessment area and retail lending assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Geographic Market Benchmark for designated census tracts for each major product line, excluding automobile loans. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Geographic Market Benchmark by:
1. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of reported loans in the major product line in designated census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area originated by all lenders.
2. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of reported loans in the major product line in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area originated by all lenders.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph III.b.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.b.2 of this appendix.
Example A-6:
The Geographic Market Benchmarks for small farm loans in FBAA-1 use a three-year evaluation period. Lenders that report small farm loan data originated 500 small farm loans (year 1), 250 small farm loans (year 2), and 250 small farm loans (year 3) within FBAA-1. The sum of the annual numbers of originated small farm loans is therefore 1,000 in the evaluation period. Lenders that report small farm loan data originated 200 small farm loans (year 1), 100 small farm loans (year 2) and 100 small farm loans (year 3) in low-income census tracts within FBAA-1. The sum of the annual numbers of originated small farm loans in low-income census tracts within FBAA-1 is therefore 400. The Geographic Market Benchmark for small farm loans in low-income census tracts within FBAA-1 would be 400 divided by 1,000, or 0.4 (equivalently, 40 percent).
Lenders that report small farm loan data originated 100 small farm loans (year 1), 100 small farm loans (year 2), and 100 small farm loans (year 3) in moderate-income census tracts within FBAA-1. The sum of the annual numbers of originated small farm loans in moderate-income census tracts within FBAA-1 is therefore 300. The Geographic Market Benchmark for small farm loans in moderate-income census tracts within FBAA-1 would be 300 divided by 1,000, or 0.3 (equivalently, 30 percent).
ER01FE24.067
c.
Calculation of Geographic Community Benchmarks for facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Geographic Community Benchmark for designated census tracts for each major product
line in each facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
1. For closed-end home mortgage loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Geographic Community Benchmark for low-income census tracts by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of owner-occupied housing units in low-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of owner-occupied housing units in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.1.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.1.ii of this appendix.
2. For closed-end home mortgage loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Geographic Community Benchmark for moderate-income census tracts by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of owner-occupied housing units in moderate-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of owner-occupied housing units in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.2.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.2.ii of this appendix.
3. For small business loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Geographic Community Benchmark for low-income census tracts by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of non-farm businesses in low-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of non-farm businesses in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.3.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.3.ii of this appendix.
4. For small business loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Geographic Community Benchmark for moderate-income census tracts by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of non-farm businesses in moderate-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of non-farm businesses in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.4.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.4.ii of this appendix.
5. For small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Geographic Community Benchmark for low-income census tracts by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of farms in low-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of farms in the facility-based assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.5.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.5.ii of this appendix.
6. For small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Geographic Community Benchmark for moderate-income census tracts by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of farms in moderate-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of farms in the facility-based assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.6.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.6.ii of this appendix.
7. For automobile loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Geographic Community Benchmark for low-income census tracts by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of households in low-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of households in the facility-based assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.7.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.7.ii of this appendix.
8. For automobile loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Geographic Community Benchmark for moderate-income census tracts by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of households in moderate-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of households in the facility-based assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.8.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.8.ii of this appendix.
Example A-7:
The Geographic Community Benchmarks for small business loans in FBAA-1 use a three-year evaluation period. There were 1,300 non-farm businesses (year 1), 1,300 non-farm businesses (year 2), and 1,400 non-farm businesses (year 3) in FBAA-1. The sum of the number of non-farm businesses in FBAA-1 is therefore 4,000 in the
evaluation period. In low-income census tracts within FBAA-1, there were 200 non-farm businesses (year 1), 150 non-farm businesses (year 2), and 150 non-farm businesses (year 3) (a total of 500 non-farm businesses). The Geographic Community Benchmark for small business loans in low-income census tracts within FBAA-1 would be 500 divided by 4,000, or 0.125 (equivalently, 12.5 percent).
In moderate-income census tracts within FBAA-1, there were 400 non-farm businesses (year 1), 300 non-farm businesses (year 2), and 300 non-farm businesses (year 3) (a total of 1,000 non-farm businesses). The Geographic Community Benchmark for small business loans in moderate-income census tracts within FBAA-1 would be 1,000 divided by 4,000, or 0.25 (equivalently, 25 percent).
ER01FE24.068
d.
Calculation of Geographic Market Benchmarks for the outside retail lending area.
For a bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Geographic Market Benchmark for each major product line, excluding automobile loans, and for each category of designated census tracts by taking a weighted average of benchmarks for each component geographic area as follows:
1. Calculating a benchmark for each category of designated census tracts and each major product line within each component geographic area as described in § 25.18(b) using the formula for the Geographic Market Benchmark described in paragraph III.b of this appendix with the component geographic area in place of the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area, as applicable.
2. Calculating the weighting for each component geographic area and major product line as the percentage of the bank's or savings association's loans in the major product line originated or purchased in the outside retail lending area that are within the component geographic area, based on loan count.
3. Calculating the weighted average benchmark for the outside retail lending area using the component geographic area benchmarks in paragraph III.d.1 of this appendix and associated weightings in paragraph III.d.2 of this appendix.
e.
Calculation of Geographic Community Benchmarks for the outside retail lending area.
For a bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Geographic Community Benchmark for each category of designated census tract and for each major product line by taking a weighted average of benchmarks for each component geographic area as follows:
1. Calculating a benchmark for each category of designated census tracts and each major product line within each component geographic area as described in § 25.18(b) using the formula for the Geographic Community Benchmark described in paragraph III.c of this appendix with the component geographic area in place of the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area, as applicable.
2. Calculating the weighting for each component geographic area and major product line as the percentage of the bank's or savings association's loans in the major product line originated or purchased in the outside retail lending area that are within the component geographic area, based on loan count.
3. Calculating the weighted average benchmark for the outside retail lending area using the component geographic area benchmarks in paragraph III.e.1 of this appendix and associated weightings in paragraph III.e.2 of this appendix.

# IV. Borrower Distribution Metrics and Benchmarks
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Borrower Bank Metric, the Borrower Market Benchmark, and the Borrower Community Benchmark for each category of borrowers (
i.e., designated borrowers
), as set forth in this section.
For closed-end home mortgage loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates these metrics and benchmarks for each of the following designated borrowers: (i) low-income borrowers; and (ii) moderate-income borrowers.
For small business loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates these metrics and benchmarks for each of the following designated borrowers: (i) businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less; and (ii) businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million.
For small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates these metrics and benchmarks for each of the following designated borrowers: (i) farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less; and (ii) farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million.
For automobile loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates these metrics and benchmarks for each of the following designated borrowers: (i) low-income borrowers; and (ii) moderate income borrowers.
To evaluate small banks or savings associations and intermediate banks or savings associations without data collection, maintenance and reporting requirements, the appropriate Federal banking agency will use data collected by the bank or savings association in the ordinary course of business or through sampling of bank or savings association loan data.
a.
Calculation of Borrower Bank Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Borrower Bank Metric for each major product line and category of designated borrowers in each Retail Lending Test Area by:
1. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual number of originated and purchased loans in the major product line to designated borrowers in the Retail Lending Test Area.
2. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual number of originated and purchased loans in the major product line in the Retail Lending Test Area.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.a.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.a.2 of this appendix.
Example A-8:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period, and closed-end home mortgage loans are a major product line for the bank in FBAA-1. The bank's annual numbers of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans (
i.e.,
the bank's originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans) are 30 (year 1), 40 (year 2), and 30 (year 3) in FBAA-1. The sum of the annual numbers of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans is therefore 100 in the evaluation period. In FBAA-1, the bank originated and purchased 10 closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers (year 1), 3 closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers (year 2), and 7 closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers (year 3) (a total of 20 closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers). In FBAA-1, the Borrower Bank Metric for closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers would be 20 divided by 100, or 0.2 (equivalently, 20 percent).
In FBAA-1, the bank also originated and purchased 12 closed-end home mortgage loans to moderate-income borrowers (year 1), 5 closed-end home mortgage loans to moderate-income borrowers (year 2), and 13 closed-end home mortgage loans to moderate-income borrowers (year 3) (a total of 30 closed-end home mortgage loans to moderate-income borrowers). In FBAA-1, the Borrower Bank Metric for closed-end home mortgage loans to moderate-income borrowers would be 30 divided by 100, or 0.3 (equivalently, 30 percent).
ER01FE24.069
b.
Calculation of Borrower Market Benchmarks for facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas.
For each facility-based assessment area and retail lending assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Borrower Market Metric for each major product line, excluding automobile loans, and for each category of designated borrowers by:
1. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of reported loans in the major product line to designated borrowers in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area originated by all lenders.
2. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of reported loans in the major product line in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area originated by all lenders.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.b.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.b.2 of this appendix.
Example A-9:
The Borrower Market Benchmarks for closed-end home mortgage loans use a three-year evaluation period. Lenders that report closed-end home mortgage loans
originated 500 closed-end home mortgage loans (year 1), 275 closed-end home mortgage loans (year 2), and 225 closed-end home mortgage loans (year 3). The sum of the annual numbers of originated closed-end home mortgage loans is therefore 1,000 in the evaluation period. Lenders that report closed-end home mortgage loans originated 50 closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers (year 1), 20 closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers (year 2), and 30 closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers (year 3) in FBAA-1. The sum of the annual numbers of originated closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers within FBAA-1 is therefore 100. The Borrower Market Benchmark for closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income borrowers would be 100 divided by 1,000, or 0.1 (equivalently, 10 percent).
Lenders that report closed-end home mortgage loans originated 100 loans (year 1), 75 loans (year 2), and 25 loans (year 3) to moderate-income borrowers. The sum of the annual numbers of originated closed-end home mortgage loans to moderate-income borrowers within FBAA-1 is therefore 200. The Borrower Market Benchmark for closed-end home mortgage loans to moderate-income borrowers in FBAA-1 would be 200 divided by 1,000, or 0.2 (equivalently, 20 percent).
ER01FE24.070
c.
Calculation of Borrower Community Benchmarks for facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Borrower Community Benchmark for each category of designated borrowers for each major product line in each facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
1. For closed-end home mortgage loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for low-income borrowers by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of low-income families in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of families in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.c.1.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.c.1.ii of this appendix.
2. For closed-end home mortgage loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for moderate-income borrowers by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of moderate-income families in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of families in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.c.2.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.c.2.ii of this appendix.
3. For small business loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of non-farm businesses in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.c.3.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.c.3.ii of this appendix.
4. For small business loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of non-farm businesses in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.c.4.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.c.1.ii of this appendix.
5. For small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of farms in the facility-based assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.c.5.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.c.5.ii of this appendix.
6. For small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of farms in the facility-based assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.c.6.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.c.6.ii of this appendix.
7. For automobile loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for low-income borrowers by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of low-income households in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of households in the facility-based assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.c.7.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.c.7.ii of this appendix.
8. For automobile loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for moderate-income borrowers by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of moderate-income households in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the annual number of households in the facility-based assessment area.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.c.8.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.c.8.ii of this appendix.
Example A-10:
The Borrower Community Benchmarks for closed-end home mortgage loans use a three-year evaluation period. There were 1,300 families (year 1), 1,300 families (year 2), and 1,400 families (year 3) in FBAA-1. The sum of the number of families in FBAA-1 is therefore 4,000 in the evaluation period. There were 300 low-income families (year 1), 300 low-income families (year 2), and 400 low-income families (year 3) (a total of 1,000 low-income families). The Borrower Community Benchmark for closed-end home mortgage loans to low-income families within the FBAA-1 would be 1,000 divided by 4,000, or 0.25 (equivalently, 25 percent).
There were 350 moderate-income families (year 1), 400 moderate-income families (year 2), and 450 moderate-income families (year 3) (a total of 1,200 moderate-income families). The Borrower Community Benchmark for closed-end home mortgage loans to moderate-income families in FBAA-1 would be 1,200 divided by 4,000, or 0.3 (equivalently, 30 percent).
ER01FE24.071
d.
Calculation of Borrower Market Benchmark for the outside retail lending area.
For a bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Borrower Market
Benchmark for each major product line, excluding automobile loans, and for each category of designated borrowers by taking a weighted average of benchmarks for each component geographic area as follows:
1. Calculating a benchmark for each category of designated borrowers and each major product line within each component geographic area as described in § 25.18(b) using the formula for the Borrower Market Benchmark described in section IV.b of this appendix with the component geographic area in place of the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area, as applicable.
2. Calculating the weighting for each component geographic area and major product line as the percentage of the bank's or savings association's loans in the major product line originated or purchased in the outside retail lending area that are within the component geographic area, based on loan count.
3. Calculating the weighted average benchmark for the outside retail lending area using the component geographic area benchmarks in paragraph IV.d.1 of this appendix and associated weightings in paragraph IV.d.2 of this appendix.
e.
Calculation of Borrower Community Benchmarks for the outside retail lending area.
For a bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Borrower Community Benchmark for each major product line and for each category of designated borrowers in the bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area by taking a weighted average of benchmarks for each component geographic area as follows:
1. Calculating the benchmark for each category of designated borrowers and each major product line within each component geographic area as described in § 25.18(b) using the formula for the Borrower Community Benchmark described in paragraph IV.c of this appendix with the component geographic area in place of the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area, as applicable.
2. Calculating the weighting for each component geographic area and major product line as the percentage of the bank's or savings association's loans in the major product line originated or purchased in the outside retail lending area that are within the component geographic area, based on loan count.
3. Calculating the weighted average benchmark for the outside retail lending area using the component geographic area benchmarks in paragraph IV.e.1 of this appendix and associated weightings calculated in paragraph IV.e.2 of this appendix.

# V. Supporting Conclusions for Major Product Lines Other Than Automobile Lending
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test performance in each Retail Lending Test Area by comparing the bank's or savings association's distribution metrics to sets of performance ranges determined by, as applicable, the market and community benchmarks, as described in this section.
a.
Supporting conclusions for categories of designated census tracts and designated borrowers.
For each major product line, excluding automobile lending, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops separate supporting conclusions for each of the categories outlined in table 1 to this appendix.
Table 1 to Appendix A—Retail Lending Test Categories of Designated Census Tracts and Designated Borrowers
Major product line
Designated census tracts
Designated borrowers
Closed-End Home Mortgage Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Low-Income Borrowers.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Moderate-Income Borrowers.
Small Business Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Non-farm businesses with Gross Annual Revenues of $250,000 or Less.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Non-farm businesses with Gross Annual Revenues Greater than $250,000 but Less Than or Equal to $1 million.
Small Farm Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Farms with Gross Annual Revenues of $250,000 or Less.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Farms with Gross Annual Revenues Greater than $250,000 but Less Than or Equal to $1 million.
b.
Geographic distribution performance ranges.
To evaluate a bank's or savings association's geographic distributions for each major product line, excluding automobile lending, the appropriate Federal banking agency compares the relevant Geographic Bank Metric for each category of designated census tracts to the applicable set of performance ranges. The performance ranges
are determined by the values of the Geographic Market Benchmark and the Geographic Community Benchmark, as well as the multipliers associated with each supporting conclusion category, as follows:
1. The performance threshold for an “Outstanding” supporting conclusion is the lesser of either:
i. The product of 1.0 times the Geographic Community Benchmark; or
ii. The product of 1.15 times the Geographic Market Benchmark.
The “Outstanding” performance range is all potential values of the Geographic Bank Metric equal to or above the “Outstanding” performance threshold.
2. The performance threshold for a “High Satisfactory” Retail Lending Test supporting conclusion is the lesser of either:
i. The product of 0.8 times the Geographic Community Benchmark; or
ii. The product of 1.05 times the Geographic Market Benchmark.
The “High Satisfactory” performance range is all potential values of the Geographic Bank Metric equal to or above the “High Satisfactory” performance threshold but below the Outstanding performance threshold.
3. The performance threshold for a “Low Satisfactory” supporting conclusion is the lesser of either:
i. The product of 0.6 times the Geographic Community Benchmark; or
ii. The product of the 0.8 times the Geographic Market Benchmark.
The “Low Satisfactory” performance range is all potential values of the Geographic Bank Metric equal to or above the “Low Satisfactory” performance threshold but below the High Satisfactory performance threshold.
4. The performance threshold for a “Needs to Improve” supporting conclusion is the lesser of either:
i. The product of 0.3 times the Geographic Community Benchmark; or
ii. The product of 0.33 times the Geographic Market Benchmark.
The “Needs to Improve” performance range is all potential values of the Geographic Bank Metric equal to or above the “Needs to Improve” performance threshold but below the “Low Satisfactory” performance threshold.
5. The “Substantial Noncompliance” performance range is all potential values of the Geographic Bank Metric below the “Needs to Improve” performance threshold.
c.
Geographic distribution supporting conclusions and performance scores.
The appropriate Federal banking agency compares each Geographic Bank Metric to the performance ranges provided in paragraphs V.b.1 through V.b.5 of this appendix. The geographic distribution supporting conclusion for each category of designated census tracts is determined by the performance range within which the Geographic Bank Metric falls. Each supporting conclusion is assigned a numerical performance score using the following corresponding points values:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
d.
Borrower distribution performance ranges.
To evaluate a bank's or savings association's borrower distributions for each major product line, excluding automobile lending, the appropriate Federal banking agency compares the relevant Borrower Bank Metric for each category of designated borrowers to the applicable set of performance ranges. The performance ranges are determined by the values of the Borrower Market Benchmark and Borrower Community Benchmark, as well as the multipliers associated with each supporting conclusion category, as follows:
1. The performance threshold for an “Outstanding” supporting conclusion is the lesser of either:
i. The product of 1.0 times the Borrower Community Benchmark; or
ii. The product of 1.15 times the Borrower Market Benchmark.
The “Outstanding” performance range is all potential values of the Borrower Bank Metric equal to or above the “Outstanding” performance threshold.
2. The performance threshold for a “High Satisfactory” supporting conclusion is the lesser of either:
i. The product of 0.8 times the Borrower Community Benchmark; or
ii. The product of 1.05 times the Borrower Market Benchmark.
The “High Satisfactory” performance range is all potential values of the Borrower Bank Metric equal to or above the “High Satisfactory” performance threshold but below the Outstanding performance threshold.
3. The performance threshold for a “Low Satisfactory” supporting conclusion is the lesser of either:
i. The product of 0.6 times the Borrower Community Benchmark; or
ii. The product of 0.8 times the Borrower Market Benchmark.
The “Low Satisfactory” performance range is all potential values of the Borrower Bank Metric equal to or above the “Low Satisfactory” performance threshold but below the High Satisfactory performance threshold.
4. The performance threshold for a “Needs to Improve” supporting conclusion is the lesser of either:
i. The product of 0.3 times the Borrower Community Benchmark; or
ii. The product of 0.33 times the Borrower Market Benchmark.
The “Needs to Improve” performance range is all potential values of the Borrower Bank Metric equal to or above the “Needs to Improve” performance threshold but below the “Low Satisfactory” performance threshold.
5. The “Substantial Noncompliance” performance range is all potential values of the Borrower Bank Metric below the “Needs to Improve” performance threshold.
e.
Borrower distribution supporting conclusions and performance scores.
The appropriate Federal banking agency compares each Borrower Bank Metric to the performance ranges provided in paragraphs V.d.1 through V.d.5 of this appendix. The borrower distribution supporting conclusion for each category of designated borrowers is determined by the performance range within which the Borrower Bank Metric falls. Each supporting conclusion is assigned a numerical performance score using the following corresponding point values:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0

# VI. Supporting Conclusions for Automobile Lending
a.
Supporting conclusions for categories of designated census tracts and designated borrowers.
For any bank or savings association for which automobile lending is evaluated under § 25.22, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops separate supporting conclusions for each of the categories outlined in table 2 to this appendix.
Table 2 to Appendix A—Automobile Loans: Categories of Designated Census Tracts and Designated Borrowers
Major product line
Designated census tracts
Designated borrowers
Automobile Lending
Low-Income Census Tracts
Low-Income Borrowers.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Moderate-Income Borrowers.
b.
Geographic distribution.
The appropriate Federal banking agency develops the supporting conclusion for a bank's or savings association's geographic distribution for automobile lending based on a comparison of the Geographic Bank Metric for automobile lending in each category of designated census tracts to the corresponding Geographic Community Benchmark.
c.
Borrower distribution.
The appropriate Federal banking agency develops the supporting conclusion for a bank's or savings association's borrower distribution for automobile lending based on a comparison of the Borrower Bank Metric for automobile lending in each category of designated borrowers to the corresponding Borrower Community Benchmark.
d.
Performance scores.
Each supporting conclusion is assigned a numerical performance score using the following corresponding point values:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0

# VII. Retail Lending Test Conclusions—All Major Product Lines
a. The appropriate Federal banking agency determines a bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test performance conclusion for a major product line in a Retail Lending Test Area by calculating a weighted performance score for each major product line:
1. The appropriate Federal banking agency develops a weighted average performance score for each major product line in each Retail Lending Test Area as follows:
i. The appropriate Federal banking agency creates a weighted average performance score across the categories of designated census tracts (
i.e., geographic distribution average
) and a weighted average performance score across the categories of designated borrowers (
i.e., borrower distribution average
).
ii. For the geographic distribution average of each major product line, the weighting assigned to each category of designated census tracts is based on the demographics of the Retail Testing Area as outlined in the following table:
Table 3 to Appendix A—Retail Lending, Test Geographic Distribution Average—Weights
Major product line
Category of
designated census tracts
Weight
Closed-End Home Mortgage Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of owner-occupied housing units in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in low-income census tracts.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of owner-occupied housing units in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in moderate-income census tracts.
Small Business Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of non-farm businesses in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in low-income census tracts.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of non-farm businesses in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in moderate-income census tracts.
Small Farm Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of farms in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in low-income census tracts.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of farms in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in moderate-income census tracts.
Automobile Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of households in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in low-income census tracts.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of households in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in moderate-income census tracts.
In the case of a Retail Lending Test Area that contains no low-income census tracts and no moderate-income census tracts, the bank or savings association will not receive a geographic distribution average for that assessment area.
Example A-11:
A large bank's closed-end home mortgage loans constitute a major product line for the bank in a facility-based assessment area. The bank's geographic distribution supporting conclusions for closed-end home mortgage loans in this facility-based assessment area are “High Satisfactory” (performance score of 7 points) for low-income census tracts and “Needs to Improve” (performance score of 3 points) for moderate-income census tracts. Owner-occupied housing units in moderate-income census tracts represents 20 percent of all owner-occupied housing units in the facility-based assessment area, and owner-occupied housing units in low-income census tracts represents 5 percent of all owner-occupied housing units in the facility-based assessment area. Accordingly, the weight assigned to the moderate-income geographic distribution performance score is 80 percent [20 percent/(20 percent + 5 percent) = 80 percent] and the weight assigned to the low-income geographic distribution performance score is 20 percent [5 percent/(20 percent + 5 percent) = 20 percent]. The bank's geographic distribution average for closed-end home mortgage loans in this facility-based assessment area is 3.8 [(7 points × 0.2 weight = 1.4) + (3 points × 0.8 weight = 2.4)].
iii. For the borrower distribution average of each major product line, the weighting assigned to each category of designated borrowers is based on the demographics of the Retail Lending Test Area as outlined in the following table:
Table 4 to Appendix A—Retail Lending Test, Borrower Distribution Average—Weights
Major product line
Categories of designated borrowers
Weight
Closed-End Home Mortgage Loans
Low-Income Borrowers
Percentage of total number of low-income and moderate-income families in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are low-income families.
Moderate-Income Borrowers
Percentage of total number of low-income and moderate-income families in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are moderate-income families.
Small Business Loans
Non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less
Percentage of total number of non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less and non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less.
Non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 and less than or equal to $1 million
Percentage of total number of non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less and non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are non-farm businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,00 but less than or equal to $1 million.
Small Farm Loans
Farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less
Percentage of total number of farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less and farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less.
Farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 and less than or equal to $1 million
Percentage of total number of farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less and farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million.
Automobile Loans
Low-Income Borrowers
Percentage of total number of low-income and moderate-income households in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are low-income households.
Moderate-Income Borrowers
Percentage of total number of low-income and moderate-income households in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are moderate-income households.
Example A-12:
Building on example A-11 to this appendix, the bank's borrower distribution supporting conclusions for closed-end home mortgage loans in this facility-based assessment area are “Outstanding” (performance score of 10 points) for low-income borrowers and “Low Satisfactory” (performance score of 6 points) for moderate-income borrowers. Low-income families represent 14 percent of all families in the facility-based assessment area and moderate-income families represent 6 percent of all families in the facility-based assessment area. Accordingly, the weight assigned to the low-income borrower distribution performance score is 70 percent [14 percent/(14 percent + 6 percent) = 70 percent] and the weight assigned to the moderate-income borrower distribution performance score is 30 percent [6 percent/(14 percent + 6 percent) = 30 percent]. The bank's borrower distribution average for closed-end home mortgage loans in this facility-based assessment area is 8.8 [(10 points × 0.7 weight = 7.0) + (6 points × 0.3 weight = 1.8)].
2. For each major product line, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the average of the geographic distribution average and the borrower distribution average (
i.e., product line score
). If a bank or savings association has no geographic distribution average for a product (due to the absence of both low-income census tracts and moderate-income census tracts in the geographic area), the product line score is the borrower distribution average.
Example A-13:
Based on examples A-11 and A-12 to this appendix, the bank's product line score for closed-end home mortgage loans is 6.3 [(3.8 geographic distribution average × 0.5 weight = 1.9) + (8.8 borrower distribution average × 0.5 weight = 4.4)].
b. For each Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a weighted average of product line scores across all major product lines (
i.e., Retail Lending Test Area Score
). For each Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency uses a ratio of the bank's or savings association's loan originations and purchases in each major product line to its loan originations and purchases in all major product lines during the evaluation period, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12, as weights in the weighted average.
Example A-14:
In addition to the product line score of 6.3 for closed-end home mortgage loans in example A-13 to this appendix, the bank has a product line score of 4.2 for small business lending in the same facility-based assessment area. Among major product lines, 60 percent of the bank's loans in the facility-based assessment area are closed-end home mortgages and 40 percent are small business loans based upon the combination of loan dollars and loan count. Accordingly, the weight assigned to the closed-end home mortgage product line score is 60 percent and the weight assigned to the small business product line score is 40 percent. The bank's Retail Lending Test Area Score for this facility-based assessment area is 5.46 [(6.3 closed-end home mortgage loan product line score × 0.6 weight = 3.78) + (4.2 small business loan product line score × 0.4 weight = 1.68)].
c. The appropriate Federal banking agency then develops a Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion corresponding with the conclusion category that is nearest to the Retail Lending Test Area Score, as follows:
Recommended
conclusion
Retail lending test area score
Outstanding
8.5 or more.
High Satisfactory
6.5 or more but less than 8.5.
Low Satisfactory
4.5 or more but less than 6.5.
Needs to Improve
1.5 or more but less than 4.5.
Substantial Noncompliance
less than 1.5.
Example A-15:
Based on example A-14 to this appendix, the bank's Retail Lending Test Area Score is associated with a “Low Satisfactory” conclusion, so the bank's Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion for this facility-based assessment area is “Low Satisfactory.”
d. Once a recommended conclusion is determined for a Retail Lending Test Area, the performance context information provided in § 25.21(d) and the additional factors provided in § 25.22(g) inform the appropriate Federal banking agency's determination of the Retail Lending Test conclusion for the Retail Lending Test Area. The agency assigns a Retail Lending Test conclusion for the Retail Lending Test Area of “Outstanding,” “High Satisfactory,” “Low Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance.”

# VIII. Retail Lending Test Weighting and Conclusions for States, Multistate MSAs, and the Institution
The appropriate Federal banking agency develops the Retail Lending Test conclusions for States, multistate MSAs, and the institution as described in this section.
a. The appropriate Federal banking agency translates Retail Lending Test conclusions for facility-based assessment areas, retail lending assessment areas, and as applicable, the outside retail lending area into numerical performance scores, as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
b. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the weighted average of Retail Lending Test Area performance scores for a State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution (
i.e., performance score for the Retail Lending Test
). For the weighted average for a State or multistate MSA, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas in the State or multistate MSA pursuant to § 25.28(c). For the weighted average for the institution, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers all of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas and, as applicable, the bank's or savings association's outside retail lending area. Each Retail Lending Test Area performance score is weighted by the average of the following two ratios:
1. The ratio measuring the share of the bank's or savings association's deposits in the Retail Lending Test Area, calculated by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in the Retail Lending Test Area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in all Retail Lending Test Areas in the State, in the multistate MSA, or for the institution, as applicable.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph VIII.b.1.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph VIII.b.1.ii of this appendix.
For a bank or savings association that reports deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a Retail Lending Test Area is the total of annual average daily balances of deposits reported by the bank or savings association in counties in the Retail Lending Test Area for that year. For a bank or savings association that does not report deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a Retail Lending Test Area is the total of deposits assigned to facilities reported by the bank or savings association in the Retail Lending Test Area in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits for that year.
2. The ratio measuring the share of the bank's or savings association's loans in the Retail Lending Test Area, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, calculated by dividing:
i. The bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and, if a product line for the bank or savings association, automobile loans in the Retail Lending Test Area originated or purchased during the evaluation period; by
ii. The bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and, if a product line for the bank or savings association, automobile loans in all Retail Lending Test Areas in the State, in the multistate MSA, or for the institution, as applicable, originated or purchased during the evaluation period.
c. The appropriate Federal banking agency develops a conclusion corresponding to the conclusion category that is nearest to the performance score for the Retail Lending Test for the State, the multistate MSA, or the institution, as applicable, as follows:
Conclusion
Retail lending test performance score
Outstanding
8.5 or more.
High Satisfactory
6.5 or more but less than 8.5.
Low Satisfactory
4.5 or more but less than 6.5.
Needs to Improve
1.5 or more but less than 4.5.
Substantial Noncompliance
Less than 1.5.
d. The agency considers relevant performance context information provided in § 25.21(d) to inform the appropriate Federal banking agency's determination of the bank's or savings association's Retail Lending Test conclusion for the State, the multistate MSA, or the institution, as applicable.
Example A-16:
A large bank operates in one State only, and has two facility-based assessment areas and one retail lending assessment area in that state and also engages in closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending (but not automobile lending, as it is not a product line for the bank) in its outside retail lending area.
Additionally:
i. Facility-based assessment area 1 (FBAA-1) is associated with 75 percent of the deposits in all of the Retail Lending Test Areas of the bank (based on dollar amount) and 10 percent of the bank's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans (based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12). The bank received a “Needs to Improve” (3 points) Retail Lending Test conclusion in FBAA-1;
ii. Facility-based assessment area 2 (FBAA-2) is associated with 15 percent of the deposits in all of the Retail Lending Test Areas of the bank and 20 percent of the bank's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans (based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12). The bank received a “Low Satisfactory” (6 points) Retail Lending Test conclusion in FBAA-2;
iii. The Retail lending assessment area is associated with 8 percent of the deposits in all of the Retail Lending Test Areas of the
bank and 68 percent of the bank's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans (based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12). The bank received an “Outstanding” (10 points) Retail Lending Test conclusion in the retail lending assessment area; and
iv. The bank's outside retail lending area, is associated with 2 percent of the deposits in all of the Retail Lending Test Areas of the bank and 2 percent of the bank's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans (based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count as defined in § 25.12). The bank received a “High Satisfactory” (7 points) Retail Lending Test conclusion in the outside retail lending area.
Calculating weights:
i. For facility-based assessment area 1: weight = 42.5 percent [(75 percent of deposits + 10 percent of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans)/2];
ii. For facility-based assessment area 2: weight = 17.5 percent [(15 percent of deposits + 20 percent of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans)/2];
iii. For the retail lending assessment area: weight = 38 percent [(8 percent of deposits + 68 percent of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans)/2]; and
iv. For the outside retail lending area: weight = 2 percent [(2 percent of deposits + 2 percent of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans)/2].
Institution Retail Lending Test Performance Score and Conclusion:
Using the relevant points values—“Outstanding” (10 points); “High Satisfactory” (7 points); “Low Satisfactory” (6 points); “Needs to Improve” (3 points); “Substantial Noncompliance” (0 points)—and based on the illustration in this example A-16, the bank's Retail Lending Test performance score for the institution is 6.3 [(0.425 weight × 3 points in facility-based assessment area 1) + (0.175 weight × 6 points in facility-based assessment area 2) + (0.38 weight × 10 points in retail lending assessment area) + (0.02 weight × 7 points in the outside retail lending area)].
A performance score of 6.3 corresponds with the conclusion category “Low Satisfactory,” so the bank's Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion at the institution level is “Low Satisfactory.” Relevant performance context information provided in § 25.21(d) may inform the appropriate Federal banking agency's determination of the bank's conclusion at the institution level.
Example A-17:
An intermediate bank operates in a single State, has two facility-based assessment areas, and also engages in closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending (but not automobile lending, as automobile lending is not a product line for the bank) in its outside retail lending area.
Additionally:
i. Facility-based assessment area 1 (FBAA-1) is associated with 60 percent of the deposits in all of the Retail Lending Test Areas of the bank and 30 percent of the bank's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans. The bank received an “Outstanding” (10 points) Retail Lending Test conclusion in FBAA-1;
ii. Facility-based assessment area 2 (FBAA-2 is) associated with 40 percent of the deposits in all of the Retail Lending Test Areas of the bank and 10 percent of the bank's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans. The bank received a “High Satisfactory” (7 points) Retail Lending Test conclusion in FBAA-2; and
iii. The bank's outside retail lending area is associated with 0 percent of the deposits in all of the Retail Lending Test Areas of the bank (the bank did not voluntarily collect and maintain depositor location data, so all deposits in the bank are attributed to its branches within facility-based assessment areas) and 60 percent of the bank's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans. The bank received a “Needs to Improve” (3 points) Retail Lending Test conclusion in the outside retail lending area.
Calculating weights:
i. For FBAA-1: weight = 45 percent [(60 percent of deposits + 30 percent of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans)/2];
ii. For FBAA-2: weight = 25 percent [(40 percent of deposits + 10 percent of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans)/2]; and
iii. For the outside retail lending area: weight = 30 percent [(0 percent of deposits + 60 percent of closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans)/2].
Institution Retail Lending Test Performance Score and Conclusion:
Using the relevant points values—“Outstanding” (10 points); “High Satisfactory” (7 points); “Low Satisfactory” (6 points); “Needs to Improve” (3 points); “Substantial Noncompliance” (0 points)—and based on the illustration in this example A-17, the bank's recommended Retail Lending Test performance score at the institution level is 7.2 [(0.45 weight × 10 points in FBAA-1) + (0.25 weight × 7 points in FBAA-2) + (0.3 weight × 3 points in the outside retail lending area)].
A performance score of 7.2 corresponds with the conclusion category “High Satisfactory,” so the bank's Retail Lending Test recommended conclusion at the institution
level is “High Satisfactory.” Relevant performance context information provided in § 25.21(d) may inform the appropriate Federal banking agency's determination of the bank's conclusion at the institution level.
[89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024]
Pt. 25, App. A, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 7168, Feb. 1, 2024, appendix A to part 25 was amended by:
a. Adding a sentence to the end of paragraph I.a.1;
b. Removing the text “subject to reporting pursuant to § 25.42(b)(1), 12 CFR 228.42(b)(1) or 345.42(b)(1),” from paragraph I.b introductory text and adding in its place the text “subject to reporting pursuant to subpart B of 12 CFR part 1002”;
c. Adding a sentence to the end of paragraph III.a.1;
d. Revising paragraphs III.c.3.i and ii, III.c.4.i and ii, III.c.5.i and ii, and III.c.6.i and ii;
e. In paragraph III.c.8.iii, revising Example A-7;
f. Revising the third and fourth introductory paragraphs to section IV;
g. Adding a sentence to the end of paragraph IV.a.1;
h. Revising the introductory paragraph to IV.c.3 and paragraphs IV.c.3.i and ii;
i. Revising the introductory paragraph to IV.c.4 and paragraphs IV.c.4.i and ii;
j. Revising the introductory paragraph to IV.c.5 and paragraphs IV.c.5.i and ii;
k. Revising the introductory paragraph to IV.c.6 and paragraphs IV.c.6.i and ii;
l. In section V, in paragraph a, in table 1, revising the entries for “Small Business Loans” and “Small Farm Loans”; and
m. In section VII:
i. In paragraph a.1.ii, in table 3, revising the entries for “Small Business Loans” and “Small Farm Loans”; and
ii. In paragraph a.1.iii, in table 4, revising the entries for “Small Business Loans” and “Small Farm Loans”.
The effective date is delayed indefinitely. For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:

# Appendix A to Part 25—Calculations for the Retail Lending Test
I. * * *
a. * * *
1. * * * A bank's loan purchases that otherwise meet the definition of a covered credit transaction to a small business, as those terms are defined in 12 CFR 1002.104 and 1002.106(b), may be included in the numerator of the Bank Volume Metric at the bank's option.
III. * * *
a. * * *
1. * * * A bank's loan purchases that otherwise meet the definition of a covered credit transaction to a small business, as provided in 12 CFR 1002.104 and 1002.106(b), may be included in the numerator of the Geographic Bank Metric at the bank's option.
c. * * *
3. * * *
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small businesses in low-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small businesses in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
4. * * *
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small businesses in moderate-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small businesses in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
5. * * *
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small farms in low-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small farms in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
6. * * *
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small farms in moderate-income census tracts in the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small farms in
the facility-based assessment area or retail lending assessment area.
8. * * *
iii. * * *
Example A-7:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. There were 4,000 small business establishments, based upon the sum of the numbers of small business establishments over the years in the evaluation period (1,300 small business establishments in year 1, 1,300 small business establishments in year 2, and 1,400 small business establishments in year 3), in a bank's facility-based assessment area. Of these small business establishments, 500 small business establishments were in low-income census tracts, based upon the sum of the numbers of small business establishments in low-income census tracts over the years in the evaluation period (200 small business establishments in year 1,150 small business in year 2, and 150 small business establishments in year 3). The Geographic Community Benchmark for small business loans in low-income census tracts would be 500 divided by 4,000, or 0.125 (equivalently, 12.5 percent). In addition, 1,000 small business establishments in that facility-based assessment area were in moderate-income census tracts, over the years in the evaluation period (400 small business establishments in year 1,300 small business establishments in year 2, and 300 small business establishments in year 3). The Geographic Community Benchmark for small business loans in moderate-income census tracts would be 1,000 divided by 4,000, or 0.25 (equivalently, 25 percent).
ER01FE24.100
IV. * * *
For small business loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates these metrics and benchmarks for each of the following
designated borrowers:
(i) small businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less; and (ii) small businesses with gross annual revenues of more than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million.
For small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates these metrics and benchmarks for each of the following designated borrowers: (i) small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less; and (ii) small farms with gross annual revenues of more than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million.
a. * * *
1. * * * A bank's loan purchases that otherwise meet the definition of a covered credit transaction to a small business, as provided in 12 CFR 1002.104 and 1002.106(b), may be included in the numerator of the Borrower Bank Metric at the bank's option.
c. * * *
3. For small business loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for small businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less in the facility-based lending area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small businesses in the facility-based lending area or retail lending assessment area.
4. For small business loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for small businesses with gross annual revenues of more than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small businesses with gross annual revenues of more than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the facility-based lending area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small businesses in the facility-based lending area or retail lending assessment area.
5. For small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less in the facility-based lending area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small farms in the facility-based lending area or retail lending assessment area.
6. For small farm loans, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Borrower Community Benchmark for small farms with gross annual revenues of more than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small farms with gross annual revenues of more than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the facility-based lending area or retail lending assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the numbers of small farms in the facility-based lending area or retail lending assessment area.
V. * * *
a. * * *
Table 1 to Appendix A—Retail Lending Test Categories of Designated Census Tracts and Designated Borrowers
Major product line
Designated census tracts
Designated borrowers
* * * * * * *
Small Business Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Small businesses with Gross Annual Revenues of $250,000 or Less.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Small businesses with Gross Annual Revenues Greater than $250,000 but Less Than or Equal to $1 million.
Small Farm Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Small farms with Gross Annual Revenues of $250,000 or Less.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Small farms with Gross Annual Revenues Greater than $250,000 but Less Than or Equal to $1 million.
VII. * * *
a. * * *
1. * * *
ii. * * *
Table 3 to Appendix A—Retail Lending Test, Geographic Distribution Average—Weights
Major product line
Category of designated census tracts
Weight
* * * * * * *
Small Business Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of small businesses in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in low-income census tracts.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of small businesses in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in moderate-income census tracts.
Small Farm Loans
Low-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of small farms in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in low-income census tracts.
Moderate-Income Census Tracts
Percentage of total number of small farms in low- and moderate-income census tracts in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are in moderate-income census tracts.
* * * * * * *
iii. * * *
Table 4 to Appendix A—Retail Lending Test, Borrower Distribution Average—Weights
Major product line
Categories of designated borrowers
Weight
* * * * * * *
Small Business Loans
Small businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less
Percentage of total number of small businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less and small businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are small businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less.
Small businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 and less than or equal to $1 million
Percentage of total number of small businesses with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less and small businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are small businesses with gross annual revenues greater than $250,00 but less than or equal to $1 million.
Small Farm Loans
Small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less
Percentage of total number of small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less and small farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less.
Small farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 and less than or equal to $1 million
Percentage of total number of small farms with gross annual revenues of $250,000 or less and small farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million in the applicable Retail Lending Test Area that are small farms with gross annual revenues greater than $250,000 but less than or equal to $1 million.
* * * * * * *
Pt. 25, App. B

# Appendix B to Part 25—Calculations for the Community Development Tests
This appendix, based on requirements described in §§ 25.24 through 25.26 and 25.28, includes the following sections:
I. Community Development Financing Tests—Calculation Components and Allocation of Community Development Loans and Community Development Investments
II. Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24—Calculations for Metrics, Benchmarks, and Combining Performance Scores
III. Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26—Calculations for Metrics and Benchmarks
IV. Weighting of Conclusions

# I. Community Development Financing Tests—Calculation Components and Allocation of Community Development Loans and Community Development Investments
For purposes of the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 and Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26, the appropriate Federal banking
agency identifies the community development loans and community development investments included in the numerator of the metrics and benchmarks and the deposits or assets included in the denominator of the metrics and benchmarks, as applicable, pursuant to paragraph I.a of this appendix. The appropriate Federal banking agency determines whether to include a community development loan or community development investment in the numerator for a particular metric or benchmark pursuant to the allocation provisions in paragraph I.b of this appendix.
a.
Community development loans and community development investments, deposits, and assets included in the community development financing metrics and benchmarks—in general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the community development financing metrics and benchmarks in §§ 25.24 and 25.26 using community development loans and community development investments and deposits or assets, as follows:
1.
Numerator
—i.
Community development loans and community development investments considered.
The appropriate Federal banking agency includes community development loans and community development investments originated, purchased, refinanced, or renewed by a depository institution or attributed to a depository institution pursuant to § 25.21(b) and (c) (
e.g.,
an affiliate community development loan) in the numerator of the metrics and benchmarks. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments by summing the dollar volume of the following community development loans and community development investments for each calendar year in an evaluation period (
i.e., annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments
):
A. The dollar volume of all community development loans originated or purchased and community development investments made, including legally binding commitments to extend credit or legally binding commitments to invest,
1
in that calendar year;
1
The dollar volume of a legally binding commitment to extend credit or legally binding commitment to invest in any given year is: (1) the full dollar volume committed; or (2) if drawn upon, the combined dollar volume of the outstanding commitment and any drawn portion of the commitment.
B. The dollar volume of any increase in the calendar year to an existing community development loan that is refinanced or renewed and in an existing community development investment that is renewed;
C. The outstanding dollar volume of community development loans originated or purchased in previous calendar years and community development investments made in previous calendar years, as of December 31 for each calendar year that the loan or investment remains on the depository institution's balance sheet; and
D. The outstanding dollar volume, less any increase reported in paragraph I.a.1.B of this appendix in the same calendar year, of a community development loan the depository institution refinanced or renewed in a calendar year subsequent to the calendar year of origination or purchase, as of December 31 for each calendar year that the loan remains on the depository institution's balance sheet, and an existing community development investment renewed in a calendar year subsequent to the calendar year of the investment, as of December 31 for each calendar year that the investment remains on the depository institution's balance sheet.
ii.
Community development loan and community development investment allocation.
To calculate the metrics and benchmarks provided in §§ 25.24 and 25.26, the appropriate Federal banking agency includes all community development loans and community development investments that are allocated to the specific facility-based assessment area, State, multistate MSA, or nationwide area, respectively, in the numerator for the metric and benchmarks applicable to that geographic area.
See
paragraph I.b of this appendix for the community development financing allocation provisions.
2.
Denominator.
i.
Annual dollar volume of deposits.
For purposes of metrics and benchmarks in § 25.24, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates an annual dollar volume of deposits in a depository institution that is specific to each metric or benchmark for each calendar year in the evaluation period (
i.e., annual dollar volume of deposits
). For a depository institution that collects, maintains, and reports deposits data as provided in § 25.42 or 12 CFR 228.42 or 345.42, the annual dollar volume of deposits is determined using the annual average daily balance of deposits in the depository institution as provided in statements (
e.g.,
monthly or quarterly statements) based on the deposit location. For a depository institution that does not collect, maintain, and report deposits data as provided in § 25.42 or 12 CFR 228.42 or 345.42, the annual dollar volume of deposits is determined using the deposits assigned to each facility pursuant to the FDIC's Summary of Deposits.
ii.
Annual dollar volume of assets.
For purposes of the metrics and benchmarks in § 25.26, the appropriate Federal banking agency calculates an annual dollar volume of assets for each calendar year in the evaluation period (
i.e., the annual dollar volume of assets
). The annual dollar volume of assets is calculated by averaging the assets for each quarter end in the calendar year.
b.
Allocation of community development loans and community development investments.
1.
In general.
For the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 and the Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers community development loans and community development investments in the evaluation of a bank's or savings association's performance in a facility-based assessment area, State and multistate MSA, as applicable, and the nationwide area, based on the data provided by the bank or savings association pursuant to § __.42(a)(5)(ii)(E) and the specific location, if available, pursuant to § 25.42(a)(5)(ii)(D). As appropriate, the appropriate Federal banking agency may also consider publicly available information and information provided by government or community sources that demonstrates that a community development loan or community development investment benefits or serves a facility-based assessment area, State, or multistate MSA, or the nationwide area.
2. A bank or savings association may allocate a community development loan or community development investment as follows:
i. A community development loan or community development investment that benefits or serves only one county, and not any areas beyond that one county, would have the full dollar amount of the activity allocated to that county.
ii. A community development loan or community development investment that benefits or serves multiple counties, a State, a multistate MSA, multiple States, multiple multistate MSAs, or the nationwide area is allocated according to either specific documentation that the bank or savings association can provide regarding the dollar amount allocated to each county or based on the geographic scope of the activity, as follows:
A.
Allocation approach if specific documentation is available.
A bank or savings association may allocate a community development loan or community development investment or portion of a loan or investment based on documentation that specifies the appropriate dollar volume to assign to each county, such as specific addresses and dollar volumes associated with each address, or other information that indicates the specific dollar volume of the loan or investment that benefits or serves each county.
B.
Allocation approach based on geographic scope of a community development loan or community development investment.
2
In the absence of specific documentation, the appropriate Federal banking agency will allocate a community development loan or community development investment based on the geographic scope of the loan or investment as follows:
2
For the purposes of allocating community development loans and community development investments, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers low- or moderate-income families to be located in a State or multistate MSA, as applicable, consistent with § 25.28(c).
1.
Allocate at the county level for a loan or investment with a geographic scope of one county;
2.
Allocate at the county level based on the proportion of low- and moderate-income families in each county for a loan or investment with a geographic scope of less than an entire State or multistate MSA;
3.
Allocate at the State or multistate MSA level for a loan or investment with a geographic scope of the entire State or multistate MSA, as applicable;
4.
Allocate at the State or multistate MSA level, as applicable, based on the proportion of low- and moderate-income families in each State or multistate MSA for a loan or investment with a geographic scope of one or more State(s) or multistate MSA(s), but not the entire nation; and
5.
Allocate at the nationwide area level for a loan or investment with a geographic scope of the entire Nation.
Table 1 to Appendix B—Community Development Loan or Community Development Investment Allocation
Community development loan or community development investment benefits or serves
Allocation approach if specific documentation is available
Allocation approach based on geographic scope of activity
One county
Allocate to county
NA.
Multiple counties that are part of one State or multistate MSA
Allocate to counties
Allocate to counties in proportions equivalent to the distribution of low- and moderate-income families.
One State or multistate MSA
Allocate to counties
Allocate to the State or multistate MSA.
Multiple States or multistate MSAs, less than the entire nation
Allocate to counties
Allocate to the States or multistate MSAs, as applicable, based on the proportion of low- and moderate-income families in each State or multistate MSA.
Nationwide area
Allocate to counties
Allocate to nationwide area.

# II. Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24—Calculations for Metrics, Benchmarks, and Combining Performance Scores
The calculations for metrics, benchmarks, and combination of performance scores for Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 are provided in this section. Additional information regarding relevant calculation components is set forth in paragraph I.a of this appendix.
a.
Bank Assessment Area Community Development Financing Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Bank Assessment Area Community Development Financing Metric in § 25.24(b)(1) by:
1. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the facility-based assessment area for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits located in the facility-based assessment area for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph II.a.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.a.2 of this appendix.
Example B-1:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period. The bank's annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a facility-based assessment area are $35,000 (year 1), $25,000 (year 2), and $40,000 (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a facility-based assessment area is therefore $100,000. The bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the facility-based assessment area are $3.1 million (year 1), $3.3 million (year 2), and $3.6 million (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the facility-based assessment is therefore $10 million. For the evaluation period, the Bank Assessment Area Community Development Financing Metric would be $100,000 divided by $10 million, or 0.01 (equivalently, 1 percent).
ER01FE24.072
b.
Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(b)(2)(i) for each facility-based assessment area by:
1. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the facility-based assessment area for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of deposits located in the facility-based assessment area for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph II.b.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.b.2 of this appendix.
Example B-2:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. The annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a facility-based assessment area for all large depository institutions are $3.25 million (year 1), $3 million (year 2), and $3.75 million (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the facility-based assessment area conducted by all large depository institutions is therefore $10 million. The annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the facility-based assessment area in all large depository institutions are $330 million (year 1), $330 million (year 2), and $340 million (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the facility-based assessment area in all large depository institutions is therefore $1 billion. For the evaluation period, the Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark for the facility-based assessment area would be $10 million divided by $1 billion, or 0.01 (equivalently, 1 percent).
ER01FE24.073
c.
MSA and Nonmetropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates an MSA Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark to be used for each MSA in which the bank or savings association has a facility-based assessment area in the MSA. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a Nonmetropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark to be used for each nonmetropolitan area in which the bank or savings association has a facility-based assessment area in the nonmetropolitan area.
1.
MSA Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the MSA Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(b)(2)(ii)(A) by:
i. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve metropolitan areas in the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
ii. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of deposits located in metropolitan areas in the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph II.c.1.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.c.1.ii of this appendix.
Example B-3:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. The annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve metropolitan areas in the nationwide area conducted by all large depository institutions are $98 billion (year 1), $100 billion (year 2), and $102 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve metropolitan areas in the nationwide area conducted by all large depository institutions is therefore $300 billion. The annual dollar volumes of deposits located in metropolitan areas in the nationwide area in all large depository institutions are $14.9 trillion (year 1), $15 trillion (year 2), and $15.1 trillion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of deposits located in metropolitan areas in the nationwide area in all large depository institutions is therefore $45 trillion. For the evaluation period, the Metropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark would be $300 billion divided by $45 trillion, or 0.007 (equivalently, 0.7 percent).
ER01FE24.074
2.
Nonmetropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Nonmetropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(b)(2)(ii)(B) by:
i. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve nonmetropolitan areas in the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
ii. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of deposits located in nonmetropolitan areas in the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph II.c.2.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.c.2.ii of this appendix.
Example B-4:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. The annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve nonmetropolitan areas in the nationwide area conducted by all large depository institutions are $3 billion (year 1), $3.2 billion (year 2),
and $3.8 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve nonmetropolitan areas in the nationwide area conducted by all large depository institutions is therefore $10 billion. The annual dollar volumes of deposits located in nonmetropolitan areas in all large depository institutions are $330 billion (year 1), $334 billion (year 2), and $336 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of deposits located in nonmetropolitan areas in the nationwide area in all large depository institutions is therefore $1 trillion. For the evaluation period, the Nonmetropolitan Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark would be $10 billion divided by $1 trillion, or 0.01 (equivalently, 1 percent).
ER01FE24.075
d.
Bank State Community Development Financing Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Bank State Community Development Financing Metric in § 25.24(c)(2)(i) for each State in which the bank or savings association has a facility-based assessment area by:
1. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a State (which includes all activities within the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and outside of its facility-based assessment areas but within the State) for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits located in a State for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraphs II.d.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.d.2 of this appendix.
Example B-5:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period. The bank's annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the State are $15 million (year 1), $17 million (year 2), and $18 million (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the State conducted by a bank is therefore $50 million. The bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the State are $1.5 billion (year 1), $1.6 billion (year 2), and $1.9 billion (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the State is therefore $5 billion. For the evaluation period, the Bank State Community Development Financing Metric would be $50 million divided by $5 billion, or 0.01 (equivalently, 1 percent).
ER01FE24.076
e.
State Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the State Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(c)(2)(ii)(A) by:
1. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of a State for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of deposits located in the State for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph II.e.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.e.2 of this appendix.
Example B-6:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. The annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the State
conducted by all large depository institutions are $2.3 billion (year 1), $2.5 billion (year 2), and $2.7 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the State conducted by all large depository institutions is therefore $7.5 billion. The annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the State in all large depository institutions are $160 billion (year 1), $170 billion (year 2), and $170 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the State in all large depository institutions is therefore $500 billion. For the evaluation period, the State Community Development Financing Benchmark would be $7.5 billion divided by $500 billion, or 0.015 (equivalently, 1.5 percent).
ER01FE24.077
f.
State Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the State Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(c)(2)(ii)(B) by averaging all of the applicable Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks (see paragraph II.b of this appendix) in a State for the evaluation period, after weighting each pursuant to paragraph II.o of this appendix.
Example B-7:
The bank has two facility-based assessment areas (FBAAs) in a State (FBAA-1 and FBAA-2). The appropriate Federal banking agency does not evaluate the bank's automobile lending.
• In FBAA-1, the Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 3.0 percent. FBAA-1 represents 70 percent of the combined dollar volume of the deposits in the bank in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2. FBAA-1 represents 65 percent of the bank's combined dollar volume of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2. FBAA-1 represents 55 percent of the bank's number of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2;
• In FBAA-2, the Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 5.0 percent. FBAA-2 represents 30 percent of the combined dollar volume of the deposits in the bank in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2. FBAA-2 represents 35 percent of the bank's combined dollar volume of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2. FBAA-2 represents 45 percent of the bank's number of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2.
FBAA-1
FBAA-2
Benchmark
3.0
5.0
% of deposits
70%
30%
% of lending dollar volume
65%
35%
% of number of loans
55%
45%
•
Calculating weights for FBAA-1:
○ The percent of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, for FBAA-1 is 60 percent.
ER01FE24.078
○ The weight for FBAA-1 is 65 percent.
ER01FE24.079
• Calculating weights for FBAA-2:
○ The percent of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, for FBAA-2 is 40 percent.
ER01FE24.080
○ The weight for FBAA-2 is 35 percent.
ER01FE24.081
• Applying the calculated weights for FBAA-1 and FBAA-2:
o The bank's State Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 3.7 percent.
(Weight for FBAA-1 (0.65) × Benchmark in FBAA-1 (3%)) + (Weight for FBAA-2 (0.35) × Benchmark in FBAA-2 (5%)) = State Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark (3.7%)
g.
Bank Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Bank Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Metric in § 25.24(d)(2)(i) for each multistate MSA in which the bank or savings association has a facility-based assessment area by:
1. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a multistate MSA (which includes all activities within the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and outside of its facility-based assessment areas but within the multistate MSA) for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits located in the multistate MSA for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph II.g.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.g.2 of this appendix.
Example B-8:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period. The bank's annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a multistate MSA are $47 million (year 1), $51 million (year 2), and $52 million (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a multistate MSA conducted by the bank is therefore $150 million. The bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the multistate MSA are $3.1 billion (year 1), $3.3 billion (year 2), and $3.6 billion (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the multistate MSA is therefore $10 billion. For the evaluation period, the Bank Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Metric would be $150 million divided by $10 billion, or 0.015 (equivalently, 1.5 percent).
ER01FE24.082
h.
Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(d)(2)(ii)(A) by:
1. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of a multistate MSA for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of deposits located in the multistate MSA for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph II.h.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.h.2 of this appendix.
Example B-9:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. The annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a multistate MSA for all large depository institutions are $135 million (year 1), $140 million (year 2), and $145 million (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve a multistate MSA conducted by all large depository institutions is therefore $420 million. The annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the multistate MSA in all large depository institutions are $4 billion (year 1), $5 billion (year 2), and $6 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volume of deposits located in the multistate MSA in all large depository institutions is therefore $15 billion. For the evaluation period, the Multistate MSA Community Development Financing Benchmark would be $420 million divided by $15 billion, or 0.028 (equivalently, 2.8 percent).
ER01FE24.083
i.
Multistate MSA Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Multistate MSA Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(c)(3)(ii)(B)(
2
) by averaging all of the bank's or savings association's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks (see paragraph II.b of this appendix) in a multistate MSA for the evaluation period, after weighting each pursuant to paragraph II.o of this appendix.
Example B-10:
The bank has two facility-based assessment areas in a multistate MSA (FBAA-1 and FBAA-2). The appropriate Federal banking agency does not evaluate the bank's automobile lending.
• In FBAA-1, the bank's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 3.0 percent. FBAA-1 represents 70 percent of the total dollar volume of the deposits in the bank in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2. FBAA-1 represents 65 percent of the bank's combined dollar volume of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2. FBAA-1 represents 55 percent of the bank's number of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2;
• In FBAA-2, the bank's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 5.0 percent. FBAA-2 represents 30 percent of the total dollar volume of the deposits in the bank in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2. FBAA-2 represents 35 percent of the bank's combined dollar volume of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2. FBAA-2 represents 45 percent of the bank's number of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1 and FBAA-2.
FBAA-1
FBAA-2
Benchmark
3.0
5.0
% of deposits
70%
30%
% of lending dollar volume
65%
35%
% of loans
55%
45%
•
Calculating weights for FBAA-1:
○ The percent of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, for FBAA-1 is 60 percent.
ER01FE24.084
○ The weight for FBAA-1 is 65 percent.
ER01FE24.085
•
Calculating weights for FBAA-2:
○ The percent of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, for FBAA-2 is 40 percent.
ER01FE24.086
○ The weight for FBAA-2 is 35 percent.
ER01FE24.087
• Applying the calculated weights from FBAA-1 and FBAA-2:
○ The bank's Multistate MSA Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 3.7 percent.
(Weight of FBAA-1 (0.65) × Benchmark in FBAA-1 (3%)) + (weight of FBAA-2 (0.35) × benchmark in FBAA-2 (5%)) = Multistate MSA Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark (3.7%)
j.
Bank Nationwide Community Development Financing Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Bank Nationwide Community Development Financing Metric in § 25.24(e)(2)(i) for the nationwide area by:
1. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area (which includes all activities within the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and outside of its facility-based assessment areas within the nationwide area) for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits located in the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the results of paragraph II.j.1 of this appendix by the results of paragraph II.j.2 of this appendix.
Example B-11:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period. The bank's annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area are $60 million (year 1), $65 million (year 2), and $75 million (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area conducted by the bank is therefore $200 million. The bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the nationwide area are $2.5 billion (year 1), $2.7 billion (year 2), and $2.8 billion (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the nationwide area is therefore $8 billion. For the evaluation period, the Bank Nationwide Community Development Financing Metric would be $200 million divided by $8 billion, or 0.025 (equivalently, 2.5 percent).
ER01FE24.088
k.
Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(e)(2)(ii)(A) by:
1. Summing all large depository institutions' annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing all depository institutions' annual dollar volume of deposits located in the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph II.k.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.k.2 of this appendix.
Example B-12:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. The annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area for all large depository institutions are $100 billion (year 1), $103 billion (year 2), and $107 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area conducted by all large depository institutions is therefore $310 billion. The annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the nationwide area in all large depository institutions are $15.2 trillion (year 1), $15.3 trillion (year 2), and $15.5 trillion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the nationwide area in all large depository institutions is $46 trillion. For the evaluation period, the Nationwide Community Development Financing Benchmark would be $310 billion divided by $46 trillion, or 0.0067 (equivalently, 0.67 percent).
ER01FE24.089
l.
Nationwide Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Nationwide Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark in § 25.24(e)(2)(ii)(B) by averaging all of the bank's or savings association's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks (see paragraph II.b of this appendix) in the nationwide area, after weighting each pursuant to paragraph II.o of this appendix.
Example B-13:
The bank has three facility-based assessment areas in the nationwide area (FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3).
• In FBAA-1, the bank's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 2.0 percent. FBAA-1 represents 60 percent of the combined dollar volume of the deposits in the bank in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3. FBAA-1 represents 40 percent of the bank's combined dollar volume of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3. FBAA-1 represents 60 percent of the bank's number of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3.
• In FBAA-2, the bank's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 3.0 percent. FBAA-2 represents 30 percent of the combined dollar volume of the deposits in the bank in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3. FBAA-2 represents 45 percent of the bank's combined dollar volume of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3. FBAA-2 represents 35 percent of the bank's number of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3.
• In FBAA-3, the bank's Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 4.0 percent. FBAA-3 represents 10 percent of the combined dollar volume of the deposits in the bank in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3. FBAA-3 represents 15 percent of the bank's combined dollar volume of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3. FBAA-3 represents 5 percent of the bank's number of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, and small farm loans in FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3.
FBAA-1
FBAA-2
FBAA-3
Benchmark
2.0
3.0
4.0
% of deposits
60%
30%
10%
% of lending dollar volume
40%
45%
15%
% of loans
60%
35%
5%
•
Calculating weights for FBAA-1:
○ The percent of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, for FBAA-1 is 50 percent.
ER01FE24.090
○ The weight for FBAA-1 is 55 percent.
ER01FE24.091
•
Calculating weights for FBAA-2:
○ The percent of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, for FBAA-2 is 40 percent.
ER01FE24.092
○ The weight for FBAA-2 is 35 percent.
ER01FE24.093
•
Calculating weights for FBAA-3:
○ The percent of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, and small farm lending, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, for FBAA-3 is 10 percent.
ER01FE24.094
○ The weight for FBAA-3 is 10 percent.
ER01FE24.095
• Applying the calculated weights from FBAA-1, FBAA-2, and FBAA-3:
○ The bank's Nationwide Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is 2.55 percent.
(Weight of FBAA-1(0.55) × Benchmark in FBAA-1 (2%)) + (Weight of FBAA-2 (0.35) × Benchmark FBAA-2 (3%)) + (Weight of FBAA-3 (0.10) × Benchmark in FBAA-3 (4%)) = Nationwide Weighted Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark (2.55%)
m.
Bank Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Bank Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric in § 25.24(e)(2)(iii) for the nationwide area by:
1. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of community development investments, excluding mortgage-backed securities, that benefit or serve the nationwide area (which includes all activities within the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and outside of its facility-based assessment areas within the nationwide area) for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits located in the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the results of paragraph II.m.1 of this appendix by the results of paragraph II.m.2 of this appendix.
Example B-14:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period. The bank's annual dollar volumes of community development investments (excluding mortgage-backed securities) that benefit or serve the nationwide area are $600 million (year 1), $680 million (year 2), and $720 million (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of community development investments (excluding mortgage-backed securities) that benefit or serve the nationwide area conducted by the bank is therefore $2 billion. The bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the nationwide area are $24 billion (year 1), $27 billion (year 2), and $29 billion (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the nationwide area is therefore $80 billion. For the evaluation period, the Bank Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric would be $2 billion divided by $80 billion, or 0.025 (equivalently, 2.5 percent).
ER01FE24.096
n.
Nationwide Community Development Investment Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Nationwide Community Development Investment Benchmark in § 25.24(e)(2)(iv) by:
1. Summing the annual dollar volume of community development investments that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area, excluding mortgage-backed securities, for each year in the evaluation period for all large depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years.
2. Summing the annual dollar volume of deposits in the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period for all large depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph II.n.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.n.2 of this appendix.
Example B-15:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. The annual dollar volumes of community development investments (excluding mortgage-backed securities) that benefit or serve the nationwide area for all large depository institutions are $350 billion (year 1), $360 billion (year 2), and $390 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of community development investments (excluding mortgage-backed securities) that benefit or serve the nationwide area conducted by all large depository institutions is therefore $1.1 trillion. The annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the nationwide area in all large depository institutions are $21.9 trillion (year 1), $22 trillion (year 2), and $22.1 trillion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of deposits located in the nationwide area in all large depository institutions is therefore $66 trillion. For the evaluation period, the Nationwide Community Development Investment Benchmark would be $1.1 trillion divided by $66 trillion, or 0.0167 (equivalently, 1.67 percent).
ER01FE24.097
o.
Weighting of benchmarks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a weighted average of the Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks for a bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable, or the nationwide area. For the weighted average for a State or multistate MSA, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks for facility-based assessment areas in the State or multistate MSA
pursuant to § 25.28(c). For the weighted average for the nationwide area, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmarks for all of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas. Each Assessment Area Community Development Financing Benchmark is weighted by the average of the following two ratios:
1. The ratio measuring the share of the deposits in the bank or savings association in the facility-based assessment area, calculated by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in all facility-based assessment areas in the State, multistate MSA, or nationwide area, as applicable.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph II.o.1.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph II.o.1.ii of this appendix.
For a bank or savings association that reports deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a facility-based assessment area is the total of annual average daily balances of deposits reported by the bank or savings association in counties in the facility-based assessment area for that year. For a bank or savings association that does not report deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a facility-based assessment area is the total of deposits assigned to facilities reported by the bank or savings association in the facility-based assessment area in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits for that year.
2. The ratio measuring the share of the bank's or savings association's loans in the facility-based assessment area, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, calculated by dividing:
i. The bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and, if a product line for the bank or savings association, automobile loans in the facility-based assessment area originated or purchased during the evaluation period; by
ii. The bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and, if a product line for the bank or savings association, automobile loans in all facility-based assessment areas in the State, multistate MSA, or nationwide area, as applicable, originated or purchased during the evaluation period.
p.
Combined score for facility-based assessment area conclusions and the metrics and benchmarks analyses and the impact and responsiveness reviews.
1. As described in § 25.24(c) through (e), the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a conclusion corresponding to the conclusion category that is nearest to the performance score calculated in paragraph p.2.iii of this appendix for a bank's or savings association's performance under the Community Development Financing Test in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution as follows:
Performance score
Conclusion
8.5 or more
Outstanding.
6.5 or more but less than 8.5
High Satisfactory.
4.5 or more but less than 6.5
Low Satisfactory.
1.5 or more but less than 4.5
Needs to Improve.
Less than 1.5
Substantial Noncompliance.
2. The appropriate Federal banking agency bases a Community Development Financing Test combined performance score on the following:
i.
Component one—Weighted average of the bank's or savings association's performance scores corresponding to facility-based assessment area conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency derives a performance score based on a weighted average of the performance scores corresponding to conclusions for facility-based assessment areas in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and the nationwide area, calculated pursuant to section IV of this appendix.
ii.
Component two— Bank and savings association score for metric and benchmarks analyses and the impact and responsiveness reviews.
For each State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and the nationwide area, the appropriate Federal banking agency determines a performance score (as shown in paragraph IV.a of this appendix) corresponding to a conclusion category by considering the relevant metric and benchmarks and a review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments. In the nationwide area, for large banks or savings associations that had assets greater than $10 billion as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, the appropriate Federal banking agency also considers whether the bank's or savings association's performance under the Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric, compared to the Community Development Investment Benchmark, contributes positively to the bank's or savings association's Community Development Financing Test conclusion.
iii.
Combined score.
The appropriate Federal banking agency associates the performance score calculated pursuant to this paragraph II.p.2.iii with a conclusion category. The appropriate Federal banking agency derives
the combined performance score corresponding to a conclusion category as follows:
A. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the average of two components to determine weighting:
1.
The percentage, calculated using the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, of the bank's or savings association's total originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, small farm lending, and automobile lending, as applicable, in its facility-based assessment areas out of all of the bank's or savings association's originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, small farm lending, and automobile lending, as applicable, in the State or multistate MSA, as applicable, or the nationwide area during the evaluation period; and
2.
The percentage of the total dollar volume of deposits in its facility-based assessment areas out of all of the deposits in the bank or savings association in the State or multistate MSA, as applicable, or the nationwide area during the evaluation period. For purposes of this paragraph II.p.2.iii.A.
2,
“deposits” excludes deposits reported under § 25.42(b)(3)(ii).
B. If the average is:
1.
At least 80 percent, then component one receives a 50 percent weight and component two receives a 50 percent weight.
2.
At least 60 percent but less than 80 percent, then component one receives a 40 percent weight and component two receives a 60 percent weight.
3.
At least 40 percent but less than 60 percent, then component one receives a 30 percent weight and component two receives a 70 percent weight.
4.
At least 20 percent but less than 40 percent, then component one receives a 20 percent weight and component two receives an 80 percent weight.
5.
Below 20 percent, then component one receives a 10 percent weight and component two receives a 90 percent weight.
Table 2 to Appendix B—Component Weights for Combined Performance Score
Average of the percentage of deposits and percentage of loans
Weight on
component 1
(percent)
Weight on
component 2
(percent)
Greater than or equal to 80%
50
50
Greater than or equal to 60% but less than 80%
40
60
Greater than or equal to 40% but less than 60%
30
70
Greater than or equal to 20% but less than 40%
20
80
Below 20%
10
90
Example B-16:
• Assume that the weighted average of the bank's performance scores corresponding to its facility-based assessment area conclusions nationwide is 7.5. Assume further that the bank score for the metrics and benchmarks analysis and the review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's community development loans and community development investments nationwide is 6.
• Assume further that 95 percent of the deposits in the bank and 75 percent of the bank's originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, small farm lending, and automobile loans (calculated using the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12) during the evaluation period are associated with its facility-based assessment areas.
• The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns weights for component one and component two based on the share of deposits in the bank and the share of the bank's originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, small farm lending, and automobile lending, calculated using the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, associated with its facility-based assessment areas: (95 percent of deposits + 75 percent of originated and purchased closed-end home mortgage lending, small business lending, small farm lending, and automobile lending, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count)/2 = 85 percent, which is between 80 percent and 100 percent.
• Thus, the weighted average of the bank's facility-based assessment area conclusions in the nationwide area (component one—paragraph II.p.2.i of this appendix) receives a weight of 50 percent, and the metrics and benchmarks analysis and the review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's community development loans and community development investments in the nationwide area (component two—paragraph II.p.2.ii of this appendix) receives a weight of 50 percent.
• Using the point values—“Outstanding” (10 points); “High Satisfactory” (7 points); “Low Satisfactory” (6 points); “Needs to Improve” (3 points); “Substantial Noncompliance” (0 points)—the bank's Community Development Financing Test conclusion at the institution level is a “High Satisfactory”:
(0.50 weight × 7.5 points for the weighted average of the performance scores corresponding to the bank's facility-based assessment area conclusions nationwide) + (0.50 weight × 6 points for the bank score for metrics and benchmarks analysis and review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's community development loans and community development investments nationwide) results in a performance score of 6.75, which is closest to the point value (7) associated with “High Satisfactory.”

# III. Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26—Calculations for Metrics and Benchmarks
The calculations for metrics and benchmarks for Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26 are provided in this section. Additional information regarding relevant calculation components is set forth in paragraph I.a of this appendix.
a.
Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Metric provided in § 25.26 by:
1. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of the assets for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph III.a.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.a.2 of this appendix.
b.
Nationwide Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Nationwide Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Benchmark by:
1. Summing the annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments of depository institutions designated as limited purpose banks or savings associations or savings associations pursuant to § 25.26(a) or designated as limited purpose banks or savings associations pursuant to 12 CFR 228.26(a) or 345.26(a) reported pursuant to § 25.42(b) or 12 CFR 228.42(b) or 345.42(b) that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the annual dollar volume of assets of depository institutions designated as limited purpose banks or savings associations or savings associations pursuant to § 25.26(a) or designated as limited purpose banks or savings associations pursuant to 12 CFR 228.26(a) or 345.26(a) that reported community development loans and community development investments pursuant to § 25.42(b) or 12 CFR 228.42(b) or 345.42(b) for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph III.b.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.b.2 of this appendix.
c.
Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Financing Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Financing Benchmark by:
1. Summing the annual dollar volume of community development loans and community development investments of all depository institutions that reported pursuant to § 25.42(b) or 12 CFR 228.42(b) or 345.42(b) that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the annual dollar volume of assets of all depository institutions that reported community development loans and community development investments pursuant to § 25.42(b) or 12 CFR 228.42(b) or 345.42(b) for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph III.c.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.c.2 of this appendix.
d.
Limited Purpose Bank and savings association Community Development Investment Metric.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Limited Purpose Bank Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric, provided in § 25.26(f)(2)(iii), for the nationwide area by:
1. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of community development investments, excluding mortgage-backed securities, that benefit or serve the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of assets for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the results of paragraph III.d.1 of this appendix by the results of paragraph III.d.2 of this appendix.
Example B-17:
The bank has a three-year evaluation period. The bank's annual dollar volumes of community development investments (excluding mortgage-backed securities) that benefit or serve the nationwide area are $62 million (year 1), $65 million (year 2), and $73 million (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area conducted by the bank is therefore $200 million. The bank's annual dollar volumes of assets in the bank are $2.4 billion (year 1), $2.7 billion (year 2), and $2.9 billion (year 3). The sum of the bank's annual dollar volumes of assets in the bank over the evaluation period is therefore $8 billion. For the evaluation period, the Bank Nationwide Community Development Investment Metric would be $200 million divided by $8 billion, or 0.025 (equivalently, 2.5 percent).
ER01FE24.098
e.
Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Investment Benchmark.
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Investment Benchmark, provided in § 25.26(f)(2)(iv), by:
1. Summing the annual dollar volume of community development investments, excluding mortgage-backed securities, of all depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion, as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, that benefit or serve all or part of the nationwide area for each year in the evaluation period.
2. Summing the annual dollar volume of assets of all depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion, as of December 31 in both of the prior two calendar years, for each year in the evaluation period.
3. Dividing the result of paragraph III.e.1 of this appendix by the result of paragraph III.e.2 of this appendix.
Example B-18:
The applicable benchmark uses a three-year evaluation period. The annual dollar volumes of community development investments (excluding mortgage-backed securities) that benefit or serve the nationwide area for all depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion are $35 billion (year 1), $37 million (year 2), and $38 billion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of community development investments that benefit or serve the nationwide area conducted by all depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion is therefore $110 billion. The annual dollar volumes of assets in all depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion are $1.8 trillion (year 1), $2.1 trillion (year 2), and $2.1 trillion (year 3). The sum of the annual dollar volumes of assets in all depository institutions that had assets greater than $10 billion is therefore $6 trillion. For the evaluation period, the Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Investment Benchmark would be $110 billion divided by $6 trillion, or 0.0183 (equivalently, 1.83 percent).
ER01FE24.099

# IV. Weighting of Conclusions
The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates component one of the combined performance score, as set forth in paragraph II.p.2.i of this appendix, for the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24 and a performance score for the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25 in each State, multistate MSA, and the nationwide area, as applicable, as described in this section.
a. The appropriate Federal banking agency translates the Community Development Financing Test and the Community Development Services Test conclusions for facility-based assessment areas into numerical performance scores, as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
b. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the weighted average of facility-based assessment area performance scores for a State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution. For the weighted average for a State or multistate MSA, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers facility-based assessment areas in the State or multistate MSA pursuant to § 25.28(c). For the weighted average for the institution, the
appropriate Federal banking agency considers all of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas. Each facility-based assessment area performance score is weighted by the average the following two ratios:
1. The ratio measuring the share of the deposits in the bank or savings association in the facility-based assessment area, calculated by:
i. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in the facility-based assessment area.
ii. Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in all facility-based assessment areas in the State, in the multistate MSA, or for the nationwide area, as applicable.
iii. Dividing the result of paragraph IV.b.1.i of this appendix by the result of paragraph IV.b.1.ii of this appendix.
For a bank or savings association that reports deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a facility-based assessment area is the total of annual average daily balances of deposits reported by the bank or savings association in counties in the facility-based assessment area for that year. For a bank or savings association that does not report deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a facility-based assessment area is the total of deposits assigned to facilities reported by the bank or savings association in the facility-based assessment area in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits for that year.
2. The ratio measuring the share of the bank's or savings association's loans in the facility-based assessment area, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, calculated by dividing:
i. The bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and, if a product line for the bank or savings association, automobile loans in the facility-based assessment area originated or purchased during the evaluation period; by
ii. The bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and, if a product line for the bank or savings association, automobile loans in all facility-based assessment areas in the State, in the multistate MSA, or for the nationwide area, as applicable, originated or purchased during the evaluation period.
[89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024]
Pt. 25, App. C

# Appendix C to Part 25—Performance Test Conclusions
a.
Performance test conclusions, in general.
For a bank or savings association evaluated under, as applicable, the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, the Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23, the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, the Community Development Services Test in § 25.25, and the Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations in § 25.26, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for the bank's or savings association's CRA performance pursuant to these tests and this appendix. In assigning conclusions, the appropriate Federal banking agency may consider performance context information as provided in § 25.21(d).
b.
Retail Lending Test conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns Retail Lending Test conclusions for each applicable Retail Lending Test Area, each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution.
1.
Retail Lending Test Area.
For each applicable Retail Lending Test Area, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Lending Test conclusion and corresponding performance score pursuant to § 25.22(h)(1), as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
2.
State, multistate MSA, and institution.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns the Retail Lending Test conclusions for a bank's or savings association's performance in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution, as set forth in section VIII of appendix A to this part.
c.
Retail Services and Products Test conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns Retail Services and Products Test conclusions for each facility-based assessment area, for each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution. For a bank or savings association that does not operate any branches, a main office described in § 25.23(a)(2), or remote service facilities, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns the bank's or savings association's digital delivery systems and other delivery systems conclusion as the Retail Services and Product Test conclusion for the State or multistate MSA, as applicable.
1.
Facility-based assessment area.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Services and Products Test conclusion
for a bank's or savings association's performance in a facility-based assessment area based on an evaluation of the bank's or savings association's branch availability and services and remote services facilities availability, if applicable, pursuant to § 25.23(b)(2) and (3), respectively.
2.
State, multistate MSA, and institution.
The appropriate Federal banking agency develops the Retail Services and Products Test conclusions for States, multistate MSAs, and the institution as described in this paragraph c.2.
i. The appropriate Federal banking agency translates Retail Services and Products Test conclusions for facility-based assessment areas into numerical performance scores as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
ii. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates the weighted average of facility-based assessment area performance scores for a State or multistate MSA, as applicable, and for the institution. For the weighted average for a State or multistate MSA, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers facility-based assessment areas in the State or multistate MSA pursuant to § 25.28(c). For the weighted average for the institution, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers all of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas. Each facility-based assessment area performance score is weighted by the average the following two ratios:
A. The ratio measuring the share of the bank's or savings association's deposits in the facility-based assessment area, calculated by:
1.
Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in the facility-based assessment area.
2.
Summing, over the years in the evaluation period, the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in all facility-based assessment areas in the State, in the multistate MSA, or for the institution, as applicable.
3.
Dividing the result of paragraph c.2.ii.A.
1
of this appendix by the result of paragraph c.2.ii.A.
2
of this appendix.
For a bank or savings association that reports deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a facility-based assessment area is the total of annual average daily balances of deposits reported by the bank or savings association in counties in the facility-based assessment area for that year. For a bank or savings association that does not report deposits data pursuant to § 25.42(b)(3), the bank's or savings association's annual dollar volume of deposits in a facility-based assessment area is the total of deposits assigned to facilities reported by the bank or savings association in the facility-based assessment area in the FDIC's Summary of Deposits for that year.
B. The ratio measuring the share of the bank's or savings association's loans in the facility-based assessment area, based on the combination of loan dollars and loan count, as defined in § 25.12, calculated by dividing:
1.
The bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and, if a product line for the bank or savings association, automobile loans in the facility-based assessment area originated or purchased during the evaluation period; by
2.
The bank's or savings association's closed-end home mortgage loans, small business loans, small farm loans, and, if a product line for the bank or savings association, automobile loans in all facility-based assessment areas in the State, in the multistate MSA, or for the institution, as applicable, originated or purchased during the evaluation period.
iii. For a State or multistate MSA, as applicable, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Services and Products Test conclusion corresponding to the conclusion category that is nearest to the weighted average for the State or multistate MSA calculated pursuant to paragraph c.2.ii of this appendix (
i.e.,
the performance score for the Retail Services and Products Test for the State or multistate MSA).
Performance score for the retail services and products test
Conclusion
8.5 or more
Outstanding.
6.5 or more but less than 8.5
High Satisfactory.
4.5 or more but less than 6.5
Low Satisfactory.
1.5 or more but less than 4.5
Needs to Improve.
less than 1.5
Substantial Noncompliance.
iv. For the institution, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Retail Services and Products Test conclusion based on the bank's or savings association's combined retail banking services conclusion, developed pursuant to paragraph c.2.iv.A of this appendix, and an evaluation of the bank's or savings association's retail banking products, pursuant to paragraph c.2.iv.B of this appendix. The appropriate Federal banking agency translates the Retail Services and Products Test conclusion for the institution into a numerical performance score, as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
A.
Combined retail banking services conclusion. 1. In general.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's retail banking services, as applicable, and assigns a combined retail banking services conclusion based the weighted average for the institution calculated pursuant to paragraph c.2.ii of this appendix and a digital and other delivery systems conclusion, assigned pursuant to paragraph c.2.iv.A.
1
of this appendix. For a large bank or savings association without branches, a main office described in § 25.23(a)(2), or remote service facilities, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a combined retail banking services conclusion based only on a digital delivery systems and other delivery systems conclusion, assigned pursuant to paragraph c.2.iv.A.
1
of this appendix.
2. Digital delivery systems and other delivery systems conclusion.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a digital delivery systems and other delivery systems conclusion based on an evaluation of a bank's or savings association's digital delivery systems and other delivery systems pursuant to § 25.23(b)(4).
B.
Retail banking products evaluation.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's retail banking products offered in the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas and nationwide, as applicable, as follows:
1. Credit products and programs.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's performance regarding its credit products and programs pursuant to § 25.23(c)(2) and determines whether the bank's or savings association's performance contributes positively to the bank's or savings association's Retail Services and Products Test conclusion that would have resulted based solely on the retail banking services conclusion pursuant to paragraph c.2.iv.A of this appendix.
2. Deposit products.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's performance regarding its deposit products pursuant to § 25.23(c)(3), as applicable, and determines whether the bank's or savings association's performance contributes positively to the bank's or savings association's Retail Services and Products Test conclusion that would have resulted based solely on the combined retail banking services conclusion pursuant to paragraph c.2.iv.A of this appendix.
3. Impact of retail banking products on Retail Services and Products Test conclusion.
The bank's or savings association's retail banking products evaluated pursuant to § 25.23(c) may positively impact the bank's or savings association's Retail Services and Products Test conclusion. The bank's or savings association's lack of responsive retail banking products does not adversely affect the bank's or savings association's Retail Services and Products Test performance conclusion.
d.
Community Development Financing Test conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns Community Development Financing Test conclusions for each facility-based assessment area, each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution.
1.
Facility-based assessment area.
For each facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Community Development Financing Test conclusion and corresponding performance score based on the metric and benchmarks as provided in § 25.24 and a review of the impact and responsiveness of a bank's or savings association's activities as provided in § 25.15 as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
2.
State, multistate MSA, and institution.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns Community Development Financing Test conclusions for a bank's or savings association's performance in each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution as set forth in paragraph II.p of appendix B to this part.
e.
Community Development Services Test conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns Community Development Services Test conclusions for each facility-based assessment area, each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution.
1.
Facility-based assessment area.
For each facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops a Community Development Services Test conclusion based on the extent to which a bank or savings association provided community development services, considering the factors in § 25.25(b). The appropriate Federal banking agency translates the conclusion for each facility-based assessment area into a numerical performance score as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
2.
State, multistate MSA, or nationwide area.
For each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and the nationwide area, the appropriate Federal banking agency develops a Community Development Services Test conclusion as follows:
i. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates a weighted average of the performance scores corresponding to the performance test conclusions pursuant to section IV of appendix B to this part. The resulting number is the Community Development Services Test performance score for a State, multistate MSA, or the institution. Subject to paragraph e.2.ii of this appendix, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Community Development Services Test conclusion corresponding to the conclusion category that is nearest to the performance score for the Community Development Services Test as follows:
Performance score for the community
development services test
Conclusion
8.5 or more
Outstanding.
6.5 or more but less than 8.5
High Satisfactory.
4.5 or more but less than 6.5
Low Satisfactory.
1.5 or more but less than 4.5
Needs to Improve.
Less than 1.5
Substantial Noncompliance.
ii. The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust upwards the Community Development Services Test conclusion assigned under paragraph e.2.i of this appendix, based on Community Development Services Test activities performed outside of facility-based assessment areas as provided in § 25.19. If there is no upward adjustment, the performance score used for the ratings calculations described in paragraph b.1 of appendix D to this part is the Community Development Services Test performance score discussed in paragraph e.2.i of this appendix. If there is an upward adjustment, the appropriate Federal banking agency translates the Community Development Services Test conclusion into a numerical performance score, which will be used for the ratings calculations described in paragraph b.1 of appendix D to this part, as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
f.
Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for each facility-based assessment area, each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution.
1.
Facility-based assessment area.
For each facility-based assessment area, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns one of the following Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations conclusions based on consideration of the dollar volume of a bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the facility-based assessment area over the evaluation period, and a review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's activities in the facility-based assessment area as provided in § 25.15: “Outstanding”; “High Satisfactory”; “Low Satisfactory”; “Needs to Improve”; or “Substantial Noncompliance.”
2.
State or multistate MSA.
For each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations conclusion of “Outstanding,” “High Satisfactory,” “Low Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance” based on the following:
i. The bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment area performance test conclusions in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable;
ii. The dollar volume of a bank's or savings association's community development loans and community development investments that benefit or serve the State or multistate MSAs, as applicable, over the evaluation period; and
iii. A review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's activities in the State or multistate MSAs, as provided in § 25.15.
3.
Institution.
For the institution, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations conclusion of “Outstanding,” “High Satisfactory,” “Low Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance” based on the following:
i. The bank's or savings association's community development financing performance in all of its facility-based assessment areas;
ii. The appropriate Federal banking agency's comparison of the bank's or savings association's Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Metric to both the Nationwide Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Financing Benchmark
and the Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Financing Benchmark;
iii. The appropriate Federal banking agency's comparison of the bank's or savings association's Limited Purpose Bank Community Development Investment Metric to the Nationwide Asset-Based Community Development Investment Benchmark; and
iv. A review of the impact and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's activities in a nationwide area as provided in § 25.15.
g.
Strategic Plan conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for a bank or savings association that operates under an approved plan in facility-based assessment areas, retail lending assessment areas, outside retail lending areas, State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions consistent with the methodology set forth by the bank or savings association in its plan. For elements of the plan that correspond to performance tests that would apply to the bank or savings association in the absence of an approved plan, the plan should include a conclusion methodology that is generally consistent with paragraphs b through f of this appendix.
[89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024]
Pt. 25, App. D

# Appendix D to Part 25—Ratings
a.
Ratings, in general.
In assigning a rating, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's performance under the applicable performance criteria in this part, pursuant to §§ 25.21 and 25.28. The agency calculates an overall performance score for each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating of “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance” for the bank's or savings association's performance in each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution that is nearest to the overall performance score, as follows:
Performance score
Rating
8.5 or more
Outstanding.
4.5 or more but less than 8.5
Satisfactory.
1.5 or more but less than 4.5
Needs to Improve.
Less than 1.5
Substantial Noncompliance.
The appropriate Federal banking agency also considers any evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices pursuant to § 25.28(d) and the bank's or savings association's past performance pursuant to § 25.28(e).
b.
Large bank or savings association ratings at the State, multistate MSA, and institution levels.
Subject to paragraph g of this appendix, the appropriate Federal banking agency combines a large bank's or savings association's performance scores for its State, multistate MSA, or institution-level performance under the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23, Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, and Community Development Services Test in § 25.25 to determine the bank's or savings association's rating in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution.
1. The appropriate Federal banking agency weights the performance scores as follows: Retail Lending Test (40 percent); Retail Services and Products Test (10 percent); Community Development Financing Test (40 percent); and Community Development Services Test (10 percent). The appropriate Federal banking agency multiplies each of these weights by the bank's or savings association's performance score on the respective performance test, and then adds the resulting values together to develop a State, multistate MSA, or institution-level performance score.
2. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating corresponding with the rating category that is nearest to the State, multistate MSA, or institution performance score using the table in paragraph a of this appendix.
Example D-1:
A large bank received the following performance scores and conclusions in a State:
• On the Retail Lending Test, the bank received a 7.3 performance score and a corresponding conclusion of “High Satisfactory;”
• On the Retail Services and Products Test, the bank received a 6.0 performance score and a corresponding conclusion of “Low Satisfactory;”
• On the Community Development Financing Test, the bank received a 5.7 performance score and a corresponding conclusion of “Low Satisfactory;” and
• On the Community Development Services Test, the bank received a 3.0 performance score and a corresponding conclusion of “Needs to Improve.”
Calculating weights:
• For the Retail Lending Test, the weight is 40 percent (or 0.4);
• For the Retail Services and Products Test, the weight is 10 percent (or 0.1);
• For the Community Development Financing Test, the weight is 40 percent (or 0.4); and
• For the Community Development Services Test, the weight is 10 percent (or 0.1).
State Performance Score:
Based on the illustration in this example D-1, the bank's State performance score is 6.1.
(0.4 weight × 7.3 performance score on the Retail Lending Test = 2.92) + (0.1 weight × 6.0 performance score on the Retail Services and Products Test = 0.6) + (0.4 weight × 5.7 performance score on the Community Development Financing Test = 2.28) + (0.1 weight × 3.0 performance score on the Community Development Services Test = 0.3).
State Rating:
A State performance score of 6.1 is greater than 4.5 but less than 8.5, resulting in a rating of “Satisfactory.”
c.
Intermediate bank or savings association ratings.
1.
Intermediate banks or savings associations evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test and the Community Development Financing Test.
Subject to paragraph g of this appendix, the appropriate Federal banking agency combines an intermediate bank's or savings association's performance scores for its State, multistate MSA, or institution performance under the Retail Lending Test and the Community Development Financing Test to determine the bank's or savings association's rating in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution.
i. The appropriate Federal banking agency weights the performance scores as follows: Retail Lending Test (50 percent) and Community Development Financing Test (50 percent). The appropriate Federal banking agency multiplies each of these weights by the bank's or savings association's corresponding performance score on the respective performance test, and then adds the resulting values together to develop a State, multistate MSA, or institution performance score.
ii. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating corresponding with the rating category that is nearest to the State, multistate MSA, or institution performance score, using the table in paragraph a of this appendix.
iii. The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust an intermediate bank's or savings association's institution rating where the bank or savings association has requested and received sufficient additional consideration pursuant to § 25.30(b)(2) and (3).
2.
Intermediate banks or savings associations evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test and the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test in § 25.30(a)(2).
The appropriate Federal banking agency combines an intermediate bank's or savings association's performance scores for its State, multistate MSA, or institution conclusions under the Retail Lending Test and the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test in § 25.30(a)(2) to determine the bank's or savings association's rating in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution.
i. The appropriate Federal banking agency weights the performance scores as follows: Retail Lending Test (50 percent) and Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test (50 percent). The appropriate Federal banking agency multiplies each of these weights by the bank's or savings association's corresponding performance score on the respective performance test, and then adds the resulting values together to develop a State, multistate MSA, or institution performance score. For purposes of this paragraph c.2.i, the performance score for the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test corresponds to the conclusion assigned, as follows:
Conclusion
Performance score
Outstanding
10
High Satisfactory
7
Low Satisfactory
6
Needs to Improve
3
Substantial Noncompliance
0
ii. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating corresponding with the rating category that is nearest to the State, multistate MSA, or institution performance score using the table in paragraph a of this appendix.
iii. The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust an intermediate bank's or savings association's institution rating where the bank or savings association has requested and received sufficient additional consideration pursuant to § 25.30(b)(1) and (3).
d.
Small bank or savings association ratings.
1.
Ratings for small banks or savings associations that opt to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22.
The appropriate Federal banking agency determines a small bank's or savings association's rating for each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution based on the performance score for its Retail Lending Test conclusions for the State, multistate MSA or institution, respectively.
i. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating corresponding with the rating category that is nearest to the State, multistate MSA, or institution performance score using the table in paragraph a of this appendix.
ii. The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust a small bank's or savings association's institution rating where the bank or savings association has requested and received sufficient additional consideration pursuant to § 25.29(b)(2) and (3).
2.
Ratings for small banks or savings associations evaluated under the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test pursuant to § 25.29(a)(2).
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating for small banks or savings associations evaluated under the
Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test pursuant to § 25.29(a)(2) as provided in appendix E to this part.
e.
Limited purpose banks or savings associations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency determines a limited purpose bank's or savings association's rating for each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution based on the performance score for its Community Development Financing Test for Limited Purpose Banks and Savings Associations conclusion for the State, multistate MSA, or the institution, respectively.
1. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating corresponding with the rating category that is nearest to the State, multistate MSA, or institution performance score, respectively, using the table in paragraph a of this appendix.
2. The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust a limited purpose bank's or savings association's institution rating where the bank or savings association has requested and received sufficient additional consideration pursuant to § 25.26(b)(2).
f.
Ratings for banks or savings associations operating under an approved strategic plan.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the performance of a bank or savings association operating under an approved plan consistent with the rating methodology that is specified in the plan pursuant to § 25.27(g)(6). The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating according to the category assigned under the rating methodology specified in the plan: “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance.”
g.
Minimum performance test conclusion requirements.
1.
Retail Lending Test minimum conclusion.
An intermediate bank or savings association or a large bank or savings association must receive at least a “Low Satisfactory” Retail Lending Test conclusion at, respectively, the State, multistate MSA, or institution level to receive an overall State, multistate MSA, or institution rating of “Satisfactory” or “Outstanding.”
2.
Minimum of “low satisfactory” overall conclusion for 60 percent of facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas.
i. Except as provided in § 25.51(e), a large bank or savings association with a combined total of 10 or more facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas in any State, multistate MSA, or for the institution, as applicable, may not receive a rating of “Satisfactory” or “Outstanding” in that State, multistate MSA, or for the institution unless the bank or savings association received an overall conclusion of at least “Low Satisfactory” in 60 percent or more of the total number of its facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas in that State or multistate MSA or for the institution, as applicable.
ii.
Overall conclusion in facility-based assessment areas and retail lending assessment areas.
For purposes of the requirement in paragraph g.2 of this appendix:
A. The appropriate Federal banking agency calculates an overall conclusion in a facility-based assessment area by combining a large bank's or savings association's performance scores for its conclusions in the facility-based assessment area pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, Retail Services and Products Test in § 25.23, Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, and Community Development Services Test in § 25.25.
The appropriate Federal banking agency weights the performance scores as follows: Retail Lending Test (40 percent); Retail Services and Products Test (10 percent); Community Development Financing Test (40 percent); and Community Development Services Test (10 percent). The appropriate Federal banking agency multiplies each of these weights by the bank's or savings association's performance score on the respective performance test, and then adds the resulting values together to develop a facility-based assessment area performance score.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a conclusion corresponding with the conclusion category that is nearest to the performance score, as follows:
Performance score
Conclusion
8.5 or more
Outstanding.
6.5 or more but less than 8.5
High Satisfactory.
4.5 or more but less than 6.5
Low Satisfactory.
1.5 or more but less than 4.5
Needs to Improve.
Less than 1.5
Substantial Noncompliance.
B. An overall conclusion in a retail lending assessment area is the retail lending assessment area conclusion assigned pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22 as provided in appendix C to this part.
[89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024]
Pt. 25, App. E

# Appendix E to Part 25—Small Bank and Savings Association and Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Performance Evaluation Conclusions and Ratings
a.
Small banks or savings associations evaluated under the small bank or savings association performance evaluation.
1.
Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test conclusions.
Unless a small bank or savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for a small bank's or savings association's performance pursuant to the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test in § 25.29(a)(2) for each facility-based assessment area, in each State or multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for
the institution of “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance.”
i.
Eligibility for a “Satisfactory” Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test conclusion.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a small bank's or savings association's performance pursuant to the Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test a conclusion of “Satisfactory” if, in general, the bank or savings association demonstrates:
A. A reasonable loan-to-deposit ratio (considering seasonal variations) given the bank's or savings association's size, financial condition, the credit needs of its facility-based assessment areas, and taking into account, as appropriate, other lending-related activities such as loan originations for sale to the secondary markets, community development loans, and community development investments;
B. A majority of its loans and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities, are in its facility-based assessment areas;
C. A distribution of retail lending to and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities for individuals of different income levels (including low- and moderate-income individuals) and businesses and farms of different sizes that is reasonable given the demographics of the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas;
D. A reasonable geographic distribution of loans among census tracts of different income levels in the bank's or savings association's facility-based assessment areas; and
E. A record of taking appropriate action, when warranted, in response to written complaints, if any, about the bank's or savings association's performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its facility-based assessment areas.
ii.
Eligibility for an “Outstanding” Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test conclusion.
A small bank or savings association that meets each of the standards for a “Satisfactory” conclusion under this paragraph a.1.ii. and exceeds some or all of those standards may warrant consideration for a lending evaluation conclusion of “Outstanding.”
iii. “
Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance” Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test conclusions.
A small bank or savings association may also receive a lending evaluation conclusion of “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance” depending on the degree to which its performance has failed to meet the standard for a “Satisfactory” conclusion.
2.
Small bank or savings association ratings.
Unless a small bank or savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22, the appropriate Federal banking agency determines a small bank's or savings association's rating for each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution based on its Small Bank and Savings Association Lending Test conclusions at the State, multistate MSA, and institution level, respectively.
i. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating based on the lending evaluation conclusion according to the category of the conclusion assigned: “Outstanding,” “Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance.”
ii. The appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust a small bank's or savings association's institution rating where the bank or savings association has requested and received sufficient additional consideration pursuant to § 25.29(b)(1) and (3).
iii. The appropriate Federal banking agency also considers any evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices pursuant to § 25.28(d) and the bank's or savings association's past performance pursuant to § 25.28(e).
3. The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating for small banks or savings associations evaluated pursuant to the Retail Lending Test in § 25.22 as provided in appendix D to this part.
b.
Intermediate banks or savings associations evaluated pursuant to the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test in § 25.30.
Unless an intermediate bank or savings association opts to be evaluated pursuant to the Community Development Financing Test in § 25.24, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns conclusions for an intermediate bank's or savings association's performance pursuant to the Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test in § 25.30 for each State and multistate MSA, as applicable pursuant to § 25.28(c), and for the institution of “Outstanding,” “High Satisfactory,” “Low Satisfactory,” “Needs to Improve,” or “Substantial Noncompliance.”
1.
Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test conclusions.
i.
Eligibility for a “Satisfactory” Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test conclusion.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns an intermediate bank's or savings association's community development performance a “Low Satisfactory” conclusion if the bank or savings association demonstrates adequate responsiveness, and a “High Satisfactory” conclusion if the bank or savings association demonstrates good responsiveness, to the community development needs of its facility-based assessment areas and, as applicable, nationwide area through community development loans, community development investments, and community development services. The adequacy of the bank's or savings association's response will depend on its capacity for such community development
activities, the need for such community development activities, and the availability of community development opportunities.
ii.
Eligibility for an “Outstanding” Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test conclusion.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns an intermediate bank's or savings association's community development performance an “Outstanding” conclusion if the bank or savings association demonstrates excellent responsiveness to community development needs in its facility-based assessment areas and, as applicable, nationwide area through community development loans, community development investments, and community development services. The adequacy of the bank's or savings association's response will depend on its capacity for such community development activities, the need for such community development activities, and the availability of community development opportunities.
iii.
“Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance” Intermediate Bank and Savings Association Community Development Test conclusions.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns an intermediate bank's or savings association's community development performance a “Needs to Improve” or “Substantial Noncompliance” conclusion depending on the degree to which its performance has failed to meet the standards for a “Satisfactory” conclusion.
2.
Intermediate bank or savings association ratings.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates an intermediate bank's or savings association's performance as provided in appendix D to this part.
[89 FR 7165, Feb. 1, 2024]
Pt. 25, App. F

# Appendix F to Part 25—CRA Notice
(a) Notice for main offices and, if an interstate bank, one branch office in each State.

# Community Reinvestment Act Notice
Under the Federal Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the [Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), as appropriate] evaluates our record of helping to meet the credit needs of this community consistent with safe and sound operations. The [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] also takes this record into account when deciding on certain applications submitted by us.
Your involvement is encouraged.
You are entitled to certain information about our operations and our performance under the CRA, including, for example, information about our branches, such as their location and services provided at them; the public section of our most recent CRA Performance Evaluation, prepared by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate]; and comments received from the public relating to our performance in helping to meet community credit needs, as well as our responses to those comments. You may review this information today.
At least 30 days before the beginning of each calendar quarter, the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] publishes a list of the banks that are scheduled for CRA examination by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] for the next two quarters. This list is available through the [OCC's or FDIC's, as appropriate] website at [
OCC.gov
or
FDIC.gov,
as appropriate].
You may send written comments about our performance in helping to meet community credit needs to (name and address of official at bank), (title of responsible official), to the [OCC or FDIC Regional Director, as appropriate, (address)]. You may also submit comments electronically to the [OCC at
CRAComments@occ.treas.gov
or FDIC through the FDIC's website at
FDIC.gov/regulations/cra
, as appropriate]. Your written comments, together with any response by us, will be considered by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] in evaluating our CRA performance and may be made public.
You may ask to look at any comments received by the [OCC or FDIC Regional Director, as appropriate]. You may also request from the [OCC or FDIC Regional Director, as appropriate] an announcement of our applications covered by the CRA filed with the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate]. [We are an affiliate of (name of holding company), a bank holding company. You may request from (title of responsible official), Federal Reserve Bank of ____(address) an announcement of applications covered by the CRA filed by bank holding companies.]
(b) Notice for branch offices.

# Community Reinvestment Act Notice
Under the Federal Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the [Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), as appropriate] evaluates our record of helping to meet the credit needs of this community consistent with safe and sound operations. The [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] also takes this record into account when deciding on certain applications submitted by us.
Your involvement is encouraged.
You are entitled to certain information about our operations and our performance under the CRA. You may review today the public section of our most recent CRA Performance Evaluation, prepared by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate], and a list of services provided at this branch. You may also have access to the following additional information, which we will make available to you at this branch within five calendar days after you make a request to us:
(1) A map showing the facility-based assessment area containing this branch, which is the area in which the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] evaluates our CRA performance in this community;
(2) Information about our branches in this facility-based assessment area;
(3) A list of services we provide at those locations;
(4) Data on our lending performance in this facility-based assessment area; and
(5) Copies of all written comments received by us that specifically relate to our CRA performance in this facility-based assessment area, and any responses we have made to those comments. If we are operating under an approved strategic plan, you may also have access to a copy of the plan.
[If you would like to review information about our CRA performance in other communities served by us, the public file for our entire bank is available on our website (website address) and at (name of office located in State), located at (address).]
At least 30 days before the beginning of each calendar quarter, the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] publishes a list of the banks that are scheduled for CRA examination by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] for the next two quarters. This list is available through the [OCC's or FDIC's, as appropriate] website at [
OCC.gov
or
FDIC.gov,
as appropriate].
You may send written comments about our performance in helping to meet community credit needs to (name and address of official at bank), (title of responsible official), to the [OCC or FDIC Regional Director, as appropriate (address)]. You may also submit comments electronically to the [OCC at
CRAComments@occ.treas.gov
or FDIC through the FDIC's website at
FDIC.gov/regulations/cra
, as appropriate]. Your written comment, together with any response by us, will be considered by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] in evaluating our CRA performance and may be made public.
You may ask to look at any comments received by the [OCC or FDIC Regional Director, as appropriate]. You may also request from the [OCC or FDIC Regional Director, as appropriate] an announcement of our applications covered by the CRA filed with the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate]. [We are an affiliate of (name of holding company), a bank holding company. You may request from (title of responsible official), Federal Reserve Bank of ____(address) an announcement of applications covered by the CRA filed by bank holding companies.]
[89 FR 7171, Feb. 1, 2024]
Pt. 25, App. G

# Appendix G to Part 25—Community Reinvestment Act and Interstate Deposit Production Regulations

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 7172, Feb. 1, 2024, appendix G to part 25 was added, effective through Jan. 1, 2031.

# Note:
The content of this appendix reproduces part 25 implementing the Community Reinvestment Act as of March 31, 2024. Cross-references to CFR parts (as well as to included sections, subparts, and appendices) in this appendix are to those provisions as contained within this appendix and the CFR as of March 31, 2024.
Subpart A—General
§ 25.11 Authority, purposes, and scope.
(a)
Authority and OMB control number
—(1)
Authority.
The authority for subparts A, B, C, D, and E is 12 U.S.C. 21, 22, 26, 27, 30, 36, 93a, 161, 215, 215a, 481, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 1814, 1816, 1828(c), 1835a, 2901 through 2908, 3101 through 3111, and 5412(b)(2)(B).
(2)
OMB control number.
The information collection requirements contained in this part were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
and have been assigned OMB control number 1557-0160.
(b)
Purposes.
In enacting the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the Congress required each appropriate Federal financial supervisory agency to assess an institution's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the local communities in which the institution is chartered, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the institution, and to take this record into account in the agency's evaluation of an application for a deposit facility by the institution. This part is intended to carry out the purposes of the CRA by:
(1) Establishing the framework and criteria by which the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), as appropriate, assesses a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association; and
(2) Providing that the OCC takes that record into account in considering certain applications.
(c)
Scope
—(1)
General.
(i) Subparts A, B, C, and D, and Appendices A and B, apply to all banks and savings associations except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section. Subpart E only applies to banks.
(ii) With respect to subparts A, B, C, and D, and Appendices A and B—
(A) The OCC has the authority to prescribe these regulations for national banks, Federal
savings associations, and State savings associations and has the authority to enforce these regulations for national banks and Federal savings associations.
(B) The FDIC has the authority to enforce these regulations for State savings associations.
(iii) With respect to subparts A, B, C, and D, and appendix A, references to appropriate Federal banking agency will mean the OCC when the institution is a national bank or Federal savings association and the FDIC when the institution is a State savings association.
(2)
Federal branches and agencies.
(i) This part applies to all insured Federal branches and to any Federal branch that is uninsured that results from an acquisition described in section 5(a)(8) of the International Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3103(a)(8)).
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, this part does not apply to Federal branches that are uninsured, limited Federal branches, or Federal agencies, as those terms are defined in part 28 of this chapter.
(3)
Certain special purpose banks and savings associations.
This part does not apply to special purpose banks or special purpose savings associations that do not perform commercial or retail banking services by granting credit to the public in the ordinary course of business, other than as incident to their specialized operations. These banks or savings associations include banker's banks, as defined in 12 U.S.C. 24(Seventh), and banks or savings associations that engage only in one or more of the following activities: Providing cash management controlled disbursement services or serving as correspondent banks or savings associations, trust companies, or clearing agents.
§ 25.12 Definitions.
For purposes of subparts A, B, C, and D, and appendices A and B, of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Affiliate
means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company. The term “control” has the meaning given to that term in 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2), and a company is under common control with another company if both companies are directly or indirectly controlled by the same company.
(b)
Area median income
means:
(1) The median family income for the MSA, if a person or geography is located in an MSA, or for the metropolitan division, if a person or geography is located in an MSA that has been subdivided into metropolitan divisions; or
(2) The statewide nonmetropolitan median family income, if a person or geography is located outside an MSA.
(c)
Assessment area
means a geographic area delineated in accordance with § 25.41.
(d)
Automated teller machine (ATM)
means an automated, unstaffed banking facility owned or operated by, or operated exclusively for, the bank or savings association at which deposits are received, cash dispersed, or money lent.
(e)(1)
Bank or savings association
means, except as provided in § 25.11(c), a national bank (including a Federal branch as defined in part 28 of this chapter) with Federally insured deposits or a savings association;
(2)
Bank and savings association
means, except as provided in § 25.11(c), a national bank (including a Federal branch as defined in part 28 of this chapter) with Federally insured deposits and a savings association.
(f)
Branch
means a staffed banking facility authorized as a branch, whether shared or unshared, including, for example, a mini-branch in a grocery store or a branch operated in conjunction with any other local business or nonprofit organization.
(g)
Community development
means:
(1) Affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) for low- or moderate-income individuals;
(2) Community services targeted to low- or moderate-income individuals;
(3) Activities that promote economic development by financing businesses or farms that meet the size eligibility standards of the Small Business Administration's Development Company or Small Business Investment Company programs (13 CFR 121.301) or have gross annual revenues of $1 million or less; or
(4) Activities that revitalize or stabilize—
(i) Low-or moderate-income geographies;
(ii) Designated disaster areas; or
(iii) Distressed or underserved nonmetropolitan middle-income geographies designated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, FDIC, and the OCC, based on—
(A) Rates of poverty, unemployment, and population loss; or
(B) Population size, density, and dispersion. Activities revitalize and stabilize geographies designated based on population size, density, and dispersion if they help to meet essential community needs, including needs of low- and moderate-income individuals.
(h)
Community development loan
means a loan that:
(1) Has as its primary purpose community development; and
(2) Except in the case of a wholesale or limited purpose bank or savings association:
(i) Has not been reported or collected by the bank or savings association or an affiliate for consideration in the bank's or savings association's assessment as a home mortgage, small business, small farm, or consumer loan, unless the loan is for a multifamily dwelling (as defined in § 1003.2(n) of this title); and
(ii) Benefits the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s) or a broader statewide or regional area(s) that includes the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
(i)
Community development service
means a service that:
(1) Has as its primary purpose community development;
(2) Is related to the provision of financial services; and
(3) Has not been considered in the evaluation of the bank's or savings association's retail banking services under § 25.24(d).
(j)
Consumer loan
means a loan to one or more individuals for household, family, or other personal expenditures. A consumer loan does not include a home mortgage, small business, or small farm loan. Consumer loans include the following categories of loans:
(1)
Motor vehicle loan,
which is a consumer loan extended for the purchase of and secured by a motor vehicle;
(2)
Credit card loan,
which is a line of credit for household, family, or other personal expenditures that is accessed by a borrower's use of a “credit card,” as this term is defined in § 1026.2 of this title;
(3)
Other secured consumer loan,
which is a secured consumer loan that is not included in one of the other categories of consumer loans; and
(4)
Other unsecured consumer loan,
which is an unsecured consumer loan that is not included in one of the other categories of consumer loans.
(k)
Geography
means a census tract delineated by the United States Bureau of the Census in the most recent decennial census.
(l)
Home mortgage loan
means a closed-end mortgage loan or an open-end line of credit as these terms are defined under § 1003.2 of this title, and that is not an excluded transaction under § 1003.3(c)(1) through (10) and (13) of this title.
(m)
Income level
includes:
(1)
Low-income,
which means an individual income that is less than 50 percent of the area median income, or a median family income that is less than 50 percent, in the case of a geography.
(2)
Moderate-income,
which means an individual income that is at least 50 percent and less than 80 percent of the area median income, or a median family income that is at least 50 and less than 80 percent, in the case of a geography.
(3)
Middle-income,
which means an individual income that is at least 80 percent and less than 120 percent of the area median income, or a median family income that is at least 80 and less than 120 percent, in the case of a geography.
(4)
Upper-income,
which means an individual income that is 120 percent or more of the area median income, or a median family income that is 120 percent or more, in the case of a geography.
(n)
Limited purpose bank
or savings association means a bank or savings association that offers only a narrow product line (such as credit card or motor vehicle loans) to a regional or broader market and for which a designation as a limited purpose bank or savings association is in effect, in accordance with § 25.25(b).
(o)
Loan location.
A loan is located as follows:
(1) A consumer loan is located in the geography where the borrower resides;
(2) A home mortgage loan is located in the geography where the property to which the loan relates is located; and
(3) A small business or small farm loan is located in the geography where the main business facility or farm is located or where the loan proceeds otherwise will be applied, as indicated by the borrower.
(p)
Loan production office
means a staffed facility, other than a branch, that is open to the public and that provides lending-related services, such as loan information and applications.
(q)
Metropolitan division
means a metropolitan division as defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(r)
MSA
means a metropolitan statistical area as defined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
(s)
Nonmetropolitan area
means any area that is not located in an MSA.
(t)
Qualified investment
means a lawful investment, deposit, membership share, or grant that has as its primary purpose community development.
(u)
Small bank or savings association
—(1)
Definition. Small bank or savings association
means a bank or savings association that, as of December 31 of either of the prior two calendar years, had assets of less than $1.322 billion.
Intermediate small bank or savings association
means a small bank or savings association with assets of at least $330 million as of December 31 of both of the prior two calendar years and less than $1.322 billion as of December 31 of either of the prior two calendar years.
(2)
Adjustment.
The dollar figures in paragraph (u)(1) of this section shall be adjusted annually and published by the appropriate Federal banking agency, based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, for each twelve-month period ending in November, with rounding to the nearest million.
(v)
Small business loan
means a loan included in “loans to small businesses” as defined in the instructions for preparation of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(w)
Small farm loan
means a loan included in “loans to small farms” as defined in the instructions for preparation of the Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(x)
Wholesale bank or savings association
means a bank or savings association that is not in the business of extending home mortgage, small business, small farm, or consumer loans to retail customers, and for which a designation as a wholesale bank or savings association is in effect, in accordance with § 25.25(b).
Subpart B—Standards for Assessing Performance
§ 25.21 Performance tests, standards, and ratings, in general.
(a)
Performance tests and standards.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assesses the CRA performance of a bank or savings association in an examination as follows:
(1)
Lending, investment, and service tests.
The appropriate Federal banking agency applies the lending, investment, and service tests, as provided in §§ 25.22 through 25.24, in evaluating the performance of a bank or savings association, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2), (3), and (4) of this section.
(2)
Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose banks and savings associations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency applies the community development test for a wholesale or limited purpose bank or savings association, as provided in § 25.25, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(3)
Small bank and savings association performance standards.
The appropriate Federal banking agency applies the small bank or savings association performance standards as provided in § 25.26 in evaluating the performance of a small bank or savings association or a bank or savings association that was a small bank or savings association during the prior calendar year, unless the bank or savings association elects to be assessed as provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (4) of this section. The bank or savings association may elect to be assessed as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section only if it collects and reports the data required for other banks or savings associations under § 25.42.
(4)
Strategic plan.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the performance of a bank or savings association under a strategic plan if the bank or savings association submits, and the appropriate Federal banking agency approves, a strategic plan as provided in § 25.27.
(b)
Performance context.
The appropriate Federal banking agency applies the tests and standards in paragraph (a) of this section and also considers whether to approve a proposed strategic plan in the context of:
(1) Demographic data on median income levels, distribution of household income, nature of housing stock, housing costs, and other relevant data pertaining to a bank's or savings association's assessment area(s);
(2) Any information about lending, investment, and service opportunities in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s) maintained by the bank or savings association or obtained from community organizations, state, local, and tribal governments, economic development agencies, or other sources;
(3) The bank's or savings association's product offerings and business strategy as determined from data provided by the bank or savings association;
(4) Institutional capacity and constraints, including the size and financial condition of the bank or savings association, the economic climate (national, regional, and local), safety and soundness limitations, and any other factors that significantly affect the bank's or savings association's ability to provide lending, investments, or services in its assessment area(s);
(5) The bank's or savings association's past performance and the performance of similarly situated lenders;
(6) The bank's or savings association's public file, as described in § 25.43, and any written comments about the bank's or savings association's CRA performance submitted to the bank or savings association or the appropriate Federal banking agency; and
(7) Any other information deemed relevant by the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(c)
Assigned ratings.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns to a bank or savings association one of the following four ratings pursuant to § 25.28 and appendix A of this part: “outstanding”; “satisfactory”; “needs to improve”; or “substantial noncompliance” as provided in 12 U.S.C. 2906(b)(2). The rating assigned by the appropriate Federal banking agency reflects the bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods, consistent with the safe and sound operation of the bank or savings association.
(d)
Safe and sound operations.
This part and the CRA do not require a bank or savings association to make loans or investments or to provide services that are inconsistent with safe and sound operations. To the contrary, the appropriate Federal banking agency anticipates banks and savings associations can meet the standards of this part with safe and sound loans, investments, and services on which the banks and savings associations expect to make a profit. Banks and savings associations are permitted and encouraged to develop and apply flexible underwriting standards for loans that benefit low- or moderate-income geographies or individuals, only if consistent with safe and sound operations.
(e)
Low-cost education loans provided to low-income borrowers.
In assessing and taking into account the record of a bank or savings association under this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers, as a factor, low-cost education loans originated by the bank or savings association to borrowers, particularly in its assessment area(s), who have an individual income that is less than 50 percent of the area median income. For purposes of this paragraph, “low-cost education loans” means any education loan, as defined in section 140(a)(7) of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1650(a)(7)) (including a loan under a State or local education loan program), originated by the bank or savings association for a student at an “institution of higher education,” as that term is generally defined in sections 101 and 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 and 1002) and the implementing regulations published by the U.S. Department of Education, with interest rates and fees no greater than those of comparable education loans offered directly by the U.S. Department of Education. Such rates and fees are specified in section 455 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087e).
(f)
Activities in cooperation with minority- or women-owned financial institutions and low-income credit unions.
In assessing and taking into account the record of a nonminority-owned and nonwomen-owned bank or savings association under this part, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers as a factor capital investment, loan participation, and other ventures undertaken by the bank or savings association in cooperation with minority- and women-owned financial institutions and low-income credit unions. Such activities must help meet the credit needs of local communities in which the minority- and women-owned financial institutions and low-income credit unions are chartered. To be considered, such activities need not also benefit the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s) or the broader statewide or regional area(s) that includes the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
§ 25.22 Lending test.
(a)
Scope of test.
(1) The lending test evaluates a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) through its lending activities by considering a bank's or savings association's home mortgage, small business, small farm, and community development lending. If consumer lending constitutes a substantial majority of a bank's or savings association's business, the appropriate Federal banking agency will evaluate the bank's or savings association's consumer lending in one or more of the following categories: motor vehicle, credit card, other secured, and other unsecured loans. In addition, at a bank's or savings association's option, the appropriate Federal banking agency will evaluate one or more categories of consumer lending, if the bank or savings association has collected and maintained, as required in § 25.42(c)(1), the data for each category that the bank or savings association elects to have the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluate.
(2) The appropriate Federal banking agency considers originations and purchases of loans. The appropriate Federal banking agency will also consider any other loan data the bank or savings association may choose to provide, including data on loans outstanding, commitments and letters of credit.
(3) A bank or savings association may ask the appropriate Federal banking agency to consider loans originated or purchased by consortia in which the bank or savings association participates or by third parties in which the bank or savings association has invested only if the loans meet the definition of community development loans and only in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. The appropriate Federal banking agency will not consider these loans under any criterion of the lending test except the community development lending criterion.
(b)
Performance criteria.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's lending performance pursuant to the following criteria:
(1)
Lending activity.
The number and amount of the bank's or savings association's home mortgage, small business, small farm, and consumer loans, if applicable, in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s);
(2)
Geographic distribution.
The geographic distribution of the bank's or savings association's home mortgage, small business, small farm, and consumer loans, if applicable, based on the loan location, including:
(i) The proportion of the bank's or savings association's lending in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s);
(ii) The dispersion of lending in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s); and
(iii) The number and amount of loans in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s);
(3)
Borrower characteristics.
The distribution, particularly in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s), of the bank's or savings association's home mortgage, small business, small farm, and consumer loans, if applicable, based on borrower characteristics, including the number and amount of:
(i) Home mortgage loans to low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income individuals;
(ii) Small business and small farm loans to businesses and farms with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less;
(iii) Small business and small farm loans by loan amount at origination; and
(iv) Consumer loans, if applicable, to low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income individuals;
(4)
Community development lending.
The bank's or savings association's community development lending, including the number and amount of community development loans, and their complexity and innovativeness; and
(5)
Innovative or flexible lending practices.
The bank's or savings association's use of innovative or flexible lending practices in a safe and sound manner to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies.
(c)
Affiliate lending.
(1) At a bank's or savings association's option, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider loans by an affiliate of the bank or savings association, if the bank or savings association provides data on the affiliate's loans pursuant to § 25.42.
(2) The appropriate Federal banking agency considers affiliate lending subject to the following constraints:
(i) No affiliate may claim a loan origination or loan purchase if another institution claims the same loan origination or purchase; and
(ii) If a bank or savings association elects to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider loans within a particular lending category made by one or more of the bank's or savings association's affiliates in a particular assessment area, the bank or savings association shall elect to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, all the loans within that lending category in that particular assessment area made by all of the bank's or savings association's affiliates.
(3) The appropriate Federal banking agency does not consider affiliate lending in assessing a bank's or savings association's performance under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.
(d)
Lending by a consortium or a third party.
Community development loans originated or purchased by a consortium in which the bank or savings association participates or by a third party in which the bank or savings association has invested:
(1) Will be considered, at the bank's or savings association's option, if the bank or savings association reports the data pertaining to these loans under § 25.42(b)(2); and
(2) May be allocated among participants or investors, as they choose, for purposes of the lending test, except that no participant or investor:
(i) May claim a loan origination or loan purchase if another participant or investor claims the same loan origination or purchase; or
(ii) May claim loans accounting for more than its percentage share (based on the level of its participation or investment) of the total loans originated by the consortium or third party.
(e)
Lending performance rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's lending performance as provided in appendix A of this part.
§ 25.23 Investment test.
(a)
Scope of test.
The investment test evaluates a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) through qualified investments that benefit its assessment area(s) or a broader statewide or regional area that includes the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
(b)
Exclusion.
Activities considered under the lending or service tests may not be considered under the investment test.
(c)
Affiliate investment.
At a bank's or savings association's option, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider, in its assessment of a bank's or savings association's investment performance, a qualified investment made by an affiliate of the bank or savings association, if the qualified investment is not claimed by any other institution.
(d)
Disposition of branch premises.
Donating, selling on favorable terms, or making available on a rent-free basis a branch of the bank or savings association that is located in a predominantly minority neighborhood to a minority depository institution or women's depository institution (as these terms are defined in 12 U.S.C. 2907(b)) will be considered as a qualified investment.
(e)
Performance criteria.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the investment performance of a bank or savings association pursuant to the following criteria:
(1) The dollar amount of qualified investments;
(2) The innovativeness or complexity of qualified investments;
(3) The responsiveness of qualified investments to credit and community development needs; and
(4) The degree to which the qualified investments are not routinely provided by private investors.
(f)
Investment performance rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's investment performance as provided in appendix A of this part.
§ 25.24 Service test.
(a)
Scope of test.
The service test evaluates a bank's or savings association's record of
helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) by analyzing both the availability and effectiveness of a bank's or savings association's systems for delivering retail banking services and the extent and innovativeness of its community development services.
(b)
Area(s) benefitted.
Community development services must benefit a bank's or savings association's assessment area(s) or a broader statewide or regional area that includes the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
(c)
Affiliate service.
At a bank's or savings association's option, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider, in its assessment of a bank's or savings association's service performance, a community development service provided by an affiliate of the bank or savings association, if the community development service is not claimed by any other institution.
(d)
Performance criteria—retail banking services.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the availability and effectiveness of a bank's or savings association's systems for delivering retail banking services, pursuant to the following criteria:
(1) The current distribution of the bank's or savings association's branches among low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies;
(2) In the context of its current distribution of the bank's or savings association's branches, the bank's or savings association's record of opening and closing branches, particularly branches located in low- or moderate-income geographies or primarily serving low- or moderate-income individuals;
(3) The availability and effectiveness of alternative systems for delivering retail banking services (
e.g.,
ATMs, ATMs not owned or operated by or exclusively for the bank or savings association, banking by telephone or computer, loan production offices, and bank-at-work or bank-by-mail programs) in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals; and
(4) The range of services provided in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies and the degree to which the services are tailored to meet the needs of those geographies.
(e)
Performance criteria—community development services.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates community development services pursuant to the following criteria:
(1) The extent to which the bank or savings association provides community development services; and
(2) The innovativeness and responsiveness of community development services.
(f)
Service performance rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's service performance as provided in appendix A of this part.
§ 25.25 Community development test for wholesale or limited purpose banks and savings associations.
(a)
Scope of test.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assesses a wholesale or limited purpose bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) under the community development test through its community development lending, qualified investments, or community development services.
(b)
Designation as a wholesale or limited purpose bank or savings association.
In order to receive a designation as a wholesale or limited purpose bank or savings association, a bank or savings association shall file a request, in writing, with the appropriate Federal banking agency, at least three months prior to the proposed effective date of the designation. If the appropriate Federal banking agency approves the designation, it remains in effect until the bank or savings association requests revocation of the designation or until one year after the appropriate Federal banking agency notifies the bank or savings association that it has revoked the designation on its own initiative.
(c)
Performance criteria.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the community development performance of a wholesale or limited purpose bank or savings association pursuant to the following criteria:
(1) The number and amount of community development loans (including originations and purchases of loans and other community development loan data provided by the bank or savings association, such as data on loans outstanding, commitments, and letters of credit), qualified investments, or community development services;
(2) The use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services and the extent to which the investments are not routinely provided by private investors; and
(3) The bank's or savings association's responsiveness to credit and community development needs.
(d)
Indirect activities.
At a bank's or savings association's option, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider in its community development performance assessment:
(1) Qualified investments or community development services provided by an affiliate of the bank or savings association, if the investments or services are not claimed by any other institution; and
(2) Community development lending by affiliates, consortia and third parties, subject to the requirements and limitations in § 25.22(c) and (d).
(e)
Benefit to assessment area(s)
—(1)
Benefit inside assessment area(s).
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers all qualified investments, community development loans, and community development services
that benefit areas within the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s) or a broader statewide or regional area that includes the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
(2)
Benefit outside assessment area(s).
The appropriate Federal banking agency considers the qualified investments, community development loans, and community development services that benefit areas outside the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s), if the bank or savings association has adequately addressed the needs of its assessment area(s).
(f)
Community development performance rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's community development performance as provided in appendix A of this part.
§ 25.26 Small bank and savings association performance standards.
(a)
Performance criteria
—(1)
Small banks and savings associations that are not intermediate small banks or savings associations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the record of a small bank or savings association that is not, or that was not during the prior calendar year, an intermediate small bank or savings association, of helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) pursuant to the criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Intermediate small banks and savings associations.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the record of a small bank or savings association that is, or that was during the prior calendar year, an intermediate small bank or savings association, of helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) pursuant to the criteria set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b)
Lending test.
A small bank's or savings association's lending performance is evaluated pursuant to the following criteria:
(1) The bank's or savings association's loan-to-deposit ratio, adjusted for seasonal variation, and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities, such as loan originations for sale to the secondary markets, community development loans, or qualified investments;
(2) The percentage of loans and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities located in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s);
(3) The bank's or savings association's record of lending to and, as appropriate, engaging in other lending-related activities for borrowers of different income levels and businesses and farms of different sizes;
(4) The geographic distribution of the bank's or savings association's loans; and
(5) The bank's or savings association's record of taking action, if warranted, in response to written complaints about its performance in helping to meet credit needs in its assessment area(s).
(c)
Community development test.
An intermediate small bank's or savings association's community development performance also is evaluated pursuant to the following criteria:
(1) The number and amount of community development loans;
(2) The number and amount of qualified investments;
(3) The extent to which the bank or savings association provides community development services; and
(4) The bank's or savings association's responsiveness through such activities to community development lending, investment, and services needs.
(d)
Small bank or savings association performance rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates the performance of a bank or savings association evaluated under this section as provided in appendix A of this part.
§ 25.27 Strategic plan.
(a)
Alternative election.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will assess a bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s) under a strategic plan if:
(1) The bank or savings association has submitted the plan to the appropriate Federal banking agency as provided for in this section;
(2) The appropriate Federal banking agency has approved the plan;
(3) The plan is in effect; and
(4) The bank or savings association has been operating under an approved plan for at least one year.
(b)
Data reporting.
The appropriate Federal banking agency's approval of a plan does not affect the bank's or savings association's obligation, if any, to report data as required by § 25.42.
(c)
Plans in general
—(1)
Term.
A plan may have a term of no more than five years, and any multi-year plan must include annual interim measurable goals under which the appropriate Federal banking agency will evaluate the bank's or savings association's performance.
(2)
Multiple assessment areas.
A bank or savings association with more than one assessment area may prepare a single plan for all of its assessment areas or one or more plans for one or more of its assessment areas.
(3)
Treatment of affiliates.
Affiliated institutions may prepare a joint plan if the plan provides measurable goals for each institution. Activities may be allocated among institutions at the institutions' option, provided that the same activities are not considered for more than one institution.
(d)
Public participation in plan development.
Before submitting a plan to the appropriate
Federal banking agency for approval, a bank or savings association shall:
(1) Informally seek suggestions from members of the public in its assessment area(s) covered by the plan while developing the plan;
(2) Once the bank or savings association has developed a plan, formally solicit public comment on the plan for at least 30 days by publishing notice in at least one newspaper of general circulation in each assessment area covered by the plan; and
(3) During the period of formal public comment, make copies of the plan available for review by the public at no cost at all offices of the bank or savings association in any assessment area covered by the plan and provide copies of the plan upon request for a reasonable fee to cover copying and mailing, if applicable.
(e)
Submission of plan.
The bank or savings association shall submit its plan to the appropriate Federal banking agency at least three months prior to the proposed effective date of the plan. The bank or savings association shall also submit with its plan a description of its informal efforts to seek suggestions from members of the public, any written public comment received, and, if the plan was revised in light of the comment received, the initial plan as released for public comment.
(f)
Plan content
—(1)
Measurable goals.
(i) A bank or savings association shall specify in its plan measurable goals for helping to meet the credit needs of each assessment area covered by the plan, particularly the needs of low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals, through lending, investment, and services, as appropriate.
(ii) A bank or savings association shall address in its plan all three performance categories and, unless the bank or savings association has been designated as a wholesale or limited purpose bank or savings association, shall emphasize lending and lending-related activities. Nevertheless, a different emphasis, including a focus on one or more performance categories, may be appropriate if responsive to the characteristics and credit needs of its assessment area(s), considering public comment and the bank's or savings association's capacity and constraints, product offerings, and business strategy.
(2)
Confidential information.
A bank or savings association may submit additional information to the appropriate Federal banking agency on a confidential basis, but the goals stated in the plan must be sufficiently specific to enable the public and the appropriate Federal banking agency to judge the merits of the plan.
(3)
Satisfactory and outstanding goals.
A bank or savings association shall specify in its plan measurable goals that constitute “satisfactory” performance. A plan may specify measurable goals that constitute “outstanding” performance. If a bank or savings association submits, and the appropriate Federal banking agency approves, both “satisfactory” and “outstanding” performance goals, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider the bank or savings association eligible for an “outstanding” performance rating.
(4)
Election if satisfactory goals not substantially met.
A bank or savings association may elect in its plan that, if the bank or savings association fails to meet substantially its plan goals for a satisfactory rating, the appropriate Federal banking agency will evaluate the bank's or savings association's performance under the lending, investment, and service tests, the community development test, or the small bank or savings association performance standards, as appropriate.
(g)
Plan approval
—(1)
Timing.
The appropriate Federal banking agency will act upon a plan within 60 calendar days after the appropriate Federal banking agency receives the complete plan and other material required under paragraph (e) of this section. If the appropriate Federal banking agency fails to act within this time period, the plan shall be deemed approved unless the appropriate Federal banking agency extends the review period for good cause.
(2)
Public participation.
In evaluating the plan's goals, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers the public's involvement in formulating the plan, written public comment on the plan, and any response by the bank or savings association to public comment on the plan.
(3)
Criteria for evaluating plan.
The appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a plan's measurable goals using the following criteria, as appropriate:
(i) The extent and breadth of lending or lending-related activities, including, as appropriate, the distribution of loans among different geographies, businesses and farms of different sizes, and individuals of different income levels, the extent of community development lending, and the use of innovative or flexible lending practices to address credit needs;
(ii) The amount and innovativeness, complexity, and responsiveness of the bank's or savings association's qualified investments; and
(iii) The availability and effectiveness of the bank's or savings association's systems for delivering retail banking services and the extent and innovativeness of the bank's or savings association's community development services.
(h)
Plan amendment.
During the term of a plan, a bank or savings association may request the appropriate Federal banking agency to approve an amendment to the plan on grounds that there has been a material
change in circumstances. The bank or savings association shall develop an amendment to a previously approved plan in accordance with the public participation requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
(i)
Plan assessment.
The appropriate Federal banking agency approves the goals and assesses performance under a plan as provided for in appendix A of this part.
§ 25.28 Assigned ratings.
(a)
Ratings in general.
Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the appropriate Federal banking agency assigns to a bank or savings association a rating of “outstanding,” “satisfactory,” “needs to improve,” or “substantial noncompliance” based on the bank's or savings association's performance under the lending, investment and service tests, the community development test, the small bank or savings association performance standards, or an approved strategic plan, as applicable.
(b)
Lending, investment, and service tests.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns a rating for a bank or savings association assessed under the lending, investment, and service tests in accordance with the following principles:
(1) A bank or savings association that receives an “outstanding” rating on the lending test receives an assigned rating of at least “satisfactory”;
(2) A bank or savings association that receives an “outstanding” rating on both the service test and the investment test and a rating of at least “high satisfactory” on the lending test receives an assigned rating of “outstanding”; and
(3) No bank or savings association may receive an assigned rating of “satisfactory” or higher unless it receives a rating of at least “low satisfactory” on the lending test.
(c)
Effect of evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices.
(1) The appropriate Federal banking agency's evaluation of a bank's or savings association's CRA performance is adversely affected by evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices in any geography by the bank or savings association or in any assessment area by any affiliate whose loans have been considered as part of the bank's or savings association's lending performance. In connection with any type of lending activity described in § 25.22(a), evidence of discriminatory or other credit practices that violate an applicable law, rule, or regulation includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Discrimination against applicants on a prohibited basis in violation, for example, of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act or the Fair Housing Act;
(ii) Violations of the Home Ownership and Equity Protection Act;
(iii) Violations of section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act;
(iv) Violations of section 8 of the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act; and
(v) Violations of the Truth in Lending Act provisions regarding a consumer's right of rescission.
(2) In determining the effect of evidence of practices described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section on the bank's or savings association's assigned rating, the appropriate Federal banking agency considers the nature, extent, and strength of the evidence of the practices; the policies and procedures that the bank or savings association (or affiliate, as applicable) has in place to prevent the practices; any corrective action that the bank or savings association (or affiliate, as applicable) has taken or has committed to take, including voluntary corrective action resulting from self-assessment; and any other relevant information.
§ 25.29 Effect of CRA performance on applications.
(a)
CRA performance.
Among other factors, the appropriate Federal banking agency takes into account the record of performance under the CRA of each applicant bank or savings association, and for applications under 10(e) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(e)), of each proposed subsidiary savings association, in considering an application for:
(1) The establishment of:
(i) A domestic branch for insured national banks; or
(ii) A domestic branch or other facility that would be authorized to take deposits for savings associations;
(2) The relocation of the main office or a branch;
(3) The merger or consolidation with or the acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities of an insured depository institution requiring approval under the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)); and
(4) The conversion of an insured depository institution to a national bank or Federal savings association charter; and
(5) Acquisitions subject to section 10(e) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(e)).
(b)
Charter application.
(1) An applicant (other than an insured depository institution) for a national bank charter shall submit with its application a description of how it will meet its CRA objectives. The OCC takes the description into account in considering the application and may deny or condition approval on that basis.
(2) An applicant for a Federal savings association charter shall submit with its application a description of how it will meet its CRA objectives. The appropriate Federal banking agency takes the description into account in considering the application and may deny or condition approval on that basis.
(c)
Interested parties.
The appropriate Federal banking agency takes into account any views expressed by interested parties that are submitted in accordance with the applicable comment procedures in considering CRA performance in an application listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(d)
Denial or conditional approval of application.
A bank's or savings association's record of performance may be the basis for denying or conditioning approval of an application listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(e)
Insured depository institution.
For purposes of this section, the term “insured depository institution” has the meaning given to that term in 12 U.S.C. 1813.
Subpart C—Records, Reporting, and Disclosure Requirements
§ 25.41 Assessment area delineation.
(a)
In general.
A bank or savings association shall delineate one or more assessment areas within which the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates the bank's or savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of its community. The appropriate Federal banking agency does not evaluate the bank's or savings association's delineation of its assessment area(s) as a separate performance criterion, but the appropriate Federal banking agency reviews the delineation for compliance with the requirements of this section.
(b)
Geographic area(s) for wholesale or limited purpose banks or savings associations.
The assessment area(s) for a wholesale or limited purpose bank or savings association must consist generally of one or more MSAs or metropolitan divisions (using the MSA or metropolitan division boundaries that were in effect as of January 1 of the calendar year in which the delineation is made) or one or more contiguous political subdivisions, such as counties, cities, or towns, in which the bank or savings association has its main office, branches, and deposit-taking ATMs.
(c)
Geographic area(s) for other banks and savings association.
The assessment area(s) for a bank or savings association other than a wholesale or limited purpose bank or savings association must:
(1) Consist generally of one or more MSAs or metropolitan divisions (using the MSA or metropolitan division boundaries that were in effect as of January 1 of the calendar year in which the delineation is made) or one or more contiguous political subdivisions, such as counties, cities, or towns; and
(2) Include the geographies in which the bank or savings association has its main office, its branches, and its deposit-taking ATMs, as well as the surrounding geographies in which the bank or savings association has originated or purchased a substantial portion of its loans (including home mortgage loans, small business and small farm loans, and any other loans the bank or savings association chooses, such as those consumer loans on which the bank or savings association elects to have its performance assessed).
(d)
Adjustments to geographic area(s).
A bank or savings association may adjust the boundaries of its assessment area(s) to include only the portion of a political subdivision that it reasonably can be expected to serve. An adjustment is particularly appropriate in the case of an assessment area that otherwise would be extremely large, of unusual configuration, or divided by significant geographic barriers.
(e)
Limitations on the delineation of an assessment area.
Each bank's or savings associations assessment area(s):
(1) Must consist only of whole geographies;
(2) May not reflect illegal discrimination;
(3) May not arbitrarily exclude low- or moderate-income geographies, taking into account the bank's or savings association's size and financial condition; and
(4) May not extend substantially beyond an MSA boundary or beyond a state boundary unless the assessment area is located in a multistate MSA. If a bank or savings association serves a geographic area that extends substantially beyond a state boundary, the bank or savings association shall delineate separate assessment areas for the areas in each state. If a bank or savings association serves a geographic area that extends substantially beyond an MSA boundary, the bank or savings association shall delineate separate assessment areas for the areas inside and outside the MSA.
(f)
Banks and savings association serving military personnel.
Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, a bank or savings association whose business predominantly consists of serving the needs of military personnel or their dependents who are not located within a defined geographic area may delineate its entire deposit customer base as its assessment area.
(g)
Use of assessment area(s).
The appropriate Federal banking agency uses the assessment area(s) delineated by a bank or savings association in its evaluation of the bank's or savings association's CRA performance unless the appropriate Federal banking agency determines that the assessment area(s) do not comply with the requirements of this section.
§ 25.42 Data collection, reporting, and disclosure.
(a)
Loan information required to be collected and maintained.
A bank or savings association, except a small bank or savings association, shall collect, and maintain in machine readable form (as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency) until the completion of its next CRA examination, the following data for each small business or
small farm loan originated or purchased by the bank or savings association:
(1) A unique number or alpha-numeric symbol that can be used to identify the relevant loan file;
(2) The loan amount at origination;
(3) The loan location; and
(4) An indicator whether the loan was to a business or farm with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less.
(b)
Loan information required to be reported.
A bank or savings association, except a small bank or savings association or a bank or savings association that was a small bank or savings association during the prior calendar year, shall report annually by March 1 to the appropriate Federal banking agency in machine readable form (as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency) the following data for the prior calendar year:
(1)
Small business and small farm loan data.
For each geography in which the bank or savings association originated or purchased a small business or small farm loan, the aggregate number and amount of loans:
(i) With an amount at origination of $100,000 or less;
(ii) With amount at origination of more than $100,000 but less than or equal to $250,000;
(iii) With an amount at origination of more than $250,000; and
(iv) To businesses and farms with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less (using the revenues that the bank or savings association considered in making its credit decision);
(2)
Community development loan data.
The aggregate number and aggregate amount of community development loans originated or purchased; and
(3)
Home mortgage loans.
If the bank or savings association is subject to reporting under part 1003 of this title, the location of each home mortgage loan application, origination, or purchase outside the MSAs in which the bank or savings association has a home or branch office (or outside any MSA) in accordance with the requirements of part 1003 of this title.
(c)
Optional data collection and maintenance
—(1)
Consumer loans.
A bank or savings association may collect and maintain in machine readable form (as prescribed by the appropriate Federal banking agency) data for consumer loans originated or purchased by the bank or savings association for consideration under the lending test. A bank or savings association may maintain data for one or more of the following categories of consumer loans: Motor vehicle, credit card, other secured, and other unsecured. If the bank or savings association maintains data for loans in a certain category, it shall maintain data for all loans originated or purchased within that category. The bank or savings association shall maintain data separately for each category, including for each loan:
(i) A unique number or alpha-numeric symbol that can be used to identify the relevant loan file;
(ii) The loan amount at origination or purchase;
(iii) The loan location; and
(iv) The gross annual income of the borrower that the bank or savings association considered in making its credit decision.
(2)
Other loan data.
At its option, a bank or savings association may provide other information concerning its lending performance, including additional loan distribution data.
(d)
Data on affiliate lending.
A bank or savings association that elects to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider loans by an affiliate, for purposes of the lending or community development test or an approved strategic plan, shall collect, maintain, and report for those loans the data that the bank or savings association would have collected, maintained, and reported pursuant to paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section had the loans been originated or purchased by the bank or savings association. For home mortgage loans, the bank or savings association shall also be prepared to identify the home mortgage loans reported under part 1003 of this title by the affiliate.
(e)
Data on lending by a consortium or a third party.
A bank or savings association that elects to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider community development loans by a consortium or third party, for purposes of the lending or community development tests or an approved strategic plan, shall report for those loans the data that the bank or savings association would have reported under paragraph (b)(2) of this section had the loans been originated or purchased by the bank or savings association.
(f)
Small banks and savings associations electing evaluation under the lending, investment, and service tests.
A bank or savings association that qualifies for evaluation under the small bank or savings association performance standards but elects evaluation under the lending, investment, and service tests shall collect, maintain, and report the data required for other banks or savings association pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
(g)
Assessment area data.
A bank or savings association, except a small bank or savings association or a bank or savings association that was a small bank or savings association during the prior calendar year, shall collect and report to the appropriate Federal banking agency by March 1 of each year a list for each assessment area showing the geographies within the area.
(h)
CRA Disclosure Statement.
The appropriate Federal banking agency prepares annually for each bank or savings association that reports data pursuant to this section a
CRA Disclosure Statement that contains, on a state-by-state basis:
(1) For each county (and for each assessment area smaller than a county) with a population of 500,000 persons or fewer in which the bank or savings association reported a small business or small farm loan:
(i) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans reported as originated or purchased located in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies;
(ii) A list grouping each geography according to whether the geography is low-, moderate-, middle-, or upper-income;
(iii) A list showing each geography in which the bank or savings association reported a small business or small farm loan; and
(iv) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans to businesses and farms with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less;
(2) For each county (and for each assessment area smaller than a county) with a population in excess of 500,000 persons in which the bank or savings association reported a small business or small farm loan:
(i) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans reported as originated or purchased located in geographies with median income relative to the area median income of less than 10 percent, 10 or more but less than 20 percent, 20 or more but less than 30 percent, 30 or more but less than 40 percent, 40 or more but less than 50 percent, 50 or more but less than 60 percent, 60 or more but less than 70 percent, 70 or more but less than 80 percent, 80 or more but less than 90 percent, 90 or more but less than 100 percent, 100 or more but less than 110 percent, 110 or more but less than 120 percent, and 120 percent or more;
(ii) A list grouping each geography in the county or assessment area according to whether the median income in the geography relative to the area median income is less than 10 percent, 10 or more but less than 20 percent, 20 or more but less than 30 percent, 30 or more but less than 40 percent, 40 or more but less than 50 percent, 50 or more but less than 60 percent, 60 or more but less than 70 percent, 70 or more but less than 80 percent, 80 or more but less than 90 percent, 90 or more but less than 100 percent, 100 or more but less than 110 percent, 110 or more but less than 120 percent, and 120 percent or more;
(iii) A list showing each geography in which the bank or savings association reported a small business or small farm loan; and
(iv) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans to businesses and farms with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less;
(3) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans located inside each assessment area reported by the bank or savings association and the number and amount of small business and small farm loans located outside the assessment area(s) reported by the bank or savings association; and
(4) The number and amount of community development loans reported as originated or purchased.
(i)
Aggregate disclosure statements.
The OCC, in conjunction with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, prepares annually, for each MSA or metropolitan division (including an MSA or metropolitan division that crosses a state boundary) and the nonmetropolitan portion of each state, an aggregate disclosure statement of small business and small farm lending by all institutions subject to reporting under this part or parts 228 or 345 of this title. These disclosure statements indicate, for each geography, the number and amount of all small business and small farm loans originated or purchased by reporting institutions, except that the appropriate Federal banking agency may adjust the form of the disclosure if necessary, because of special circumstances, to protect the privacy of a borrower or the competitive position of an institution.
(j)
Central data depositories.
The appropriate Federal banking agency makes the aggregate disclosure statements, described in paragraph (i) of this section, and the individual bank or savings association CRA Disclosure Statements, described in paragraph (h) of this section, available to the public at central data depositories. The appropriate Federal banking agency publishes a list of the depositories at which the statements are available.
§ 25.43 Content and availability of public file.
(a)
Information available to the public.
A bank or savings association shall maintain a public file that includes the following information:
(1) All written comments received from the public for the current year and each of the prior two calendar years that specifically relate to the bank's or savings association's performance in helping to meet community credit needs, and any response to the comments by the bank or savings association, if neither the comments nor the responses contain statements that reflect adversely on the good name or reputation of any persons other than the bank or savings association or publication of which would violate specific provisions of law;
(2) A copy of the public section of the bank's or savings association's most recent CRA Performance Evaluation prepared by the appropriate Federal banking agency. The
bank or savings association shall place this copy in the public file within 30 business days after its receipt from the appropriate Federal banking agency;
(3) A list of the bank's or savings association's branches, their street addresses, and geographies;
(4) A list of branches opened or closed by the bank or savings association during the current year and each of the prior two calendar years, their street addresses, and geographies;
(5) A list of services (including hours of operation, available loan and deposit products, and transaction fees) generally offered at the bank's or savings association's branches and descriptions of material differences in the availability or cost of services at particular branches, if any. At its option, a bank or savings association may include information regarding the availability of alternative systems for delivering retail banking services (
e.g.,
ATMs, ATMs not owned or operated by or exclusively for the bank or savings association, banking by telephone or computer, loan production offices, and bank-at-work or bank-by-mail programs);
(6) A map of each assessment area showing the boundaries of the area and identifying the geographies contained within the area, either on the map or in a separate list; and
(7) Any other information the bank or savings association chooses.
(b)
Additional information available to the public
—(1)
Banks and savings associations other than small banks or savings associations.
A bank or savings association, except a small bank or savings association or a bank or savings association that was a small bank or savings association during the prior calendar year, shall include in its public file the following information pertaining to the bank or savings association and its affiliates, if applicable, for each of the prior two calendar years:
(i) If the bank or savings association has elected to have one or more categories of its consumer loans considered under the lending test, for each of these categories, the number and amount of loans:
(A) To low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income individuals;
(B) Located in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income census tracts; and
(C) Located inside the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s) and outside the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s); and
(ii) The bank's or savings association's CRA Disclosure Statement. The bank or savings association shall place the statement in the public file within three business days of its receipt from the appropriate Federal banking agency.
(2)
Banks and savings associations required to report Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) data.
A bank or savings association required to report home mortgage loan data pursuant part 1003 of this title shall include in its public file a written notice that the institution's HMDA Disclosure Statement may be obtained on the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau's (Bureau's) website at
www.consumerfinance.gov/hmda
. In addition, a bank or savings association that elected to have the appropriate Federal banking agency consider the mortgage lending of an affiliate shall include in its public file the name of the affiliate and a written notice that the affiliate's HMDA Disclosure Statement may be obtained at the Bureau's website. The bank or savings association shall place the written notice(s) in the public file within three business days after receiving notification from the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council of the availability of the disclosure statement(s).
(3)
Small banks and savings associations.
A small bank or savings association or a bank or savings association that was a small bank or savings association during the prior calendar year shall include in its public file:
(i) The bank's or savings association's loan-to-deposit ratio for each quarter of the prior calendar year and, at its option, additional data on its loan-to-deposit ratio; and
(ii) The information required for other banks or savings associations by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, if the bank or savings association has elected to be evaluated under the lending, investment, and service tests.
(4)
Banks and savings associations with strategic plans.
A bank or savings association that has been approved to be assessed under a strategic plan shall include in its public file a copy of that plan. A bank or savings association need not include information submitted to the appropriate Federal banking agency on a confidential basis in conjunction with the plan.
(5)
Banks and savings associations with less than satisfactory ratings.
A bank or savings association that received a less than satisfactory rating during its most recent examination shall include in its public file a description of its current efforts to improve its performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community. The bank or savings association shall update the description quarterly.
(c)
Location of public information.
A bank or savings association shall make available to the public for inspection upon request and at no cost the information required in this section as follows:
(1) At the main office and, if an interstate bank or savings association, at one branch office in each state, all information in the public file; and
(2) At each branch:
(i) A copy of the public section of the bank's or savings association's most recent CRA Performance Evaluation and a list of services provided by the branch; and
(ii) Within five calendar days of the request, all the information in the public file relating to the assessment area in which the branch is located.
(d)
Copies.
Upon request, a bank or savings association shall provide copies, either on paper or in another form acceptable to the person making the request, of the information in its public file. The bank or savings association may charge a reasonable fee not to exceed the cost of copying and mailing (if applicable).
(e)
Updating.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a bank or savings association shall ensure that the information required by this section is current as of April 1 of each year.
§ 25.44 Public notice by banks and savings associations.
A bank or savings association shall provide in the public lobby of its main office and each of its branches the appropriate public notice set forth in appendix B of this part. Only a branch of a bank or savings association having more than one assessment area shall include the bracketed material in the notice for branch offices. Only an insured national bank that is an affiliate of a holding company shall include the next to the last sentence of the notices. An insured national bank shall include the last sentence of the notices only if it is an affiliate of a holding company that is not prevented by statute from acquiring additional banks. Only a savings association that is an affiliate of a holding company shall include the last two sentences of the notices.
§ 25.45 Publication of planned examination schedule.
The appropriate Federal banking agency publishes at least 30 days in advance of the beginning of each calendar quarter a list of banks and savings associations scheduled for CRA examinations in that quarter.
Subpart D—Transition Provisions
§ 25.51 Consideration of Bank Activities.
(a) In assessing a bank's CRA performance, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider any loan, investment, or service that was eligible for CRA consideration at the time the bank conducted the activity.
(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a), in assessing a bank's CRA performance, the appropriate Federal banking agency will consider any loan or investment that was eligible for CRA consideration at the time the bank entered into a legally binding commitment to make the loan or investment.
§ 25.52 Strategic Plan Retention.
A bank or savings association strategic plan approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency and in effect as of December 31, 2021, remains in effect, except that provisions of the plan that are not consistent with this part in effect as of January 1, 2022, are void, unless amended pursuant to § 25.27.
Subpart E—Prohibition Against Use of Interstate Branches Primarily for Deposit Production
§ 25.61 Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of this subpart is to implement section 109 (12 U.S.C. 1835a) of the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (Interstate Act).
(b)
Scope.
(1) This subpart applies to any national bank that has operated a covered interstate branch for a period of at least one year, and any foreign bank that has operated a covered interstate branch that is a Federal branch for a period of at least one year.
(2) This subpart describes the requirements imposed under 12 U.S.C. 1835a, which requires the appropriate Federal banking agencies (the OCC, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the FDIC) to prescribe uniform rules that prohibit a bank from using any authority to engage in interstate branching pursuant to the Interstate Act, or any amendment made by the Interstate Act to any other provision of law, primarily for the purpose of deposit production.
§ 25.62 Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Bank
means, unless the context indicates otherwise:
(1) A national bank; and
(2) A foreign bank as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101(7) and 12 CFR 28.11(i).
(b)
Covered interstate branch
means:
(1) Any branch of a national bank, and any Federal branch of a foreign bank, that:
(i) Is established or acquired outside the bank's home State pursuant to the interstate branching authority granted by the Interstate Act or by any amendment made by the Interstate Act to any other provision of law; or
(ii) Could not have been established or acquired outside of the bank's home State but for the establishment or acquisition of a branch described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; and
(2) Any bank or branch of a bank controlled by an out-of-State bank holding company.
(c)
Federal branch
means Federal branch as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 3101(6) and 12 CFR 28.11(h).
(d)
Home State
means:
(1) With respect to a State bank, the State that chartered the bank;
(2) With respect to a national bank, the State in which the main office of the bank is located;
(3) With respect to a bank holding company, the State in which the total deposits
of all banking subsidiaries of such company are the largest on the later of:
(i) July 1, 1966; or
(ii) The date on which the company becomes a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act;
(4) With respect to a foreign bank:
(i) For purposes of determining whether a U.S. branch of a foreign bank is a covered interstate branch, the home State of the foreign bank as determined in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 3103(c) and 12 CFR 28.11(n); and
(ii) For purposes of determining whether a branch of a U.S. bank controlled by a foreign bank is a covered interstate branch, the State in which the total deposits of all banking subsidiaries of such foreign bank are the largest on the later of:
(A) July 1, 1966; or
(B) The date on which the foreign bank becomes a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act.
(e)
Host State
means a State in which a covered interstate branch is established or acquired.
(f)
Host state loan-to-deposit ratio
generally means, with respect to a particular host state, the ratio of total loans in the host state relative to total deposits from the host state for all banks (including institutions covered under the definition of “bank” in 12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(1)) that have that state as their home state, as determined and updated periodically by the appropriate Federal banking agencies and made available to the public.
(g)
Out-of-State bank holding company
means, with respect to any State, a bank holding company whose home State is another State.
(h)
State
means state as that term is defined in 12 U.S.C. 1813(a)(3).
(i)
Statewide loan-to-deposit ratio
means, with respect to a bank, the ratio of the bank's loans to its deposits in a state in which the bank has one or more covered interstate branches, as determined by the OCC.
§ 25.63 Loan-to-deposit ratio screen.
(a)
Application of screen.
Beginning no earlier than one year after a covered interstate branch is acquired or established, the OCC will consider whether the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the relevant host State loan-to-deposit ratio.
(b)
Results of screen.
(1) If the OCC determines that the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is 50 percent or more of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, no further consideration under this subpart is required.
(2) If the OCC determines that the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, or if reasonably available data are insufficient to calculate the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio, the OCC will make a credit needs determination for the bank as provided in § 25.64.
§ 25.64 Credit needs determination.
(a)
In general.
The OCC will review the loan portfolio of the bank and determine whether the bank is reasonably helping to meet the credit needs of the communities in the host state that are served by the bank.
(b)
Guidelines.
The OCC will use the following considerations as guidelines when making the determination pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section:
(1) Whether covered interstate branches were formerly part of a failed or failing depository institution;
(2) Whether covered interstate branches were acquired under circumstances where there was a low loan-to-deposit ratio because of the nature of the acquired institution's business or loan portfolio;
(3) Whether covered interstate branches have a high concentration of commercial or credit card lending, trust services, or other specialized activities, including the extent to which the covered interstate branches accept deposits in the host state;
(4) The CRA ratings received by the bank, if any;
(5) Economic conditions, including the level of loan demand, within the communities served by the covered interstate branches;
(6) The safe and sound operation and condition of the bank; and
(7) The OCC's CRA regulations (subparts A through D of this part) and interpretations of those regulations.
§ 25.65 Sanctions.
(a)
In general.
If the OCC determines that a bank is not reasonably helping to meet the credit needs of the communities served by the bank in the host state, and that the bank's statewide loan-to-deposit ratio is less than 50 percent of the host state loan-to-deposit ratio, the OCC:
(1) May order that a bank's covered interstate branch or branches be closed unless the bank provides reasonable assurances to the satisfaction of the OCC, after an opportunity for public comment, that the bank has an acceptable plan under which the bank will reasonably help to meet the credit needs of the communities served by the bank in the host state; and
(2) Will not permit the bank to open a new branch in the host state that would be considered to be a covered interstate branch unless the bank provides reasonable assurances to the satisfaction of the OCC, after an opportunity for public comment, that the bank will reasonably help to meet the credit needs of the community that the new branch will serve.
(b)
Notice prior to closure of a covered interstate branch.
Before exercising the OCC's authority to order the bank to close a covered interstate branch, the OCC will issue to the bank a notice of the OCC's intent to order the closure and will schedule a hearing within 60 days of issuing the notice.
(c)
Hearing.
The OCC will conduct a hearing scheduled under paragraph (b) of this section in accordance with the provisions of 12 U.S.C. 1818(h) and 12 CFR part 19.

# Appendix A to Part 25—Ratings
(a)
Ratings in general.
(1) In assigning a rating, the appropriate Federal banking agency evaluates a bank's or savings association's performance under the applicable performance criteria in this part, in accordance with §§ 25.21 and 25.28. This includes consideration of low-cost education loans provided to low-income borrowers and activities in cooperation with minority- or women-owned financial institutions and low-income credit unions, as well as adjustments on the basis of evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices.
(2) A bank's or savings association's performance need not fit each aspect of a particular rating profile in order to receive that rating, and exceptionally strong performance with respect to some aspects may compensate for weak performance in others. The bank's or savings association's overall performance, however, must be consistent with safe and sound banking practices and generally with the appropriate rating profile as follows.
(b)
Banks and savings associations evaluated under the lending, investment, and service tests
—(1)
Lending performance rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns each bank's or savings association's lending performance one of the five following ratings.
(i)
Outstanding.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's lending performance “outstanding” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) Excellent responsiveness to credit needs in its assessment area(s), taking into account the number and amount of home mortgage, small business, small farm, and consumer loans, if applicable, in its assessment area(s);
(B) A substantial majority of its loans are made in its assessment area(s);
(C) An excellent geographic distribution of loans in its assessment area(s);
(D) An excellent distribution, particularly in its assessment area(s), of loans among individuals of different income levels and businesses (including farms) of different sizes, given the product lines offered by the bank or savings association;
(E) An excellent record of serving the credit needs of highly economically disadvantaged areas in its assessment area(s), low-income individuals, or businesses (including farms) with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less, consistent with safe and sound operations;
(F) Extensive use of innovative or flexible lending practices in a safe and sound manner to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies; and
(G) It is a leader in making community development loans.
(ii)
High satisfactory.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's lending performance “high satisfactory” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) Good responsiveness to credit needs in its assessment area(s), taking into account the number and amount of home mortgage, small business, small farm, and consumer loans, if applicable, in its assessment area(s);
(B) A high percentage of its loans are made in its assessment area(s);
(C) A good geographic distribution of loans in its assessment area(s);
(D) A good distribution, particularly in its assessment area(s), of loans among individuals of different income levels and businesses (including farms) of different sizes, given the product lines offered by the bank or savings association;
(E) A good record of serving the credit needs of highly economically disadvantaged areas in its assessment area(s), low-income individuals, or businesses (including farms) with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less, consistent with safe and sound operations;
(F) Use of innovative or flexible lending practices in a safe and sound manner to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies; and
(G) It has made a relatively high level of community development loans.
(iii)
Low satisfactory.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's lending performance “low satisfactory” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) Adequate responsiveness to credit needs in its assessment area(s), taking into account the number and amount of home mortgage, small business, small farm, and consumer loans, if applicable, in its assessment area(s);
(B) An adequate percentage of its loans are made in its assessment area(s);
(C) An adequate geographic distribution of loans in its assessment area(s);
(D) An adequate distribution, particularly in its assessment area(s), of loans among individuals of different income levels and businesses (including farms) of different sizes, given the product lines offered by the bank or savings association;
(E) An adequate record of serving the credit needs of highly economically disadvantaged areas in its assessment area(s), low-income individuals, or businesses (including
farms) with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less, consistent with safe and sound operations;
(F) Limited use of innovative or flexible lending practices in a safe and sound manner to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies; and
(G) It has made an adequate level of community development loans.
(iv)
Needs to improve.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's lending performance “needs to improve” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) Poor responsiveness to credit needs in its assessment area(s), taking into account the number and amount of home mortgage, small business, small farm, and consumer loans, if applicable, in its assessment area(s);
(B) A small percentage of its loans are made in its assessment area(s);
(C) A poor geographic distribution of loans, particularly to low- or moderate-income geographies, in its assessment area(s);
(D) A poor distribution, particularly in its assessment area(s), of loans among individuals of different income levels and businesses (including farms) of different sizes, given the product lines offered by the bank or savings association;
(E) A poor record of serving the credit needs of highly economically disadvantaged areas in its assessment area(s), low-income individuals, or businesses (including farms) with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less, consistent with safe and sound operations;
(F) Little use of innovative or flexible lending practices in a safe and sound manner to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies; and
(G) It has made a low level of community development loans.
(v)
Substantial noncompliance.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's lending performance as being in “substantial noncompliance” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) A very poor responsiveness to credit needs in its assessment area(s), taking into account the number and amount of home mortgage, small business, small farm, and consumer loans, if applicable, in its assessment area(s);
(B) A very small percentage of its loans are made in its assessment area(s);
(C) A very poor geographic distribution of loans, particularly to low- or moderate-income geographies, in its assessment area(s);
(D) A very poor distribution, particularly in its assessment area(s), of loans among individuals of different income levels and businesses (including farms) of different sizes, given the product lines offered by the bank or savings association;
(E) A very poor record of serving the credit needs of highly economically disadvantaged areas in its assessment area(s), low-income individuals, or businesses (including farms) with gross annual revenues of $1 million or less, consistent with safe and sound operations;
(F) No use of innovative or flexible lending practices in a safe and sound manner to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies; and
(G) It has made few, if any, community development loans.
(2)
Investment performance rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns each bank's or savings association's investment performance one of the five following ratings.
(i)
Outstanding.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's investment performance “outstanding” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) An excellent level of qualified investments, particularly those that are not routinely provided by private investors, often in a leadership position;
(B) Extensive use of innovative or complex qualified investments; and
(C) Excellent responsiveness to credit and community development needs.
(ii)
High satisfactory.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's investment performance “high satisfactory” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) A significant level of qualified investments, particularly those that are not routinely provided by private investors, occasionally in a leadership position;
(B) Significant use of innovative or complex qualified investments; and
(C) Good responsiveness to credit and community development needs.
(iii)
Low satisfactory.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's investment performance “low satisfactory” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) An adequate level of qualified investments, particularly those that are not routinely provided by private investors, although rarely in a leadership position;
(B) Occasional use of innovative or complex qualified investments; and
(C) Adequate responsiveness to credit and community development needs.
(iv)
Needs to improve.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's investment performance “needs to improve” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) A poor level of qualified investments, particularly those that are not routinely provided by private investors;
(B) Rare use of innovative or complex qualified investments; and
(C) Poor responsiveness to credit and community development needs.
(v)
Substantial noncompliance.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's investment performance as being in “substantial noncompliance” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(A) Few, if any, qualified investments, particularly those that are not routinely provided by private investors;
(B) No use of innovative or complex qualified investments; and
(C) Very poor responsiveness to credit and community development needs.
(3)
Service performance rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns each bank's or savings association's service performance one of the five following ratings.
(i)
Outstanding.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's service performance “outstanding” if, in general, the bank or savings association demonstrates:
(A) Its service delivery systems are readily accessible to geographies and individuals of different income levels in its assessment area(s);
(B) To the extent changes have been made, its record of opening and closing branches has improved the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals;
(C) Its services (including, where appropriate, business hours) are tailored to the convenience and needs of its assessment area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and
(D) It is a leader in providing community development services.
(ii)
High satisfactory.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's service performance “high satisfactory” if, in general, the bank or savings association demonstrates:
(A) Its service delivery systems are accessible to geographies and individuals of different income levels in its assessment area(s);
(B) To the extent changes have been made, its record of opening and closing branches has not adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals;
(C) Its services (including, where appropriate, business hours) do not vary in a way that inconveniences its assessment area(s), particularly low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals; and
(D) It provides a relatively high level of community development services.
(iii)
Low satisfactory.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's service performance “low satisfactory” if, in general, the bank or savings association demonstrates:
(A) Its service delivery systems are reasonably accessible to geographies and individuals of different income levels in its assessment area(s);
(B) To the extent changes have been made, its record of opening and closing branches has generally not adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals;
(C) Its services (including, where appropriate, business hours) do not vary in a way that inconveniences its assessment area(s), particularly low- and moderate-income geographies and low- and moderate-income individuals; and
(D) It provides an adequate level of community development services.
(iv)
Needs to improve.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's service performance “needs to improve” if, in general, the bank or savings association demonstrates:
(A) Its service delivery systems are unreasonably inaccessible to portions of its assessment area(s), particularly to low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals;
(B) To the extent changes have been made, its record of opening and closing branches has adversely affected the accessibility its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals;
(C) Its services (including, where appropriate, business hours) vary in a way that inconveniences its assessment area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and
(D) It provides a limited level of community development services.
(v)
Substantial noncompliance.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a bank's or savings association's service performance as being in “substantial noncompliance” if, in general, the bank or savings association demonstrates:
(A) Its service delivery systems are unreasonably inaccessible to significant portions of its assessment area(s), particularly to low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals;
(B) To the extent changes have been made, its record of opening and closing branches has significantly adversely affected the accessibility of its delivery systems, particularly in low- or moderate-income geographies or to low- or moderate-income individuals;
(C) Its services (including, where appropriate, business hours) vary in a way that significantly inconveniences its assessment area(s), particularly low- or moderate-income geographies or low- or moderate-income individuals; and
(D) It provides few, if any, community development services.
(c)
Wholesale or limited purpose banks.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assigns each wholesale or limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development performance one of the four following ratings.
(1)
Outstanding.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a wholesale or limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development performance “outstanding” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(i) A high level of community development loans, community development services, or qualified investments, particularly investments that are not routinely provided by private investors;
(ii) Extensive use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services; and
(iii) Excellent responsiveness to credit and community development needs in its assessment area(s).
(2)
Satisfactory.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a wholesale or limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development performance “satisfactory” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(i) An adequate level of community development loans, community development services, or qualified investments, particularly investments that are not routinely provided by private investors;
(ii) Occasional use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services; and
(iii) Adequate responsiveness to credit and community development needs in its assessment area(s).
(3)
Needs to improve.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a wholesale or limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development performance as “needs to improve” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(i) A poor level of community development loans, community development services, or qualified investments, particularly investments that are not routinely provided by private investors;
(ii) Rare use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services; and
(iii) Poor responsiveness to credit and community development needs in its assessment area(s).
(4)
Substantial noncompliance.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a wholesale or limited purpose bank's or savings association's community development performance in “substantial noncompliance” if, in general, it demonstrates:
(i) Few, if any, community development loans, community development services, or qualified investments, particularly investments that are not routinely provided by private investors;
(ii) No use of innovative or complex qualified investments, community development loans, or community development services; and
(iii) Very poor responsiveness to credit and community development needs in its assessment area(s).
(d)
Banks and savings associations evaluated under the small bank and savings association performance standards
—(1)
Lending test ratings.
(i)
Eligibility for a satisfactory lending test rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates a small bank's or savings association's lending performance “satisfactory” if, in general, the bank or savings association demonstrates:
(A) A reasonable loan-to-deposit ratio (considering seasonal variations) given the bank's or savings association's size, financial condition, the credit needs of its assessment area(s), and taking into account, as appropriate, other lending-related activities such as loan originations for sale to the secondary markets and community development loans and qualified investments;
(B) A majority of its loans and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities, are in its assessment area;
(C) A distribution of loans to and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities for individuals of different income levels (including low- and moderate-income individuals) and businesses and farms of different sizes that is reasonable given the demographics of the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s);
(D) A record of taking appropriate action, when warranted, in response to written complaints, if any, about the bank's or savings association's performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its assessment area(s); and
(E) A reasonable geographic distribution of loans given the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
(ii)
Eligibility for an “outstanding” lending test rating.
A small bank or savings association that meets each of the standards for a “satisfactory” rating under this paragraph and exceeds some or all of those standards may warrant consideration for a lending test rating of “outstanding.”
(iii)
Needs to improve or substantial noncompliance ratings.
A small bank or savings association may also receive a lending test rating of “needs to improve” or “substantial noncompliance” depending on the degree to which its performance has failed to meet the standard for a “satisfactory” rating.
(2)
Community development test ratings for intermediate small banks and savings associations
—(i)
Eligibility for a satisfactory community development test rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates an intermediate small bank's or savings association's community development performance “satisfactory” if the bank or savings association demonstrates adequate responsiveness to the community development needs of its assessment area(s) through community development loans, qualified investments, and community development services. The adequacy of the bank's or savings association's response will depend on its capacity for such community development activities, its assessment area's need for such community development activities, and the availability of such opportunities for community development in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
(ii)
Eligibility for an outstanding community development test rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency rates an intermediate small bank's or savings association's community development performance “outstanding” if the bank or savings association demonstrates excellent responsiveness to community development needs in its assessment area(s) through community development loans, qualified investments, and community development services, as appropriate, considering the bank's or savings association's capacity and the need and availability of such opportunities for community development in the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
(iii)
Needs to improve or substantial noncompliance ratings.
An intermediate small bank or savings association may also receive a community development test rating of “needs to improve” or “substantial noncompliance” depending on the degree to which its performance has failed to meet the standards for a “satisfactory” rating.
(3)
Overall rating
—(i)
Eligibility for a satisfactory overall rating.
No intermediate small bank or savings association may receive an assigned overall rating of “satisfactory” unless it receives a rating of at least “satisfactory” on both the lending test and the community development test.
(ii)
Eligibility for an outstanding overall rating.
(A) An intermediate small bank or savings association that receives an “outstanding” rating on one test and at least “satisfactory” on the other test may receive an assigned overall rating of “outstanding.”
(B) A small bank or savings association that is not an intermediate small bank or savings association that meets each of the standards for a “satisfactory” rating under the lending test and exceeds some or all of those standards may warrant consideration for an overall rating of “outstanding.” In assessing whether a bank's or savings association's performance is “outstanding,” the appropriate Federal banking agency considers the extent to which the bank or savings association exceeds each of the performance standards for a “satisfactory” rating and its performance in making qualified investments and its performance in providing branches and other services and delivery systems that enhance credit availability in its assessment area(s).
(iii)
Needs to improve or substantial noncompliance overall ratings.
A small bank or savings association may also receive a rating of “needs to improve” or “substantial noncompliance” depending on the degree to which its performance has failed to meet the standards for a “satisfactory” rating.
(e)
Strategic plan assessment and rating
—(1)
Satisfactory goals.
The appropriate Federal banking agency approves as “satisfactory” measurable goals that adequately help to meet the credit needs of the bank's or savings association's assessment area(s).
(2)
Outstanding goals.
If the plan identifies a separate group of measurable goals that substantially exceed the levels approved as “satisfactory,” the appropriate Federal banking agency will approve those goals as “outstanding.”
(3)
Rating.
The appropriate Federal banking agency assesses the performance of a bank or savings association operating under an approved plan to determine if the bank or savings association has met its plan goals:
(i) If the bank or savings association substantially achieves its plan goals for a satisfactory rating, the appropriate Federal banking agency will rate the bank's or savings association's performance under the plan as “satisfactory.”
(ii) If the bank or savings association exceeds its plan goals for a satisfactory rating and substantially achieves its plan goals for an outstanding rating, the appropriate Federal banking agency will rate the bank's or savings association's performance under the plan as “outstanding.”
(iii) If the bank or savings association fails to meet substantially its plan goals for a satisfactory rating, the appropriate Federal banking agency will rate the bank or savings association as either “needs to improve” or “substantial noncompliance,” depending on the extent to which it falls short of its plan goals, unless the bank or savings association elected in its plan to be rated otherwise, as provided in § 25.27(f)(4).

# Appendix B to Part 25—CRA Notice
(a)
Notice for main offices and, if an interstate bank and savings association, one branch office in each state.

# Community Reinvestment Act Notice
Under the Federal Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the [Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) or Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), as appropriate] evaluates our record of helping to meet the credit needs of this community consistent with safe and sound operations. The [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] also takes this record into account when deciding on certain applications submitted by us.

# Your Involvement is Encouraged
You are entitled to certain information about our operations and our performance under the CRA, including, for example, information about our branches, such as their location and services provided at them; the public section of our most recent CRA Performance Evaluation, prepared by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate]; and comments received from the public relating to our performance in helping to meet community credit needs, as well as our responses to those comments. You may review this information today.
At least 30 days before the beginning of each quarter, the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] publishes a nationwide list of the banks and savings associations that are scheduled for CRA examination in that quarter. This list is available from the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate], at [address]. You may send written comments about our performance in helping to meet community credit needs to [name and address of official at bank or savings association] and to the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate], at [address]. Your letter, together with any response by us, will be considered by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] in evaluating our CRA performance and may be made public.
You may ask to look at any comments received by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate]. You may also request from the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] an announcement of our applications covered by the CRA filed with the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate]. We are an affiliate of [name of holding company], a [bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, as appropriate]. You may request from the [title of responsible official], Federal Reserve Bank of [__] [address] an announcement of applications covered by the CRA filed by [bank holding companies or savings and loan holding companies, as appropriate].
(b)
Notice for branch offices.

# Community Reinvestment Act Notice
Under the Federal Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the [Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), as appropriate] evaluates our record of helping to meet the credit needs of this community consistent with safe and sound operations. The [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] also takes this record into account when deciding on certain applications submitted by us.

# Your Involvement is Encouraged
You are entitled to certain information about our operations and our performance under the CRA. You may review today the public section of our most recent CRA evaluation, prepared by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate], and a list of services provided at this branch. You may also have access to the following additional information, which we will make available to you at this branch within five calendar days after you make a request to us: (1) A map showing the assessment area containing this branch, which is the area in which the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] evaluates our CRA performance in this community; (2) information about our branches in this assessment area; (3) a list of services we provide at those locations; (4) data on our lending performance in this assessment area; and (5) copies of all written comments received by us that specifically relate to our CRA performance in this assessment area, and any responses we have made to those comments. If we are operating under an approved strategic plan, you may also have access to a copy of the plan.
[If you would like to review information about our CRA performance in other communities served by us, the public file for our entire [bank or savings association, as appropriate] is available at [name of office located in state], located at [address].]
At least 30 days before the beginning of each quarter, the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] publishes a nationwide list of the banks and savings associations that are scheduled for CRA examination in that quarter. This list is available from the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] at [address]. You may send written comments about our performance in helping to meet community credit needs to [name and address of official at bank or savings association, as appropriate] and to the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] at [address]. Your letter, together with any response by us, will be considered by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] in evaluating our CRA performance and may be made public.
You may ask to look at any comments received by the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate]. You may also request from the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate] an announcement of our applications covered by the CRA filed with the [OCC or FDIC, as appropriate]. We are an affiliate of [name of holding company], a [bank holding company or savings and loan holding company, as appropriate]. You may request from the [title of responsible official], Federal Reserve Bank of [__], [address], an announcement of applications covered by the CRA filed by [bank
holding companies or savings and loan holding companies, as appropriate].
[89 FR 7172, Feb. 1, 2024]
Pt. 26

# PART 26—MANAGEMENT OFFICIAL INTERLOCKS
Sec.
26.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
26.2
Definitions.
26.3
Prohibitions.
26.4
Interlocking relationships permitted by statute.
26.5
Small market share exemption.
26.6
General exemption.
26.7
Change in circumstances.
26.8
Enforcement.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1, 93a, 1462a, 1463, 1464, 3201-3208, 5412(b)(2)(B).

# Source:
61 FR 40300, Aug. 2, 1996, unless otherwise noted.
§ 26.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This part is issued under the provisions of the Depository Institution Management Interlocks Act (Interlocks Act) (12 U.S.C. 3201
et seq.
), as amended, and the OCC's general rulemaking authority for national banks in 12 U.S.C. 93a and Federal savings associations in 12 U.S.C. 1462a and 5412(b)(2)(B).
(b)
Purpose.
The purpose of the Interlocks Act and this part is to foster competition by generally prohibiting a management official from serving two nonaffiliated depository organizations in situations where the management interlock likely would have an anticompetitive effect.
(c)
Scope.
This part applies to management officials of national banks, Federal savings associations, and their affiliates.
[73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 28399, May 16, 2014]
§ 26.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
(a)
Affiliate.
(1) The term
affiliate
has the meaning given in section 202 of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201). For purposes of that section 202, shares held by an individual include shares held by members of his or her immediate family. “Immediate family” means spouse, mother, father, child, grandchild, sister, brother, or any of their spouses, whether or not any of their shares are held in trust.
(2) For purposes of section 202(3)(B) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201(3)(B)), an affiliate relationship involving a national bank or Federal savings association based on common ownership does not exist if the OCC determines, after giving the affected persons the opportunity to respond, that the asserted affiliation was established in order to avoid the prohibitions of the Interlocks Act and does not represent a true commonality of interest between the depository organizations. In making this determination, the OCC considers, among other things, whether a person, including members of his or her immediate family, whose shares are necessary to constitute the group, owns a nominal percentage of the shares of one of the organizations and the percentage is substantially disproportionate to that person's ownership of shares in the other organization.
(b)
Area median income
means:
(1) The median family income for the metropolitan statistical area (MSA), if a depository organization is located in an MSA; or
(2) The statewide nonmetropolitan median family income, if a depository organization is located outside an MSA.
(c)
Community
means a city, town, or village, and contiguous or adjacent cities, towns, or villages.
(d)
Contiguous or adjacent cities, towns, or villages
means cities, towns, or villages whose borders touch each other or whose borders are within 10 road miles of each other at their closest points. The property line of an office located in an unincorporated city, town, or village is the boundary line of that city, town, or village for the purpose of this definition.
(e)
Depository holding company
means a bank holding company or a savings and loan holding company (as more fully defined in section 202 of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201)) having its principal office located in the United States.
(f)
Depository institution
means a commercial bank (including a private bank), a savings bank, a trust company, a savings and loan association, a
building and loan association, a homestead association, a cooperative bank, an industrial bank, or a credit union, chartered under the laws of the United States and having a principal office located in the United States. Additionally, a United States office, including a branch or agency, of a foreign commercial bank is a depository institution.
(g)
Depository institution affiliate
means a depository institution that is an affiliate of a depository organization.
(h)
Depository organization
means a depository institution or a depository holding company.
(i)
Low- and moderate-income areas
means census tracts (or, if an area is not in a census tract, block numbering areas delineated by the United States Bureau of the Census) where the median family income is less than 100 percent of the area median income.
(j)
Management official.
(1) The term
management official
means:
(i) A director;
(ii) An advisory or honorary director of a depository institution with total assets of $100 million or more;
(iii) A senior executive officer as that term is defined in 12 CFR 5.51(c)(3);
(iv) A branch manager;
(v) A trustee of a depository organization under the control of trustees; and
(vi) Any person who has a representative or nominee serving in any of the capacities in this paragraph (j)(1).
(2) The term
management official
does not include:
(i) A person whose management functions relate exclusively to the business of retail merchandising or manufacturing;
(ii) A person whose management functions relate principally to the business outside the United States of a foreign commercial bank; or
(iii) A person described in the provisos of section 202(4) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3201(4)) (referring to an officer of a State-chartered savings bank, cooperative bank, or trust company that neither makes real estate mortgage loans nor accepts savings).
(k)
Office
means a principal or branch office of a depository institution located in the United States.
Office
does not include a representative office of a foreign commercial bank, an electronic terminal, or a loan production office.
(l)
Person
means a natural person, corporation, or other business entity.
(m)
Relevant metropolitan statistical area (RMSA)
means an MSA, a primary MSA, or a consolidated MSA that is not comprised of designated primary MSAs to the extent that these terms are defined and applied by the Office of Management and Budget.
(n)
Representative or nominee
means a natural person who serves as a management official and has an obligation to act on behalf of another person with respect to management responsibilities. The OCC will find that a person has an obligation to act on behalf of another person only if the first person has an agreement, express or implied, to act on behalf of the second person with respect to management responsibilities. The OCC will determine, after giving the affected persons an opportunity to respond, whether a person is a
representative or nominee.
(o)
Total assets.
(1) The term
total assets
means assets measured on a consolidated basis and reported in the most recent fiscal year-end Consolidated Report of Condition and Income.
(2) The term
total assets
does not include:
(i) Assets of a diversified savings and loan holding company as defined by section 10(a)(1)(F) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)(1)(F)) other than the assets of its depository institution affiliate;
(ii) Assets of a bank holding company that is exempt from the prohibitions of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 pursuant to an order issued under section 4(d) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(d)) other than the assets of its depository institution affiliate; or
(iii) Assets of offices of a foreign commercial bank other than the assets of its United States branch or agency.
(p)
United States
means the United States of America, any State or territory of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands.
[61 FR 40300, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 51678, Sept. 24, 1999; 72 FR 1276, Jan. 11, 2007; 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008; 79 FR 28399, May 16, 2014]
§ 26.3
Prohibitions.
(a)
Community.
A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same community.
(b)
RMSA.
A management official of a depository organization may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization if the depository organizations in question (or a depository institution affiliate thereof) have offices in the same RMSA and each depository organization has total assets of $50 million or more.
(c)
Major assets.
A management official of a depository organization with total assets exceeding $10 billion (or any affiliate of such an organization) may not serve at the same time as a management official of an unaffiliated depository organization with total assets exceeding $10 billion (or any affiliate of such an organization), regardless of the location of the two depository organizations. The OCC will adjust these thresholds, as necessary, based on the year-to-year change in the average of the Consumer Price Index for the Urban Wage Earners and Clerical Workers, not seasonally adjusted, with rounding to the nearest $100 million. The OCC will announce the revised thresholds by publishing a final rule without notice and comment in the
Federal Register.
[61 FR 40300, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 51678, Sept. 24, 1999; 72 FR 1276, Jan. 11, 2007; 84 FR 54471, Oct. 10, 2019]
§ 26.4
Interlocking relationships permitted by statute.
The prohibitions of § 26.3 do not apply in the case of any one or more of the following organizations or to a subsidiary thereof:
(a) A depository organization that has been placed formally in liquidation, or which is in the hands of a receiver, conservator, or other official exercising a similar function;
(b) A corporation operating under section 25 or section 25A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
and 12 U.S.C. 611
et seq.,
respectively) (Edge Corporations and Agreement Corporations);
(c) A credit union being served by a management official of another credit union;
(d) A depository organization that does not do business within the United States except as an incident to its activities outside the United States;
(e) A State-chartered savings and loan guaranty corporation;
(f) A Federal Home Loan Bank or any other bank organized solely to serve depository institutions (a bankers' bank) or solely for the purpose of providing securities clearing services and services related thereto for depository institutions and securities companies;
(g) A depository organization that is closed or is in danger of closing as determined by the appropriate Federal depository institutions regulatory agency and is acquired by another depository organization. This exemption lasts for five years, beginning on the date the depository organization is acquired; and
(h)(1) A diversified savings and loan holding company (as defined in section 10(a)(1)(F) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (12 U.S.C. 1467a(a)(1)(F)) with respect to the service of a director of such company who also is a director of an unaffiliated depository organization if:
(i) Both the diversified savings and loan holding company and the unaffiliated depository organization notify their appropriate Federal depository institutions regulatory agency at least 60 days before the dual service is proposed to begin; and
(ii) The appropriate regulatory agency does not disapprove the dual service before the end of the 60-day period.
(2) The OCC may disapprove a notice of proposed service if it finds that:
(i) The service cannot be structured or limited so as to preclude an anticompetitive effect in financial services in any part of the United States;
(ii) The service would lead to substantial conflicts of interest or unsafe or unsound practices; or
(iii) The notificant failed to furnish all the information required by the OCC.
(3) The OCC may require that any interlock permitted under this paragraph (h) be terminated if a change in circumstances occurs with respect to one of the interlocked depository organizations that would have provided a basis for disapproval of the interlock during the notice period.
(i) Any savings association that has issued stock in connection with a qualified stock issuance pursuant to section 10(q) of the HOLA, as provided by section 205(9) of the Interlocks Act (12 U.S.C. 3204(9)).
(j) A management official or prospective management official of a depository organization may enter into an otherwise prohibited interlocking relationship with a Federal savings association for a period of up to 10 years if such relationship is approved by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation pursuant to section 13(k)(1)(A)(v) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1823(k)(1)(A)(v)).
[61 FR 40300, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 28399, May 16, 2014]
§ 26.5
Small market share exemption.
(a)
Exemption.
A management interlock that is prohibited by § 26.3 is permissible, if:
(1) The interlock is not prohibited by § 26.3(c); and
(2) The depository organizations (and their depository institution affiliates) hold, in the aggregate, no more than 20 percent of the deposits in each RMSA or community in which both depository organizations (or their depository institution affiliates) have offices. The amount of deposits shall be determined by reference to the most recent annual Summary of Deposits published by the FDIC for the RMSA or community.
(b)
Confirmation and records.
Each depository organization must maintain records sufficient to support its determination of eligibility for the exemption under paragraph (a) of this section, and must reconfirm that determination on an annual basis.
[64 FR 51678, Sept. 24, 1999]
§ 26.6
General exemption.
(a)
Exemption.
The OCC may by order issued following receipt of an application, exempt an interlock from the prohibitions in § 26.3 if the OCC finds that the interlock would not result in a monopoly or substantial lessening of competition and would not present safety and soundness concerns.
(b)
Presumptions.
In reviewing an application for an exemption under this section, the OCC will apply a rebuttable presumption that an interlock will not result in a monopoly or substantial lessening of competition if the depository organization seeking to add a management official:
(1) Primarily serves low-and moderate-income areas;
(2) Is controlled or managed by persons who are members of a minority group, or women;
(3) Is a depository institution that has been chartered for less than two years; or
(4) Is deemed to be in “troubled condition” as defined in 12 CFR 5.51(c)(7).
(c)
Duration.
(1) Unless a specific expiration period is provided in the OCC approval, an exemption permitted by paragraph (a) of this section may continue so long as it does not result in either:
(i) A monopoly or substantial lessening of competition; or
(ii) An unsafe or unsound condition.
(2) If the OCC grants an interlock exemption in reliance upon a presumption under paragraph (b) of this section, the interlock may continue for three years, unless otherwise provided by the OCC in writing.
[64 FR 51678, Sept. 24, 1999, as amended at 79 FR 28399, May 16, 2014; 85 FR 42642, July 14, 2020]
§ 26.7
Change in circumstances.
(a)
Termination.
A management official shall terminate his or her service or apply for an exemption if a change in circumstances causes the service to become prohibited. A change in circumstances may include an increase in asset size of an organization, a change in the delineation of the RMSA or community, the establishment of an office, an increase in the aggregate deposits of the depository organization, or an acquisition, merger, consolidation, or any reorganization of the ownership structure of a depository organization that causes a previously permissible interlock to become prohibited.
(b)
Transition period.
A management official described in paragraph (a) of this section may continue to serve the depository organization involved in the interlock for 15 months following the date of the change in circumstances. The OCC may shorten this period under appropriate circumstances.
[61 FR 40300, Aug. 2, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 51678, Sept. 24, 1999]
§ 26.8
Enforcement.
Except as provided in this section, the OCC administers and enforces the Interlocks Act with respect to national banks, Federal savings associations, and their affiliates, and may refer any case of a prohibited interlocking relationship involving these entities to the Attorney General of the United States to enforce compliance with the Interlocks Act and this part. If an affiliate of a national bank or Federal savings association is subject to the primary regulation of another Federal depository organization supervisory agency, then the OCC does not administer and enforce the Interlocks Act with respect to that affiliate.
[73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008, as amended at 79 FR 28399, May 16, 2014]
Pt. 27

# PART 27—FAIR HOUSING HOME LOAN DATA SYSTEM
Sec.
27.1
Scope and OMB control number.
27.2
Definitions.
27.3
Recordkeeping requirements.
27.4
Inquiry/Application Log.
27.5
Record retention period.
27.6
Substitute monitoring program.
27.7
Availability, submission and use of data.
Appendix I to Part 27—Monthly Home Loan Activity Format
Appendix II to Part 27—Information for Government Monitoring Purposes
Appendix III to Part 27—Fair Housing Lending Inquiry/Application Log Sheet
Appendix IV to Part 27—Home Loan Data Submission

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
93a, 161, 481, and 1818; 15 U.S.C. 1691
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 3601
et seq.;
12 CFR part 202.

# Source:
44 FR 63089, Nov. 2, 1979, unless otherwise noted.
§ 27.1
Scope and OMB control number.
(a)
Scope.
This part applies to the activities of national banks and their subsidiaries, which make home loans for the purpose of purchasing, construction-permanent financing, or refinancing of residential real property.
(b)
OMB control number.
The collection of information requirements contained in this part were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 1557-0160.
[49 FR 11825, Mar. 28, 1984, as amended at 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 27.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part, including all forms and instructions issued for use under this part:
(a)
Applicant
means a natural person, including a co-applicant, who makes an application.
(b)
Application
means an oral in-person or written request for an extension of credit for a home loan that is made in accordance with procedures established by a bank for the type of credit requested.
(c)
Bank
means a national bank and any subsidiaries of a national bank.
(d)
Completed application
means an application in connection with which a bank has received all the information that it regularly obtains and considers in evaluating the amount and type of credit requested.
(e)
Decision center
means the place where home loan applications are accepted or rejected.
(f)
Home loan
means a real estate loan for the purchase, permanent financing for construction, or the refinancing of residential real property which the applicant intends to occupy as a principal residence.
(g)
Inquirer
means a natural person who makes an inquiry.
(h)
Inquiry
means a written or an oral in-person request for information about the terms of a home loan by a natural person on his/her own behalf which is received on a bank's premises by any person at the bank who customarily receives or is authorized to receive such requests. Telephonic communications do not constitute an inquiry for purposes of this part.
(i)
Real estate loan
means any loan secured by real estate where the bank relies upon such real estate as the primary security for the loan. Where the bank in its judgment relies substantially upon other factors, such as the general credit standing of the borrower, guaranties, or security other than real estate, the loan does not constitute a real estate loan, although as a matter of prudent banking practice it may also be secured by real estate.
(1) A loan made in reliance upon the security of a mobile home will not be considered a real estate loan, although as a prudent banking practice the security interest is recorded or otherwise perfected as if the mobile home were real estate. For purposes of this part, a loan made in reliance upon the security of a mobile home and the parcel of land to which it is permanently affixed will be considered a real estate loan.
(2) Where the bank relies substantially on the insurance guaranty of a governmental agency in making a loan, it does not constitute a real estate loan except for the purposes of § 27.4 of this part (Inquiry/Application Log).
(j)
Residential real property
means improved real property (not vacant land) used or intended to be used for residential purposes, including single family homes, dwellings for from two to four families, and individual units of condominiums and cooperatives.
[44 FR 63089, Nov. 2, 1979, as amended at 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 27.3
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
Quarterly recordkeeping requirement.
(1) A bank that is required to collect data on home loans under part 203 of this title shall present the data on Federal Reserve Form FR HMDA-LAR or in an automated format in accordance with the instructions, except that:
(i) A bank shall maintain the reason(s) it denied a loan application, using the codes provided in part 203 of this title; and
(ii) A bank shall record all information required by this paragraph and part 203 of this title within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter.
(2) A bank that receives 50 or more home loan applications a year, as measured by the previous calendar year, and that is not required to collect data under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, shall record and maintain for each decision center the following information on home loan activity:
(i) Number of applications received for each of the following: Purchase; construction-permanent; refinance.
(ii) Number of loans closed for each of the following: Purchase; construction-permanent; refinance.
(iii) Number of loans denied for each of the following: Purchase; construction-permanent; refinance.
(iv) Number of loans withdrawn by applicant, for each of the following: Purchase; construction-permanent; refinance.
(3) The information required to be maintained under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be updated quarterly, within 30 calendar days after the end of each calendar quarter, in a format consistent with the bank's recordkeeping procedures.
(4) A bank exempted under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall be covered by that requirement beginning the month following any quarter in which their average monthly volume of home loan applications exceeds four applications per month. Banks which are subject to this paragraph may discontinue keeping this information beginning the month following two consecutive quarters in which their average monthly volume of home loan applications drops to four or fewer applications per month. A bank which is otherwise exempted under this paragraph may be required upon notification received from the Comptroller, to record and maintain such information where there is cause to believe that the bank is not in compliance with the fair housing laws based on prior examinations and/or has substantive consumer complaints, among other factors.
(5) A bank required to maintain information under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(4) of this section may choose to comply with the quarterly recordkeeping requirement by maintaining information in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(b)
Information required on applications for home loan.s
(1) Each bank shall attempt to obtain all of the information
listed below, as part of completed applications for home loans:
(i) Loan Amount requested by the applicant(s).
(ii) Interest rate requested by the applicant(s).
(iii) Number of months requested to maturity by the applicant(s).
(iv) Location. Complete street address, city, county, state and zip code of the dwelling which will secure the loan.
(v) Number of residential units (1-4) of the dwelling which will secure the loan.
(vi) Year built. The year in which the dwelling which will secure the loan was built. If the exact year is unknown, approximate to the nearest decade.
(vii) Purpose of the loan. Purchase; refinance; or construction-permanent.
(viii) Name and present address of applicant(s).
(ix) Age of applicant(s).
(x) Marital status of applicant(s) using the categories married, unmarried and separated.
(xi) Number of years employed in present line of work or profession for the applicant(s).
(xii) Years on present job. Number of continuous years employed by the current employer of the applicant(s). For self-employed persons, the number of continuous years self-employed.
(xiii) Gross total monthly income of each applicant, comprising the sum of normal base salary, wages, overtime pay, bonuses, commissions, dividends, interest, rental income, retirement or disability income and income from part-time employment. For self-employed persons, include the average or normal monthly income. Include alimony, separate maintenance and child support income information only if the applicant has been advised that such information need not be provided and nevertheless elects to have it considered.
(xiv) Proposed monthly housing payment, comprising the sum of principal and interest. The bank may also include insurance, real estate taxes and any monthly assessments for home owner dues or condominium fees, and/or utilities if the bank considers these factors in computing housing costs. However, if the bank includes any of these factors for computing the monthly housing payment, it must do so consistently. When a bank changes its regular practice, such change and its effective date should be identifiable with respect to the bank's new policy.
(xv) Purchase price. Sales price or approximate current market value of the property which will secure the loan.
(xvi) Applicant's or applicants' total monthly payments on all outstanding liabilities. Include installment debts, real estate loans and any alimony, child support or separate maintenance payments. Exclude any payments on liabilities which will be satisfied upon sale of real estate owned or upon refinancing of property associated with this application.
(xvii) Net worth. Applicant's or applicants' total assets, including cash checking and savings accounts, stocks and bonds, cash value of life insurance, value of real estate owned, net worth of business owned, automobile, furniture and personal property and other assets, minus total liabilities, including installment debts, automobile loans, real estate loans, and any other debts, including stock pledges.
(xviii) Date of application. The date on which a signed application is received by the bank.
(xix) Sex of applicant(s).
(xx) Race/national origin of applicant(s) using the categories: American Indian or Alaskan Native; Asian or Pacific Islander; Black, not of Hispanic origin; White, not of Hispanic origin; Hispanic; Other.
(2) Information on race/national origin and sex.
(i) Disclosure to applicant.
(A) In collecting the information required under § 27.3(b)(1) (xix) and (xx), the bank shall advise an applicant, either orally or in writing, that:
(
1
) The information on race/national origin and sex is requested by the Federal Government if this loan is related to a home loan, in order to monitor the lender's compliance with equal credit opportunity and fair housing laws;
(
2
) The applicant is not required to furnish the information but is encouraged to do so. The law provides that a lender may neither discriminate on the basis of this information, nor on
whether the applicant chooses to furnish it;
(
3
) However, if the applicant chooses not to furnish it, Federal regulations require the lender to note race and sex on the basis of visual observation or surname.
(B) Banks which use the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation/Federal National Mortgage Association (FHLMC/FNMA) insert form (“Information for Government Monitoring Purposes”) requesting this information will be in compliance with paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. A copy of the insert form is set forth in appendix II.
(ii) If the applicant does not voluntarily provide the information on sex and race/national origin which the bank is required to record and maintain under § 27.3(b)(1) (xix) and (xx), the bank shall request the applicant to note that fact (by initials or otherwise) on the application, and the bank shall provide the information based on visual observation or surname. If the applicant does not voluntarily provide the information and does not initial or otherwise note that fact, the bank shall initial, or otherwise note that fact on the application, as well as provide the information based on visual observation or surname.
(c)
Additional information required in the loan file.
In addition to the information required by § 27.3(b), each bank shall maintain the following information in each of its home loan files:
(1) If an appraisal is completed:
(i) The appraised value; and
(ii) The census tract number, where available, for those properties which are in a Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) in which the bank has a home office or branch office.
(2) Disposition of loan application. The disposition of the completed applications using the following categories:
(i) Withdrawn before terms were offered;
(ii) Withdrawn after terms were offered;
(iii) Denied;
(iv) Terms offered and accepted by applicant(s).
(3) If final terms are offered, whether or not accepted:
(i) The loan amount.
(ii) Whether private mortgage insurance is required, and if so, the terms of the insurance.
(iii) Whether a deposit balance is required, and if so, the amount.
(iv) The note (simple) interest rate.
(v) The number of months to maturity of the loan offered.
(vi) Points. The loan origination or discount fee(s) charged to the buyer, computed as a percentage of the loan amount.
(4) Commitment date. The date final terms were offered.
(5) The type of mortgage using the following categories: Standard Fixed Payment; Variable Rate; Graduated Payment; Rollover; Other.
(6) The name or identification of the bank office where the application was submitted.
(7) Whenever credit is denied, copy(s) of the Equal Credit Opportunity Act credit notice and statement of credit denial.
(8) Any additional information used by the bank in determining whether or not to extend credit, or in establishing the terms, including, but not limited to, credit reports, employment verification forms, Federal Income Tax Forms, availability of insurance, and the complete appraisal.
[44 FR 63089, Nov. 2, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 26415, May 20, 1994]
§ 27.4
Inquiry/Application Log.
(a) The Comptroller, among other things, may require a bank to maintain a Fair Housing Inquiry/Application Log (“Log”), based upon, but not limited to, one or more of the following causes:
(1) There is reason(s) to believe that the bank may be prescreening or otherwise engaging in discriminatory practices on a prohibited basis.
(2) Complaints filed with the Comptroller or letters in the Community Reinvestment Act file are found to be substantive in nature, indicating that the bank's home lending practices are, or may be, discriminatory.
(3) Analysis of the data compiled by the bank under the provisions of the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (12 U.S.C. 2801
et seq.
and Regulation C of the Federal Reserve Board, 12 CFR part 203) indicates a pattern of significant variation in the number of home loans
between census tracts with similar incomes and home ownership levels, differentiated only by race or national origin (i.e., possible racial redlining).
(b) The Comptroller, when requiring the maintenance of a Log, will specify in writing:
(1) The location(s) where the information shall be obtained;
(2) The length of time it shall be maintained;
(3) The frequency with which it shall be submitted to the Comptroller; and
(4) The reason(s) for imposing this requirement.
(c) A bank which has been directed by the Comptroller to maintain a Log shall obtain and note all of the following information regarding each inquiry or application for the extension of a home loan and each inquiry or application for a government insured home loan (not otherwise included in this part):
(1) Date of application or inquiry.
(2) Type of loan using the categories: purchase, construction-permanent; refinance; and government insured by type of insurance,
i.e.,
FHA, VA, and FmHA (if applicable).
(3) Indication of whether the entry refers to an application or an inquiry.
(4) Case identification (either a unique number which permits the application file to be located, or the name(s) and address(es) of the applicant(s)).
(5) Race/national origin of the inquirer(s) or applicant(s) using the categories: American Indian or Alaskan Native; Asian or Pacific Islander; Black, not of Hispanic origin; White, not of Hispanic origin; Hispanic; Other. In the case of inquiries, this item shall be noted on the basis of visual observation or surname(s) only. In the case of applications, the information shall be obtained pursuant to § 27.3(b)(2).
(6)
Location.
Complete street address, city, county, state and zip code of the property which will secure the extension of credit. The census tract shall also be recorded when the property is located in an SMSA in which the bank has a home office or branch office.
(d) The information required under § 27.4(c), of this part, shall be recorded and maintained on the form set forth in appendix III. Additional information may be recorded and maintained at the bank's discretion.
[44 FR 63089, Nov. 2, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 26415, May 20, 1994]
§ 27.5
Record retention period.
(a) Each bank shall retain the records required under § 27.3 for 25 months after the bank notifies an applicant of action taken on an application, or after withdrawal of an application. This requirement also applies to records of home loans which are originated by the bank and subsequently sold.
(b) The Comptroller of the Currency may, by written notice to a bank, extend the retention period.
§ 27.6
Substitute monitoring program.
The recordkeeping provisions of § 27.3 constitute a substitute monitoring program as authorized under § 202.13(d) of Regulation B of the Federal Reserve Board (12 CFR 202.13(d)). A bank collecting the data in compliance with § 27.3 of this part will be in compliance with the requirements of § 202.13 of Regulation B.
§ 27.7
Availability, submission and use of data.
(a) Each bank shall make all information collected under §§ 27.3 and 27.4 available for review at the bank to national bank examiners upon request.
(b) Prior to a scheduled bank examination, the Comptroller may request the information maintained under § 27.3(a). A bank required to maintain information under § 27.3(a)(2) shall submit the information to the Comptroller on the form prescribed in appendix I of this part. A bank which is exempt from maintaining the information required under § 27.3(a) shall notify the Comptroller of this fact in writing within 30 calendar days of its receipt of the Comptroller's request.
(c) If, upon review of the information maintained under § 27.3(a), the Comptroller determines that statistical analysis prior to examination is warranted, the bank will be notified.
(1) Within 30 calendar days after receipt of notification from the Comptroller, the bank shall submit, for application records specified by the Comptroller, completed Home Loan
Data Submission Forms (set forth as appendix IV). The Comptroller may, upon the request of a bank and for good reason, extend the 30-day period.
(2) The number of Home Loan Data Submission Forms requested by the Comptroller will not exceed 250 per
decision center,
or 2,000 per bank with multiple
decision centers,
unless there is cause to believe that a bank is not in compliance with fair housing laws based on examination findings or substantiated complaints, among other factors.
(3) A bank with fewer than 75 home loan applications in the preceding year will not be required to submit such forms unless:
(i) The home loan activity is concentrated in the few months preceding the request for data, indicating the likelihood of increased activity over the subsequent year, or
(ii) There is cause to believe that a bank is not in compliance with the fair housing laws based on prior examinations and/or complaints, among other factors.
(d) If there is cause to believe that a bank is in noncompliance with fair housing laws, the Comptroller may require submission of additional Home Loan Data Submission Forms. The Comptroller may also require submission of the information maintained under § 27.3(a) and Home Loan Data Submission Forms at more frequent intervals than specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
[44 FR 63089, Nov. 2, 1979, as amended at 59 FR 26415, May 20, 1994]
Pt. 27, App. I

# Appendix I to Part 27—Monthly Home Loan Activity Format
EC22SE91.001
Pt. 27, App. II

# Appendix II to Part 27—Information for Government Monitoring Purposes
The following language is approved by the Comptroller of the Currency and will satisfy the requirements of 12 CFR part 27. It may be inserted to complete the “Information for Government Monitoring Purposes” section of the Residential Loan Application Form (FHLMC Form 65/FNMA 1003) or may be used separately. This information may also be provided orally by the applicant.
The following information is requested by the Federal Government if this loan is related to a dwelling, in order to monitor the lender's compliance with equal credit opportunity and fair housing laws. You are not required to furnish this information, but are encourage to do so. The law provides that a lender may neither discriminate on the basis of this information, nor on whether you choose to furnish it. However, if you choose not to furnish it, under Federal regulations this lender is required to note race and sex on the basis of visual observation or surname. If you do not wish to furnish the above information, please initial below.

# Borrower
I do not wish to furnish this information (initial)____.

# Race/National Origin
□ American Indian or Alaskan Native
□ Asian or Pacific Islander
□ Black, not of Hispanic origin
□ Hispanic
□ White, not of Hispanic origin
□ Other (specify)____

# Sex
□ Female
□ Male

# Co-borrower
I do not wish to furnish this information (initial)____.

# Race/National Origin
□ American Indian or Alaskan Native
□ Asian or Pacific Islander
□ Black, not of Hispanic origin
□ Hispanic
□ White, not of Hispanic origin
□ Other (specify)____

# Sex
□ Female
□ Male
[59 FR 26415, May 20, 1994]
Pt. 27, App. III

# Appendix III to Part 27—Fair Housing Lending Inquiry/Application Log Sheet
eR20MY94.003
[59 FR 26417, May 20, 1994]
Pt. 27, App. IV

# Appendix IV to Part 27—Home Loan Data Submission
ER21JN94.003
ER21JN94.004
[59 FR 31925, June 21, 1994]
Pt. 28

# PART 28—INTERNATIONAL BANKING ACTIVITIES

# Subpart A—Foreign Operations of National Banks
Sec.
28.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
28.2
Definitions.
28.3
Filing requirements for foreign operations of a national bank.
28.4
Permissible activities.
28.5
Filing of notice.

# Subpart B—Federal Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks
28.10
Authority, purpose, and scope.
28.11
Definitions.
28.12
Approval of a Federal branch or agency.
28.13
Permissible activities.
28.14
Limitations based upon capital of a foreign bank.
28.15
Capital equivalency deposits.
28.16
Deposit-taking by an uninsured Federal branch.
28.17
Notice of change in activity or operations.
28.18
Recordkeeping and reporting.
28.19
Enforcement.
28.20
Maintenance of assets.
28.21
Service of process.
28.22
Voluntary liquidation.
28.23
Procedures for closing of some of a foreign bank's Federal branches and/or agencies.
28.24
Termination of a Federal branch or agency.
28.25
Change in control.
28.26
Loan production offices.

# Subpart C—International Lending Supervision
28.50
Authority, purpose, and scope.
28.51
Definitions.
28.52
Allocated transfer risk reserve.
28.53
Accounting for fees on international loans.
28.54
Reporting and disclosure of international assets.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
24(Seventh), 93a, 161, 602, 1818, 3101
et seq.,
and 3901
et seq.

# Source:
61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Foreign Operations of National Banks
§ 28.1
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
24(Seventh), 93a, and 602.
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart sets forth filing requirements for national banks that engage in international operations and clarifies permissible foreign activities of national banks.
(c)
Scope.
This subpart applies to any national bank that engages in international operations through a foreign branch, or acquires an interest in an Edge corporation, Agreement corporation, foreign bank, or certain other foreign organizations.
§ 28.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Agreement corporation
means a corporation having an agreement or undertaking with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (FRB) under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act (FRA), 12 U.S.C. 601 through 604a.
(b)
Edge corporation
means a corporation that is organized under section 25A of the FRA, 12 U.S.C. 611 through 631.
(c)
Foreign bank
means an organization that:
(1) Is organized under the laws of a foreign country;
(2) Engages in the business of banking;
(3) Is recognized as a bank by the bank supervisory or monetary authority of the country of its organization or principal banking operations;
(4) Receives deposits to a substantial extent in the regular course of its business; and
(5) Has the power to accept demand deposits.
(d)
Foreign branch
means an office of a national bank (other than a representative office) that is located outside the United States at which banking or financing business is conducted.
(e)
Foreign country
means one or more foreign nations, and includes the overseas territories, dependencies, and insular possessions of those nations and of the United States, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 60387, Nov. 27, 1996]
§ 28.3
Filing requirements for foreign operations of a national bank.
(a)
Notice requirement.
A national bank shall notify the OCC when it:
(1) Files an application, notice, or report with the FRB to:
(i) Establish or open a foreign branch;
(ii) Acquire or divest of an interest in, or close, an Edge corporation, Agreement corporation, foreign bank, or other foreign organization; or
(2) Opens a foreign branch, and no application or notice is required by the FRB for such transaction.
(b)
Other applications and notices accepted.
In lieu of a notice under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the OCC may accept a copy of an application, notice, or report submitted to another Federal agency that covers the proposed action and contains substantially the same information required by the OCC.
(c)
Additional information.
A national bank shall furnish the OCC with any additional information the OCC may require in connection with the national bank's foreign operations.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 70699, Dec. 19, 2003]
§ 28.4
Permissible activities.
(a)
General.
Subject to the applicable approval process, if any, a national bank may engage in any activity in a foreign country that is:
(1) Permissible for a national bank in the United States; and
(2) Usual in connection with the business of banking in the country where it transacts business.
(b)
Additional activities.
In addition to its general banking powers, a national bank may engage in any activity in a foreign country that is permissible under the FRB's Regulation K, 12 CFR part 211.
(c)
Foreign operations guarantees.
A national bank may guarantee the deposits and other liabilities of its Edge corporations and Agreement corporations and of its corporate instrumentalities in foreign countries.
§ 28.5
Filing of notice.
(a)
Where to file.
A national bank shall file any notice or submission required under this subpart with the appropriate supervisory office of the OCC.
(b)
Availability of forms.
Individual forms and instructions for filings are available from the appropriate supervisory office of the OCC.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 70699, Dec. 19, 2003]

# Subpart B—Federal Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks
§ 28.10
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued pursuant to the authority in the International Banking Act of 1978 (IBA), 12 U.S.C. 3101
et seq.,
and 12 U.S.C. 93a.
(b)
Purpose—Purpose and scope.
This subpart implements the IBA pertaining to the licensing, supervision, and operations of Federal branches and agencies in the United States. For corporate procedures pertaining to Federal branches and agencies, refer to 12 CFR part 5.
(c)
Scope.
This subpart applies to all Federal branches and agencies of foreign banks. Nothing in the OCC's rules relieves a Federal branch or agency from complying with requirements that are imposed by the FRB under Regulation K (12 CFR part 211) or otherwise imposed in accordance with applicable law.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 60387, Nov. 27, 1996; 68 FR 70699, Dec. 19, 2003]
§ 28.11
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Affiliate
means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another entity.
(b)
Agreement corporation
means a corporation having an agreement or undertaking with the FRB under section 25 of the FRA, 12 U.S.C. 601 through 604a.
(c)
Capital equivalency deposit
means a deposit by a Federal branch or agency in a member bank as described in section 4 of the IBA, 12 U.S.C. 3102(g).
(d)
Control.
An entity controls another entity if the entity directly or indirectly controls or has the power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other entity or controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors or trustees of the other entity.
(e)
Edge corporation
means a corporation that is organized under section
25A of the FRA, 12 U.S.C. 611 through 631.
(f)
Establish a Federal branch or agency
means to:
(1) Open and conduct business through an initial or additional Federal branch or agency;
(2) Acquire directly or indirectly through merger, consolidation, or similar transaction with another foreign bank, the operations of a Federal branch or agency that is open and conducting business;
(3) Acquire a Federal branch or agency through the acquisition of a foreign bank subsidiary that will cease to operate in the same corporate form following the acquisition;
(4) Convert a state branch or agency operated by a foreign bank, or a commercial lending company controlled by a foreign bank, into a Federal branch or agency;
(5) Relocate a Federal branch or agency within a state or from one state to another; or
(6) Convert a Federal agency or a limited Federal branch into a Federal branch.
(g)
Federal agency
means an office or place of business, licensed by the OCC and operated by a foreign bank in any state, that may engage in the business of banking, including maintaining credit balances, cashing checks, and lending money, but may not accept deposits from citizens or residents of the United States. Obligations may not be considered credit balances unless they are:
(1) Incidental to, or arise out of the exercise of, other lawful banking powers;
(2) To serve a specific purpose;
(3) Not solicited from the general public;
(4) Not used to pay routine operating expenses in the United States such as salaries, rent, or taxes;
(5) Withdrawn within a reasonable period of time after the specific purpose for which they were placed has been accomplished; and
(6) Drawn upon in a manner reasonable in relation to the size and nature of the account.
(h)
Federal branch
means an office or place of business, licensed by the OCC and operated by a foreign bank in any state, that may engage in the business of banking, including accepting deposits, that is not a Federal agency as defined in paragraph (h) of this section. Unless otherwise provided, the references in this subpart B of part 28 to a Federal branch include a limited Federal branch.
(i)
Foreign bank
means an organization that is organized under the laws of a foreign country, a territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Virgin Islands, and that engages directly in the business of banking in a foreign country.
(j)
Foreign business
means any entity, including a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, foundation or trust that is organized under the laws of a foreign country, or any United States entity that is controlled by a foreign entity or foreign national.
(k)
Foreign country
means one or more foreign nations, and includes the overseas territories, dependencies, and insular possessions of those nations and of the United States, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(l)
Home country
means the country in which the foreign bank is chartered or incorporated.
(m)
Home country supervisor
means the governmental entity or entities in the foreign bank's home country responsible for supervising and regulating the foreign bank.
(n)
Home state
of a foreign bank means the state in which the foreign bank has a branch, agency, subsidiary commercial lending company, or subsidiary bank. If a foreign bank has an office in more than one state, the home state of the foreign bank is the state that is selected to be the home state by the foreign bank or, in default of the foreign bank's selection, by the FRB.
(o)
Immediate family member of an individual
means the spouse, father, mother, brother, sister, son, or daughter of that individual.
(p)
Initial deposit
means the first deposit transaction between a depositor and the Federal branch made on or after July 1, 1996. The initial deposit
may be placed into different deposit accounts or into different kinds of deposit accounts, such as demand, savings, or time accounts. Deposit accounts that are held by a depositor in the same right and capacity may be added together for the purpose of determining the dollar amount of the initial deposit.
First deposit
means the deposit made when there is no current deposit relationship between the depositor and the Federal branch.
(q)
International banking facility
means a set of asset and liability accounts segregated on the books and records of a depository institution, a United States branch or agency of a foreign bank, or an Edge corporation or Agreement corporation, that includes only international banking facility time deposits and extensions of credit.
(r)
Large United States business
means any business entity including a corporation, company, partnership, sole proprietorship, association, foundation or trust that is organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, and has:
(1) Securities registered on a national securities exchange or quoted on the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System; or
(2) More than $1 million in annual gross revenues for the fiscal year immediately preceding the year of the initial deposit.
(s)
Limited Federal branch
means a Federal branch that may receive only those deposits permissible for an Edge corporation to receive.
(t)
Managed or controlled
by a Federal branch or agency means that a majority of the responsibility for business decisions, including decisions with regard to lending, asset management, funding, or liability management, or the responsibility for recordkeeping of assets or liabilities for a non-United States office, resides at the Federal branch or agency. For purposes of this definition, forwarding data or information of offshore operations gathered or compiled by the United States office in the normal course of business to the parent foreign bank does not constitute recordkeeping.
(u)
Manual
has the same meaning as in 12 CFR 5.2(c).
(v)
Parent foreign bank senior management
means individuals at the executive level of the parent foreign bank who are responsible for supervising and authorizing activities of the Federal branch or agency.
(w)
Person
means an individual or a corporation, government, partnership, association, or any other entity.
(x)
State
means any state of the United States and the District of Columbia.
(y)
United States bank
means a bank organized under the laws of the United States or any state.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 60387, Nov. 27, 1996; 68 FR 70699, Dec. 19, 2003; 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 28.12
Approval of a Federal branch or agency.
(a)
Approval and licensing requirements
—(1)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, a foreign bank shall submit an application to, and obtain prior approval from, the OCC before it:
(i) Establishes a Federal branch or agency; or
(ii) Exercises fiduciary powers at a Federal branch.
(2)
Licensing.
A foreign bank must receive a license from the OCC to open and operate its initial Federal branch or agency in the United States. A foreign bank that has a license to operate and is operating a full-service Federal branch need not obtain a new license for any additional Federal branches or agencies, or to upgrade or downgrade its operations in an existing Federal branch or agency. A foreign bank that only has a license to operate and is operating a limited Federal branch or Federal agency need not obtain a new license for any additional limited Federal branches or Federal agencies, or to convert a limited Federal branch into a Federal agency or a Federal agency into a limited Federal branch.
(b)
Standards for approval.
Generally, in reviewing an application by a foreign bank to establish a Federal branch or agency, the OCC considers:
(1) The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the applicant foreign bank and the Federal branch or agency;
(2) Whether the foreign bank has furnished to the OCC the information the OCC requires to assess the application adequately, and provided the OCC with adequate assurances that information will be made available to the OCC on the operations or activities of the foreign bank or any of its affiliates that the OCC deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with the IBA and other applicable Federal banking statutes;
(3) Whether the foreign bank and its United States affiliates are in compliance with applicable United States law;
(4) The convenience and needs of the community to be served and the effects of the proposal on competition in the domestic and foreign commerce of the United States;
(5) With respect to an application to establish a Federal branch or agency outside of the foreign bank's home state, whether the foreign bank is subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by its home country supervisor. The OCC, in its discretion, also may consider whether the foreign bank is subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis by its home country supervisor when reviewing any other type of application to establish a Federal branch or agency; and
(6) Whether the home country supervisor has consented to the proposed establishment of the Federal branch or agency.
(c)
Comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis.
In determining whether a foreign bank is subject to comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis, the OCC reviews various factors, including whether the foreign bank is supervised or regulated in a manner so that its home country supervisor receives sufficient information on the worldwide operations of the foreign bank to assess the foreign bank's overall financial condition and compliance with laws and regulations as specified in the FRB's Regulation K, 12 CFR 211.24.
(d)
Conditions on approval.
The OCC may impose conditions on its approval including a condition permitting future termination of activities based on the inability of the foreign bank to provide information on its activities, or those of its affiliate, that the OCC deems necessary to determine and enforce compliance with United States banking laws.
(e)
Expedited review.
Unless the OCC concludes that the filing presents significant supervisory or compliance concerns, or raises significant legal or policy issues, the OCC generally processes the following filings by an eligible foreign bank, as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, under expedited review procedures:
(1)
Intrastate relocations.
An application submitted by an eligible foreign bank to relocate a Federal branch or agency within a state is deemed approved by the OCC as of the seventh day after the close of the applicable public comment period in 12 CFR part 5, unless the OCC notifies the bank prior to that date that the filing is not eligible for expedited review.
(2)
Written notice for an additional intrastate Federal branch or agency.
(i) In a case where a foreign bank seeks to establish intrastate an additional Federal branch or agency, the foreign bank shall provide written notice 30 days in advance of the establishment of the intrastate Federal branch or agency.
(ii) The OCC may waive the 30-day period required under paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section if immediate action is required. The OCC also may suspend the notice period or require an application if the notification raises significant policy or supervisory concerns.
(3)
Expedited approval procedures for an interstate Federal branch or agency.
An application submitted by an eligible foreign bank to establish and operate a de novo Federal branch or agency in any state outside the home state of the foreign bank is deemed conditionally approved by the OCC as of the 15th day after the close of the applicable public comment period, or the 45th day after the filing is received by the OCC, whichever is later, unless the OCC notifies the foreign bank prior to that date that the filing is not eligible for expedited review. In the event that the FRB has approved the application prior to the expiration of the period, then the OCC's approval shall be deemed a final approval.
(4)
Conversions.
An application submitted by an eligible foreign bank to
establish a Federal branch or agency as defined in 12 CFR 28.11(f)(4) or (f)(6) is deemed approved by the OCC as of the 30th day after the OCC receives the filing, unless the OCC notifies the foreign bank prior to that date that the filing is not eligible for expedited review.
(5)
Fiduciary powers.
An application submitted by an eligible foreign bank to exercise fiduciary powers at an established Federal branch is deemed approved by the OCC 30 days after filing with the OCC, unless the OCC notifies the bank prior to that date that the filing is not eligible for expedited review.
(6)
Other filings.
Any other application submitted by an eligible foreign bank may be approved by the OCC on an expedited basis as described in the Manual.
(f)
Eligible foreign bank.
For purposes of this section, a foreign bank is an eligible foreign bank if each Federal branch and agency of the foreign bank or, if the foreign bank has no Federal branches or agencies and is engaging in an establishment of a Federal branch or agency as defined in 12 CFR 28.11(f)(4), each state branch and agency:
(1) Has a composite rating of 1 or 2 under the interagency rating system for United States branches and agencies of foreign banks;
(2) Is not subject to a cease and desist order, consent order, formal written agreement, Prompt Corrective Action directive (
see
12 CFR part 6) or, if subject to such order, agreement, or directive, is informed in writing by the OCC that the Federal branch or agency may be treated as an “eligible foreign bank” for purposes of this section; and
(3) Has, if applicable, a Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), 12 U.S.C. 2906, rating of “Outstanding” or “Satisfactory”.
(g)
After-the-fact approval.
Unless otherwise provided by the OCC, a foreign bank proposing to establish a Federal branch or agency through the acquisition of, or merger or consolidation with, a foreign bank that has an office in the United States, may proceed with the transaction before an application to establish the Federal branch or agency has been filed or acted upon, if the applicant:
(1) Gives the OCC reasonable advance notice of the proposed acquisition, merger, or consolidation;
(2) Prior to consummation of the acquisition, merger, or consolidation, commits in writing to comply with the OCC application procedures within a reasonable period of time, or has already submitted an application; and
(3) Commits in writing to abide by the OCC's decision on the application, including a decision to terminate activities of the Federal branch or agency.
(h)
After-the-fact notice for an eligible foreign bank.
Unless otherwise provided by the OCC, a foreign bank proposing to establish a Federal branch or agency through the acquisition of, or merger or consolidation with, a foreign bank that has an existing U.S. bank subsidiary or a Federal or state branch or agency may proceed with the transaction and provide after-the-fact notice to the OCC within 14 days of the transaction, if:
(1) The resulting bank is an “eligible foreign bank” under paragraph (f) of this section; and
(2) No Federal branch established by the transaction accepts deposits that are insured by the FDIC pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
).
(i)
Contraction of operations.
A foreign bank shall provide written notice to the OCC within 10 days after converting a Federal branch into a limited Federal branch or Federal agency.
(j)
Procedures for approval.
A foreign bank shall file an application for approval pursuant to this section in accordance with 12 CFR part 5 and the Manual. The OCC reserves the right to adopt materially different procedures for a particular filing, or class of filings, pursuant to 12 CFR 5.2(b).
(k)
Other applications accepted.
As provided in 12 CFR 5.4(c), the OCC may accept an application or other filing submitted to another U.S. Government agency that covers the proposed activity or transaction and contains substantially the same information as required by the OCC.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 70699, Dec. 19, 2003; 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 28.13
Permissible activities.
(a)
Applicability of laws
—(1)
General.
Except as otherwise provided by the IBA, other Federal laws or regulations, or otherwise determined by the OCC, the operations of a foreign bank at a Federal branch or agency shall be conducted with the same rights and privileges and subject to the same duties, restrictions, penalties, liabilities, conditions, and limitations that would apply if the Federal branch or agency were a national bank operating at the same location.
(2)
Parent foreign bank senior management approval.
Unless otherwise provided by the OCC, any provision in law, regulation, policy, or procedure that requires a national bank to obtain the approval of its board of directors will be deemed to require a Federal branch or agency to obtain the approval of parent foreign bank senior management.
(b)
Management of shell branches
—(1)
Federal branches and agencies.
A Federal branch or agency of a foreign bank shall not manage, through an office of the foreign bank that is located outside the United States and that is managed or controlled by that Federal branch or agency, any type of activity that a United States bank is not permitted to manage at any branch or subsidiary of the United States bank that is located outside the United States.
(2)
Activities managed in foreign branches or subsidiaries of United States banks.
The types of activities referred to in paragraph (b)(1) of this section include the types of activities authorized to a United States bank by state or Federal charters, regulations issued by chartering or regulatory authorities, and other United States banking laws. However, United States procedural or quantitative requirements that may be applicable to the conduct of those activities by United States banks do not apply.
(c)
Additional guidance regarding permissible activities.
For purposes of section 7(h) of the IBA, 12 U.S.C. 3105(h), the OCC may issue opinions, interpretations, or rulings regarding permissible activities of Federal branches.
§ 28.14
Limitations based upon capital of a foreign bank.
(a)
General.
Any limitation or restriction based upon the capital of a national bank shall be deemed to refer, as applied to a Federal branch or agency, to the dollar equivalent of the capital of the foreign bank.
(b)
Calculation.
Unless otherwise provided by the OCC, a foreign bank must calculate its capital in a manner consistent with 12 CFR part 3, subpart C, for purposes of this section.
(c)
Aggregation.
The foreign bank shall aggregate business transacted by all Federal branches and agencies with the business transacted by all state branches and state agencies controlled by the foreign bank in determining its compliance with limitations based upon the capital of the foreign bank. The foreign bank shall designate one Federal branch or agency office in the United States to maintain consolidated information so that the OCC can monitor compliance.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 11312, Feb. 28, 2014]
§ 28.15
Capital equivalency deposits.
(a)
Capital equivalency deposits
—(1)
General.
For purposes of section 4(g) of the IBA, 12 U.S.C. 3102(g), unless otherwise provided by the OCC, a foreign bank's capital equivalency deposits (CED) must consist of:
(i) Investment securities eligible for investment by national banks;
(ii) United States dollar deposits payable in the United States or payable in any other Group of Ten country;
(iii) Certificates of deposit, payable in the United States, and banker's acceptances, provided that, in either case, the issuer has an adequate capacity to meet financial commitments for the projected life of the asset or exposure. An issuer has an adequate capacity to meet financial commitments if the risk of default by the obligor is low and the full and timely repayment of principal and interest is expected;
(iv) Repurchase agreements; or
(v) Other similar assets permitted by the OCC to qualify to be included in the CED.
(2)
Legal requirements.
The agreement with the depository bank to hold the
CED and the amount of the deposit must comply with the requirements in section 4(g) of the IBA, 12 U.S.C. 3102(g). If a foreign bank has more than one Federal branch or agency in a state, it shall determine the CED and the amount of liabilities requiring capital equivalency coverage on an aggregate basis for all the foreign bank's Federal branches or agencies in that state.
(3)
Exceptions.
In determining the amount of the CED, the OCC excludes liabilities of an international banking facility (IBF) to third parties and of a Federal branch of a foreign bank to an IBF. The OCC may exclude liabilities from repurchase agreements on a case-by-case basis.
(b)
Increase in capital equivalency deposits.
For prudential or supervisory reasons, the OCC may require, in individual cases or otherwise, that a foreign bank increase its CED above the minimum amount. For example, the OCC may require an increase if a Federal branch or agency of the foreign bank increases its leverage through the establishment, acquisition, or maintenance of an operating subsidiary.
(c)
Value of assets.
The obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of this section must be valued at principal amount or market value, whichever is lower.
(d)
Deposit arrangements.
A foreign bank should require its depository bank to segregate its CED on the depository bank's books and records. The funds deposited and obligations referred to in paragraph (a) of this section that are placed in safekeeping at a depository bank to satisfy a foreign bank's CED requirement:
(1) May not be reduced in value below the minimum required for that branch or agency without the prior approval of the OCC, but in no event below the statutory minimum;
(2) Must be maintained pursuant to an agreement prescribed by the OCC that shall be a written agreement entered into with the OCC for purposes of section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1818; and
(3) Must be free from any lien, charge, right of setoff, credit, or preference in connection with any claim of the depository bank against the foreign bank.
(e)(1)
Deposit and Consolidation.
As provided in 12 U.S.C. 3102(g), a foreign bank with a Federal branch or agency shall deposit its CED into an account in a bank that is located in the state in which the Federal branch or agency is located. For this purpose, such depository bank is considered to be located in those states in which it has its main office or a branch. A foreign bank with Federal branches or agencies in more than one state may consolidate some or all of its CEDs into one such account.
(2)
Calculation.
The total amount of the consolidated CED shall continue to be calculated on an office-by-office basis.
(f)
Maintenance of capital equivalency ledger account.
Each Federal branch or agency shall maintain a capital equivalency account and keep records of the amount of liabilities requiring capital equivalency coverage in a manner and form prescribed by the OCC.
[61 FR 60363, Nov. 27, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 49098, Sept. 26, 2001; 67 FR 4326, Jan. 30, 2002; 67 FR 41620, June 19, 2002; 68 FR 70700, Dec. 19, 2003; 77 FR 35258, June 13, 2012]
§ 28.16
Deposit-taking by an uninsured Federal branch.
(a)
Policy.
In carrying out this section, the OCC shall consider the importance of according foreign banks competitive opportunities equal to those of United States banks and the availability of credit to all sectors of the United States economy, including international trade finance.
(b)
General.
An uninsured Federal branch may accept initial deposits of less than the standard maximum deposit insurance amount as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1821(a)(1)(E) only from:
(1) Individuals who are not citizens or residents of the United States at the time of the initial deposit;
(2) Individuals who are not citizens of the United States, but are residents of the United States, and are employed by a foreign bank, foreign business, foreign government, or recognized international organization;
(3) Persons (including immediate family members of an individual) to
whom the branch or foreign bank (including any affiliate thereof) has extended credit or provided other nondeposit banking services within the past 12 months, or with whom the branch or foreign bank has a written agreement to extend credit or provide such services within 12 months after the date of the initial deposit;
(4) Foreign businesses and large United States businesses;
(5) Foreign governmental units, including political subdivisions, and recognized international organizations;
(6) Federal and state governmental units, including political subdivisions and agencies thereof;
(7) Persons who are depositing funds in connection with the issuance of a financial instrument by the branch for transmission of funds, or transmission of funds by any electronic means;
(8) Persons who may deposit funds with an Edge corporation as provided in the FRB's Regulation K, 12 CFR 211.6, including persons engaged in certain international business activities; and
(9) Any other depositor if:
(i) The aggregate amount of deposits received from those depositors does not exceed, on an average daily basis, 1 percent of the average of the branch's deposits for the last 30 days of the most recent calendar quarter, excluding deposits of other offices, branches, agencies, or wholly owned subsidiaries of the foreign bank; and
(ii) The branch does not solicit deposits from the general public by advertising, display of signs, or similar activity designed to attract the attention of the general public.
(c)
Application for an exemption.
A foreign bank may apply to the OCC for an exemption to permit an uninsured Federal branch to accept or maintain deposit accounts that are not listed in paragraph (b) of this section. The request should describe:
(1) The types, sources, and estimated amounts of such deposits and explain why the OCC should grant an exemption; and
(2) How the exemption maintains and furthers the policies described in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d)
Aggregation of deposits.
For purposes of paragraph (b)(9) of this section, a foreign bank that has more than one Federal branch in the same state may aggregate deposits in all of its Federal branches in that state, but exclude deposits of other branches, agencies or wholly owned subsidiaries of the bank. The Federal branch shall compute the average amount by using the sum of deposits as of the close of business of the last 30 calendar days ending with and including the last day of the calendar quarter, divided by 30. The Federal branch shall maintain records of the calculation until its next examination by the OCC.
(e)
Notification to depositors.
A Federal branch that accepts deposits pursuant to this section shall provide notice to depositors pursuant to 12 CFR 346.207, which generally requires that the Federal branch conspicuously display a sign at the branch and include a statement on each signature card, passbook, and instrument evidencing a deposit that the deposit is not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC).
(f)
Transition period.
(1) An uninsured Federal branch may maintain a deposit lawfully accepted under the exemptions existing prior to July 1, 1996 if the deposit would qualify for an exemption under paragraph (b) of this section, except for the fact that the deposit was made before July 1, 1996.
(2) If a deposit lawfully accepted under the exemption existing prior to July 1, 1996 would not qualify for an exemption under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, the uninsured Federal branch must terminate the deposit no later than:
(i) In the case of time deposits, the maturity of a time deposit or October 1, 1996, whichever is longer; or
(ii) In the case of all other deposits, five years after July 1, 1996.
(g)
Insured banks in United States territories.
For purposes of this section, the term “foreign bank” does not include any bank organized under the laws of any territory of the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the Virgin Islands whose deposits are insured by the FDIC pursuant to
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1811
et seq.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 70131, Dec. 17, 2003; 68 FR 70700, Dec. 19, 2003; 76 FR 43569, July 21, 2011]
§ 28.17
Notice of change in activity or operations.
Notice.
A Federal branch or agency shall notify the OCC if:
(a) It changes its corporate title;
(b) It changes its mailing address;
(c) It converts to a state branch, state agency, or representative office; or
(d) The parent foreign bank changes the designation of its home state.
§ 28.18
Recordkeeping and reporting.
(a)
General.
A Federal branch or agency shall comply with applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements that apply to national banks and with any additional requirements that may be prescribed by the OCC. A Federal branch or agency, and the parent foreign bank, shall furnish information relating to the affairs of the parent foreign bank and its affiliates that the OCC may from time to time request.
(b)
Regulatory reports filed with other agencies.
A foreign bank operating a Federal branch or agency in the United States shall provide the OCC with a copy of reports filed with other Federal regulatory agencies that are designated in guidance issued by the OCC.
(c)
Maintenance of accounts, books, and records.
(1) Each Federal branch or agency shall maintain a set of accounts and records reflecting its transactions that are separate from those of the foreign bank and any other branch or agency. The Federal branch or agency shall keep a set of accounts and records in English sufficient to permit the OCC to examine the condition of the Federal branch or agency and its compliance with applicable laws and regulations. The Federal branch or agency shall promptly provide any additional records requested by the OCC for examination or supervisory purposes.
(2) A foreign bank with more than one Federal branch or agency in a state shall designate one of those offices to maintain consolidated asset, liability, and capital equivalency accounts for all Federal branches or agencies in that state.
(3) A foreign bank with a Federal branch or agency in more than one state that consolidates its CEDs into one account in accordance with § 28.15(e) shall designate a participating Federal branch or agency to maintain consolidated asset, liability, and capital equivalency account information for all Federal branches and agencies covered by the consolidated deposit. A foreign bank with a consolidated CED shall maintain a book entry accounting of assets designated under the consolidated CED for each office of that foreign bank.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 70700, Dec. 19, 2003]
§ 28.19
Enforcement.
As provided by section 13 of the IBA, 12 U.S.C. 3108(b), the OCC may enforce compliance with the requirements of the IBA, other applicable banking laws, and OCC regulations or orders under section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. 1818. This enforcement authority is in addition to any other remedies otherwise provided by the IBA or any other law.
§ 28.20
Maintenance of assets.
(a)
General rule.
(1) For prudential, supervisory, or enforcement reasons, the OCC may require a foreign bank to hold certain assets in the state in which its Federal branch or agency is located. Those assets may only consist of currency, bonds, notes, debentures, drafts, bills of exchange, or other evidence of indebtedness including loan participation agreements or certificates, or other obligations payable in the United States or in United States funds or, with the approval of the OCC, funds freely convertible into United States funds.
(2) If the OCC requires asset maintenance, the amount of assets held by a foreign bank shall be prescribed by the OCC after consideration of the aggregate amount of liabilities of the Federal branch or agency, payable at or through the Federal branch or agency. To determine the aggregate amount of liabilities for purposes of this section, the foreign bank shall include bankers' acceptances, but exclude liabilities to
the head office and any other branches, offices, agencies, subsidiaries, and affiliates of the foreign bank.
(b)
Valuation.
For the purposes of this section, marketable securities must be valued at principal amount or market value, whichever is lower.
(c)
Credits.
In determining compliance with the asset maintenance requirements, the OCC will give the Federal branch or agency credit for:
(1) Capital equivalency deposits maintained pursuant to § 28.15;
(2) Reserves required to be maintained by the Federal branch or agency pursuant to the FRB's authority under 12 U.S.C. 3105(a); and
(3) Assets pledged, and surety bonds payable, to the FDIC to secure the payment of domestic deposits.
(d)
Exclusions.
In determining eligible assets for purposes of this section, the Federal branch or agency shall exclude:
(1) Any amount due from the head office or any other branch, office, agency, subsidiary, or affiliate of the foreign bank;
(2) Any classified asset;
(3) Any asset that, in the determination of the OCC, is not supported by sufficient credit information;
(4) Any deposit with a bank in the United States, unless that bank has executed a valid waiver of offset agreement;
(5) Any asset not in the Federal branch's actual possession unless the branch holds title to the asset and maintains records sufficient to enable independent verification of the branch's ownership of the asset, as determined at the most recent examination; and
(6) Any other particular asset or class of assets as provided by the OCC, based on a case-by-case assessment of the risks associated with the asset.
(e)
International banking facility.
Unless specifically exempted by the OCC, the eligible assets and liabilities of any international banking facility operated through the Federal branch or agency must be included in the computation of eligible assets and liabilities for purposes of this section.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 70700, Dec. 19, 2003]
§ 28.21
Service of process.
A foreign bank operating at any Federal branch or agency is subject to service of process at the location of the Federal branch or agency.
§ 28.22
Voluntary liquidation.
(a)
Procedures to close all Federal branches and agencies.
Unless otherwise provided, in cases in which a foreign bank proposes to close all of its Federal branches or agencies, the foreign bank shall comply with applicable requirements in 12 CFR 5.48 and the Manual, including requirements that apply to an expedited liquidation of an insured Federal branch.
(b)
Notice to customers and creditors.
A foreign bank shall publish notice of the impending closure of each Federal branch or agency for a period of two months in every issue of a local newspaper where the Federal branch or agency is located. If only weekly publication is available, the notice must be published for nine consecutive weeks.
(c)
Report of condition.
The Federal branch or agency shall submit a Report of Assets and Liabilities of United States Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks as of the close of the last business day prior to the start of liquidation of the Federal branch or agency. This report must include a certified maturity schedule of all remaining liabilities, if any.
(d)
Return of certificate.
The Federal branch or agency shall return the Federal branch or agency license certificate within 30 days of closure to the public.
(e)
Reports of examination.
The Federal branch or agency shall send the OCC certification that all of its Reports of Examination have been destroyed or return its Reports of Examination to the OCC.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 70700, Dec. 19, 2003]
§ 28.23
Procedures for closing of some of a foreign bank's Federal branches and/or agencies.
In cases where § 28.22 does not apply, and a foreign bank is closing one or more, but not all, of its Federal branches and/or agencies, it shall follow the procedures set forth in 12
U.S.C. 1831r-1(a) and (b) (branch closings).
[68 FR 70700, Dec. 19, 2003]
§ 28.24
Termination of a Federal branch or agency.
(a)
Grounds for termination.
The OCC may revoke the authority of a foreign bank to operate a Federal branch or agency if:
(1) The OCC determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the foreign bank has violated or failed to comply with any of the provisions of the IBA, other applicable Federal laws or regulations, or orders of the OCC;
(2) A conservator is appointed for the foreign bank, or a similar proceeding is initiated in the foreign bank's home country;
(3) One or more grounds for receivership, including insolvency, as specified in 12 U.S.C. 3102(j), exists;
(4) One or more grounds for termination, including unsafe and unsound practices, insufficiency or dissipation of assets, concealment of books and records, a money laundering conviction, or other grounds as specified in 12 U.S.C. 191, exists; or
(5) The OCC receives a recommendation from the FRB, pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 3105(e)(5), that the license of a Federal branch or agency be terminated.
(b)
Procedures
—(1)
Notice and hearing.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the OCC may issue an order to terminate the license of a Federal branch or agency after providing notice to the Federal branch or agency and after providing an opportunity for a hearing.
(2)
Procedures for hearing.
The OCC shall conduct a hearing under this section pursuant to the OCC's Rules of Practice and Procedure in 12 CFR part 19.
(3)
Expedited procedure.
The OCC may act without providing an opportunity for a hearing if it determines that expeditious action is necessary in order to protect the public interest. When the OCC finds that it is necessary to act without providing an opportunity for a hearing, the OCC in its sole discretion, may:
(i) Provide the Federal branch or agency with notice of the intended termination order;
(ii) Grant the Federal branch or agency an opportunity to present a written submission opposing issuance of the order; or
(iii) Take any other action designed to provide the Federal branch or agency with notice and an opportunity to present its views concerning the termination order.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996. Redesignated at 68 FR 70700, Dec. 19, 2003]
§ 28.25
Change in control.
(a)
After-the-fact notice.
In cases in which no other filing is required under subpart B of this part, a foreign bank that operates a Federal branch or agency shall inform the OCC in writing of the direct or indirect acquisition of control of the foreign bank by any person or entity, or group of persons or entities acting in concert, within 14 calendar days after the foreign bank becomes aware of a change in control.
(b)
Additional information.
The foreign bank shall furnish the OCC with any additional information the OCC may require in connection with the acquisition of control.
[68 FR 70701, Dec. 19, 2003]
§ 28.26
Loan production offices.
A Federal branch may establish lending offices, make credit decisions, and engage in other representational activities at a site other than a Federal branch office, subject to the same rights, privileges, requirements and limitations that apply to national banks under 12 CFR 7.1003, 7.1004, and 7.1005.
[68 FR 70701, Dec. 19, 2003]

# Subpart C—International Lending Supervision
§ 28.50
Authority, purpose, and scope.
(a)
Authority.
This subpart is issued pursuant to 12 U.S.C. 1
et seq.,
93a, 161, and 1818; and the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (Pub. L. 98-181, title IX, 97 Stat. 1153, 12 U.S.C. 3901
et seq.
).
(b)
Purpose.
This subpart implements the requirements of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (12 U.S.C. 3901
et seq.
),
(c)
Scope.
This subpart requires national banks to establish reserves against the risks presented in certain international assets and sets forth the accounting for various fees received by the banks when making international loans.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 28.51
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Banking institution
means a national bank.
(b)
Federal banking agencies
means the OCC, the FRB, and the FDIC.
(c)
International assets
means those assets required to be included in banking institutions'
Country Exposure Report
forms (FFIEC 009).
(d)
International loan
means a loan as defined in the instructions to the
Report of Condition and Income
for the respective banking institution (FFIEC 031, 032, 033 and 034) and made to a foreign government, or to an individual, a corporation, or other entity not a citizen of, resident in, or organized or incorporated in the United States.
(e)
Restructured international loan
means a loan that meets the following criteria:
(1) The borrower is unable to service the existing loan according to its terms and is a resident of a foreign country in which there is a generalized inability of public and private sector obligors to meet their external debt obligations on a timely basis because of a lack of, or restraints on the availability of, needed foreign exchange in the country; and
(2) The terms of the existing loan are amended to reduce stated interest or extend the schedule of payments; or
(3) A new loan is made to, or for the benefit of, the borrower, enabling the borrower to service or refinance the existing debt.
(f)
Transfer risk
means the possibility that an asset cannot be serviced in the currency of payment because of a lack of, or restraints on the availability of, needed foreign exchange in the country of the obligor.
[61 FR 19532, May 2, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 57048, Oct. 26, 1998; 73 FR 22251, Apr. 24, 2008]
§ 28.52
Allocated transfer risk reserve.
(a)
Establishment of allocated transfer risk reserve.
A banking institution shall establish an allocated transfer risk reserve (ATRR) for specified international assets when required by the OCC in accordance with this section.
(b)
Procedures and standards
—(1)
Joint agency determination.
At least annually, the Federal banking agencies shall determine jointly, based on the standards set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the following:
(i) Which international assets subject to transfer risk warrant establishment of an ATRR;
(ii) The amount of the ATRR for the specified assets; and
(iii) Whether an ATRR established for specified assets may be reduced.
(2)
Standards for requiring ATRR
—(i)
Evaluation of assets.
The Federal banking agencies shall apply the following criteria in determining whether an ATRR is required for particular international assets:
(A) Whether the quality of a banking institution's assets has been impaired by a protracted inability of public or private obligors in a foreign country to make payments on their external indebtedness as indicated by such factors, among others, as whether:
(
1
) Such obligors have failed to make full interest payments on external indebtedness;
(
2
) Such obligors have failed to comply with the terms of any restructured indebtedness; or
(
3
) A foreign country has failed to comply with any International Monetary Fund or other suitable adjustment program; or
(B) Whether no definite prospects exist for the orderly restoration of debt service.
(ii)
Determination of amount of ATRR.
(A) In determining the amount of the ATRR, the Federal banking agencies shall consider:
(
1
) The length of time the quality of the asset has been impaired;
(
2
) Recent actions taken to restore debt service capability;
(
3
) Prospects for restored asset quality; and
(
4
) Such other factors as the Federal banking agencies may consider relevant to the quality of the asset.
(B) The initial year's provision for the ATRR shall be 10 percent of the principal amount of each specified international asset, or such greater or lesser percentage determined by the Federal banking agencies. Additional provision, if any, for the ATRR in subsequent years shall be 15 percent of the principal amount of each specified international asset, or such greater or lesser percentage determined by the Federal banking agencies.
(3)
Notification.
Based on the joint agency determinations under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the OCC shall notify each banking institution holding assets subject to an ATRR:
(i) Of the amount of the ATRR to be established by the institution for specified international assets; and
(ii) That an ATRR to be established for specified assets may be reduced.
(c)
Accounting treatment of ATRR
—(1)
Charge to current income.
A banking institution shall establish an ATRR by a charge to current income and the amounts so charged shall not be included in the banking institution's capital or surplus.
(2)
Separate accounting.
A banking institution shall account for an ATRR separately from the Allowance for Possible Loan Losses, and shall deduct the ATRR from “gross loans and leases” to arrive at “net loans and leases.” The ATRR must be established for each asset subject to the ATRR in the percentage amount specified.
(3)
Consolidation.
A banking institution shall establish an ATRR, as required, on a consolidated basis. Consolidation should be in accordance with the procedures and tests of significance set forth in the instructions for preparation of
Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income
(FFIEC 031, 032, 033 and 034). For bank holding companies, the consolidation shall be in accordance with the principles set forth in the “Instructions to the Bank Holding Company Financial Supplement to Report F.R. Y-6” (Form F.R. Y-9). Edge corporations and Agreement corporations engaged in banking shall report in accordance with instructions for preparation of the Report of Condition for Edge corporations and Agreement corporations (Form F.R. 2886b).
(4)
Alternative accounting treatment.
A banking institution need not establish an ATRR if it writes down in the period in which the ATRR is required, or has written down in prior periods, the value of the specified international assets in the requisite amount for each such asset. For purposes of this paragraph, international assets may be written down by a charge to the Allowance for Possible Loan Losses or a reduction in the principal amount of the asset by application of interest payments or other collections on the asset. However, the Allowance for Possible Loan Losses must be replenished in such amount necessary to restore it to a level which adequately provides for the estimated losses inherent in the banking institution's loan portfolio.
(5)
Reduction of ATRR.
A banking institution may reduce an ATRR when notified by the OCC or, at any time, by writing down such amount of the international asset for which the ATRR was established.
§ 28.53
Accounting for fees on international loans.
(a)
Restrictions on fees for restructured international loans.
No banking institution shall charge, in connection with the restructuring of an international loan, any fee exceeding the administrative costs of the restructuring unless it amortizes the amount of the fee exceeding the administrative cost over the effective life of the loan.
(b)
Accounting treatment.
Subject to paragraph (a) of this section, a banking institution is to account for fees in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
[63 FR 57048, Oct. 26, 1998]
§ 28.54
Reporting and disclosure of international assets.
(a)
Requirements.
(1) Pursuant to section 907(a) of the International Lending Supervision Act of 1983 (title IX, Pub. L. 98-181, 97 Stat. 1153, 12 U.S.C. 3906)
(ILSA) a banking institution shall submit to the OCC, at least quarterly, information regarding the amounts and composition of its holdings of international assets.
(2) Pursuant to section 907(b) of ILSA (12 U.S.C. 3906), a banking institution shall submit to the OCC information regarding concentrations in its holdings of international assets that are material in relation to total assets and to capital of the institution, such information to be made publicly available by the OCC on request.
(b)
Procedures.
