(b) In lieu of termination of the mortgage insurance contract pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the Commissioner may, in his or her full discretion, permit a Level I participant rated “A” or higher to indemnify HUD, or otherwise reimburse HUD in a manner acceptable to the Commissioner, for the full amount of the mortgage claim.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83440, 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.622
Notice and date of termination by the Commissioner.
The Commissioner shall notify the HFA that the contract of insurance has been terminated and shall establish the effective date of termination. The termination shall be the last day of the month in which one of the events specified in § 266.620 occurs.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83440, Dec. 22, 2020]

# Claim Procedures
§ 266.626
Notice of default and filing an insurance claim.
(a)
Definition of default.
(1) A monetary default exists when the mortgagor fails to make any payment due under the mortgage.
(2) A covenant default exists when the mortgagor fails to perform any other covenant under the provision of the mortgage or the regulatory agreement, which is incorporated by reference in the mortgage. An HFA becomes eligible for insurance benefits on the basis of a covenant default only after the HFA has accelerated the debt and the owner has failed to pay the full amount due, thus converting a covenant default into a monetary default.
(b)
Date of default.
For purposes of this subpart, the date of default is:
(1) The date of the first uncorrected failure to perform a mortgage covenant or obligation; or
(2) The date of the first failure to make a monthly payment that is not covered by subsequent payments, when such subsequent payments are applied to the overdue monthly payments in the order in which they were due.
(c)
Notice of default.
If a default (as defined in paragraph (a) of this section) continues for a period of 30 calendar days, the HFA must notify the Commissioner within 10 calendar days thereafter, unless the default is cured within the 30-day period. Unless waived by the Commissioner, the HFA must submit this notice monthly, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, until the default has been cured or the HFA has filed an application for an initial claim payment. In cases of mortgage acceleration, the mortgagee must first give notice of the default.
(d)
Timing of claim filing.
Unless a written extension is granted by HUD, the HFA must file an application for initial claim payment (or, if appropriate, for partial claim payment) within 75 calendar days from the date of default and may do so as early as the first day of the month following the month for which a payment was missed. Upon request of the HFA, HUD may extend, up to 180 calendar days from the date of default, the deadline for filing a claim. In those cases where the HFA certifies that the project owner is in the process of transacting a bond refunder, refinancing the mortgage, or changing the ownership for the purpose of curing the default and bringing the mortgage current, HUD may extend the deadline for filing a claim beyond 180 calendar days, not to exceed 360 calendar days from the date of default.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.628
Initial claim payments.
(a)
Determination of initial claim amount.
(1) The initial claim amount is based on the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage note as of the date of default, plus interest at the mortgage note rate from date of default to date of initial claim payment. The mortgage note interest component of the initial claim amount is subject to curtailment as provided in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) HUD shall make an initial claim payment to the HFA that is equal to the initial claim amount, less any delinquent mortgage insurance premiums, late charges and interest, assessed under § 266.604(d).
(3) The HFA must use the proceeds of the initial claim payment to retire any bonds or any other financing mechanisms securing the mortgage within 30 calendar days of the initial claim payment. Any excess funds resulting from such retirement or repayment shall be returned to HUD within 30 calendar days of the retirement.
(b)
Curtailment of interest for late filings.
In determining the mortgage note interest component of the initial claim amount, if the HFA fails to meet any of the requirements of this section within the specified time (including any granted extension of time), HUD shall curtail the accrual of mortgage note interest by the number of days by which the required action was late.
(c)
Method of payment.
HUD shall pay the claim in cash.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.630
Partial payment of claims.
(a)
General.
When the Commissioner receives a claim for a partial payment
under § 266.626(d), the Commissioner may make a partial payment of claim in accordance with the requirements of this section. If the HFA has not previously received a partial claim payment, the HFA may file a claim for a partial claim payment under § 266.630. Otherwise, the HFA must file for an initial claim payment under § 266.628.
(b)
HFA submission.
In addition to any other requirements set forth in administration instructions, the HFA must provide the following information with its application for a partial claim payment:
(1) The amount by which the HFA will reduce the principal on the insured mortgage and the amount of delinquent interest on the insured mortgage that the HFA will defer based on the anticipated closing date; and
(2) A certification that:
(i) The amount of the principal reduction of the insured first mortgage does not exceed 50 percent of the unpaid principal balance;
(ii) The relief resulting from the partial claim payment when considered with other resources available to the project are sufficient to restore the financial viability of the project;
(iii) The project is or can (at reasonable cost) be made structurally sound;
(iv) The management of the project is satisfactory;
(v) The default under the insured mortgage was beyond the control of the mortgagor.
(c)
Claim processing
—(1)
Acceptable application.
If the HFA's application is acceptable, the Commissioner shall notify the HFA to process the partial payment, which will include the modification of the existing mortgage and the execution by the mortgagor of a second mortgage payable to the HFA. When the second mortgage is closed, the HFA shall notify the Commissioner, in a form and manner prescribed in administrative instructions. Upon receipt of notice from the HFA, the Commissioner shall make the partial claim payment.
(2)
Unacceptable application.
If the application is unacceptable, the Commissioner shall either advise the HFA of the information needed to make the application acceptable or return the application for further action. The HFA is granted an extension of 30 calendar days from the date of any notification for further action.
(d)
Requirements
—(1)
One partial claim payment.
Only one partial claim payment may be made under a contract of insurance.
(2)
Partial claim payment amount.
The amount of the partial claim payment is limited to 50% of the amount of relief provided by the HFA in the form of a reduction in principal and a reduction of delinquent interest due on the insured mortgage times the lesser of HUD's percentage of the risk of loss or 50 percent.
(3)
HFA second mortgage.
Repayment of the relief provided by the HFA must be secured by a second mortgage to the HFA. This second mortgage may provide for postponed amortization and may not be assigned by the HFA. This second mortgage is not insured under this part and may not be insured under any other HUD-related insurance program.
(4)
Partial claim repayment by HFA.
The HFA must remit to HUD a percentage of all amounts collected on the HFA's second mortgage within 15 calendar days of receipt by the HFA. The applicable percentage is equal to the percentage used in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to determine the partial claim payment amount. Payments made after the 15th day must include a 5 percent late charge plus accrued interest at the debenture rate.
(5)
Certified statements of amounts collected.
As long as the second mortgage remains of record, the HFA must submit to the Commissioner an annual certified statement of the amounts collected by the HFA. The HFA must submit a final certified statement within 30 calendar days after the second mortgage is paid in full, foreclosed, or otherwise terminated.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.632
Withdrawal of claim.
In case of a default and subsequent filing of claim, the HFA shall determine the form of workout or modification and will inform HUD of the type of mortgage relief determined to be appropriate. If the default is cured after the claim is made but before the initial
claim payment is paid by HUD, the HFA may, in writing, withdraw the claim, and insurance will continue as if the default had not occurred.
§ 266.634
Reinstatement of the contract of insurance.
(a)
Conditions for reinstatement.
After the initial claim payment, HUD may reinstate the contract of insurance on the following conditions:
(1) The HFA has not acquired the project;
(2) The mortgagor has cured the default; and
(3) The HFA requests that HUD reinstate the contract of insurance.
(b)
Notification of reinstatement.
If reinstatement is acceptable to HUD, HUD shall notify the HFA of the date the contract of insurance will be reinstated and shall advise the HFA of the payment needed to reinstate the contract of insurance.
(c)
Payment.
Within 30 calendar days of the date of the notice under paragraph (b) of this section, the HFA shall pay HUD an amount equal to the initial claim amount, as determined under § 266.628(a)(1), plus an amount equal to the accrued and unpaid interest on the HFA Debenture through the reinstatement date, plus an amount equal to the mortgage insurance premium for the period from the date of reinstatement of the contract of insurance to the next anniversary date for payment of the mortgage insurance premium.
(d)
Cancellation of debenture.
Upon receipt from the HFA of the amount specified in paragraph (c) of this section, HUD shall return the HFA debenture for cancellation.
(e)
Continuation of contract of insurance.
Upon reinstatement, the contract of insurance shall continue as if the default had not occurred.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.636
Insuring new loans for defaulted projects.
The HFA may not make another loan that is insured under this part to the same owner in the same project if HUD has paid a claim under this part.
§ 266.638
Issuance of HFA Debenture.
(a)
Condition to initial claim payment.
The HFA must issue an instrument in the form of a debenture to HUD within 30 calendar days of receiving the initial claim payment. The HFA Debenture shall meet the following requirements and shall be in a form that has been approved by HUD as part of the application approval process.
(b)
Term of HFA Debenture.
The HFA Debenture shall be dated the same date that the initial claim payment is issued. The HFA Debenture shall have a term of 5 years in order to afford the mortgagor ample time to cure the default or the HFA time to foreclose and/or resell the project. HUD may provide a written extension of the 5-year term if the HFA certifies and provides documentation that the project owner has filed bankruptcy and the HFA is taking action to have the project discharged from the bankruptcy. The HFA Debenture shall, during this extended period, continue to bear interest as described below at HUD's published debenture rate at the earlier of initial endorsement or final endorsement. Interest shall be due and payable annually on the anniversary date of the initial claim payment. Interest is due on the full face amount of the HFA Debenture through the term of the HFA Debenture or through the date an application for final claim payment is received by the Commissioner.
(c)
HFA Debenture amount.
(1) The HFA Debenture shall be for the full initial claim amount as determined under § 266.628(a)(1) (minus any excess funds returned to HUD under § 266.628(a)(3)).
(2) The full amount of the HFA Debenture shall be payable to HUD upon maturity, unless the HFA Debenture is canceled because of:
(i) A reinstatement of the contract of insurance under § 266.634; or
(ii) Final claim settlement under § 266.654.
(d)
HFA Debenture interest rate.
The HFA Debenture shall bear interest at HUD's published debenture rate at the earlier of initial endorsement or final endorsement. Interest shall be due and payable annually on the anniversary date of the initial claim payment and
on the date of redemption when redeemed or canceled before an anniversary date. Interest shall be computed on the full face amount of the HFA Debenture through the term of the HFA Debenture.
(e)
Form of HFA Debenture.
The HFA Debenture should follow the standard form of a State/Municipal Debenture issued under the Uniform Commercial Code, where applicable, and shall be supported by the full faith and credit of the HFA. For HFAs that operate as departments or divisions of States or units of local government and where such HFAs cannot pledge the full faith and credit of the HFA, such HFAs may collateralize their obligation through a letter of credit, reinsurance, or other forms of credit acceptable to the Commissioner.
(f)
Debenture registration.
Unless otherwise required by law, including State or local laws, or other governing bodies, HUD will not require the HFA Debenture to be “Registered” (with the Securities and Exchange Commission) as it is a direct, or private, placement, and not a public offering, that is supported by the full faith and credit of the HFA.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.640
Foreclosure and acquisition.
The HFA is not required to foreclose the insured mortgage. It may accept a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure.
§ 266.642
Appraisals.
Where actions taken or caused to be taken by the HFA have the effect of the recovery of less than the face amount of the HFA Debenture held by HUD, an appraisal should be made to determine the value of the project. The appraisal should assume a willing buyer and a willing seller. The appraisal must be done within the 45-calendar-day period immediately preceding the date when the HFA files an application for final claim settlement. If at the time of final claim settlement the HFA has not sold the project, an appraisal should be made to determine the value of the project at its highest and best use.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.644
Application for final claim settlement.
The HFA shall file an application for final settlement in accordance with the Commissioner's administrative procedures not later than 30 calendar days after any of the following:
(a) Sale of the property after foreclosure or after acquisition by deed-in-lieu of foreclosure; or
(b) Expiration of the term of the HFA debenture.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.646
Determining the amount of loss.
The amount of the total loss to be shared by HUD and the HFA is equal to:
(a) The amount of the initial claim payment;
(b) Plus all items set forth in § 266.648; and
(c) Less all items set forth in § 266.650.
§ 266.648
Items included in total loss.
In computing the total loss, the following items are added to the amount described in § 266.646(a):
(a) The amount of all payments that the HFA made from its own funds and not from project income for:
(1) Taxes, special assessments, and water bills that are liens before the Mortgage; and
(2) Fire and hazard insurance on the property.
(b) A reasonable amount of acquisition costs actually paid by the HFA. These costs may not include loss or damage resulting from the invalidity or unenforceability of the Mortgage lien or the unmarketability of the Mortgagor's title.
(c) Reasonable payments that the HFA made from its own funds and not from project income for:
(1) Preservation, operation and maintenance of the property;
(2) Repairs necessary to meet the requirements of local laws;
(3) Expenses in connection with the sale of property; and
(4) Bankruptcy expenses approved by HUD.
(d) The amount of HFA Debenture interest paid by the HFA to HUD.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.650
Items deducted from total loss.
In computing insurance benefits, the following items are deducted from the amounts described in § 266.646(a) and (b):
(a) All amounts received by the HFA on account of the mortgage after the date of default, including any partial payment of claim paid by HUD in the event a full claim follows a partial payment of claim;
(b) All cash, and/or funds related to the mortgaged property, including deposits and escrows made for the account of the mortgagor that the HFA holds (or to which it is entitled);
(c) The amount of any undrawn balance under a letter of credit that the HFA accepted in lieu of a cash deposit for an escrow agreement;
(d) Any net income from the mortgaged property/project that the HFA received after the date of default.
(e) The proceeds from the sale of the project or the appraised value of the project as provided in § 266.642 as follows:
(1) If the HFA disposes of the project through a negotiated sale, the amount deducted shall be the higher of the sales price or the appraised value.
(2) If the HFA disposes of the project through a competitive bid procedure approved by the Commissioner, the amount deducted shall be the sales price, even if it is lower than the appraised value.
(3) If the HFA has not disposed of the project within 5 years from the date of issuance of the HFA Debentures (unless an extension has been granted pursuant to § 266.638), the amount deducted shall be the appraised value.
(f) Any and all claims that the HFA has acquired in connection with the acquisition and sale of the property. Claims include but are not limited to returned premiums from canceled insurance policies, interest on investments of reserve for replacement funds, tax refunds, refunds of deposits left with utility companies, and amounts received as proceeds of a receivership.
(g) The amount of daily HFA Debenture interest accrued but not paid from the anniversary date of the last HFA Debenture interest payment to the date an application for final claim payment is received by the Commissioner.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83445, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.652
Determining share of loss.
The total loss computed in § 266.646 shall be shared by HUD and the HFA in accordance with their respective percentage of risk as specified in the note and the addendum to the Risk-Sharing Agreement between HUD and the HFA.
§ 266.654
Final claim settlement and HFA Debenture redemption.
(a)
Final claim payment.
If the initial claim amount, as determined under § 266.628(a)(1), is less than HUD's share of the loss, HUD shall make a final claim payment to the HFA that is equal to the difference between HUD's share of the loss and the initial claim amount and shall return the HFA Debenture to the HFA for cancellation.
(b)
HFA reimbursement payment.
If the initial claim amount, as determined under § 266.628(a)(1), is more than HUD's share of the loss, the HFA shall, within 30 calendar days of notification by HUD of the amount due, remit to HUD an amount that is equal to the difference between the initial claim amount and HUD's share of the loss. The funds must be remitted in a manner prescribed in the Commissioner's administrative procedures. The HFA Debenture will be considered redeemed upon receipt of the cash payment. A 5 percent penalty will be charged and interest at the debenture rate will begin to accrue if the cash payment is not received within the prescribed period. If an HFA is in default under an existing debenture and files a claim on another project under this part, HUD will charge the HFA's Dedicated Account for the amount owed the Department. In cases of top-tier or A-rated HFA's which are not required to maintain a Dedicated Account, HUD will inform the rating agencies of the HFA's failure to pay on their debt obligation and
of its violation of the Risk-Sharing Agreement.
(c)
Losses.
Losses sustained as a consequence of the (sole) negligence of an HFA (
e.g.,
failure to acquire adequate hazard insurance where such insurance is available) shall be the sole obligation of the HFA, notwithstanding the risk apportionment otherwise agreed to by HUD and the HFA.
(d)
Supplemental claim.
Any supplemental claim must be filed within one year from date of final claim settlement.
[59 FR 62524, Dec. 5, 1994, as amended at 85 FR 83446, Dec. 22, 2020]
§ 266.656
Recovery of costs after final claim settlement.
If, after final claim settlement, the HFA recovers additional sums as the result of the sale of the project or otherwise, the total amount of such recovery shall be shared by HUD and the HFA in accordance with the prescribed percentage of shared risk.
§ 266.658
Program monitoring and compliance.
HUD will monitor the performance of the HFA for compliance with the provisions of this subpart.
Pt. 267

# PART 267—CREDIT RISK RETENTION

# Subpart A—Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
Sec.
267.1
Credit risk retention exceptions and exemptions for HUD programs.
267.2
Definitions.

# Subpart B—Credit Risk Retention
267.3
Base risk retention requirement.
267.4
Standard risk retention.
267.5
Revolving pool securitizations.
267.6
Eligible ABCP conduits.
267.7
Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
267.8
Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ABS.
267.9
Open market CLOs.
267.10
Qualified tender option bonds.

# Subpart C—Transfer of Risk Retention
267.11
Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
267.12
Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.

# Subpart D—Exceptions and Exemptions
267.13
Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
267.14
Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
267.15
Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
267.16
Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
267.17
Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
267.18
Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
267.19
General exemptions.
267.20
Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
267.21
Additional exemptions.
267.22
Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 78-o-11; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
79 FR 77740, Dec. 24, 2014, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Authority, Purpose, Scope and Definitions
§ 267.1
Credit risk retention exceptions and exemptions for HUD programs.
The credit risk retention regulations codified at 12 CFR part 43 (Office of the Comptroller of the Currency); 12 CFR part 244 (Federal Reserve System); 12 CFR part 373 (Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation); 17 CFR part 246 (Securities and Exchange Commission); and 12 CFR part 1234 (Federal Housing Finance Agency) include exceptions and exemptions in subpart D of each of these codified regulations for certain transactions involving programs and entities under the jurisdiction of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
[79 FR 77766, Dec. 24, 2014]
§ 267.2
Definitions.
For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply:
ABS interest
means:
(1) Any type of interest or obligation issued by an issuing entity, whether or
not in certificated form, including a security, obligation, beneficial interest or residual interest (other than an uncertificated regular interest in a REMIC that is held by another REMIC, where both REMICs are part of the same structure and a single REMIC in that structure issues ABS interests to investors, or a non-economic residual interest issued by a REMIC), payments on which are primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral owned or held by the issuing entity; and
(2) Does not include common or preferred stock, limited liability interests, partnership interests, trust certificates, or similar interests that:
(i) Are issued primarily to evidence ownership of the issuing entity; and
(ii) The payments, if any, on which are not primarily dependent on the cash flows of the collateral held by the issuing entity; and
(3) Does not include the right to receive payments for services provided by the holder of such right, including servicing, trustee services and custodial services.
Affiliate
of, or a person
affiliated
with, a specified person means a person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, or is controlled by, or is under common control with, the person specified.
Appropriate Federal banking agency
has the same meaning as in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813).
Asset
means a self-liquidating financial asset (including but not limited to a loan, lease, mortgage, or receivable).
Asset-backed security
has the same meaning as in section 3(a)(79) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(79)).
Collateral
means, with respect to any issuance of ABS interests, the assets that provide the cash flow and the servicing assets that support such cash flow for the ABS interests irrespective of the legal structure of issuance, including security interests in assets or other property of the issuing entity, fractional undivided property interests in the assets or other property of the issuing entity, or any other property interest in or rights to cash flow from such assets and related servicing assets. Assets or other property
collateralize
an issuance of ABS interests if the assets or property serve as collateral for such issuance.
Commercial real estate loan
has the same meaning as in § 267.14.
Commission
means the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Control
including the terms “controlling,” “controlled by” and “under common control with”:
(1) Means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise.
(2) Without limiting the foregoing, a person shall be considered to control another person if the first person:
(i) Owns, controls or holds with power to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of the other person; or
(ii) Controls in any manner the election of a majority of the directors, trustees or persons performing similar functions of the other person.
Credit risk
means:
(1) The risk of loss that could result from the failure of the borrower in the case of a securitized asset, or the issuing entity in the case of an ABS interest in the issuing entity, to make required payments of principal or interest on the asset or ABS interest on a timely basis;
(2) The risk of loss that could result from bankruptcy, insolvency, or a similar proceeding with respect to the borrower or issuing entity, as appropriate; or
(3) The effect that significant changes in the underlying credit quality of the asset or ABS interest may have on the market value of the asset or ABS interest.
Creditor
has the same meaning as in 15 U.S.C. 1602(g).
Depositor
means:
(1) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the securitized assets to the issuing entity;
(2) The sponsor, in the case of a securitization transaction where there is not an intermediate transfer of the assets from the sponsor to the issuing entity; or
(3) The person that receives or purchases and transfers or sells the
securitized assets to the issuing entity in the case of a securitization transaction where the person transferring or selling the securitized assets directly to the issuing entity is itself a trust.
Eligible horizontal residual interest
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest in the issuing entity:
(1) That is an interest in a single class or multiple classes in the issuing entity, provided that each interest meets, individually or in the aggregate, all of the requirements of this definition;
(2) With respect to which, on any payment date or allocation date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds to satisfy its obligation to pay all contractual interest or principal due, any resulting shortfall will reduce amounts payable to the eligible horizontal residual interest prior to any reduction in the amounts payable to any other ABS interest, whether through loss allocation, operation of the priority of payments, or any other governing contractual provision (until the amount of such ABS interest is reduced to zero); and
(3) That, with the exception of any non-economic REMIC residual interest, has the most subordinated claim to payments of both principal and interest by the issuing entity.
Eligible horizontal cash reserve account
means an account meeting the requirements of § 267.4(b).
Eligible vertical interest
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, a single vertical security or an interest in each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as part of the securitization transaction that constitutes the same proportion of each such class.
Federal banking agencies
means the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
GAAP
means generally accepted accounting principles as used in the United States.
Issuing entity
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the trust or other entity:
(1) That owns or holds the pool of assets to be securitized; and
(2) In whose name the asset-backed securities are issued.
Majority-owned affiliate
of a person means an entity (other than the issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under common majority control with, such person. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Originator
means a person who:
(1) Through an extension of credit or otherwise, creates an asset that collateralizes an asset-backed security; and
(2) Sells the asset directly or indirectly to a securitizer or issuing entity.
REMIC
has the same meaning as in 26 U.S.C. 860D.
Residential mortgage
means:
(1) A transaction that is a covered transaction as defined in § 1026.43(b) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(b)(1));
(2) Any transaction that is exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)); and
(3) Any other loan secured by a residential structure that contains one to four units, whether or not that structure is attached to real property, including an individual condominium or cooperative unit and, if used as a residence, a mobile home or trailer.
Retaining sponsor
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, the sponsor that has retained or caused to be retained an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets pursuant to subpart B of this part.
Securitization transaction
means a transaction involving the offer and sale of asset-backed securities by an issuing entity.
Securitized asset
means an asset that:
(1) Is transferred, sold, or conveyed to an issuing entity; and
(2) Collateralizes the ABS interests issued by the issuing entity.
Securitizer
means, with respect to a securitization transaction, either:
(1) The depositor of the asset-backed securities (if the depositor is not the sponsor); or
(2) The sponsor of the asset-backed securities.
Servicer
means any person responsible for the management or collection of the securitized assets or making allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests, but does not include a trustee for the issuing entity or the asset-backed securities that makes allocations or distributions to holders of the ABS interests if the trustee receives such allocations or distributions from a servicer and the trustee does not otherwise perform the functions of a servicer.
Servicing assets
means rights or other assets designed to assure the servicing or timely distribution of proceeds to ABS interest holders and rights or other assets that are related or incidental to purchasing or otherwise acquiring and holding the issuing entity's securitized assets. Servicing assets include amounts received by the issuing entity as proceeds of securitized assets, including proceeds of rights or other assets, whether as remittances by obligors or as other recoveries.
Single vertical security
means, with respect to any securitization transaction, an ABS interest entitling the sponsor to a specified percentage of the amounts paid on each class of ABS interests in the issuing entity (other than such single vertical security).
Sponsor
means a person who organizes and initiates a securitization transaction by selling or transferring assets, either directly or indirectly, including through an affiliate, to the issuing entity.
State
has the same meaning as in Section 3(a)(16) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(16)).
United States or U.S.
means the United States of America, including its territories and possessions, any State of the United States, and the District of Columbia.
Wholly-owned affiliate
means a person (other than an issuing entity) that, directly or indirectly, wholly controls, is wholly controlled by, or is wholly under common control with, another person. For purposes of this definition, “wholly controls” means ownership of 100 percent of the equity of an entity.

# Subpart B—Credit Risk Retention
§ 267.3
Base risk retention requirement.
(a)
Base risk retention requirement.
Except as otherwise provided in this part, the sponsor of a securitization transaction (or majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor) shall retain an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with any one of §§ 267.4 through 267.10. Credit risk in securitized assets required to be retained and held by any person for purposes of compliance with this part, whether a sponsor, an originator, an originator-seller, or a third-party purchaser, except as otherwise provided in this part, may be acquired and held by any of such person's majority-owned affiliates (other than an issuing entity).
(b)
Multiple sponsors.
If there is more than one sponsor of a securitization transaction, it shall be the responsibility of each sponsor to ensure that at least one of the sponsors of the securitization transaction (or at least one of their majority-owned or wholly-owned affiliates, as applicable) retains an economic interest in the credit risk of the securitized assets in accordance with any one of §§ 267.4, 267.5, 267.8, 267.9, or 267.10.
§ 267.4
Standard risk retention.
(a)
General requirement.
Except as provided in §§ 267.5 through 267.10, the sponsor of a securitization transaction must retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(1) If the sponsor retains only an eligible vertical interest as its required risk retention, the sponsor must retain an eligible vertical interest in a percentage of not less than 5 percent.
(2) If the sponsor retains only an eligible horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the amount of the interest must equal at least 5 percent of the fair value of all ABS interests in the issuing entity issued as a part of the securitization transaction, determined using a fair value measurement framework under GAAP.
(3) If the sponsor retains both an eligible vertical interest and an eligible horizontal residual interest as its required risk retention, the percentage of the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest and the percentage of the eligible vertical interest must equal at least five.
(4) The percentage of the eligible vertical interest, eligible horizontal residual interest, or combination thereof retained by the sponsor must be determined as of the closing date of the securitization transaction.
(b)
Option to hold base amount in eligible horizontal cash reserve account.
In lieu of retaining all or any part of an eligible horizontal residual interest under paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor may, at closing of the securitization transaction, cause to be established and funded, in cash, an eligible horizontal cash reserve account in the amount equal to the fair value of such eligible horizontal residual interest or part thereof, provided that the account meets all of the following conditions:
(1) The account is held by the trustee (or person performing similar functions) in the name and for the benefit of the issuing entity;
(2) Amounts in the account are invested only in cash and cash equivalents; and
(3) Until all ABS interests in the issuing entity are paid in full, or the issuing entity is dissolved:
(i) Amounts in the account shall be released only to:
(A) Satisfy payments on ABS interests in the issuing entity on any payment date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to satisfy an amount due on any ABS interest; or
(B) Pay critical expenses of the trust unrelated to credit risk on any payment date on which the issuing entity has insufficient funds from any source to pay such expenses and:
(
1
) Such expenses, in the absence of available funds in the eligible horizontal cash reserve account, would be paid prior to any payments to holders of ABS interests; and
(
2
) Such payments are made to parties that are not affiliated with the sponsor; and
(ii) Interest (or other earnings) on investments made in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) of this section may be released once received by the account.
(c)
Disclosures.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors, under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction the following disclosures in written form and within the time frames set forth in this paragraph (c):
(1)
Horizontal interest.
With respect to any eligible horizontal residual interest held under paragraph (a) of this section, a sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction. If the specific prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization are not available, the sponsor must disclose a range of fair values (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the close of the securitization transaction based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes, or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization. A sponsor disclosing a range of fair values based on a range of bona fide estimates or specified prices, sizes or rates of interest of each tranche of the securitization must also disclose the method by which it determined any range of prices, tranche sizes, or rates of interest.
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained by the sponsor;
(C) A description of the valuation methodology used to calculate the fair values or range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including any portion of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by the sponsor;
(D) All key inputs and assumptions or a comprehensive description of such key inputs and assumptions that were used in measuring the estimated total fair value or range of fair values of all classes of ABS interests, including the eligible horizontal residual interest to be retained by the sponsor.
(E) To the extent applicable to the valuation methodology used, the disclosure required in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section shall include, but should not be limited to, quantitative information about each of the following:
(
1
) Discount rates;
(
2
) Loss given default (recovery);
(
3
) Prepayment rates;
(
4
) Default rates;
(
5
) Lag time between default and recovery; and
(
6
) The basis of forward interest rates used.
(F) The disclosure required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(C) and (D) of this section shall include, at a minimum, descriptions of all inputs and assumptions that either could have a material impact on the fair value calculation or would be material to a prospective investor's ability to evaluate the sponsor's fair value calculations. To the extent the disclosure required in this paragraph (c)(1) includes a description of a curve or curves, the description shall include a description of the methodology that was used to derive each curve and a description of any aspects or features of each curve that could materially impact the fair value calculation or the ability of a prospective investor to evaluate the sponsor's fair value calculation. To the extent a sponsor uses information about the securitized assets in its calculation of fair value, such information shall not be as of a date more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided that for a subsequent issuance of ABS interests by the same issuing entity with the same sponsor for which the securitization transaction distributes amounts to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, such information shall not be as of a date more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors; provided further, that the balance or value (in accordance with the transaction documents) of the securitized assets may be increased or decreased to reflect anticipated additions or removals of assets the sponsor makes or expects to make between the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security and the closing date of the securitization.
(G) A summary description of the reference data set or other historical information used to develop the key inputs and assumptions referenced in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(D) of this section, including loss given default and default rates;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction:
(A) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest the sponsor retained at the closing of the securitization transaction, based on actual sale prices and finalized tranche sizes;
(B) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to retain under this section; and
(C) To the extent the valuation methodology or any of the key inputs and assumptions that were used in calculating the fair value or range of fair values disclosed prior to sale and required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section materially differs from the methodology or key inputs and assumptions used to calculate the fair
value at the time of closing, descriptions of those material differences.
(iii) If the sponsor retains risk through the funding of an eligible horizontal cash reserve account:
(A) The amount to be placed (or that is placed) by the sponsor in the eligible horizontal cash reserve account at closing, and the fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that the sponsor is required to fund through the eligible horizontal cash reserve account in order for such account, together with other retained interests, to satisfy the sponsor's risk retention requirement;
(B) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal cash reserve account; and
(C) The disclosures required in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2)
Vertical interest.
With respect to any eligible vertical interest retained under paragraph (a) of this section, the sponsor must disclose:
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security issued in the same offering of ABS interests,
(A) The form of the eligible vertical interest;
(B) The percentage that the sponsor is required to retain as a vertical interest under this section; and
(C) A description of the material terms of the vertical interest and the amount that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the amount of the vertical interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(d)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the certifications and disclosures required in paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
§ 267.5
Revolving pool securitizations.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions apply:
Revolving pool securitization
means an issuing entity that is established to issue on multiple issuance dates more than one series, class, subclass, or tranche of asset-backed securities that are collateralized by a common pool of securitized assets that will change in composition over time, and that does not monetize excess interest and fees from its securitized assets.
Seller's interest
means an ABS interest or ABS interests:
(1) Collateralized by the securitized assets and servicing assets owned or held by the issuing entity, other than the following that are not considered a component of seller's interest:
(i) Servicing assets that have been allocated as collateral only for a specific series in connection with administering the revolving pool securitization, such as a principal accumulation or interest reserve account; and
(ii) Assets that are not eligible under the terms of the securitization transaction to be included when determining whether the revolving pool securitization holds aggregate securitized assets in specified proportions to aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests issued; and
(2) That is
pari passu
with each series of investor ABS interests issued, or partially or fully subordinated to one or more series in identical or varying amounts, with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized assets prior to early amortization of the revolving securitization (as specified in the securitization transaction documents); and
(3) That adjusts for fluctuations in the outstanding principal balance of the securitized assets in the pool.
(b)
General requirement.
A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § 267.3 with respect to a securitization transaction for which the issuing entity is a revolving pool securitization if the sponsor maintains
a seller's interest of not less than 5 percent of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests in the issuing entity.
(c)
Measuring the seller's interest.
In measuring the seller's interest for purposes of meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets for the numerator of the 5 percent ratio shall not include assets of the types excluded from the definition of seller's interest in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) The aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator of the 5 percent ratio may be reduced by the amount of funds held in a segregated principal accumulation account for the repayment of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(i) The terms of the securitization transaction documents prevent funds in the principal accumulation account from being applied for any purpose other than the repayment of the unpaid principal of outstanding investor ABS interests; and
(ii) Funds in that account are invested only in the types of assets in which funds held in an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 267.4 are permitted to be invested;
(3) If the terms of the securitization transaction documents set minimum required seller's interest as a proportion of the unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests for one or more series issued, rather than as a proportion of the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests in all outstanding series combined, the percentage of the seller's interest for each such series must, when combined with the percentage of any minimum seller's interest set by reference to the aggregate outstanding investor ABS interests, equal at least 5 percent;
(4) The 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied at the closing of each issuance of ABS interests to investors by the issuing entity, and
(i) At least monthly at a seller's interest measurement date specified under the securitization transaction documents, until no ABS interest in the issuing entity is held by any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor; or
(ii) If the revolving pool securitization fails to meet the 5 percent test as of any date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, and the securitization transaction documents specify a cure period, the 5 percent test must be determined and satisfied within the earlier of the cure period, or one month after the date described in paragraph (c)(4)(i).
(d)
Measuring outstanding investor ABS interests.
In measuring the amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for purposes of this section, ABS interests held for the life of such ABS interests by the sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates may be excluded.
(e)
Holding and retention of the seller's interest; legacy trusts.
(1) Notwithstanding § 267.12(a), the seller's interest, and any offsetting horizontal retention interest retained pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, must be retained by the sponsor or by one or more wholly-owned affiliates of the sponsor, including one or more depositors of the revolving pool securitization.
(2) If one revolving pool securitization issues collateral certificates representing a beneficial interest in all or a portion of the securitized assets held by that securitization to another revolving pool securitization, which in turn issues ABS interests for which the collateral certificates are all or a portion of the securitized assets, a sponsor may satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section by retaining the seller's interest for the assets represented by the collateral certificates through either of the revolving pool securitizations, so long as both revolving pool securitizations are retained at the direction of the same sponsor or its wholly-owned affiliates.
(3) If the sponsor retains the seller's interest associated with the collateral certificates at the level of the revolving pool securitization that issues those collateral certificates, the proportion of the seller's interest required by paragraph (b) of this section retained at that level must equal the proportion that the principal balance of the securitized assets represented by the collateral certificates bears to the
principal balance of the securitized assets in the revolving pool securitization that issues the ABS interests, as of each measurement date required by paragraph (c) of this section.
(f)
Offset for pool-level excess funding account.
The 5 percent seller's interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced on a dollar-for-dollar basis by the balance, as of such date, of an excess funding account in the form of a segregated account that:
(1) Is funded in the event of a failure to meet the minimum seller's interest requirements or other requirement to maintain a minimum balance of securitized assets under the securitization transaction documents by distributions otherwise payable to the holder of the seller's interest;
(2) Is invested only in the types of assets in which funds held in a horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 267.4 are permitted to be invested; and
(3) In the event of an early amortization, makes payments of amounts held in the account to holders of investor ABS interests in the same manner as payments to holders of investor ABS interests of amounts received on securitized assets.
(g)
Combined seller's interests and horizontal interest retention.
The 5 percent seller's interest required on each measurement date by paragraph (c) of this section may be reduced to a percentage lower than 5 percent to the extent that, for all series of investor ABS interests issued after the applicable effective date of this § 267.5, the sponsor, or notwithstanding § 267.12(a) a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, retains, at a minimum, a corresponding percentage of the fair value of ABS interests issued in each series, in the form of one or more of the horizontal residual interests meeting the requirements of paragraphs (h) or (i).
(h)
Residual ABS interests in excess interest and fees.
The sponsor may take the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for a residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, whether certificated or uncertificated, in a single or multiple classes, subclasses, or tranches, that meets, individually or in the aggregate, the requirements of this paragraph (h);
(1) Each series of the revolving pool securitization distinguishes between the series' share of the interest and fee cash flows and the series' share of the principal repayment cash flows from the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization, which may according to the terms of the securitization transaction documents, include not only the series' ratable share of such cash flows but also excess cash flows available from other series;
(2) The residual ABS interest's claim to any part of the series' share of the interest and fee cash flows for any interest payment period is subordinated to all accrued and payable interest due on the payment date to more senior ABS interests in the series for that period, and further reduced by the series' share of losses, including defaults on principal of the securitized assets collateralizing the revolving pool securitization (whether incurred in that period or carried over from prior periods) to the extent that such payments would have been included in amounts payable to more senior interests in the series;
(3) The revolving pool securitization continues to revolve, with one or more series, classes, subclasses, or tranches of asset-backed securities that are collateralized by a common pool of assets that change in composition over time; and
(4) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the sponsor determines the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, and the fair value of the series of outstanding investor ABS interests to which it is subordinated and supports using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP, as of:
(i) The closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS interests; and
(ii) The seller's interest measurement dates described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, except that for these periodic determinations the sponsor must update the fair value of the residual ABS interest in excess interest
and fees for the numerator of the percentage ratio, but may at the sponsor's option continue to use the fair values determined in (h)(4)(i) for the outstanding investor ABS interests in the denominator.
(i)
Offsetting eligible horizontal residual interest.
The sponsor may take the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section for ABS interests that would meet the definition of eligible horizontal residual interests in § 267.2 but for the sponsor's simultaneous holding of subordinated seller's interests, residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, or a combination of the two, if:
(1) The sponsor complies with all requirements of paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section for its holdings of subordinated seller's interest, and paragraph (h) for its holdings of residual ABS interests in excess interests and fees, as applicable;
(2) For purposes of taking the offset described in paragraph (g) of this section, the sponsor determines the fair value of the eligible horizontal residual interest as a percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests in the series supported by the eligible horizontal residual interest, determined using the fair value measurement framework under GAAP:
(i) As of the closing of the securitization transaction issuing the supported ABS interests; and
(ii) Without including in the numerator of the percentage ratio any fair value based on:
(A) The subordinated seller's interest or residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees;
(B) the interest payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest, if the sponsor is including the value of residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees pursuant to paragraph (h) of this section in taking the offset in paragraph (g) of this section; and,
(C) the principal payable to the sponsor on the eligible horizontal residual interest, if the sponsor is including the value of the seller's interest pursuant to paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section and distributions on that seller's interest are available to reduce charge-offs that would otherwise be allocated to reduce principal payable to the offset eligible horizontal residual interest.
(j)
Specified dates.
A sponsor using data about the revolving pool securitization's collateral, or ABS interests previously issued, to determine the closing-date percentage of a seller's interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this § 267.5 may use such data prepared as of specified dates if:
(1) The sponsor describes the specified dates in the disclosures required by paragraph (k) of this section; and
(2) The dates are no more than 60 days prior to the date of first use with investors of disclosures required for the interest by paragraph (k) of this section, or for revolving pool securitizations that make distributions to investors on a quarterly or less frequent basis, no more than 135 days prior to the date of first use with investors of such disclosures.
(k)
Disclosure and record maintenance
—(1)
Disclosure.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors, under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” the following disclosure in written form and within the time frames set forth in this paragraph (k):
(i) A reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security, a description of the material terms of the seller's interest, and the percentage of the seller's interest that the sponsor expects to retain at the closing of the securitization transaction, measured in accordance with the requirements of this § 267.5, as a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of all outstanding investor ABS interests issued, or as a percentage of the aggregate unpaid principal balance of outstanding investor ABS interests for one or more series issued, as required by the terms of the securitization transaction;
(ii) A reasonable time after the closing of the securitization transaction, the amount of seller's interest the sponsor retained at closing, if that amount is materially different from the amount disclosed under paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section; and
(iii) A description of the material terms of any horizontal residual interests offsetting the seller's interest in accordance with paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section; and
(iv) Disclosure of the fair value of those horizontal residual interests retained by the sponsor for the series being offered to investors and described in the disclosures, as a percentage of the fair value of the outstanding investor ABS interests issued, described in the same manner and within the same timeframes required for disclosure of the fair values of eligible horizontal residual interests specified in § 267.4(c).
(2)
Adjusted data.
Disclosures required by this paragraph (k) to be made a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of an asset-backed security of the amount of seller's interest, residual ABS interest in excess interest and fees, or eligible horizontal residual interest may include adjustments to the amount of securitized assets for additions or removals the sponsor expects to make before the closing date and adjustments to the amount of outstanding investor ABS interests for expected increases and decreases of those interests under the control of the sponsor.
(3)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in paragraph (k)(1) of this section in its records and must provide the disclosure upon request to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, until three years after all ABS interests are no longer outstanding.
(l)
Early amortization of all outstanding series.
A sponsor that organizes a revolving pool securitization that relies on this § 267.5 to satisfy the risk retention requirements of § 267.3, does not violate the requirements of this part if its seller's interest falls below the level required by § 267. 5 after the revolving pool securitization commences early amortization, pursuant to the terms of the securitization transaction documents, of all series of outstanding investor ABS interests, if:
(1) The sponsor was in full compliance with the requirements of this section on all measurement dates specified in paragraph (c) of this section prior to the commencement of early amortization;
(2) The terms of the seller's interest continue to make it
pari passu
with or subordinate in identical or varying amounts to each series of outstanding investor ABS interests issued with respect to the allocation of all distributions and losses with respect to the securitized assets;
(3) The terms of any horizontal interest relied upon by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (g) to offset the minimum seller's interest amount continue to require the interests to absorb losses in accordance with the terms of paragraph (h) or (i) of this section, as applicable; and
(4) The revolving pool securitization issues no additional ABS interests after early amortization is initiated to any person not a wholly-owned affiliate of the sponsor, either at the time of issuance or during the amortization period.
§ 267.6
Eligible ABCP conduits.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following additional definitions apply:
100 percent liquidity coverage
means an amount equal to the outstanding balance of all ABCP issued by the conduit plus any accrued and unpaid interest without regard to the performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit and without regard to any credit enhancement.
ABCP
means asset-backed commercial paper that has a maturity at the time of issuance not exceeding 397 days, exclusive of days of grace, or any renewal thereof the maturity of which is likewise limited.
ABCP conduit
means an issuing entity with respect to ABCP.
Eligible ABCP conduit
means an ABCP conduit,
provided that:
(1) The ABCP conduit is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the sponsor of the ABCP conduit and from any intermediate SPV;
(2) The ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit are:
(i) ABS interests collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets;
(ii) Special units of beneficial interest (or similar ABS interests) in a trust or special purpose vehicle that retains legal title to leased property underlying leases originated by an originator-seller that were transferred to an intermediate SPV in connection with a securitization collateralized solely by such leases and by servicing assets;
(iii) ABS interests in a revolving pool securitization collateralized solely by assets originated by an originator-seller and by servicing assets; or
(iv) ABS interests described in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition that are collateralized, in whole or in part, by assets acquired by an originator-seller in a business combination that qualifies for business combination accounting under GAAP, and, if collateralized in part, the remainder of such assets are assets described in paragraph (2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this definition; and
(v) Acquired by the ABCP conduit in an initial issuance by or on behalf of an intermediate SPV:
(A) Directly from the intermediate SPV,
(B) From an underwriter of the ABS interests issued by the intermediate SPV, or
(C) From another person who acquired the ABS interests directly from the intermediate SPV;
(3) The ABCP conduit is collateralized solely by ABS interests acquired from intermediate SPVs as described in paragraph (2) of this definition and servicing assets; and
(4) A regulated liquidity provider has entered into a legally binding commitment to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage (in the form of a lending facility, an asset purchase agreement, a repurchase agreement, or other similar arrangement) to all the ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit by lending to, purchasing ABCP issued by, or purchasing assets from, the ABCP conduit in the event that funds are required to repay maturing ABCP issued by the ABCP conduit. With respect to the 100 percent liquidity coverage, in the event that the ABCP conduit is unable for any reason to repay maturing ABCP issued by the issuing entity, the liquidity provider shall be obligated to pay an amount equal to any shortfall, and the total amount that may be due pursuant to the 100 percent liquidity coverage shall be equal to 100 percent of the amount of the ABCP outstanding at any time plus accrued and unpaid interest (amounts due pursuant to the required liquidity coverage may not be subject to credit performance of the ABS interests held by the ABCP conduit or reduced by the amount of credit support provided to the ABCP conduit and liquidity support that only funds performing loans or receivables or performing ABS interests does not meet the requirements of this section).
Intermediate SPV
means a special purpose vehicle that:
(1) (i) Is a direct or indirect wholly-owned affiliate of the originator-seller; or
(ii) Has nominal equity owned by a trust or corporate service provider that specializes in providing independent ownership of special purpose vehicles, and such trust or corporate service provider is not affiliated with any other transaction parties;
(2) Is bankruptcy remote or otherwise isolated for insolvency purposes from the eligible ABCP conduit and from each originator-seller and each majority-owned affiliate in each case that, directly or indirectly, sells or transfers assets to such intermediate SPV;
(3) Acquires assets from the originator-seller that are originated by the originator-seller or acquired by the originator-seller in the acquisition of a business that qualifies for business combination accounting under GAAP or acquires ABS interests issued by another intermediate SPV of the originator-seller that are collateralized solely by such assets; and
(4) Issues ABS interests collateralized solely by such assets, as applicable.
Originator-seller
means an entity that originates assets and sells or transfers those assets, directly or through a majority-owned affiliate, to an intermediate SPV, and includes (except for the purposes of identifying the sponsorship and affiliation of an intermediate SPV pursuant to this § 267.6) any affiliate of the originator-seller that, directly or indirectly, majority controls, is majority controlled by or is under
common majority control with, the originator-seller. For purposes of this definition, majority control means ownership of more than 50 percent of the equity of an entity, or ownership of any other controlling financial interest in the entity, as determined under GAAP.
Regulated liquidity provider
means:
(1) A depository institution (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813));
(2) A bank holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1841), or a subsidiary thereof;
(3) A savings and loan holding company (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 1467a), provided all or substantially all of the holding company's activities are permissible for a financial holding company under 12 U.S.C. 1843(k), or a subsidiary thereof; or
(4) A foreign bank whose home country supervisor (as defined in § 211.21 of the Federal Reserve Board's Regulation K (12 CFR 211.21)) has adopted capital standards consistent with the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, as amended, and that is subject to such standards, or a subsidiary thereof.
(b)
In general.
An ABCP conduit sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirement of § 267.3 with respect to the issuance of ABCP by an eligible ABCP conduit in a securitization transaction if, for each ABS interest the ABCP conduit acquires from an intermediate SPV:
(1) An originator-seller of the intermediate SPV retains an economic interest in the credit risk of the assets collateralizing the ABS interest acquired by the eligible ABCP conduit in the amount and manner required under § 267.4 or § 267.5; and
(2) The ABCP conduit sponsor:
(i) Approves each originator-seller permitted to sell or transfer assets, directly or indirectly, to an intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit acquires ABS interests;
(ii) Approves each intermediate SPV from which an eligible ABCP conduit is permitted to acquire ABS interests;
(iii) Establishes criteria governing the ABS interests, and the securitized assets underlying the ABS interests, acquired by the ABCP conduit;
(iv) Administers the ABCP conduit by monitoring the ABS interests acquired by the ABCP conduit and the assets supporting those ABS interests, arranging for debt placement, compiling monthly reports, and ensuring compliance with the ABCP conduit documents and with the ABCP conduit's credit and investment policy; and
(v) Maintains and adheres to policies and procedures for ensuring that the requirements in this paragraph (b) of this section have been met.
(c)
Originator-seller compliance with risk retention.
The use of the risk retention option provided in this section by an ABCP conduit sponsor does not relieve the originator-seller that sponsors ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit from such originator-seller's obligation to comply with its own risk retention obligations under this part.
(d)
Disclosures
—(1)
Periodic disclosures to investors.
An ABCP conduit sponsor relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to each purchaser of ABCP, before or contemporaneously with the first sale of ABCP to such purchaser and at least monthly thereafter, to each holder of commercial paper issued by the ABCP conduit, in writing, each of the following items of information, which shall be as of a date not more than 60 days prior to date of first use with investors:
(i) The name and form of organization of the regulated liquidity provider that provides liquidity coverage to the eligible ABCP conduit, including a description of the material terms of such liquidity coverage, and notice of any failure to fund.
(ii) With respect to each ABS interest held by the ABCP conduit:
(A) The asset class or brief description of the underlying securitized assets;
(B) The standard industrial category code (SIC Code) for the originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction; and
(C) A description of the percentage amount of risk retention pursuant to the rule by the originator-seller, and whether it is in the form of an eligible horizontal residual interest, vertical
interest, or revolving pool securitization seller's interest, as applicable.
(2)
Disclosures to regulators regarding originator-sellers.
An ABCP conduit sponsor relying upon this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing, all of the information required to be provided to investors in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the name and form of organization of each originator-seller that will retain (or has retained) pursuant to this section an interest in the securitization transaction.
(e)
Sale or transfer of ABS interests between eligible ABCP conduits.
At any time, an eligible ABCP conduit that acquired an ABS interest in accordance with the requirements set forth in this section may transfer, and another eligible ABCP conduit may acquire, such ABS interest, if the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The sponsors of both eligible ABCP conduits are in compliance with this section; and
(2) The same regulated liquidity provider has entered into one or more legally binding commitments to provide 100 percent liquidity coverage to all the ABCP issued by both eligible ABCP conduits.
(f)
Duty to comply.
(1) The ABCP conduit sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section.
(2) An ABCP conduit sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor compliance by each originator-seller which is satisfying a risk retention obligation in respect of ABS interests acquired by an eligible ABCP conduit with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the ABCP conduit sponsor determines that an originator-seller no longer complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, shall:
(A) Promptly notify the holders of the ABCP, and upon request, the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in writing of:
(
1
) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that fails to retain risk in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit;
(
2
) The name and form of organization of any originator-seller that hedges, directly or indirectly through an intermediate SPV, its risk retention in violation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the amount of ABS interests issued by an intermediate SPV of such originator-seller and held by the ABCP conduit; and
(
3
) Any remedial actions taken by the ABCP conduit sponsor or other party with respect to such ABS interests; and
(B) Take other appropriate steps pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (b)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section which may include, as appropriate, curing any breach of the requirements in this section, or removing from the eligible ABCP conduit any ABS interest that does not comply with the requirements in this section.
§ 267.7
Commercial mortgage-backed securities.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
Special servicer
means, with respect to any securitization of commercial real estate loans, any servicer that, upon the occurrence of one or more specified conditions in the servicing agreement, has the right to service one or more assets in the transaction.
(b)
Third-party purchaser.
A sponsor may satisfy some or all of its risk retention requirements under § 267.3 with respect to a securitization transaction if a third party (or any majority-owned affiliate thereof) purchases and holds for its own account an eligible horizontal residual interest in the issuing entity in the same form, amount, and manner as would be held by the sponsor under § 267.4 and all of the following conditions are met:
(1)
Number of third-party purchasers.
At any time, there are no more than two third-party purchasers of an eligible horizontal residual interest. If there are two third-party purchasers,
each third-party purchaser's interest must be
pari passu
with the other third-party purchaser's interest.
(2)
Composition of collateral.
The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by commercial real estate loans and servicing assets.
(3)
Source of funds.
(i) Each third-party purchaser pays for the eligible horizontal residual interest in cash at the closing of the securitization transaction.
(ii) No third-party purchaser obtains financing, directly or indirectly, for the purchase of such interest from any other person that is a party to, or an affiliate of a party to, the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer other than a special servicer affiliated with the third-party purchaser), other than a person that is a party to the transaction solely by reason of being an investor.
(4)
Third-party review.
Each third-party purchaser conducts an independent review of the credit risk of each securitized asset prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction that includes, at a minimum, a review of the underwriting standards, collateral, and expected cash flows of each commercial real estate loan that is collateral for the asset-backed securities.
(5)
Affiliation and control rights.
(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, no third-party purchaser is affiliated with any party to the securitization transaction (including, but not limited to, the sponsor, depositor, or servicer) other than investors in the securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, a third-party purchaser may be affiliated with:
(A) The special servicer for the securitization transaction; or
(B) One or more originators of the securitized assets, as long as the assets originated by the affiliated originator or originators collectively comprise less than 10 percent of the unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets included in the securitization transaction at the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(6)
Operating Advisor.
The underlying securitization transaction documents shall provide for the following:
(i) The appointment of an operating advisor (the Operating Advisor) that:
(A) Is not affiliated with other parties to the securitization transaction;
(B) Does not directly or indirectly have any financial interest in the securitization transaction other than in fees from its role as Operating Advisor; and
(C) Is required to act in the best interest of, and for the benefit of, investors as a collective whole;
(ii) Standards with respect to the Operating Advisor's experience, expertise and financial strength to fulfill its duties and responsibilities under the applicable transaction documents over the life of the securitization transaction;
(iii) The terms of the Operating Advisor's compensation with respect to the securitization transaction;
(iv) When the eligible horizontal residual interest has been reduced by principal payments, realized losses, and appraisal reduction amounts (which reduction amounts are determined in accordance with the applicable transaction documents) to a principal balance of 25 percent or less of its initial principal balance, the special servicer for the securitized assets must consult with the Operating Advisor in connection with, and prior to, any material decision in connection with its servicing of the securitized assets, including, without limitation:
(A) Any material modification of, or waiver with respect to, any provision of a loan agreement (including a mortgage, deed of trust, or other security agreement);
(B) Foreclosure upon or comparable conversion of the ownership of a property; or
(C) Any acquisition of a property.
(v) The Operating Advisor shall have adequate and timely access to information and reports necessary to fulfill its duties under the transaction documents, including all reports made available to holders of ABS interests and third-party purchasers, and shall be responsible for:
(A) Reviewing the actions of the special servicer;
(B) Reviewing all reports provided by the special servicer to the issuing entity or any holder of ABS interests;
(C) Reviewing for accuracy and consistency with the transaction documents calculations made by the special servicer; and
(D) Issuing a report to investors (including any third-party purchasers) and the issuing entity on a periodic basis concerning:
(
1
) Whether the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that the special servicer is operating in compliance with any standard required of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(
2
) Which, if any, standards the Operating Advisor believes, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, the special servicer has failed to comply.
(vi)(A) The Operating Advisor shall have the authority to recommend that the special servicer be replaced by a successor special servicer if the Operating Advisor determines, in its sole discretion exercised in good faith, that:
(
1
) The special servicer has failed to comply with a standard required of the special servicer in the applicable transaction documents; and
(
2
) Such replacement would be in the best interest of the investors as a collective whole; and
(B) If a recommendation described in paragraph (b)(6)(vi)(A) of this section is made, the special servicer shall be replaced upon the affirmative vote of a majority of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests voting on the matter, with a minimum of a quorum of ABS interests voting on the matter. For purposes of such vote, the applicable transaction documents shall specify the quorum and may not specify a quorum of more than the holders of 20 percent of the outstanding principal balance of all ABS interests in the issuing entity, with such quorum including at least three ABS interest holders that are not affiliated with each other.
(7)
Disclosures.
The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(i) The name and form of organization of each initial third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction;
(ii) A description of each initial third-party purchaser's experience in investing in commercial mortgage-backed securities;
(iii) Any other information regarding each initial third-party purchaser or each initial third-party purchaser's retention of the eligible horizontal residual interest that is material to investors in light of the circumstances of the particular securitization transaction;
(iv) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest that will be retained (or was retained) by each initial third-party purchaser, as well as the amount of the purchase price paid by each initial third-party purchaser for such interest;
(v) The fair value (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) of the eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction that the sponsor would have retained pursuant to § 267.4 if the sponsor had relied on retaining an eligible horizontal residual interest in that section to meet the requirements of § 267.3 with respect to the transaction;
(vi) A description of the material terms of the eligible horizontal residual interest retained by each initial third-party purchaser, including the same information as is required to be disclosed by sponsors retaining horizontal interests pursuant to § 267.4;
(vii) The material terms of the applicable transaction documents with respect to the Operating Advisor, including without limitation:
(A) The name and form of organization of the Operating Advisor;
(B) A description of any material conflict of interest or material potential conflict of interest between the Operating Advisor and any other party to the transaction;
(C) The standards required by paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section and a description of how the Operating Advisor satisfies each of the standards; and
(D) The terms of the Operating Advisor's compensation under paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section; and
(viii) The representations and warranties concerning the securitized assets, a schedule of any securitized assets that are determined not to comply with such representations and warranties, and what factors were used to make the determination that such securitized assets should be included in the pool notwithstanding that the securitized assets did not comply with such representations and warranties, such as compensating factors or a determination that the exceptions were not material.
(8)
Hedging, transfer and pledging
—(i)
General rule.
Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, each third-party purchaser and its affiliates must comply with the hedging and other restrictions in § 267.12 as if it were the retaining sponsor with respect to the securitization transaction and had acquired the eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to § 267.4; provided that, the hedging and other restrictions in § 267.12 shall not apply on or after the date that each CRE loan (as defined in § 267.14) that serves as collateral for outstanding ABS interests has been defeased. For purposes of this section, a loan is deemed to be defeased if:
(A) cash or cash equivalents of the types permitted for an eligible horizontal cash reserve account pursuant to § 267.4 whose maturity corresponds to the remaining debt service obligations, have been pledged to the issuing entity as collateral for the loan and are in such amounts and payable at such times as necessary to timely generate cash sufficient to make all remaining debt service payments due on such loan; and
(B) the issuing entity has an obligation to release its lien on the loan.
(ii)
Exceptions
—(A)
Transfer by initial third-party purchaser or sponsor.
An initial third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, or a sponsor that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest at the closing of a securitization transaction in accordance with this section, may, on or after the date that is five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction, transfer that interest to a subsequent third-party purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The initial third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the subsequent third-party purchaser.
(B)
Transfer by subsequent third-party purchaser.
At any time, a subsequent third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest pursuant to this section may transfer its interest to a different third-party purchaser that complies with paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. The transferring third-party purchaser shall provide the sponsor with complete identifying information for the acquiring third-party purchaser.
(C)
Requirements applicable to subsequent third-party purchasers.
A subsequent third-party purchaser is subject to all of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section applicable to third-party purchasers, provided that obligations under paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section that apply to initial third-party purchasers at or before the time of closing of the securitization transaction shall apply to successor third-party purchasers at or before the time of the transfer of the eligible horizontal residual interest to the successor third-party purchaser.
(c)
Duty to comply.
(1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section by itself and for
compliance by each initial or subsequent third-party purchaser that acquired an eligible horizontal residual interest in the securitization transaction.
(2) A sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures to monitor each third-party purchaser's compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), and (b)(8) of this section; and
(ii) In the event that the sponsor determines that a third-party purchaser no longer complies with one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(3) through (5), or (b)(8) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such third-party purchaser.
§ 267.8
Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ABS.
(a)
In general.
A sponsor satisfies its risk retention requirement under this part if the sponsor fully guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on all ABS interests issued by the issuing entity in the securitization transaction and is:
(1) The Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation operating under the conservatorship or receivership of the Federal Housing Finance Agency pursuant to section 1367 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617) with capital support from the United States; or
(2) Any limited-life regulated entity succeeding to the charter of either the Federal National Mortgage Association or the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pursuant to section 1367(i) of the Federal Housing Enterprises Financial Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 4617(i)), provided that the entity is operating with capital support from the United States.
(b)
Certain provisions not applicable.
The provisions of § 267.12(b), (c), and (d) shall not apply to a sponsor described in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, its affiliates, or the issuing entity with respect to a securitization transaction for which the sponsor has retained credit risk in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(c)
Disclosure.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide to investors, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention” and, upon request, to the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Commission, a description of the manner in which it has met the credit risk retention requirements of this part.
§ 267.9
Open market CLOs.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
CLO
means a special purpose entity that:
(i) Issues debt and equity interests, and
(ii) Whose assets consist primarily of loans that are securitized assets and servicing assets.
CLO-eligible loan tranche
means a term loan of a syndicated facility that meets the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of this section.
CLO manager
means an entity that manages a CLO, which entity is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (15 U.S.C. 80b-1
et seq.
), or is an affiliate of such a registered investment adviser and itself is managed by such registered investment adviser.
Commercial borrower
means an obligor under a corporate credit obligation (including a loan).
Initial loan syndication transaction
means a transaction in which a loan is syndicated to a group of lenders.
Lead arranger
means, with respect to a CLO-eligible loan tranche, an institution that:
(i) Is active in the origination, structuring and syndication of commercial loan transactions (as defined in § 267.14) and has played a primary role in the structuring, underwriting and distribution on the primary market of the CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(ii) Has taken an allocation of the funded portion of the syndicated credit facility under the terms of the transaction that includes the CLO-eligible loan tranche of at least 20 percent of the aggregate principal balance at origination, and no other member (or
members affiliated with each other) of the syndication group that funded at origination has taken a greater allocation; and
(iii) Is identified in the applicable agreement governing the CLO-eligible loan tranche; represents therein to the holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche and to any holders of participation interests in such CLO-eligible loan tranche that such lead arranger satisfies the requirements of paragraph (i) of this definition and, at the time of initial funding of the CLO-eligible tranche, will satisfy the requirements of paragraph (ii) of this definition; further represents therein (solely for the purpose of assisting such holders to determine the eligibility of such CLO-eligible loan tranche to be held by an open market CLO) that in the reasonable judgment of such lead arranger, the terms of such CLO-eligible loan tranche are consistent with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section; and covenants therein to such holders that such lead arranger will fulfill the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
Open market CLO
means a CLO:
(i) Whose assets consist of senior, secured syndicated loans acquired by such CLO directly from the sellers thereof in open market transactions and of servicing assets,
(ii) That is managed by a CLO manager, and
(iii) That holds less than 50 percent of its assets, by aggregate outstanding principal amount, in loans syndicated by lead arrangers that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO manager or originated by originators that are affiliates of the CLO or the CLO manager.
Open market transaction
means:
(i) Either an initial loan syndication transaction or a secondary market transaction in which a seller offers senior, secured syndicated loans to prospective purchasers in the loan market on market terms on an arm's length basis, which prospective purchasers include, but are not limited to, entities that are not affiliated with the seller, or
(ii) A reverse inquiry from a prospective purchaser of a senior, secured syndicated loan through a dealer in the loan market to purchase a senior, secured syndicated loan to be sourced by the dealer in the loan market.
Secondary market transaction
means a purchase of a senior, secured syndicated loan not in connection with an initial loan syndication transaction but in the secondary market.
Senior, secured syndicated loan
means a loan made to a commercial borrower that:
(i) Is not subordinate in right of payment to any other obligation for borrowed money of the commercial borrower,
(ii) Is secured by a valid first priority security interest or lien in or on specified collateral securing the commercial borrower's obligations under the loan, and
(iii) The value of the collateral subject to such first priority security interest or lien, together with other attributes of the obligor (including, without limitation, its general financial condition, ability to generate cash flow available for debt service and other demands for that cash flow), is adequate (in the commercially reasonable judgment of the CLO manager exercised at the time of investment) to repay the loan and to repay all other indebtedness of equal seniority secured by such first priority security interest or lien in or on the same collateral, and the CLO manager certifies, on or prior to each date that it acquires a loan constituting part of a new CLO-eligible tranche, that it has policies and procedures to evaluate the likelihood of repayment of loans acquired by the CLO and it has followed such policies and procedures in evaluating each CLO-eligible loan tranche.
(b)
In general.
A sponsor satisfies the risk retention requirements of § 267.3 with respect to an open market CLO transaction if:
(1) The open market CLO does not acquire or hold any assets other than CLO-eligible loan tranches that meet the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and servicing assets;
(2) The governing documents of such open market CLO require that, at all times, the assets of the open market CLO consist of senior, secured syndicated loans that are CLO-eligible loan tranches and servicing assets;
(3) The open market CLO does not invest in ABS interests or in credit derivatives other than hedging transactions that are servicing assets to hedge risks of the open market CLO;
(4) All purchases of CLO-eligible loan tranches and other assets by the open market CLO issuing entity or through a warehouse facility used to accumulate the loans prior to the issuance of the CLO's ABS interests are made in open market transactions on an arms-length basis;
(5) The CLO manager of the open market CLO is not entitled to receive any management fee or gain on sale at the time the open market CLO issues its ABS interests.
(c)
CLO-eligible loan tranche.
To qualify as a CLO-eligible loan tranche, a term loan of a syndicated credit facility to a commercial borrower must have the following features:
(1) A minimum of 5 percent of the face amount of the CLO-eligible loan tranche is retained by the lead arranger thereof until the earliest of the repayment, maturity, involuntary and unscheduled acceleration, payment default, or bankruptcy default of such CLO-eligible loan tranche, provided that such lead arranger complies with limitations on hedging, transferring and pledging in § 267.12 with respect to the interest retained by the lead arranger.
(2) Lender voting rights within the credit agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranche are defined so as to give holders of the CLO-eligible loan tranche consent rights with respect to, at minimum, any material waivers and amendments of such applicable documents, including but not limited to, adverse changes to the calculation or payments of amounts due to the holders of the CLO-eligible tranche, alterations to
pro rata
provisions, changes to voting provisions, and waivers of conditions precedent; and
(3) The pro rata provisions, voting provisions, and similar provisions applicable to the security associated with such CLO-eligible loan tranches under the CLO credit agreement and any intercreditor or other applicable agreements governing such CLO-eligible loan tranches are not materially less advantageous to the holder(s) of such CLO-eligible tranche than the terms of other tranches of comparable seniority in the broader syndicated credit facility.
(d)
Disclosures.
A sponsor relying on this section shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities in the securitization transaction and at least annually with respect to the information required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1)
Open market CLOs.
A complete list of every asset held by an open market CLO (or before the CLO's closing, in a warehouse facility in anticipation of transfer into the CLO at closing), including the following information:
(i) The full legal name, Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) category code, and legal entity identifier (LEI) issued by a utility endorsed or otherwise governed by the Global LEI Regulatory Oversight Committee or the Global LEI Foundation (if an LEI has been obtained by the obligor) of the obligor of the loan or asset;
(ii) The full name of the specific loan tranche held by the CLO;
(iii) The face amount of the entire loan tranche held by the CLO, and the face amount of the portion thereof held by the CLO;
(iv) The price at which the loan tranche was acquired by the CLO; and
(v) For each loan tranche, the full legal name of the lead arranger subject to the sales and hedging restrictions of § 267.12; and
(2)
CLO manager.
The full legal name and form of organization of the CLO manager.
§ 267.10
Qualified tender option bonds.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Municipal security
or
municipal securities
shall have the same meaning as the term “municipal securities” in Section 3(a)(29) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(29)) and any rules promulgated pursuant to such section.
Qualified tender option bond entity
means an issuing entity with respect to tender option bonds for which each of the following applies:
(i) Such entity is collateralized solely by servicing assets and by municipal securities that have the same municipal issuer and the same underlying obligor or source of payment (determined without regard to any third-party credit enhancement), and such municipal securities are not subject to substitution.
(ii) Such entity issues no securities other than:
(A) A single class of tender option bonds with a preferred variable return payable out of capital that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and
(B) One or more residual equity interests that, in the aggregate, are entitled to all remaining income of the issuing entity.
(C) The types of securities referred to in paragraphs (ii)(A) and (B) of this definition must constitute asset-backed securities.
(iii) The municipal securities held as assets by such entity are issued in compliance with Section 103 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “IRS Code”, 26 U.S.C. 103), such that the interest payments made on those securities are excludable from the gross income of the owners under Section 103 of the IRS Code.
(iv) The terms of all of the securities issued by the entity are structured so that all holders of such securities who are eligible to exclude interest received on such securities will be able to exclude that interest from gross income pursuant to Section 103 of the IRS Code or as “exempt-interest dividends” pursuant to Section 852(b)(5) of the IRS Code (26 U.S.C. 852(b)(5)) in the case of regulated investment companies under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
(v) Such entity has a legally binding commitment from a regulated liquidity provider as defined in § 267.6(a), to provide a 100 percent guarantee or liquidity coverage with respect to all of the issuing entity's outstanding tender option bonds.
(vi) Such entity qualifies for monthly closing elections pursuant to IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time.
Tender option bond
means a security which has features which entitle the holders to tender such bonds to the issuing entity for purchase at any time upon no more than 397 days' notice, for a purchase price equal to the approximate amortized cost of the security, plus accrued interest, if any, at the time of tender.
(b)
Risk retention options.
Notwithstanding anything in this section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds may retain an eligible vertical interest or eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § 267.4. In order to satisfy its risk retention requirements under this section, the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain:
(1) An eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest, or any combination thereof, in accordance with the requirements of § 267.4; or
(2) An interest that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (c) of this section; or
(3) A municipal security that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (d) of this section; or
(4) Any combination of interests and securities described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section such that the sum of the percentages held in each form equals at least five.
(c)
Tender option termination event.
The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may retain an interest that upon issuance meets the requirements of an eligible horizontal residual interest but that upon the occurrence of a “tender option termination event” as defined in Section 4.01(5) of IRS Revenue Procedure 2003-84, as amended or supplemented from time to time will meet the requirements of an eligible vertical interest.
(d)
Retention of a municipal security outside of the qualified tender option
bond entity.
The sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity may satisfy its risk retention requirements under this Section by holding municipal securities from the same issuance of municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity, the face value of which retained municipal securities is equal to 5 percent of the face value of the municipal securities deposited in the qualified tender option bond entity.
(e)
Disclosures.
The sponsor shall provide, or cause to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, the following disclosure in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”:
(1) The name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity;
(2) A description of the form and subordination features of such retained interest in accordance with the disclosure obligations in § 267.4(c);
(3) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as an eligible horizontal residual interest (including any interest held in compliance with § 267.10(c)), the fair value of that interest (expressed as a percentage of the fair value of all of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction and as a dollar amount);
(4) To the extent any portion of the retained interest is claimed by the sponsor as an eligible vertical interest (including any interest held in compliance with § 267.10(c)), the percentage of ABS interests issued represented by the eligible vertical interest; and
(5) To the extent any portion of the retained interest claimed by the sponsor is a municipal security held outside of the qualified tender option bond entity, the name and form of organization of the qualified tender option bond entity, the identity of the issuer of the municipal securities, the face value of the municipal securities deposited into the qualified tender option bond entity, and the face value of the municipal securities retained by the sponsor or its majority-owned affiliates and subject to the transfer and hedging prohibition.
(f)
Prohibitions on Hedging and Transfer.
The prohibitions on transfer and hedging set forth in § 267.12, apply to any interests or municipal securities retained by the sponsor with respect to an issuance of tender option bonds by a qualified tender option bond entity pursuant to of this section.

# Subpart C—Transfer of Risk Retention
§ 267.11
Allocation of risk retention to an originator.
(a)
In general.
A sponsor choosing to retain an eligible vertical interest or an eligible horizontal residual interest (including an eligible horizontal cash reserve account), or combination thereof under § 267.4, with respect to a securitization transaction may offset the amount of its risk retention requirements under § 267.4 by the amount of the eligible interests, respectively, acquired by an originator of one or more of the securitized assets if:
(1) At the closing of the securitization transaction:
(i) The originator acquires the eligible interest from the sponsor and retains such interest in the same manner and proportion (as between horizontal and vertical interests) as the sponsor under § 267.4, as such interest was held prior to the acquisition by the originator;
(ii) The ratio of the percentage of eligible interests acquired and retained by the originator to the percentage of eligible interests otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § 267.4, does not exceed the ratio of:
(A) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets originated by the originator; to
(B) The unpaid principal balance of all the securitized assets in the securitization transaction;
(iii) The originator acquires and retains at least 20 percent of the aggregate risk retention amount otherwise required to be retained by the sponsor pursuant to § 267.4; and
(iv) The originator purchases the eligible interests from the sponsor at a
price that is equal, on a dollar-for-dollar basis, to the amount by which the sponsor's required risk retention is reduced in accordance with this section, by payment to the sponsor in the form of:
(A) Cash; or
(B) A reduction in the price received by the originator from the sponsor or depositor for the assets sold by the originator to the sponsor or depositor for inclusion in the pool of securitized assets.
(2)
Disclosures.
In addition to the disclosures required pursuant to § 267.4(c), the sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of the asset-backed securities as part of the securitization transaction and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, the name and form of organization of any originator that will acquire and retain (or has acquired and retained) an interest in the transaction pursuant to this section, including a description of the form and amount (expressed as a percentage and dollar amount (or corresponding amount in the foreign currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable)) and nature (
e.g.,
senior or subordinated) of the interest, as well as the method of payment for such interest under paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.
(3)
Hedging, transferring and pledging.
The originator and each of its affiliates complies with the hedging and other restrictions in § 267.12 with respect to the interests retained by the originator pursuant to this section as if it were the retaining sponsor and was required to retain the interest under subpart B of this part.
(b)
Duty to comply.
(1) The retaining sponsor shall be responsible for compliance with this section.
(2) A retaining sponsor relying on this section:
(i) Shall maintain and adhere to policies and procedures that are reasonably designed to monitor the compliance by each originator that is allocated a portion of the sponsor's risk retention obligations with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section; and
(ii) In the event the sponsor determines that any such originator no longer complies with any of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (3) of this section, shall promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction of such noncompliance by such originator.
§ 267.12
Hedging, transfer and financing prohibitions.
(a)
Transfer.
Except as permitted by § 267.7(b)(8), and subject to § 267.5, a retaining sponsor may not sell or otherwise transfer any interest or assets that the sponsor is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part to any person other than an entity that is and remains a majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor and each such majority-owned affiliate shall be subject to the same restrictions.
(b)
Prohibited hedging by sponsor and affiliates.
A retaining sponsor and its affiliates may not purchase or sell a security, or other financial instrument, or enter into an agreement, derivative or other position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that collateralize the asset-backed
securities issued in the securitization transaction.
(c)
Prohibited hedging by issuing entity.
The issuing entity in a securitization transaction may not purchase or sell a security or other financial instrument, or enter into an agreement, derivative or position, with any other person if:
(1) Payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative or position are materially related to the credit risk of one or more particular ABS interests that the retaining sponsor for the transaction (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain with respect to the securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part; and
(2) The security, instrument, agreement, derivative, or position in any way reduces or limits the financial exposure of the retaining sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) to the credit risk of one or more of the particular ABS interests that the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain pursuant to subpart B of this part.
(d)
Permitted hedging activities.
The following activities shall not be considered prohibited hedging activities under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section:
(1) Hedging the interest rate risk (which does not include the specific interest rate risk, known as spread risk, associated with the ABS interest that is otherwise considered part of the credit risk) or foreign exchange risk arising from one or more of the particular ABS interests required to be retained by the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) under subpart B of this part or one or more of the particular securitized assets that underlie the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction; or
(2) Purchasing or selling a security or other financial instrument or entering into an agreement, derivative, or other position with any third party where payments on the security or other financial instrument or under the agreement, derivative, or position are based, directly or indirectly, on an index of instruments that includes asset-backed securities if:
(i) Any class of ABS interests in the issuing entity that were issued in connection with the securitization transaction and that are included in the index represents no more than 10 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included in the index; and
(ii) All classes of ABS interests in all issuing entities that were issued in connection with any securitization transaction in which the sponsor (or any of its majority-owned affiliates) is required to retain an interest pursuant to subpart B of this part and that are included in the index represent, in the aggregate, no more than 20 percent of the dollar-weighted average (or corresponding weighted average in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all instruments included in the index.
(e)
Prohibited non-recourse financing.
Neither a retaining sponsor nor any of its affiliates may pledge as collateral for any obligation (including a loan, repurchase agreement, or other financing transaction) any ABS interest that the sponsor is required to retain with respect to a securitization transaction pursuant to subpart B of this part unless such obligation is with full recourse to the sponsor or affiliate, respectively.
(f)
Duration of the hedging and transfer restrictions
—(1)
General rule.
Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the latest of:
(i) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance (if applicable) of the securitized assets that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal balance of the securitized assets as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(ii) The date on which the total unpaid principal obligations under the ABS interests issued in the
securitization transaction has been reduced to 33 percent of the total unpaid principal obligations of the ABS interests at closing of the securitization transaction; or
(iii) Two years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(2)
Securitizations of residential mortgages.
(i) If all of the assets that collateralize a securitization transaction subject to risk retention under this part are residential mortgages, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire on or after the date that is the later of:
(A) Five years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction; or
(B) The date on which the total unpaid principal balance of the residential mortgages that collateralize the securitization transaction has been reduced to 25 percent of the total unpaid principal balance of such residential mortgages at the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(ii) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, the prohibitions on sale and hedging pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall expire with respect to the sponsor of a securitization transaction described in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section on or after the date that is seven years after the date of the closing of the securitization transaction.
(3)
Conservatorship or receivership of sponsor.
A conservator or receiver of the sponsor (or any other person holding risk retention pursuant to this part) of a securitization transaction is permitted to sell or hedge any economic interest in the securitization transaction if the conservator or receiver has been appointed pursuant to any provision of federal or State law (or regulation promulgated thereunder) that provides for the appointment of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or an agency or instrumentality of the United States or of a State as conservator or receiver, including without limitation any of the following authorities:
(i) 12 U.S.C. 1811;
(ii) 12 U.S.C. 1787;
(iii) 12 U.S.C. 4617; or
(iv) 12 U.S.C. 5382.
(4)
Revolving pool securitizations.
The provisions of paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) are not available to sponsors of revolving pool securitizations with respect to the forms of risk retention specified in § 267.5.

# Subpart D—Exceptions and Exemptions
§ 267.13
Exemption for qualified residential mortgages.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Currently performing
means the borrower in the mortgage transaction is not currently thirty (30) days or more past due, in whole or in part, on the mortgage transaction.
Qualified residential mortgage
means a “qualified mortgage” as defined in section 129C of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C.1639c) and regulations issued thereunder, as amended from time to time.
(b)
Exemption.
A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction, if:
(1) All of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets;
(2) None of the assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities are asset-backed securities;
(3) As of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, each qualified residential mortgage collateralizing the asset-backed securities is currently performing; and
(4)(i) The depositor with respect to the securitization transaction certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the
asset-backed security are qualified residential mortgages or servicing assets and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective; and
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls must be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security in reliance on this section, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to the Commission and its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(c)
Repurchase of loans subsequently determined to be non-qualified after closing.
A sponsor that has relied on the exemption provided in paragraph (b) of this section with respect to a securitization transaction shall not lose such exemption with respect to such transaction if, after closing of the securitization transaction, it is determined that one or more of the residential mortgage loans collateralizing the asset-backed securities does not meet all of the criteria to be a qualified residential mortgage
provided that:
(1) The depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section;
(2) The sponsor repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining aggregate unpaid principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) no later than 90 days after the determination that the loans do not satisfy the requirements to be a qualified residential mortgage; and
(3) The sponsor promptly notifies, or causes to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is (or are) required to be repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, including the amount of such repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such repurchase.
§ 267.14
Definitions applicable to qualifying commercial loans, qualifying commercial real estate loans, and qualifying automobile loans.
The following definitions apply for purposes of §§ 267.15 through 267.18:
Appraisal Standards Board
means the board of the Appraisal Foundation that develops, interprets, and amends the Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP), establishing generally accepted standards for the appraisal profession.
Automobile loan:
(1) Means any loan to an individual to finance the purchase of, and that is secured by a first lien on, a passenger car or other passenger vehicle, such as a minivan, van, sport-utility vehicle, pickup truck, or similar light truck for personal, family, or household use; and
(2) Does not include any:
(i) Loan to finance fleet sales;
(ii) Personal cash loan secured by a previously purchased automobile;
(iii) Loan to finance the purchase of a commercial vehicle or farm equipment that is not used for personal, family, or household purposes;
(iv) Lease financing;
(v) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle with a salvage title; or
(vi) Loan to finance the purchase of a vehicle intended to be used for scrap or parts.
Combined loan-to-value (CLTV) ratio
means, at the time of origination, the sum of the principal balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property, plus the principal balance of any junior-lien mortgage loan that, to the creditor's knowledge, would exist at the closing of the transaction and that is secured by the same property, divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 267.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 267.17(a)(2)(ii).
Commercial loan
means a secured or unsecured loan to a company or an individual for business purposes, other than any:
(1) Loan to purchase or refinance a one-to-four family residential property;
(2) Commercial real estate loan.
Commercial real estate (CRE) loan
means:
(1) A loan secured by a property with five or more single family units, or by nonfarm nonresidential real property, the primary source (50 percent or more) of repayment for which is expected to be:
(i) The proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property; or
(ii) Rental income associated with the property;
(2) Loans secured by improved land if the obligor owns the fee interest in the land and the land is leased to a third party who owns all improvements on the land, and the improvements are nonresidential or residential with five or more single family units; and
(3) Does not include:
(i) A land development and construction loan (including 1- to 4-family residential or commercial construction loans);
(ii) Any other land loan; or
(iii) An unsecured loan to a developer.
Debt service coverage (DSC) ratio
means:
(1) For qualifying leased CRE loans, qualifying multi-family loans, and other CRE loans:
(i) The annual NOI less the annual replacement reserve of the CRE property at the time of origination of the CRE loan(s) divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower's annual payments for principal and interest (calculated at the fully-indexed rate) on any debt obligation.
(2) For commercial loans:
(i) The borrower's EBITDA as of the most recently completed fiscal year divided by
(ii) The sum of the borrower's annual payments for principal and interest on all debt obligations.
Debt to income (DTI) ratio
means the borrower's total debt, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan, divided by the borrower's monthly income.
Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA)
means the annual income of a business before expenses for interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization are deducted, as determined in accordance with GAAP.
Environmental risk assessment
means a process for determining whether a property is contaminated or exposed to any condition or substance that could result in contamination that has an adverse effect on the market value of the property or the realization of the collateral value.
First lien
means a lien or encumbrance on property that has priority over all other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Junior lien
means a lien or encumbrance on property that is lower in priority relative to other liens or encumbrances on the property.
Leverage ratio
means the borrower's total debt divided by the borrower's EBITDA.
Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio
means, at the time of origination, the principal balance of a first-lien mortgage loan on the property divided by:
(1) For acquisition funding, the lesser of the purchase price or the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 267.17(a)(2)(ii); or
(2) For refinancing, the estimated market value of the real property based on an appraisal that meets the requirements set forth in § 267.17(a)(2)(ii).
Model year
means the year determined by the manufacturer and reflected on the vehicle's Motor Vehicle Title as part of the vehicle description.
Net operating income (NOI)
refers to the income a CRE property generates for the owner after all expenses have been deducted for federal income tax purposes, except for depreciation, debt service expenses, and federal and state income taxes, and excluding any unusual and nonrecurring items of income.
Operating affiliate
means an affiliate of a borrower that is a lessor or similar
party with respect to the commercial real estate securing the loan.
Payments-in-kind
means payments of accrued interest that are not paid in cash when due, and instead are paid by increasing the principal balance of the loan or by providing equity in the borrowing company.
Purchase money security interest
means a security interest in property that secures the obligation of the obligor incurred as all or part of the price of the property.
Purchase price
means the amount paid by the borrower for the vehicle net of any incentive payments or manufacturer cash rebates.
Qualified tenant
means:
(1) A tenant with a lease who has satisfied all obligations with respect to the property in a timely manner; or
(2) A tenant who originally had a lease that subsequently expired and currently is leasing the property on a month-to-month basis, has occupied the property for at least three years prior to the date of origination, and has satisfied all obligations with respect to the property in a timely manner.
Qualifying leased CRE loan
means a CRE loan secured by commercial nonfarm real property, other than a multi-family property or a hotel, inn, or similar property:
(1) That is occupied by one or more qualified tenants pursuant to a lease agreement with a term of no less than one (1) month; and
(2) Where no more than 20 percent of the aggregate gross revenue of the property is payable from one or more tenants who:
(i) Are subject to a lease that will terminate within six months following the date of origination; or
(ii) Are not qualified tenants.
Qualifying multi-family loan
means a CRE loan secured by any residential property (excluding a hotel, motel, inn, hospital, nursing home, or other similar facility where dwellings are not leased to residents):
(1) That consists of five or more dwelling units (including apartment buildings, condominiums, cooperatives and other similar structures) primarily for residential use; and
(2) Where at least 75 percent of the NOI is derived from residential rents and tenant amenities (including income from parking garages, health or swim clubs, and dry cleaning), and not from other commercial uses.
Rental income
means:
(1) Income derived from a lease or other occupancy agreement between the borrower or an operating affiliate of the borrower and a party which is not an affiliate of the borrower for the use of real property or improvements serving as collateral for the applicable loan; and
(2) Other income derived from hotel, motel, dormitory, nursing home, assisted living, mini-storage warehouse or similar properties that are used primarily by parties that are not affiliates or employees of the borrower or its affiliates.
Replacement reserve
means the monthly capital replacement or maintenance amount based on the property type, age, construction and condition of the property that is adequate to maintain the physical condition and NOI of the property.
Salvage title
means a form of vehicle title branding, which notes that the vehicle has been severely damaged and/or deemed a total loss and uneconomical to repair by an insurance company that paid a claim on the vehicle.
Total debt,
with respect to a borrower, means:
(1) In the case of an automobile loan, the sum of:
(i) All monthly housing payments (rent- or mortgage-related, including property taxes, insurance and home owners association fees); and
(ii) Any of the following that is dependent upon the borrower's income for payment:
(A) Monthly payments on other debt and lease obligations, such as credit card loans or installment loans, including the monthly amount due on the automobile loan;
(B) Estimated monthly amortizing payments for any term debt, debts with other than monthly payments and debts not in repayment (such as deferred student loans, interest-only loans); and
(C) Any required monthly alimony, child support or court-ordered payments; and
(2) In the case of a commercial loan, the outstanding balance of all long-term debt (obligations that have a remaining maturity of more than one year) and the current portion of all debt that matures in one year or less.
Total liabilities ratio
means the borrower's total liabilities divided by the sum of the borrower's total liabilities and equity, less the borrower's intangible assets, with each component determined in accordance with GAAP.
Trade-in allowance
means the amount a vehicle purchaser is given as a credit at the purchase of a vehicle for the fair exchange of the borrower's existing vehicle to compensate the dealer for some portion of the vehicle purchase price, not to exceed the highest trade-in value of the existing vehicle, as determined by a nationally recognized automobile pricing agency and based on the manufacturer, year, model, features, mileage, and condition of the vehicle, less the payoff balance of any outstanding debt collateralized by the existing vehicle.
Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practice (USPAP)
means generally accepted standards for professional appraisal practice issued by the Appraisal Standards Board of the Appraisal Foundation.
§ 267.15
Qualifying commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans.
(a)
General exception for qualifying assets.
Commercial loans, commercial real estate loans, and automobile loans that are securitized through a securitization transaction shall be subject to a 0 percent risk retention requirement under subpart B, provided that the following conditions are met:
(1) The assets meet the underwriting standards set forth in §§ 267.16 (qualifying commercial loans), 267.17 (qualifying CRE loans), or 267.18 (qualifying automobile loans) of this part, as applicable;
(2) The securitization transaction is collateralized solely by loans of the same asset class and by servicing assets;
(3) The securitization transaction does not permit reinvestment periods; and
(4) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities of the issuing entity, and, upon request, to the Commission, and to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any, in written form under the caption “Credit Risk Retention”, a description of the manner in which the sponsor determined the aggregate risk retention requirement for the securitization transaction after including qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans with 0 percent risk retention.
(b)
Risk retention requirement.
For any securitization transaction described in paragraph (a) of this section, the percentage of risk retention required under § 267.3(a) is reduced by the percentage evidenced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans (as applicable) to the total unpaid principal balance of commercial loans, CRE loans, or automobile loans (as applicable) that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the qualifying asset ratio); provided that:
(1) The qualifying asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction;
(2) If the qualifying asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the qualifying asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent; and
(3) The disclosure required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section also includes descriptions of the qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, and qualifying automobile loans (qualifying assets) and descriptions of the assets that are not qualifying assets, and the material differences between the group of qualifying assets and the group of assets that are not qualifying assets with respect to the
composition of each group's loan balances, loan terms, interest rates, borrower credit information, and characteristics of any loan collateral.
(c)
Exception for securitizations of qualifying assets only.
Notwithstanding other provisions of this section, the risk retention requirements of subpart B of this part shall not apply to securitization transactions where the transaction is collateralized solely by servicing assets and either qualifying commercial loans, qualifying CRE loans, or qualifying automobile loans.
(d)
Record maintenance.
A sponsor must retain the disclosures required in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and the certifications required in §§ 267.16(a)(8), 267.17(a)(10), and 267.18(a)(8), as applicable, in its records until three years after all ABS interests issued in the securitization are no longer outstanding. The sponsor must provide the disclosures and certifications upon request to the Commission and the sponsor's appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
§ 267.16
Underwriting standards for qualifying commercial loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) Prior to origination of the commercial loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the financial condition of the borrower:
(A) As of the end of the borrower's two most recently completed fiscal years; and
(B) During the period, if any, since the end of its most recently completed fiscal year;
(ii) Conducted an analysis of the borrower's ability to service its overall debt obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections;
(iii) Determined that, based on the previous two years' actual performance, the borrower had:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater;
(iv) Determined that, based on the two years of projections, which include the new debt obligation, following the closing date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A total liabilities ratio of 50 percent or less;
(B) A leverage ratio of 3.0 or less; and
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater.
(2) Prior to, upon or promptly following the inception of the loan, the originator:
(i) If the loan is originated on a secured basis, obtains a perfected security interest (by filing, title notation or otherwise) or, in the case of real property, a recorded lien, on all of the property pledged to collateralize the loan; and
(ii) If the loan documents indicate the purpose of the loan is to finance the purchase of tangible or intangible property, or to refinance such a loan, obtains a first lien on the property.
(3) The loan documentation for the commercial loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide to the servicer of the commercial loan the borrower's financial statements and supporting schedules on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than quarterly;
(ii) Prohibit the borrower from retaining or entering into a debt arrangement that permits payments-in-kind;
(iii) Impose limits on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest or lien with respect to any of the borrower's property that serves as collateral for the loan;
(B) The transfer of any of the borrower's assets that serve as collateral for the loan; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of the borrower, or any other party that pledges collateral for the loan;
(iv) Require the borrower and any other party that pledges collateral for the loan to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on the collateral for the commercial loan at least up to the amount of the loan, and that names the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan as an additional insured or loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a lien on any collateral;
(C) Take any action required to perfect or protect the security interest and first lien (as applicable) of the originator or any subsequent holder of
the loan in any collateral for the commercial loan or the priority thereof, and to defend any collateral against claims adverse to the lender's interest;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer of the loan, to inspect any collateral for the commercial loan and the books and records of the borrower; and
(E) Maintain the physical condition of any collateral for the commercial loan.
(4) Loan payments required under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed rate) that fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed five years from the date of origination; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than quarterly over a term that does not exceed five years.
(5) The primary source of repayment for the loan is revenue from the business operations of the borrower.
(6) The loan was funded within the six (6) months prior to the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction.
(7) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current.
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying commercial loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 267.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 267.15 with respect to a qualifying commercial loan and it is subsequently determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the commercial loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 267.17
Underwriting standards for qualifying CRE loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) The CRE loan must be secured by the following:
(i) An enforceable first lien, documented and recorded appropriately pursuant to applicable law, on the commercial real estate and improvements;
(ii)(A) An assignment of:
(
1
) Leases and rents and other occupancy agreements related to the commercial real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an operating affiliate is a lessor or similar party and all payments under such leases and occupancy agreements; and
(
2
) All franchise, license and concession agreements related to the commercial real estate or improvements or the operation thereof for which the borrower or an operating affiliate is a lessor, licensor, concession granter or similar party and all payments under such other agreements, whether the assignments described in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A)(
2
) are absolute or are stated to be made to the extent permitted by the agreements governing the applicable franchise, license or concession agreements;
(B) An assignment of all other payments due to the borrower or due to any operating affiliate in connection with the operation of the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section; and
(C) The right to enforce the agreements described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and the agreements under which payments under paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section are due against, and collect amounts due from, each lessee, occupant or other obligor whose payments were assigned pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section upon a breach by the borrower of any of the terms of, or the occurrence of any other event of default (however denominated) under, the loan documents relating to such CRE loan; and
(iii) A security interest:
(A) In all interests of the borrower and any applicable operating affiliate in all tangible and intangible personal property of any kind, in or used in the operation of or in connection with, pertaining to, arising from, or constituting, any of the collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section; and
(B) In the form of a perfected security interest if the security interest in such property can be perfected by the filing of a financing statement, fixture filing, or similar document pursuant to the law governing the perfection of such security interest;
(2) Prior to origination of the CRE loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented the current financial condition of the borrower and each operating affiliate;
(ii) Obtained a written appraisal of the real property securing the loan that:
(A) Had an effective date not more than six months prior to the origination date of the loan by a competent and appropriately State-certified or State-licensed appraiser;
(B) Conforms to generally accepted appraisal standards as evidenced by the USPAP and the appraisal requirements
1
of the Federal banking agencies; and
1
12 CFR part 34, subpart C (OCC); 12 CFR part 208, subpart E, and 12 CFR part 225, subpart G (Board); and 12 CFR part 323 (FDIC).
(C) Provides an “as is” opinion of the market value of the real property, which includes an income approach;
2
2
See USPAP, Standard 1.
(iii) Qualified the borrower for the CRE loan based on a monthly payment amount derived from level monthly payments consisting of both principal and interest (at the fully-indexed rate) over the term of the loan, not exceeding 25 years, or 30 years for a qualifying multi-family property;
(iv) Conducted an environmental risk assessment to gain environmental information about the property securing the loan and took appropriate steps to mitigate any environmental liability determined to exist based on this assessment;
(v) Conducted an analysis of the borrower's ability to service its overall debt obligations during the next two years, based on reasonable projections (including operating income projections for the property);
(vi)(A) Determined that based on the two years' actual performance immediately preceding the origination of the loan, the borrower would have had:
(
1
) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(
2
) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family property loan; or
(
3
) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan;
(B) If the borrower did not own the property for any part of the last two years prior to origination, the calculation of the DSC ratio, for purposes of paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(A) of this section, shall include the property's operating income for any portion of the two-year period during which the borrower did not own the property;
(vii) Determined that, based on two years of projections, which include the new debt obligation, following the origination date of the loan, the borrower will have:
(A) A DSC ratio of 1.5 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying leased CRE loan, net of any income derived from a tenant(s) who is not a qualified tenant(s);
(B) A DSC ratio of 1.25 or greater, if the loan is a qualifying multi-family property loan; or
(C) A DSC ratio of 1.7 or greater, if the loan is any other type of CRE loan.
(3) The loan documentation for the CRE loan includes covenants that:
(i) Require the borrower to provide the borrower's financial statements and supporting schedules to the servicer on an ongoing basis, but not less frequently than quarterly, including information on existing, maturing and new leasing or rent-roll activity for the property securing the loan, as appropriate; and
(ii) Impose prohibitions on:
(A) The creation or existence of any other security interest with respect to the collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section;
(B) The transfer of any collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section or of any other collateral consisting of fixtures, furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment other than any such fixture, furniture, furnishings, machinery or equipment that is obsolete or surplus; and
(C) Any change to the name, location or organizational structure of any borrower, operating affiliate or other pledgor unless such borrower, operating affiliate or other pledgor shall have given the holder of the loan at least 30 days advance notice and, pursuant to applicable law governing perfection and priority, the holder of the loan is able to take all steps necessary to continue its perfection and priority during such 30-day period.
(iii) Require each borrower and each operating affiliate to:
(A) Maintain insurance that protects against loss on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section for an amount no less than the replacement cost of the property improvements, and names the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan as an additional insured or lender loss payee;
(B) Pay taxes, charges, fees, and claims, where non-payment might give rise to a lien on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section;
(C) Take any action required to:
(
1
) Protect the security interest and the enforceability and priority thereof in the collateral described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section and defend such collateral against claims adverse to the originator's or any subsequent holder's interest; and
(
2
) Perfect the security interest of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan in any other collateral for the CRE loan to the extent that such security interest is required by this section to be perfected;
(D) Permit the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, and the servicer, to inspect any collateral for the CRE loan and the books and records of the borrower or other party relating to any collateral for the CRE loan;
(E) Maintain the physical condition of collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(F) Comply with all environmental, zoning, building code, licensing and other laws, regulations, agreements, covenants, use restrictions, and proffers applicable to collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(G) Comply with leases, franchise agreements, condominium declarations, and other documents and agreements relating to the operation of collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and to not modify any material terms and conditions of such agreements over the term of the loan without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer; and
(H) Not materially alter collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section without the consent of the originator or any subsequent holder of the loan, or the servicer.
(4) The loan documentation for the CRE loan prohibits the borrower and each operating affiliate from obtaining a loan secured by a junior lien on collateral for the CRE loan described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, unless:
(i) The sum of the principal amount of such junior lien loan, plus the principal amount of all other loans secured by collateral described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, does not exceed the applicable CLTV ratio in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, based on the appraisal at origination of such junior lien loan; or
(ii) Such loan is a purchase money obligation that financed the acquisition of machinery or equipment and the borrower or operating affiliate (as applicable) pledges such machinery and equipment as additional collateral for the CRE loan.
(5) At origination, the applicable loan-to-value ratios for the loan are:
(i) LTV less than or equal to 65 percent and CLTV less than or equal to 70 percent; or
(ii) LTV less than or equal to 60 percent and CLTV less than or equal to 65 percent, if an appraisal used to meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section used a direct capitalization rate, and that rate is less than or equal to the sum of:
(A) The 10-year swap rate, as reported in the Federal Reserve's H.15 Report (or any successor report) as of the date concurrent with the effective date of such appraisal; and
(B) 300 basis points.
(iii) If the appraisal required under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section included a direct capitalization method using an overall capitalization rate, that rate must be disclosed to potential investors in the securitization.
(6) All loan payments required to be made under the loan agreement are:
(i) Based on level monthly payments of principal and interest (at the fully indexed rate) to fully amortize the debt over a term that does not exceed 25 years, or 30 years for a qualifying multifamily loan; and
(ii) To be made no less frequently than monthly over a term of at least ten years.
(7) Under the terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Any maturity of the note occurs no earlier than ten years following the date of origination;
(ii) The borrower is not permitted to defer repayment of principal or payment of interest; and
(iii) The interest rate on the loan is:
(A) A fixed interest rate;
(B) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that effectively results in a fixed interest rate; or
(C) An adjustable interest rate and the borrower, prior to or concurrently with origination of the CRE loan, obtained a derivative that established a cap on the interest rate for the term of the loan, and the loan meets the underwriting criteria in paragraphs (a)(2)(vi) and (vii) of this section using the maximum interest rate allowable under the interest rate cap.
(8) The originator does not establish an interest reserve at origination to fund all or part of a payment on the loan.
(9) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant
to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current.
(10)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying CRE loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 267.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security;
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any; and
(11) Within two weeks of the closing of the CRE loan by its originator or, if sooner, prior to the transfer of such CRE loan to the issuing entity, the originator shall have obtained a UCC lien search from the jurisdiction of organization of the borrower and each operating affiliate, that does not report, as of the time that the security interest of the originator in the property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section was perfected, other higher priority liens of record on any property described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, other than purchase money security interests.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 267.15 with respect to a qualifying CRE loan and it is subsequently determined that the CRE loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) and (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the CRE loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(10) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) and (a)(11) of this section is not material; or;
(2) No later than 90 days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) or (a)(11) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, restoring conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such repurchased loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 267.18
Underwriting standards for qualifying automobile loans.
(a)
Underwriting, product and other standards.
(1) Prior to origination of the automobile loan, the originator:
(i) Verified and documented that within 30 days of the date of origination:
(A) The borrower was not currently 30 days or more past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(B) Within the previous 24 months, the borrower has not been 60 days or more past due, in whole or in part, on any debt obligation;
(C) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not:
(
1
) Been a debtor in a proceeding commenced under Chapter 7 (Liquidation), Chapter 11 (Reorganization), Chapter 12 (Family Farmer or Family
Fisherman plan), or Chapter 13 (Individual Debt Adjustment) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; or
(
2
) Been the subject of any federal or State judicial judgment for the collection of any unpaid debt;
(D) Within the previous 36 months, no one-to-four family property owned by the borrower has been the subject of any foreclosure, deed in lieu of foreclosure, or short sale; or
(E) Within the previous 36 months, the borrower has not had any personal property repossessed;
(ii) Determined and documented that the borrower has at least 24 months of credit history; and
(iii) Determined and documented that, upon the origination of the loan, the borrower's DTI ratio is less than or equal to 36 percent.
(A) For the purpose of making the determination under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the originator must:
(
1
) Verify and document all income of the borrower that the originator includes in the borrower's effective monthly income (using payroll stubs, tax returns, profit and loss statements, or other similar documentation); and
(
2
) On or after the date of the borrower's written application and prior to origination, obtain a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintain files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p)) and verify that all outstanding debts reported in the borrower's credit report are incorporated into the calculation of the borrower's DTI ratio under paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section;
(2) An originator will be deemed to have met the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section if:
(i) The originator, no more than 30 days before the closing of the loan, obtains a credit report regarding the borrower from a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis (within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 1681a(p));
(ii) Based on the information in such credit report, the borrower meets all of the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and no information in a credit report subsequently obtained by the originator before the closing of the loan contains contrary information; and
(iii) The originator obtains electronic or hard copies of the credit report.
(3) At closing of the automobile loan, the borrower makes a down payment from the borrower's personal funds and trade-in allowance, if any, that is at least equal to the sum of:
(i) The full cost of the vehicle title, tax, and registration fees;
(ii) Any dealer-imposed fees;
(iii) The full cost of any additional warranties, insurance or other products purchased in connection with the purchase of the vehicle; and
(iv) 10 percent of the vehicle purchase price.
(4) The originator records a first lien securing the loan on the purchased vehicle in accordance with State law.
(5) The terms of the loan agreement provide a maturity date for the loan that does not exceed the lesser of:
(i) Six years from the date of origination; or
(ii) 10 years minus the difference between the current model year and the vehicle's model year.
(6) The terms of the loan agreement:
(i) Specify a fixed rate of interest for the life of the loan;
(ii) Provide for a level monthly payment amount that fully amortizes the amount financed over the loan term;
(iii) Do not permit the borrower to defer repayment of principal or payment of interest; and
(iv) Require the borrower to make the first payment on the automobile loan within 45 days of the loan's contract date.
(7) At the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the securitized assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction, all payments due on the loan are contractually current; and
(8)(i) The depositor of the asset-backed security certifies that it has evaluated the effectiveness of its internal supervisory controls with respect to the process for ensuring that all qualifying automobile loans that collateralize the asset-backed security and that reduce the sponsor's risk retention requirement under § 267.15 meet all of the requirements set forth in
paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section and has concluded that its internal supervisory controls are effective;
(ii) The evaluation of the effectiveness of the depositor's internal supervisory controls referenced in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section shall be performed, for each issuance of an asset-backed security, as of a date within 60 days of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the asset pool collateralizing such asset-backed security; and
(iii) The sponsor provides, or causes to be provided, a copy of the certification described in paragraph (a)(8)(i) of this section to potential investors a reasonable period of time prior to the sale of asset-backed securities in the issuing entity, and, upon request, to its appropriate Federal banking agency, if any.
(b)
Cure or buy-back requirement.
If a sponsor has relied on the exception provided in § 267.15 with respect to a qualifying automobile loan and it is subsequently determined that the loan did not meet all of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor shall not lose the benefit of the exception with respect to the automobile loan if the depositor complied with the certification requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, and:
(1) The failure of the loan to meet any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section is not material; or
(2) No later than ninety (90) days after the determination that the loan does not meet one or more of the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, the sponsor:
(i) Effectuates cure, establishing conformity of the loan to the unmet requirements as of the date of cure; or
(ii) Repurchases the loan(s) from the issuing entity at a price at least equal to the remaining principal balance and accrued interest on the loan(s) as of the date of repurchase.
(3) If the sponsor cures or repurchases pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the sponsor must promptly notify, or cause to be notified, the holders of the asset-backed securities issued in the securitization transaction of any loan(s) included in such securitization transaction that is required to be cured or repurchased by the sponsor pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section, including the principal amount of such loan(s) and the cause for such cure or repurchase.
§ 267.19
General exemptions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:
Community-focused residential mortgage
means a residential mortgage exempt from the definition of “covered transaction” under § 1026.43(a)(3)(iv) and (v) of the CFPB's Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(a)).
First pay class
means a class of ABS interests for which all interests in the class are entitled to the same priority of payment and that, at the time of closing of the transaction, is entitled to repayments of principal and payments of interest prior to or pro-rata with all other classes of securities collateralized by the same pool of first-lien residential mortgages, until such class has no principal or notional balance remaining.
Inverse floater
means an ABS interest issued as part of a securitization transaction for which interest or other income is payable to the holder based on a rate or formula that varies inversely to a reference rate of interest.
Qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan
means a mortgage loan that is:
(i) Secured by a dwelling (as defined in 12 CFR 1026.2(a)(19)) that is owner occupied and contains three-to-four housing units;
(ii) Is deemed to be for business purposes for purposes of Regulation Z under 12 CFR part 1026, Supplement I, paragraph 3(a)(5)(i); and
(iii) Otherwise meets all of the requirements to qualify as a qualified mortgage under § 1026.43(e) and (f) of Regulation Z (12 CFR 1026.43(e) and (f)) as if the loan were a covered transaction under that section.
(b) This part shall not apply to:
(1)
U.S. Government-backed securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets that are insured or guaranteed (in whole or in part) as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States, and servicing assets; or
(ii) Involves the issuance of asset-backed securities that:
(A) Are insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States; and
(B) Are collateralized solely by residential, multifamily, or health care facility mortgage loan assets or interests in such assets, and servicing assets.
(2)
Certain agricultural loan securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by loans or other assets made, insured, guaranteed, or purchased by any institution that is subject to the supervision of the Farm Credit Administration, including the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, and servicing assets;
(3)
State and municipal securitizations.
Any asset-backed security that is a security issued or guaranteed by any State, or by any political subdivision of a State, or by any public instrumentality of a State that is exempt from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 by reason of section 3(a)(2) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 77c(a)(2)); and
(4)
Qualified scholarship funding bonds.
Any asset-backed security that meets the definition of a qualified scholarship funding bond, as set forth in section 150(d)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 150(d)(2)).
(5)
Pass-through resecuritizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by asset-backed securities:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Is structured so that it involves the issuance of only a single class of ABS interests; and
(iii) Provides for the pass-through of all principal and interest payments received on the underlying asset-backed securities (net of expenses of the issuing entity) to the holders of such class.
(6)
First-pay-class securitizations.
Any securitization transaction that:
(i) Is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by first-pay classes of asset-backed securities collateralized by first-lien residential mortgages on properties located in any state:
(A) For which credit risk was retained as required under subpart B of this part; or
(B) That were exempted from the credit risk retention requirements of this part pursuant to subpart D of this part;
(ii) Does not provide for any ABS interest issued in the securitization transaction to share in realized principal losses other than pro rata with all other ABS interests issued in the securitization transaction based on the current unpaid principal balance of such ABS interests at the time the loss is realized;
(iii) Is structured to reallocate prepayment risk;
(iv) Does not reallocate credit risk (other than as a consequence of reallocation of prepayment risk); and
(v) Does not include any inverse floater or similarly structured ABS interest.
(7)
Seasoned loans.
(i) Any securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by servicing assets, and by seasoned loans that meet the following requirements:
(A) The loans have not been modified since origination; and
(B) None of the loans have been delinquent for 30 days or more.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph, a
seasoned loan
means:
(A) With respect to asset-backed securities collateralized by residential mortgages, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(
1
) A period of five years; or
(
2
) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 25 percent of the original principal balance.
(
3
) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section, any residential mortgage loan that has been outstanding and performing for a period of at least seven years shall be deemed a seasoned loan.
(B) With respect to all other classes of asset-backed securities, a loan that has been outstanding and performing for the longer of:
(
1
) A period of at least two years; or
(
2
) Until the outstanding principal balance of the loan has been reduced to 33 percent of the original principal balance.
(8)
Certain public utility securitizations.
(i) Any securitization transaction where the asset-back securities issued in the transaction are secured by the intangible property right to collect charges for the recovery of specified costs and such other assets, if any, of an issuing entity that is wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by an investor owned utility company that is subject to the regulatory authority of a State public utility commission or other appropriate State agency.
(ii) For purposes of this paragraph:
(A)
Specified cost
means any cost identified by a State legislature as appropriate for recovery through securitization pursuant to specified cost recovery legislation; and
(B)
Specified cost recovery legislation
means legislation enacted by a State that:
(
1
) Authorizes the investor owned utility company to apply for, and authorizes the public utility commission or other appropriate State agency to issue, a financing order determining the amount of specified costs the utility will be allowed to recover;
(
2
) Provides that pursuant to a financing order, the utility acquires an intangible property right to charge, collect, and receive amounts necessary to provide for the full recovery of the specified costs determined to be recoverable, and assures that the charges are non-bypassable and will be paid by customers within the utility's historic service territory who receive utility goods or services through the utility's transmission and distribution system, even if those customers elect to purchase these goods or services from a third party; and
(
3
) Guarantees that neither the State nor any of its agencies has the authority to rescind or amend the financing order, to revise the amount of specified costs, or in any way to reduce or impair the value of the intangible property right, except as may be contemplated by periodic adjustments authorized by the specified cost recovery legislation.
(c)
Exemption for securitizations of assets issued, insured or guaranteed by the United States.
This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are:
(1) Collateralized solely by obligations issued by the United States or an agency of the United States and servicing assets;
(2) Collateralized solely by assets that are fully insured or guaranteed as to the payment of principal and interest by the United States or an agency of the United States (other than those referred to in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section) and servicing assets; or
(3) Fully guaranteed as to the timely payment of principal and interest by the United States or any agency of the United States;
(d)
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation securitizations.
This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction that is sponsored by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation acting as conservator or receiver under any provision of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act or of Title II of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.
(e)
Reduced requirement for certain student loan securitizations.
The 5 percent risk retention requirement set forth in § 267.4 shall be modified as follows:
(1) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by student loans made under the Federal Family Education Loan Program (“FFELP loans”) that are guaranteed as to 100 percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 0 percent;
(2) With respect to a securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans that are guaranteed as to at least 98 percent but less than 100
percent of defaulted principal and accrued interest, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 2 percent; and
(3) With respect to any other securitization transaction that is collateralized solely by FFELP loans, and servicing assets, the risk retention requirement shall be 3 percent.
(f)
Community-focused lending securitizations.
(1) This part shall not apply to any securitization transaction if the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by community-focused residential mortgages and servicing assets.
(2) For any securitization transaction that includes both community-focused residential mortgages and residential mortgages that are not exempt from risk retention under this part, the percent of risk retention required under § 267.4(a) is reduced by the ratio of the unpaid principal balance of the community-focused residential mortgages to the total unpaid principal balance of residential mortgages that are included in the pool of assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction (the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio); provided that:
(i) The community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio is measured as of the cut-off date or similar date for establishing the composition of the pool assets collateralizing the asset-backed securities issued pursuant to the securitization transaction; and
(ii) If the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio would exceed 50 percent, the community-focused residential mortgage asset ratio shall be deemed to be 50 percent.
(g)
Exemptions for securitizations of certain three-to-four unit mortgage loans.
A sponsor shall be exempt from the risk retention requirements in subpart B of this part with respect to any securitization transaction if:
(1)(i) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans and servicing assets; or
(ii) The asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are collateralized solely by qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages as defined in § 267.13, and servicing assets.
(2) The depositor with respect to the securitization provides the certifications set forth in § 267.13(b)(4) with respect to the process for ensuring that all assets that collateralize the asset-backed securities issued in the transaction are qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, qualified residential mortgages, or servicing assets; and
(3) The sponsor of the securitization complies with the repurchase requirements in § 267.13(c) with respect to a loan if, after closing, it is determined that the loan does not meet all of the criteria to be either a qualified residential mortgage or a qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loan, as appropriate.
(h)
Rule of construction.
Securitization transactions involving the issuance of asset-backed securities that are either issued, insured, or guaranteed by, or are collateralized by obligations issued by, or loans that are issued, insured, or guaranteed by, the Federal National Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or a Federal home loan bank shall not on that basis qualify for exemption under this part.
§ 267.20
Safe harbor for certain foreign-related transactions.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section, the following definition shall apply:
U.S. person
means:
(i) Any of the following:
(A) Any natural person resident in the United States;
(B) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization or entity organized or incorporated under the laws of any State or of the United States;
(C) Any estate of which any executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(D) Any trust of which any trustee is a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(E) Any agency or branch of a foreign entity located in the United States;
(F) Any non-discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary for the benefit or account of a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition);
(G) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held by a dealer or other fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States; and
(H) Any partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other organization or entity if:
(
1
) Organized or incorporated under the laws of any foreign jurisdiction; and
(
2
) Formed by a U.S. person (as defined under any other clause of this definition) principally for the purpose of investing in securities not registered under the Act; and
(ii) “U.S. person(s)” does not include:
(A) Any discretionary account or similar account (other than an estate or trust) held for the benefit or account of a person not constituting a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) by a dealer or other professional fiduciary organized, incorporated, or (if an individual) resident in the United States;
(B) Any estate of which any professional fiduciary acting as executor or administrator is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) if:
(
1
) An executor or administrator of the estate who is not a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the assets of the estate; and
(
2
) The estate is governed by foreign law;
(C) Any trust of which any professional fiduciary acting as trustee is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section), if a trustee who is not a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) has sole or shared investment discretion with respect to the trust assets, and no beneficiary of the trust (and no settlor if the trust is revocable) is a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section);
(D) An employee benefit plan established and administered in accordance with the law of a country other than the United States and customary practices and documentation of such country;
(E) Any agency or branch of a U.S. person (as defined in paragraph (i) of this section) located outside the United States if:
(
1
) The agency or branch operates for valid business reasons; and
(
2
) The agency or branch is engaged in the business of insurance or banking and is subject to substantive insurance or banking regulation, respectively, in the jurisdiction where located;
(F) The International Monetary Fund, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the Inter-American Development Bank, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development Bank, the United Nations, and their agencies, affiliates and pension plans, and any other similar international organizations, their agencies, affiliates and pension plans.
(b)
In general.
This part shall not apply to a securitization transaction if all the following conditions are met:
(1) The securitization transaction is not required to be and is not registered under the Securities Act of 1933 (15 U.S.C. 77a
et seq.
);
(2) No more than 10 percent of the dollar value (or equivalent amount in the currency in which the ABS interests are issued, as applicable) of all classes of ABS interests in the securitization transaction are sold or transferred to U.S. persons or for the account or benefit of U.S. persons;
(3) Neither the sponsor of the securitization transaction nor the issuing entity is:
(i) Chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State;
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office (wherever located) of an entity chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(iii) An unincorporated branch or office located in the United States or any State of an entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States or any State; and
(4) If the sponsor or issuing entity is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other
than the United States or any State, no more than 25 percent (as determined based on unpaid principal balance) of the assets that collateralize the ABS interests sold in the securitization transaction were acquired by the sponsor or issuing entity, directly or indirectly, from:
(i) A majority-owned affiliate of the sponsor or issuing entity that is chartered, incorporated, or organized under the laws of the United States or any State; or
(ii) An unincorporated branch or office of the sponsor or issuing entity that is located in the United States or any State.
(c)
Evasions prohibited.
In view of the objective of these rules and the policies underlying Section 15G of the Exchange Act, the safe harbor described in paragraph (b) of this section is not available with respect to any transaction or series of transactions that, although in technical compliance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, is part of a plan or scheme to evade the requirements of section 15G and this part. In such cases, compliance with section 15G and this part is required.
§ 267.21
Additional exemptions.
(a)
Securitization transactions.
The federal agencies with rulewriting authority under section 15G(b) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(b)) with respect to the type of assets involved may jointly provide a total or partial exemption of any securitization transaction as such agencies determine may be appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of investors.
(b)
Exceptions, exemptions, and adjustments.
The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, may jointly adopt or issue exemptions, exceptions or adjustments to the requirements of this part, including exemptions, exceptions or adjustments for classes of institutions or assets in accordance with section 15G(e) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o-11(e)).
§ 267.22
Periodic review of the QRM definition, exempted three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans, and community-focused residential mortgage exemption.
(a) The Federal banking agencies and the Commission, in consultation with the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development, shall commence a review of the definition of qualified residential mortgage in § 267.13, a review of the community-focused residential mortgage exemption in § 267.19(f), and a review of the exemption for qualifying three-to-four unit residential mortgage loans in § 267.19(g):
(1) No later than four years after the effective date of the rule (as it relates to securitizers and originators of asset-backed securities collateralized by residential mortgages), five years following the completion of such initial review, and every five years thereafter; and
(2) At any time, upon the request of any Federal banking agency, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency or the Department of Housing and Urban Development, specifying the reason for such request, including as a result of any amendment to the definition of qualified mortgage or changes in the residential housing market.
(b) The Federal banking agencies, the Commission, the Federal Housing Finance Agency and the Department of Housing and Urban Development shall publish in the
Federal Register
notice of the commencement of a review and, in the case of a review commenced under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the reason an agency is requesting such review. After completion of any review, but no later than six months after the publication of the notice announcing the review, unless extended by the agencies, the agencies shall jointly publish a notice disclosing the determination of their review. If the agencies determine to amend the definition of qualified residential mortgage, the agencies shall complete any required rulemaking within 12 months of publication in the
Federal Register
of such notice disclosing the determination of their review, unless extended by the agencies.
SUBCHAPTERS C-H [RESERVED]

# SUBCHAPTER I—HUD-OWNED PROPERTIES
Pt. 290

# PART 290—DISPOSITION OF MULTIFAMILY PROJECTS AND SALE OF HUD-HELD MULTIFAMILY MORTGAGES

# Subpart A—Disposition of Multifamily Projects
Sec.
290.1
Applicability.
290.3
Definitions.
290.7
Occupancy requirements.
290.9
Setting rental rates.
290.11
Notification requirements.
290.13
Negotiated sales.
290.15
Disposition plan.
290.17
Displacement of tenants and relocation assistance.
290.18
Restrictions on sale to former mortgagors.
290.19
Restrictions concerning nondiscrimination against Section 8 voucher holders.
290.21
Computing annual number of units eligible for substitution of tenant-based assistance or alternative uses.
290.23
Rebuilding.
290.25
Determination not to preserve a project or a part of a project.
290.27
Up-front grants and loans.

# Subpart B—Sale of HUD-Held Multifamily Mortgages
290.30
General.
290.31
Sale of current mortgages securing subsidized projects.
290.33
Sale of delinquent mortgages securing subsidized projects.
290.35
Sale of HUD-held mortgages securing unsubsidized projects.
290.37
Requirements for continuing Federal rental subsidy contracts.
290.39
Nondiscrimination in admitting certificate and voucher holders.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701z-11, 1701z-12, 1713, 1715b, 1715z-1b, 1715z-11a; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 3535(i).

# Source:
61 FR 11685, Mar. 21, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Disposition of Multifamily Projects
§ 290.1
Applicability.
The requirements of this part supplement the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1701z-11 for the management and disposition of multifamily housing projects and the sale of HUD-held multifamily mortgages. The goals and objectives of this part are the same as the goals and objectives of 12 U.S.C. 1701z-11, which shall be referred to in this part as “the Statute.” With respect to the disposition of multifamily projects under subpart A, HUD may follow any other method of disposition, as determined by the Secretary.
[64 FR 72412, Dec. 27, 1999]
§ 290.3
Definitions.
The terms
Department
and
URA
are defined in 24 CFR part 5. The following definitions apply to this part:
Cooperative
means a nonprofit, limited equity, or consumer cooperative as defined under 24 CFR part 213. It may include mutual housing associations.
HUD-owned project
means a multifamily project that has been acquired by HUD.
Market area
means the area from which a multifamily housing project may reasonably be expected to draw a substantial number of its tenants, as determined by HUD, taking into consideration the knowledge of the HUD office with jurisdiction over the project of the local real estate market and HUD's project underwriting experience. Submarkets may be used in large, complex metropolitan areas.
Multifamily housing project
means a multifamily project that is or was insured under sections 207, 213, 220, 221(d)(3), 221(d)(4), 223(f), 231, 236, or 608 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1713, 1715e, 1715k, 1715l, 1715n, 1715v, 1715z-1, or 1742-1746); or is or was subject to a loan under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (12 U.S.C. 1701q); or was a Real Estate Owned (REO) multifamily project transferred by the Government National Mortgage Association to the Department. Multifamily housing project does not include projects consisting of one to eleven units insured under section 220(d)(3)(A) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715l); or mobile home parks under section 207(m) of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1713); or vacant land; or property covered by a homeownership program approved
under the Homeownership and Opportunity for People Everywhere (“HOPE”) program.
Multifamily project
means a project consisting of five or more units that has or had a mortgage (even if subordinate to other mortgages) insured under the National Housing Act or is or was subject to a loan under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959, or a hospital, intermediate care facility, nursing home, group practice facility, or board and care facility that has or had a mortgage insured, or is or was subject to a loan under, these authorities. Multifamily project does not include projects consisting of one to eleven units insured under section 220(d)(3)(A) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715k), which are classified as single family homes.
Nonprofit organization
means a corporation or association organized for purposes other than making a profit or gain for itself. Stockholders or trustees do not share in profits or losses. Profits are used to accomplish the charitable, humanitarian, or educational purposes of the corporation.
Preexisting tenant
means a family that resides in a unit in a multifamily housing project immediately before the project is acquired under this part by a purchaser other than the Department.
Subsidized project
means a multifamily housing project that is receiving, or immediately before its mortgage was foreclosed by HUD or the project was acquired by HUD, pursuant to this regulation, was receiving any of the following types of assistance:
(1) Below market interest rate mortgage insurance under the proviso of section 221(d)(5) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715l) (hereinafter, a BMIR project);
(2) Interest reduction payments made in connection with mortgages insured under section 236 of the National Housing Act (hereinafter, a 236 project);
(3) Direct loans made under section 202 of the Housing Act of 1959 (hereinafter, a 202 project);
(4) Assistance, to more than 50 percent of the units in the project, in the form of:
(i) Rent supplement payments under section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965 (12 U.S.C. 1701s) (hereinafter, Rent Supp);
(ii) Additional assistance payments under section 236(f)(2) of the National Housing Act (hereinafter, RAP);
(iii) Housing assistance payments under section 23 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437
note
) (as in effect before January 1, 1975) (hereinafter, Sec. 23); or
(iv) Housing assistance payments under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f) (excluding payments of tenant-based Section 8 assistance) (hereinafter, project-based Section 8 assistance).
Sufficient habitable, affordable, rental housing is available
means that the HUD office with jurisdiction determines that there is an adequate supply of habitable, affordable housing for low- and very low-income families available in the market area. Submarkets, consisting of portions of units of general local government, may be used in large, complex metropolitan areas. Local housing markets having an adequate supply of standard-quality rental housing would include housing markets in which the supply of rental housing available and in production is adequate to meet the anticipated demand (
e.g.,
the housing market is balanced), as well as those in which there is an excess supply of rental housing (
e.g.,
the housing market is soft). Rental markets that do not have an adequate supply (
e.g.,
tight markets) are characterized by low rental vacancy rates, low levels of production and turnover of rental housing, and, usually, by high levels of rent inflation. HUD will make the determination of whether sufficient habitable, affordable, rental housing is available using established market analysis techniques, and will consider information that demonstrates:
(1) The rental housing vacancy rate is at a low level relative to the rate required for a balanced market, typically a four percent vacancy rate; except that a rate lower than four percent may be considered in unusual circumstances if it can be demonstrated that there is an adequate supply of affordable housing for low-income families;
(2) The number of rental housing units being produced on an annual
basis is not large enough to satisfy demand arising from the increase in households, or, in markets where there is little or no growth, evidence that the number of additional rental units being supplied is not sufficient to meet the demand arising from net losses to the available inventory and the inadequate supply of rental housing has inhibited growth;
(3) The shortage of housing is resulting in rent increases that exceed normal increases commensurate with the costs of operating rental housing;
(4) A significant number, or proportion, of the households holding Section 8 rental vouchers are unable to find adequate housing because of the shortage of rental housing, including PHA data showing a lower than average percentage of units under lease and a longer than average time required to find units.
Unsubsidized project
means a multifamily housing project that is not a subsidized project.
Useful life
means, generally, twenty years, but it may be more or less, as determined by the Department.
[61 FR 11685, Mar. 21, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 38290, May 7, 2024]
§ 290.7
Occupancy requirements.
(a)
Multifamily housing project that is HUD-owned or for which HUD is mortgagee-in-possession.
Occupancy in a multifamily housing project that is HUD-owned or for which HUD is mortgagee-in-possession shall be available on a basis that is comparable to the occupancy requirements that applied to the project immediately before HUD acquired the project or became mortgagee-in-possession, except that preference shall be given to tenants of other HUD-owned multifamily housing projects who are eligible for assistance in accordance with the displacement and relocation provisions at § 290.17.
(b)
Evictions.
Eviction from a HUD-owned multifamily housing project is governed by 24 CFR part 247, subpart B.
(c)
Threat to health and safety.
Whenever HUD determines that there is an immediate threat to the health and safety of the tenants, HUD may require the tenants to vacate the premises and shall provide temporary relocation benefits as provided in § 290.17 to tenants required to vacate the premises.
§ 290.9
Setting rental rates.
Because of the subsidies involved in making multifamily housing projects affordable, the setting of rents involves two steps: first, establishing the rent on a unit that will be paid to the owner, and second, determining the rent that the tenant pays (with the difference made up by a subsidy), using a number of procedures to obtain income verification and notify tenants of changes in rent. These procedures for a property owned by HUD or where HUD is mortgagee-in-possession are explained below.
(a)
Setting unit rents.
Except as modified by this section, for a property where HUD is mortgagee-in-possession (MIP), HUD will set unit rents in accordance with the rent setting requirements of the project's mortgage insurance or direct loan program; or for a property owned by HUD, rents will be set in accordance with the rent setting requirements of the project's mortgage insurance or direct loan program in effect immediately before HUD became the owner of the project.
(b)
Setting rents payable by tenants
—(1)
Tenant rent.
The rent the tenant pays will be based on the income certification and the rent payment requirements of the project's mortgage insurance or direct loan program in effect while HUD is MIP or immediately before HUD became the owner of the project, as affected by any of the factors in paragraphs (b)(2) through (b)(4) of this section. However, if a tenant does not certify income as required by this section, the tenant must pay the unit rent as determined under the rent setting requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.
(2)
Utility allowance.
For a tenant whose rent is based on a percentage of adjusted income (except for rental voucher holders), if the cost of utilities (except telephone) and other housing services for the unit is the responsibility of the tenant to pay directly to the provider of the utility or service, HUD will deduct from the rent to be paid by the tenant to HUD a utility allowance, which is an amount equal to HUD's estimate of the monthly costs of
a reasonable consumption of the utilities and other services for the unit for an energy-conservative household of modest circumstances consistent with the requirement of a safe, sanitary, and healthful living environment. If the utility allowance exceeds the percentage of the tenant's adjusted income payable as rent, HUD will pay the difference between the amount payable as rent and the utility allowance to the tenant or, with the consent of the tenant and the utility company, either jointly to the tenant and the utility company or directly to the utility company.
(3)
Rent adjustments for project viability.
For a HUD-owned project, HUD may adjust the rent provided for in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section if necessary or desirable to maintain the existing economic mix in the project, prevent undesirable turnover, or increase occupancy.
(4)
Tenants who are rental voucher holders.
Tenants assisted with rental vouchers certify their income to the public housing agency (PHA) administering the assistance, and pay rent pursuant to the policies and procedures governing such assistance.
(c)
Income verification and rent notification procedures
—(1)
Income certification by tenants
—(i)
In subsidized projects.
(A) For families residing in subsidized projects, when HUD becomes MIP or owner, HUD will request an income certification from each family as soon as practicable after HUD initially assumes management, unless the family's income has been examined by the owner or by HUD not more than four months before HUD's assumption of management.
(B) For each family applying for admission to subsidized projects, HUD will request an income certification to determine the family's eligibility for a subsidized rent, and (if the rent is based on a percentage of adjusted income) the family's subsidized rent, in accordance with part 813 of this title.
(ii)
In unsubsidized projects.
(A) For tenants in occupancy when HUD becomes mortgagee-in-possession or owner of an unsubsidized project, HUD may request an income certification from families who are not paying a subsidized rent.
(B) For families applying for admission to such projects, HUD will request sufficient information for income verification to determine the family's ability to pay the unit rent.
(2)
Notice of increases in the amount of rent payable.
Whenever HUD proposes an increase in rents in a HUD-owned multifamily project or a project where HUD is mortgagee-in-possession, HUD will provide tenants 30 days notice of the proposed changes and an opportunity to review and comment on the new rent and supporting documentation. After HUD considers the tenants' comments and has made a decision with respect to its proposed rent change, HUD shall notify the tenants of its decision, with the reasons for the decision. A tenant in occupancy before the effective date of any revised rental rate must be given 30 days notice of the revised rate, and any change in the tenant's rent is subject to the terms of an existing lease. Notices to each tenant must be personally delivered or sent by first class mail. General notices of rent increases to all tenants must be posted in the project office and in appropriate conspicuous and accessible locations around the project.
(3)
Disclosure and verification of Social Security numbers.
Any certifications or reexaminations of the income of tenants or prospective tenants in connection with tenancy under this section are subject to the requirements for the disclosure and verification of Social Security Numbers, as provided by part 200, subpart T, of this title.
(4)
Signing of consent forms for income verification.
Any certifications or reexaminations of the income of tenants or prospective tenants in connection with tenancy under this section are subject to the requirements for the signing and submitting of consent forms for the obtaining of wage and claim information from State Wage Information Collection Agencies, as provided by part 200, subpart V, of this title.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0204)
[61 FR 11685, Mar. 21, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 38291, May 7, 2024]
§ 290.11
Notification requirements.
(a)
In general.
HUD may combine two or more of the required notifications,
as appropriate, to simplify the disposition process.
(b)
Timing of notifications.
Disposition-related notifications (i.e., pre-foreclosure notification to tenants and units of general local government; pre-disposition community and tenant input notification; state and local government right of first refusal notification) will be made, as appropriate:
(1) 60 or more days before HUD forecloses on a project; or
(2) Before, or not more than 30 days after, HUD acquires a project.
(c)
Methods of notification
—(1)
To tenants.
Pre-disposition notification will be delivered to each unit in the project, or sent to each unit by first class mail. Where HUD is mortgagee-in-possession or owner of a project, the notice will also be posted in the project office and in appropriate conspicuous and accessible locations around the project.
(2)
To units of general local government.
Pre-disposition notification to a unit of general local government will be sent to the chief executive officer of the unit of general local government by first class mail. For purposes of receiving or sending any notices or information under this part, the unit of general local government is its chief executive officer, or the person designated by the chief executive officer to receive or send the notice or information.
(3)
To the community or any other party.
HUD will consult with tenants and their organizations, officials of units of general local government, and other entities as HUD determines to be appropriate, to identify community recipients of any required notification. Any notice required to be made to any party other than a tenant or a unit of general local government will be sent by first class mail.
(d)
Content of notifications.
Notifications will, as appropriate, identify the project acquired or to be foreclosed by HUD; provide the general terms and conditions concerning the sale, future use, and operation of the project as proposed by HUD; indicate the time by which any offers must be made or any comments must be submitted; and state that the full disposition recommendation and analysis and other supporting information will be available for inspection and copying at the HUD Field Office.
§ 290.13
Negotiated sales.
When HUD conducts a negotiated sale involving the disposition of a project to a person or entity without a public offering, the following provisions apply:
(a) HUD may negotiate the sale of any project to an agency of the federal, State, or local government.
(b) When HUD determines that a purchaser can demonstrate the capacity to own and operate a project in accordance with standards set by HUD, and/or a competitive offering will not generate offers of equal merit from qualified purchasers, HUD may approve a negotiated sale of a subsidized project to:
(1) A resident organization wishing to convert the project to a nonprofit or limited equity cooperative;
(2) A cooperative (
e.g.,
nonprofit limited equity, consumer cooperative, mutual housing organization) with demonstrated experience in the operation of nonprofit (and preferably low-income) housing;
(3) A nonprofit entity that will continue to operate the project as low-income housing and whose governing board is composed of project residents;
(4) A State or local governmental entity with the demonstrated capacity to acquire, manage, and maintain the project as housing available to and affordable by low-income residents;
(5) A State or local governmental or nonprofit entity with the demonstrated capacity to acquire, manage, and maintain the project as a shelter for the homeless or other public purpose, generally when the project is vacant or has minimal occupancy and is not needed in the area for continued use as rental housing for the elderly or families; or
(6) Other nonprofit organizations.
§ 290.15
Disposition plan.
(a)
In general.
Before disposing of a HUD-owned multifamily housing project, HUD will develop an initial and a final disposition plan for the project that specifies the minimum terms and conditions for the disposition of the project, the sales price that
is acceptable to HUD, and the assistance that HUD plans to make available to a prospective purchaser.
(b)
Environmental requirements.
HUD will perform, and include in the final disposition plan, the environmental reviews required by 24 CFR part 50.
§ 290.17
Displacement of tenants and relocation assistance.
(a)
Scope of section.
This section applies to all HUD-owned multifamily housing projects and all multifamily housing projects subject to HUD-held mortgages. When HUD is not the mortgagee-in-possession or owner, the owner of the project shall comply with this section, if HUD has authorized the demolition of, repairs to, or conversion of the use of the multifamily housing project.
(b)
Minimizing displacement.
Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, all reasonable steps shall be taken to minimize the displacement of persons (families, individuals, businesses, and nonprofit organizations) from a project covered by this part. If displacement or temporary relocation will occur in connection with the disposition of a project, HUD may require the purchaser of the project to provide assistance in accordance with this section.
(c)
Relocation assistance at non-URA levels.
Whenever the displacement of a residential tenant (family or individual) occurs in connection with the management or disposition of a multifamily housing project, but is not subject to paragraph (d) of this section (
e.g.,
occurs as a direct result of HUD repair or demolition of all or a part of a HUD-owned multifamily housing project or as a direct result of the foreclosure of a HUD-held mortgage on a multifamily housing project or sale of a HUD-owned project without federal financial assistance), the displaced tenant shall be eligible for the following relocation assistance:
(1) Advance written notice of the expected displacement shall be provided at least 60 days before displacement, describe the assistance and the procedures for obtaining the assistance, and contain the name, address and phone number of an official responsible for providing the assistance;
(2) Other advisory services, as appropriate, including counseling, referrals to suitable (and where appropriate, accessible), decent, safe, and sanitary replacement housing, and fair housing-related advisory services;
(3) Payment for actual reasonable moving expenses, as determined by HUD; and
(4) Such other federal, State or local assistance as may be available.
(d)
Relocation assistance at URA levels
—(1)
General.
The requirements of this paragraph apply to any displacement that results whenever assistance under 24 CFR part 886, subpart C, (or other federal financial assistance, as defined in 49 CFR 24.2(j)) is provided in connection with the purchase, demolition, or rehabilitation of a multifamily property by a third party. A displaced person (defined in paragraph (d)(3) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the URA, implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24, and this section.
(2)
Definition of “initiation of negotiations”.
Under the URA, for purposes of determining the method for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of privately undertaken rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition of the real property, the term “initiation of negotiations” means the transfer of title to the purchaser.
(3)
Definition of displaced person.
The term “displaced person” means any person (family, individual, business, or nonprofit organization) that moves from the real property, or moves personal property from the real property, permanently, as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation or demolition for a federally assisted project. However, a person does not qualify as a “displaced person” if:
(i) The person is excluded under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2);
(ii) The person has been evicted for a serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable federal, State, or local law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken
for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance;
(iii) The person moves into the property after transfer of title to the purchaser; or
(iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for an assisted project.
(e)
Temporary relocation (URA and non-URA relocation assistance).
Residential tenants, who will not be required to move permanently, but who must relocate temporarily (
e.g.,
to permit property repairs), shall be provided:
(1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporary housing and any increase in monthly rent or utility costs. The party responsible for this requirement may, at its option, perform the services involved in temporarily relocating the tenants or pay for such services directly; and
(2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of the date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation; the suitable (and where appropriate, accessible), decent, safe, and sanitary housing to be made available for the temporary period; the terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex following completion of the repairs; and the right to financial assistance provided under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(f)
Appeals.
If a person disagrees with the purchaser's determination concerning the person's eligibility for relocation assistance or the amount of the assistance for which the person is eligible, the person may file a written appeal of that determination with the owner or purchaser. A person who is dissatisfied with the purchaser's determination on his or her appeal may submit a written request for review of that decision to the HUD Field Office responsible for administering the URA in the area.
§ 290.18
Restrictions on sale to former mortgagors.
The defaulting mortgagor, or any principal, successor, affiliate, or assignee thereof, on the mortgage on the property at the time of the default resulting in acquisition of the property by HUD shall not be eligible to purchase the property. A “principal” and an “affiliate” are defined as provided at 24 CFR 24.105.
[66 FR 35847, July 9, 2001]
§ 290.19
Restrictions concerning nondiscrimination against Section 8 voucher holders.
The purchaser of any multifamily housing project shall not refuse unreasonably to lease a dwelling unit offered for rent, offer to sell cooperative stock, or otherwise discriminate in the terms of tenancy or cooperative purchase and sale because any tenant or purchaser is the holder of a Voucher under Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), or any successor legislation. The purchaser's agreement to this condition must be contained in any contract of sale and also may be contained in any regulatory agreement, use agreement, or deed entered into in connection with the disposition.
[61 FR 11685, Mar. 21, 1996, as amended at 89 FR 38291, May 7, 2024]
§ 290.21
Computing annual number of units eligible for substitution of tenant-based assistance or alternative uses.
(a)
Substitution of tenant-based Section 8 assistance to low-income families instead of project-based assistance to units.
The number of units eligible, as permitted by the Statute, for this form of substitution within the 10 percent limit will be estimated at the beginning of each fiscal year, taking into consideration the aggregate number of subsidized project units disposed of by HUD in the immediately preceding fiscal year and the disposition activity planned for the current fiscal year.
(b)
Alternate uses.
The number of units eligible for alternate uses in any fiscal year, as permitted by the Statute, will be determined at the beginning of the fiscal year as the applicable percentages (
i.e.,
either 10 percent or 5
percent) of the estimated total number of units to be disposed of in the fiscal year, taking into consideration the total number of units in multifamily housing projects disposed of by the Department in the immediately preceding fiscal year, and the extent of the disposition activity planned in the current fiscal year.
§ 290.23
Rebuilding.
HUD may provide project-based assistance to support the rebuilding of a HUD-owned multifamily housing project only. The required determination that rebuilding the project would be less expensive than substantial rehabilitation means that the costs to HUD for rebuilding are such that the monthly debt service needed to amortize the cost of relocating tenants, demolition, site preparation, rebuilding, operating expenses, and a reasonable return to the purchaser cannot be provided with rents that are within 120 percent of the most recently published Section 8 Fair Market Rents for Existing Housing (24 CFR part 888, subpart A), and would be less expensive than rehabilitation.
§ 290.25
Determination not to preserve a project or a part of a project.
HUD may determine to demolish, or otherwise dispose of, a HUD-owned multifamily housing project, or any portion of such a project, or to foreclose a HUD-held mortgage on a multifamily housing project, without ensuring its continued availability as affordable rental or cooperative housing for low- and very low-income families under appropriate circumstances which may include one or more those listed in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section. If HUD decides not to preserve an occupied multifamily housing project at a foreclosure sale or sale of a HUD-owned project, tenants must be provided relocation assistance as described in § 290.17.
(a) The costs to HUD of rehabilitation are such that the monthly debt service needed to amortize the cost of rehabilitation, operating expenses, and a reasonable return to the purchaser cannot be provided with rents that are, for subsidized and formerly subsidized projects, within 120 percent of the most recently published Section 8 Fair Market Rents for Existing Housing (24 CFR part 888, subpart A) or, for unsubsidized and formerly unsubsidized projects, within rents obtainable in the market.
(b) Construction is substantially incomplete.
(c) Preservation is not feasible because of environmental factors that cannot be mitigated by HUD or the purchaser. For example, when the project is located on a site that cannot be made to comply with the Section 8 Site and Neighborhood standards in 24 CFR 886.307(k) because of factors that adversely affect the health, safety and general welfare of residents such as air pollution; smoke; mud slides; fire or explosion hazards. Preservation may also be infeasible because of significantly deteriorated surrounding neighborhood conditions with inadequate police or fire protection; high crime rates; drug infestation; or lack of public community services needed to support a safe and healthy living environment for residents.
(d) HUD determines the project is unfit for rehabilitation.
(e) Rehabilitation would cost more than constructing comparable new housing.
(f) A reduction in the number of units in the project will enhance long-term project viability, for example, demolition of a building to provide space for a playground, open space, or combining one-bedroom units to create larger units for families.
(g) Continued preservation of the project as rental or cooperative housing is not compatible with State or local land use plans for the area in which the project is located.
§ 290.27
Up-front grants and loans.
(a)
General.
HUD may provide up-front grants and loans for rehabilitation, demolition, rebuilding and other related development costs as part of the disposition of a multifamily housing project that is HUD-owned, upon making a determination that such a grant or loan, plus any additional project-based assistance made available, would be more cost-effective than the use of the maximum permissible project-based rental assistance alone.
(b)
Eligible projects.
An up-front grant or loan can be made available in the sale of a HUD-owned multifamily housing project that meets all of the following requirements:
(1) Has more than 50% of the units in the project occupied by very low-income residents at the time a disposition plan is approved by HUD, or that HUD determines is essential, as affordable housing, to the revitalization of its community;
(2) Is located in a housing market or submarket in which there is not sufficient habitable, affordable, rental housing, as defined in § 290.3;
(3) Will generate, after rehabilitation or rebuilding, sufficient rental income in a competitive market to cover all operating expenses, meet after sale debt service requirements, fund required reserves and throw off positive cash flow;
(4) Will provide affordable housing for at least 20 years or the term of the loan, whichever is shorter, after the rehabilitation and/or rebuilding is completed; and
(5) Meets such other requirements, including deed restrictions, loan provisions, and monetary penalties for non-performance, as HUD may determine are appropriate on a case-by-case basis.
(c)
Eligible sales and purchasers
—(1)
Negotiated sales to governmental entities.
A negotiated sale of a project with an up-front grant or loan can only be made to the unit of general local government, which includes public housing agencies, in the area in which the project is located; or a State agency designated by the chief executive officer of the State in which the project is located; or an agency of the Federal government. The governmental entity in such a sale must take title to the project.
(2)
Other sales and purchasers.
All sales which provide up-front grants or loans to entities other than those described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be conducted through a competitive selection process. All general and limited partnerships or their nominees, joint ventures or other entities assembled for purposes of purchasing the project and which have a governmental entity as a partner or other participant are considered profit motivated purchasers and not governmental entities, whether or not there is a non-profit, public, corporate or individual general partner.
(d)
Up-front grant or loan amount.
The maximum that HUD will fund per project in an up-front grant or loan is 50 percent of total development cost (TDC), or $40,000 per affordable, finished unit, whichever amount is less. TDC covers demolition, environmental hazard remediation, construction materials, artisan services, professional services, developers services, and overhead, relocation and operating losses that are incurred to plan, perform and complete repairs or rebuilding.
[64 FR 72412, Dec. 27, 1999]

# Subpart B—Sale of HUD-Held Multifamily Mortgages
§ 290.30
General.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in § 290.31(a)(2), HUD will sell HUD-held multifamily mortgages on a competitive basis. HUD retains full discretion to offer any qualifying mortgage for sale and to withhold or withdraw any offered mortgage from sale. However, when a qualifying mortgage is offered for sale, the procedures set out in this subpart will govern the sale.
(b) References in subpart B of this part to mortgages securing subsidized projects include HUD-held purchase money mortgages on subsidized projects.
[61 FR 11685, Mar. 21, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 32265, June 21, 1996]
§ 290.31
Sale of current mortgages securing subsidized projects.
HUD will sell current mortgages securing subsidized projects, as follows:
(a)
Current mortgages with FHA mortgage insurance
will be sold either:
(1) On a competitive basis to FHA-approved mortgagees; or
(2) On a negotiated basis, to State or local governments, or to a group of investors that includes an agency of a State or local government if, in addition to meeting the requirements of the Statute, the sales price is the best price that HUD can obtain from an agency of a State or local government while maintaining occupancy for the
tenant group originally intended to be served by the subsidized housing program.
(b)
Current mortgages without FHA mortgage insurance
will be sold if HUD can offer protections equivalent to those listed for an insured sale in paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 290.33
Sale of delinquent mortgages securing subsidized projects.
Delinquent mortgages securing subsidized projects will be sold only if, as part of the sales transaction:
(a) The mortgages are restructured; and
(b) Either FHA mortgage insurance or equivalent protections are provided.
§ 290.35
Sale of HUD-held mortgages securing unsubsidized projects.
HUD's policy for selling HUD-held mortgages securing unsubsidized projects is as follows:
(a)
Current mortgages
may be sold with or without FHA mortgage insurance.
(b)
Delinquent mortgages
may be sold without FHA mortgage insurance. However, delinquent mortgages will not be sold if:
(1) HUD believes that foreclosure is unavoidable; and
(2) The project securing the mortgage is occupied by very low-income tenants who are not receiving housing assistance and would be likely to pay rent in excess of 30 percent of their adjusted monthly income if HUD sold the mortgage.
§ 290.37
Requirements for continuing Federal rental subsidy contracts.
For any mortgage that, at the time HUD offers the mortgage for sale without FHA mortgage insurance, is delinquent and secures a subsidized project or unsubsidized project that receives any of the forms of assistance enumerated in paragraphs (4)(i) to (4)(iv) of the “subsidized project” definition in § 290.3:
(a) The mortgage purchaser and its successors and assigns shall require the mortgagor to record a covenant running with the land as part of any loan restructuring or of a final compromise of the mortgage debt and shall include a covenant in any foreclosure deed executed in connection with the mortgage. The covenant shall continue in effect until the last federal project-based rental assistance contract expires by its own terms. The covenant shall provide that, except where otherwise approved by HUD, a project purchaser shall agree to assume the obligations of any outstanding:
(1) Project-based federal rental subsidy contract; and
(2) Tenant-based Section 8 housing assistance payments contract with a public housing agency and the related lease.
(b) In the event of foreclosure of the mortgage sold by HUD, the mortgage purchaser and its successors and assigns:
(1) Shall foreclose in a manner that does not interfere with any lease related to federal project-based assistance or any lease related to tenant-based, Section 8 housing assistance payments; and
(2) Shall foreclose in manner that ensures that the right of possession of the purchaser at a foreclosure sale shall be subject to the terms of any residential lease not subject to paragraph (b)(1) of this section for the remaining term of the lease or for one year, whichever period is shorter.
[61 FR 11685, Mar. 21, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 32265, June 21, 1996]
§ 290.39
Nondiscrimination in admitting certificate and voucher holders.
(a)
Nondiscrimination requirement.
For any mortgage described in paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section that HUD sells without FHA mortgage insurance, the project owner shall not unreasonably refuse to lease a dwelling unit offered for rent, offer to sell cooperative stock, or otherwise discriminate in the terms of tenancy or cooperative purchase and sale because any tenant or purchaser is a voucher holder under 24 CFR part 982.
(b)
Inapplicability to current mortgages securing unsubsidized projects that receive no project based-assistance.
The nondiscrimination requirements of this section do not apply to any mortgage that is current under the terms of the mortgage at the time HUD offers it for sale, if the mortgage secures an unsubsidized project that does not receive
any of the forms of project-based assistance enumerated in paragraphs (4)(i) to (4)(iv) of the “subsidized project” definition in § 290.3.
(c)
Applicability to mortgages securing unsubsidized projects receiving project-based assistance (partially-assisted projects) or securing subsidized projects.
(1) The nondiscrimination requirement in paragraph (a) of this section applies to the project owner upon the sale of a mortgage without FHA mortgage insurance if, at the time HUD offers it for sale, the mortgage secures:
(i) An unsubsidized project that receives any of the forms of assistance enumerated in paragraphs (4)(i) to (4)(iv) of the “subsidized project” definition in § 290.5; or
(ii) A subsidized project, as defined in § 290.3.
(2) This requirement shall continue in effect until the mortgage debt is satisfied.
(d)
Covenant requirement for all delinquent mortgages sold without FHA mortgage insurance.
This paragraph (d) applies to the sale of any mortgage that is delinquent at the time HUD offers it for sale without FHA mortgage insurance, without regard to the subsidy status of the project. The mortgage purchaser and its successors and assigns shall require the mortgagor to record a covenant running with the land as part of any loan restructuring or final compromise of the mortgage debt and shall include a covenant in any foreclosure deed executed in connection with the mortgage. The covenant shall set forth the nondiscrimination requirement in paragraph (a) of this section. The covenant shall continue in effect until a date that is the same as the maturity date of the mortgage sold by HUD.
[61 FR 11685, Mar. 21, 1996; 61 FR 19188, May 1, 1996, as amended at 61 FR 32265, June 21, 1996; 89 FR 38291, May 7, 2024]
Pt. 291

# PART 291—DISPOSITION OF HUD-ACQUIRED AND -OWNED SINGLE FAMILY PROPERTY

# Subpart A—General Provisions
Sec.
291.1
Purpose and general requirements.
291.5
Definitions.
291.10
General policy regarding rental of acquired property.

# Subpart B—Disposition by Sale
291.90
Sales methods.
291.100
General policy on HUD acquisition, ownership, and disposition of real estate assets.

# Subpart C—Sales Procedures
291.200
Future REO acquisition method.
291.205
Competitive sales of individual properties.
291.210
Direct sales procedures.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Lease and Sale of HUD-Acquired Single Family Properties for the Homeless
291.400
Purpose and scope.
291.405
Definitions.
291.415
Lease with option to purchase properties for use by the homeless.
291.430
Elimination of lead-based paint hazards.
291.435
Applicability of other Federal requirements.
291.440
Recordkeeping requirements.

# Subpart F—Good Neighbor Next Door Sales Program
291.500
Purpose.
291.505
Definition of “unit of general local government.”
291.510
Overview of the GNND Sales Program.
291.515
Purchaser qualifications.
291.520
Eligible law enforcement officers.
291.525
Eligible teachers.
291.530
Eligible firefighter/emergency medical technicians.
291.535
Earnest money deposit.
291.540
Owner-occupancy term.
291.545
Financing purchase of the home.
291.550
Second mortgage.
291.555
Refinancing.
291.560
Ineligibility of multiple-unit properties.
291.565
Continuing obligations after purchase.

# Subpart G—Sale of HUD-Held Single Family Mortgage Loans
291.601
Definitions.
291.603
Purpose, scope, and applicability.
291.605
Participating Servicers.
291.607
Qualified participants.
291.609
Bidding process.
291.611
Post-bid process and HUD's execution of the CAA.
291.613
Settlement requirements.
291.615
Purchaser servicing requirements.
291.617
General policy—Direct Sales of Single Family Loans.
291.619
Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process.
291.621
Disqualifications.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.;
42 U.S.C. 1441, 1441a, 1551a, and 3535(d).

# Source:
56 FR 46956, Sept. 16, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions

# Source:
64 FR 6479, Feb. 9, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 291.1
Purpose and general requirements.
(a)
Purpose.
(1)This part governs the acquisition, possession, and disposition of one-to-four family properties acquired by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) through foreclosure of an insured or Secretary-held mortgage or loan under the National Housing Act, or acquired by HUD under section 204(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1710(g)). HUD will issue detailed policies and procedures that must be followed in specific areas.
(2) The purpose of the property disposition program is to dispose of properties in a manner that expands homeownership opportunities, strengthens neighborhoods and communities, and ensures a maximum return to the mortgage insurance funds.
(b)
Nondiscrimination policy.
The requirements set forth in 24 CFR parts 5 and 110 apply to the administration of any activity under this part. In addition, in accordance with 24 CFR 9.155(a), HUD must ensure that its policies and practices in conducting the single family property disposition program do not discriminate on the basis of disability.
[64 FR 6479, Feb. 9, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 53002, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.5
Definitions.
Terms used in this part are defined as follows:
Competitive sale of individual property
means a sale of an individual property to an individual bidder through a sealed bid process (or other bid process specifically authorized by the Secretary) in competition with other bidders in which properties have been publicly advertised to all prospective purchasers for bids.
Direct sale
means a sale to a selected purchaser to the exclusion of all others without resorting to advertising for bids. Such a sale is available only to approved applicants.
Eligible properties
means HUD-acquired properties designated by HUD for property disposition or other housing programs.
HUD
means the Department of Housing and Urban Development or its contractor, as appropriate.
Insured mortgage
means a mortgage insured under the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
).
Investor purchaser
means a purchaser who does not intend to use the property as his or her principal residence.
Owner-occupant purchaser
means a purchaser who intends to use the property as his or her principal residence; a State, governmental entity, tribe, or agency thereof; or a private nonprofit organization as defined in this section. Governmental entities include those with general governmental powers (e.g., a city or county), as well as those with limited or special powers (e.g., public housing agencies).
Private nonprofit organization
means a secular or religious organization, no part of the net earnings of which may inure to the benefit of any member, founder, contributor, or individual. The organization must:
(1) Have a voluntary board;
(2)(i) Have a functioning accounting system that is operated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; or
(ii) Designate an entity that will maintain a functioning accounting system for the organization in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
(3) Practice nondiscrimination in the provision of assistance in accordance with the authorities described in § 291.435(a); and
(4) Have nonprofit status as demonstrated by approval under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3)), or demonstrate that an application for such status is currently pending approval.
Secretary
is defined in 24 CFR 5.100.
State
means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.
Tribe
has the meaning provided for the term “Indian tribe” in section 102 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 5302).
[64 FR 6479, Feb. 9, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 53002, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.10
General policy regarding rental of acquired property.
HUD will lease acquired property to comply with other designated HUD programs, or when the Secretary determines that it is in the interest of HUD. Leases may include an option to purchase in appropriate circumstances.

# Subpart B—Disposition by Sale

# Source:
64 FR 6480, Feb. 9, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 291.90
Sales methods.
In accordance with section 204(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1710(g)), HUD will prescribe the terms and conditions for all methods of sale. HUD may dispose of assets using any method that the Secretary deems appropriate, including, but not limited to the following:
(a)
Future REO acquisition method.
The Future Real Estate-Owned (REO) acquisition method consists of a property acquisition agreement (or agreements) between HUD and a transferor (or transferors), which shall provide for the right and obligation of the transferor(s) to acquire a future quantity of properties designated by HUD as they become available. HUD will select such transferor(s) through a competitive process, in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations, including the requirements in § 291.200. The transferor(s) shall have the right and obligation to manage and dispose of the properties upon such terms and conditions as are approved by the Secretary;
(b)
Competitive sales of individual properties.
This method consists of competitive sales of individual properties to individual buyers, the procedures for which are described in § 291.205;
(c)
Direct sales methods.
There are three types of direct sales methods:
(1) Direct sales of properties without insured mortgages to governmental entities and private nonprofit organizations, the procedures for which are described in § 291.210(a);
(2) Direct sales to displaced persons, sales of razed lots, or auctions, the procedures for which are described in § 291.210(b);
(3) Direct sales to other individuals or entities that do not meet any of the categories specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, under the circumstances and procedures described in § 291.210(c);
(d)
Bulk sales,
the procedures for which are described in § 291.210(d); or
(e)
Other sales methods.
HUD may select any other methods of sale, as determined by the Secretary.
[64 FR 6480, Feb. 9, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 53002, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.100
General policy on HUD acquisition, ownership, and disposition of real estate assets.
For all sales, except as otherwise specifically indicated, those sales conducted in accordance with §§ 291.90(a) and 291.200 or with subpart D of this part, the following general policies apply:
(a)
Qualified purchaser.
(1) Anyone, including a purchaser from a transferor of a property pursuant to §§ 291.90(a) and 291.200, regardless of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, familial status, age, or disability may offer to buy a HUD-owned property, except that:
(i) No member of or delegate to Congress is eligible to buy or benefit from a purchase of a HUD-owned property; and
(ii) No nonoccupant mortgagor (whether an original mortgagor, assumptor, or a person who purchased “subject to”) of an insured mortgage who has defaulted, thereby causing HUD to pay an insurance claim on the mortgage, is eligible to repurchase the same property.
(2) Neither HUD nor any transferor pursuant to §§ 291.90(a) or 291.200 will
offer former mortgagors in occupancy who have defaulted on the mortgage the right of first refusal to repurchase the same property.
(3) HUD will offer tenants accepted under the occupied conveyance procedures outlined in 24 CFR 203.670 through 203.685 the right of first refusal to purchase the property only if:
(i) The tenant has a recognized ability to acquire financing and a good rent-paying history, and has made a request to HUD to be offered the right of first refusal; or
(ii) State or local law requires that tenants be offered the right of first refusal.
(b)
List price.
The list price, or “asking price,” assigned to the property is based upon one or more evaluation tools (e.g., appraisal, Broker Price Opinion, Automated Valuation Model). An appraisal, when used, must be conducted by an independent real estate appraiser who meets all of the requirements of 24 CFR part 200, subpart G, and is in good standing on the appraiser roster established under that section. The appraiser must provide an opinion of the “as-is” market value using a valuation method that is commonly employed in the industry and that is consistent with FHA appraisal requirements.
(c)
Insurance.
When listing properties, HUD may elect to include information to indicate whether the property is eligible for FHA-insured financing under section 203(B) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(b)).
(d)
Financing.
(1) Subject to underwriting requirements, REO properties that have not been identified as uninsurable in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section can be purchased and financed with a mortgage insured under section 203(b) or 203(k) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(b), 1709(k)), if supported by an FHA appraisal, in one of the following ways:
(i)
Insured.
A property that meets the Minimum Property Standards (MPS), as defined in HUD Handbook 4905.1 or any successor handbook, as determined by the Secretary, for existing dwellings will be offered for sale in “as-is” condition with FHA mortgage insurance available as provided in part 203 of this chapter.
(ii)
Insured with repair escrow.
(A) A property that requires no more than $10,000 for repairs to meet the MPS, as defined in HUD Handbook 4905.1 or any successor handbook, as determined by the Secretary, will be offered for sale in “as-is” condition with FHA mortgage insurance available, as provided in part 203 of this chapter, provided the mortgagor establishes a cash escrow to ensure the completion of the required repairs.
(B)
Changes in repair escrow.
HUD may adjust the escrow balance required under this paragraph based on changes to the Consumer Price Index by publishing a
Federal Register
notice that provides for a public comment period of 30 calendar days for the purpose of accepting comments on the amount of the change. After comments have been considered, HUD will publish a final notice announcing the revised escrow amounts.
(iii)
Insured with rehabilitation loan
in accordance with section 203(k) of the National Housing Act and pursuant to § 203.50 of this chapter.
(2) REO properties that have been identified as uninsurable in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section can be purchased and financed with a mortgage insured under section 203(k) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709(k)), subject to underwriting requirements supported by an FHA-specified appraisal and in accordance with 24 CFR 203.50.
(3) HUD, in its sole discretion and subject to appropriations, may take back Purchase Money Mortgages (PMMs) on property purchased by governmental entities or private nonprofit organizations who buy property for ultimate resale to owner-occupant purchasers with incomes at or below 115 percent of the area median income. When offered by HUD, a PMM will be available in an amount determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, at market rate interest, for a period not to exceed 5 years. Mortgagors must meet FHA mortgage credit standards.
(i) For purposes of this section, the term “purchase money mortgage,” or PMM means a note secured by a mortgage or trust deed given by a buyer, as mortgagor, to the seller, as mortgagee,
as part of the purchase price of the real estate.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the purchaser is entirely responsible for obtaining financing for purchasing a property.
(e)
Environmental requirements and standards.
Sales under this part are subject to the environmental requirements and standards described in 24 CFR part 50, as applicable.
(f) [Reserved]
(g)
Lead-based paint poisoning prevention.
Properties constructed before 1978 are subject to the requirements of the Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, F, and R, of this title.
(h) Any real estate broker who has agreed to comply with HUD requirements may be eligible to participate in the sales program. Purchasers participating in the competitive sales program, except government entities and nonprofit organizations, must submit bids through a participating broker. In accordance with section 204(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1710(g)), HUD will prescribe the terms and conditions for all methods of listing properties. HUD may dispose of properties using any method that the Secretary deems appropriate, including, but not limited to the following:
(1)
Open listings.
Properties may be sold on an open listing basis with participating real estate brokers.
(2)
Asset management and listing contracts.
(i) HUD may invite firms experienced in property management to compete for contracts that provide for an exclusive right to manage and list specified properties in a given area.
(ii) In areas where a broker has an exclusive right to list properties, a purchaser may use a broker of his or her choice. The purchaser's broker must submit the bid through HUD's designated electronic bid system.
(i)
Disciplinary actions against HUD-qualified real estate brokers
—(1)
In general.
Real estate brokers that are involved in Real Estate Owned (REO) sales will be removed from HUD's qualified selling broker list and will be prohibited from using HUD systems to participate in the sale of HUD-owned single family properties for good cause in accordance with the procedures of this paragraph. Nothing in this section prohibits HUD from taking such other action against a broker as provided in 24 CFR part 24 or from seeking any other available remedy.
(2)
Good cause.
Good cause includes, but is not limited to:
(i) Conviction under 18 U.S.C. 371 or 1010 of a broker or an agent supervised by that broker and acting within the scope of the agent's duties;
(ii) Any of the following actions by a broker or an agent supervised by that broker and acting within the scope of the agent's duties:
(A) Falsifying loan documents or aiding or abetting persons in the use of false or misleading information including, but not limited to, forged or fraudulent gift letters and owner occupant certifications;
(B) Acting in concert with an appraiser to arrive at an artificial appraised value;
(C) Engaging in fraudulent activities (with or without the assistance of an appraiser) that have led to default and payment of an insurance claim;
(D) Failing to comply with earnest money collection, management, and disbursement procedures as set forth in this part;
(E) Failing to maintain a current state license;
(F) Violating the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act (RESPA) (12 U.S.C. 2601
et seq.
);
(G) Non-compliance with civil rights requirements regarding the sale of HUD-owned single family properties;
(H) Involvement in, or knowledge of, any fraudulent activity by any person involved in the REO sales transaction; and
(I) Any other actions or omissions that evidence a lack of business integrity or non-compliance with the laws, regulations, and rules applicable to housing, lending, or real estate sales.
(3)
Written notice.
Once HUD makes an initial finding that there is good cause to remove a broker, HUD will provide the broker with written notice
of proposed removal from HUD's qualified selling broker list and deactivation of the broker's access to HUD systems to participate in the sale of HUD-owned properties. The notice will:
(i) State the reasons that HUD is taking the action;
(ii) Identify the violations or deficiencies involved;
(iii) Provide a citation to the relevant regulation, statute, or policy; and
(iv) State the effective date and duration of the removal and deactivation.
(4)
Effective date and duration of removal.
(i) The effective date of the broker's removal will be the 30th day after the date of the notice, unless the broker submits a written response or requests a conference in accordance with paragraph (i)(5) of this section;
(ii) HUD's determination of the duration of removal and deactivation will be based upon HUD's consideration of the number and seriousness of the broker's violations and deficiencies.
(5)
Response and conference.
Real estate brokers will be given 20 days after the date of the notice (or longer, if provided in the notice) to submit a written response to HUD opposing the proposed removal and to request a conference. A request for a conference must be in writing and must be submitted along with the written response. If a conference is requested, it will occur within 15 days after the date of receipt of the request. HUD may extend the 15-day period by providing written notice to the broker. HUD may request additional information at or following a conference and provide additional time to submit such information. If the information is not submitted by the time set by HUD, the conference is completed. If the information is timely submitted, the conference is not completed until HUD has considered the additional information.
(6)
Disposition
—(i)
No response from real estate broker.
If the real estate broker does not submit a written response within the time provided, the removal and deactivation take effect in accordance with the notice.
(ii)
Response from real estate broker.
If the real estate broker submits a written response within the time provided, the removal and deactivation are delayed until HUD considers the response and makes a final determination. HUD will consider the sufficiency of any corrective actions taken by a broker with respect to its procedures and, if relevant, its agents, in reaching its decision. Within 20 days after the date of receipt of the written response, or if a conference is requested, within 20 days after the date of completion of the conference, HUD will advise the real estate broker in writing of the decision to rescind, modify, or affirm the removal from HUD's qualified selling broker list and the deactivation of the broker's access to HUD systems to participate in the sale of HUD-owned properties. The written decision by HUD shall constitute final agency action.
(7)
Effect of removal proceeding on bids.
All bids submitted and commissions earned by the real estate broker prior to removal will be honored, unless HUD determines they were made under fraudulent circumstances.
[64 FR 6480, Feb. 9, 1999, as amended at 64 FR 50225, Sept. 15, 1999; 71 FR 65325, Nov. 7, 2006; 81 FR 53002, Aug. 11, 2016]

# Subpart C—Sales Procedures

# Source:
64 FR 6481, Feb. 9, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 291.200
Future REO acquisition method.
(a) Under this method of property disposition, HUD will enter into a property acquisition agreement (or agreements) with a transferor (or transferors), which shall provide for the right and obligation of the transferor(s) to acquire a future quantity of properties designated by HUD as they become available. The transferor(s) will be selected through a competitive process, conducted in accordance with applicable laws. HUD will negotiate the specific terms of the property acquisition agreement(s) with the selected transferor(s). The properties will be available on an “as-is” basis only, without repairs or warranties.
(b)
Eligible entities.
An individual, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity will not be eligible to participate in this process if at the time of the sale, that individual or entity is
debarred, suspended, or otherwise precluded from doing business with HUD under 2 CFR part 2424.
[64 FR 6481, Feb. 9, 1999, as amended at 72 FR 73495, Dec. 27, 2007]
§ 291.205
Competitive sales of individual properties.
When HUD conducts competitive sales of individual properties to individual buyers, it will generally sell the properties on an “as-is” basis, without repairs or warranties, and it will follow the sales procedures provided in this section.
(a)
General.
(1) Properties that are sold on an individual competitive bid basis are sold through local real estate brokers, except as provided in § 291.100(h).
(2) For properties being offered with insured mortgages, priority will be given to owner-occupant purchasers, as defined in § 291.5, for a period of up to 30 days, as determined by HUD. For properties offered without insured mortgages, priority will be given to governmental entities and nonprofit organizations prior to other owner-occupant purchasers.
(b)
Net offer.
(1) The net offer is calculated by subtracting from the bid price the dollar amounts for the financing and loan closing costs and the broker's sales commission, as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(2) If an owner-occupant purchaser of the property requests in the bid, HUD may pay all or a portion of the financing and loan closing costs, not to exceed the percentage of the purchase price determined appropriate by the Secretary for the area. In no event will the total amount for broker's sales commission exceed 6 percent of the purchase price, except for cash bonuses offered to brokers by HUD for the sale of hard-to-sell properties. No assistance for financing and loan closing costs or for the broker's sales commission will be provided to investor purchasers.
(c)
Acceptable bid.
HUD will accept the bid producing the greatest net return to HUD and otherwise meeting the terms of HUD's offering of the property, with priority given to owner-occupant purchasers as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The greatest net return is calculated based on the net offer, as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d)
Bid period.
(1) HUD will establish a bid period for properties available for sale. Generally, the bid period will be 10 days, but may be lengthened or shortened by HUD. After properties are initially advertised, bids may be submitted by all potential purchasers. However, in the case of properties offered with insured mortgages, HUD may give priority to owner-occupant purchasers for a period of up to 30-days, as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(2) HUD may treat all bids received during a specified period of time during the bid period to have been received simultaneously. HUD may also choose to review bids on a daily basis, with all bids submitted during each day considered to have been received simultaneously. HUD may use either (or both) of these methods during the bid period, as described in the bid materials accompanying a particular sale.
(3) Offers received on a property before the bid period begins will be returned. Offers received after the bid period will not be considered at the bid opening, but will be considered during the extended listing period if no acceptable bid was received during the bid period (see paragraph (f) of this section).
(e)
Full price offers.
HUD local offices that operate under a “full price offer” program open offers at specified times during the bid period. If an offer for the full list price and otherwise meeting the terms of the offering is received, it will be accepted at the time of the opening and the bid period cancelled.
(f)
Extended listing period.
Properties not sold during the bid period will remain available for an extended listing period. All bids received on each day of the extended listing period will be considered as being received simultaneously, and will be opened together at the next scheduled daily bid opening. Properties that fail to sell within 45 days after being offered for competitive bidding will be reanalyzed and made available for sale. If a property's price or terms are changed, it may be subject to another competitive bid period as
described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(g)
Bid requirements.
(1) All successful bids submitted, whether during the bid period or the extended listing period, must be in a form prescribed by HUD, and must be submitted in accordance with procedures established by HUD. If the purchase is to be an insured sale, a local HUD office may also require that supporting exhibits for mortgage credit analysis accompany the initial submission of the bid. All bids not indicating that the purchaser will occupy the property will be considered as offers from investor purchasers.
(2) Noncomplying bids will be returned to the broker with an explanation for the noncompliance decision and information about whether the property is still available.
(h)
Earnest money deposits.
(1) The amount of earnest money deposit required for a property with a sales price of $50,000 or less is $500, except that for vacant lots the amount is 50 percent of the list price. For a property with a sales price greater than $50,000, the amount of earnest money deposit required in the area is set by the local HUD office, in an amount not less than $500 or more than $2,000. Information on the amount of the required earnest money deposit is available from the local HUD office or participating real estate brokers.
(2) All bids must be accompanied by earnest money deposits in the form of a cash equivalent as prescribed by the Secretary, or a certification from the real estate broker that the earnest money has been deposited in the broker's escrow account. If a bid is accepted by HUD, the earnest money deposit will be credited to the purchaser at closing; if the bid is rejected, the earnest money deposit will be returned. Earnest money deposits are subject to total or partial forfeiture for failure to close a sale.
(i)
Multiple bids.
Real estate brokers may submit unlimited numbers of bids on an individual property provided each bid is from a different prospective purchaser. If a purchaser submits multiple bids on the same property, only the bid producing the highest net return to HUD will be considered. If a prospective owner-occupant purchaser submits a bid on more than one property, the bid that produces the greatest net return to HUD will be accepted and all other bids from that purchaser will be eliminated from consideration. However, if the prospective owner-occupant purchaser has submitted the only acceptable bid on another property, then that bid must be accepted and all other bids from that purchaser on any other properties will be eliminated from consideration.
(j)
Identical bids.
In the case of identical bids submitted by an owner-occupant purchaser and an investor purchaser, HUD will select the bid submitted by the owner-occupant purchaser. If identical bids are submitted by two or more owner-occupant purchasers, or by two or more investor purchasers, award will be determined by drawing lots.
(k)
Opening the bids.
Unless the Secretary specifically authorizes another bid process:
(1) The Secretary will make all winning bids available publicly.
(2) Successful bidders will be notified through their real estate brokers by electronic mail, mail, telephone, or other means. Acceptance of a bid is final and effective only upon HUD's execution of the sales contract, signed by both the submitting real estate broker and the prospective purchaser, and sending a copy of the executed contract by electronic mail to the successful bidder or the bidder's agent.
(l)
Counteroffers.
HUD may present counteroffers during competitive bid periods, as it deems appropriate to minimize losses to its insurance fund. “Best and Final” offers requested by HUD are considered counteroffers.
[64 FR 6481, Feb. 9, 1999, as amended at 81 FR 53003, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.210
Direct sales procedures.
When HUD conducts the sales listed in § 291.90(c), it will sell the properties on an “as-is” basis, without repairs or warranties, and it will follow the applicable sales procedures provided in this section.
(a)
Direct sales of properties without insured mortgages to governmental entities and private nonprofit organizations.
(1) State and local governments, public
agencies, and qualified private nonprofit organizations that have been preapproved to participate by HUD, according to standards determined by the Secretary, may purchase properties directly from HUD at a discount off the list price determined by the Secretary to be appropriate, but not less than 10 percent, for use in HUD and local housing or homeless programs.
(2)(i) Purchasers under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must designate geographical areas of interest by ZIP code. Upon request, before those properties without insured mortgages are publicly listed, HUD will assure that governmental entities and nonprofit organizations are notified in writing when eligible properties become available in the areas designated by them. HUD will coordinate the dissemination of the information to ensure that if more than one purchaser designates a specific area, those purchasers receive the list of properties at the same time, based on intervals agreed upon between HUD and the purchasers. A property in this section will be sold to the first eligible purchaser submitting an acceptable contract. All bids received on the same business day will be considered to have been received simultaneously. In the case of identical bids submitted on the same business day, award will be determined by drawing lots.
(ii) Purchasers under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must notify HUD of preliminary interest in specific properties within 5 days of the notification of available properties (if notification is by mail, the 5 days will begin to run 5 days after mailing). HUD will provide a consideration and inspection period for these purchasers. The consideration and inspection period will usually be for ten days from the date of notification of interest, but may be lengthened or shortened by HUD, as appropriate. Those properties in which purchasers express an interest will be held off the market for the duration of the consideration and inspection period. Other properties on the list will continue to be processed for public sale. HUD may limit the number of properties held off the market for a purchaser at any one time, based upon the purchaser's financial capacity as determined by HUD and upon past performance in HUD programs. At the end of the consideration and inspection period, properties in which no governmental entity or nonprofit organization has expressed a specific intent to purchase will be offered for sale under the competitive bid process. Properties in which a governmental entity or nonprofit organization expressed an intent to purchase, during the consideration and inspection period, will continue to be held off the market pending receipt of the sales contract. If a sales contract is not received within a time period of up to 10 days, as determined by HUD, following expiration of the consideration and inspection period, and no other governmental entity or nonprofit organization has expressed an interest, then the property will be offered for sale under the competitive bid process.
(3) In order to ensure that properties purchased at a discount are being utilized for expanding affordable housing opportunities, HUD may require, as appropriate, periodic, limited information regarding the purchase and resale of such properties, and certain restrictions on the resale of such properties.
(b)
Direct sales to displaced persons; razed lots; auctions.
HUD may seek to dispose of individual properties to individual buyers through methods such as direct sales to displaced persons, sales of razed lots, or auctions. These sales will be upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe.
(c)
Direct sales to individuals or entities.
HUD may also seek to dispose of properties through direct sales to other individuals or entities that do not meet any of the categories specified in this section, if the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner (or his or her designee) finds in writing that such sales would further the goals of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701
et seq.
) and would be in the best interests of the Secretary. These sales will be upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe.
(d)
Bulk sales.
HUD may seek to dispose of properties through bulk sales. Such sales will be upon such terms and conditions as the Secretary may prescribe.
Subpart D [Reserved]

# Subpart E—Lease and Sale of HUD-Acquired Single Family Properties for the Homeless
§ 291.400
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
HUD seeks to assist individuals and families who are homeless by providing them with transitional housing and appropriate supportive services with the goal of helping them move to independent living. Therefore, HUD will make available, to applicants approved by HUD, certain HUD-acquired single family properties for use by the homeless.
(b)
Applicant preapproval.
Before a field office may notify an applicant of eligible properties, the applicant must be preapproved by HUD, according to procedures available from the field office.
(c)
Property available for lease with option to purchase.
HUD will make available up to 10 percent of its total inventory of properties, before or after they are listed for sale to the public.
(d)
Property available under a McKinney Act Supportive Housing program lease-option agreement.
Eligible properties will be available under a lease-option to purchase agreement to Supportive Housing program applicants for acquisition grants under 24 CFR part 583.
(e)
Properties available for sale.
Eligible properties will be available for competitive sale or direct sale for fair market value, less a discount determined appropriate by the Secretary but not less than 10 percent.
(f)
Concentration of properties.
To the extent practicable and possible, HUD will avoid excessive concentration in a single neighborhood of properties leased or sold under this subpart.
(g)
Failure to comply with requirements.
Failure to comply with this subpart, or a lease issued under this subpart, may result in termination from the program.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 2502-0412)
[61 FR 55714, Oct. 28, 1996]
§ 291.405
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart E:
Applicant
means a State, metropolitan city, urban county, governmental entity, tribe, or private nonprofit organization that submits a written expression of interest in eligible properties under this subpart E. Governmental entities include those that have general governmental powers (e.g., a city or county), as well as those with limited or special powers (e.g., public housing agencies or State housing finance agencies). In the case of applicants leasing properties while their applications for Supportive Housing assistance are pending, “applicant” is defined in 24 CFR part 583.
Homeless
means:
(1) Individuals or families who lack the resources to obtain housing, whose annual income is not in excess of 50 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD, and who:
(i) Have a primary nighttime residence that is a public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used as, a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings;
(ii) Have a primary nighttime residence that is a supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designed to provide temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate shelters, and transitional housing, but excluding prisons or other detention facilities); or
(iii) Are at imminent risk of homelessness because they face immediate eviction and have been unable to identify a subsequent residence, which would result in emergency shelter placement (except that persons facing eviction on the basis of criminal conduct such as drug trafficking and violations of handgun prohibitions shall not be considered homeless for purposes of this definition); or
(2) Persons with disabilities who are about to be released from an institution and are at risk of imminent homelessness because no subsequent residences have been identified and because they lack the resources and support networks necessary to obtain access to housing.
Lessee
means the applicant, approved by HUD as financially responsible, that executes a lease agreement with HUD for an eligible property.
[64 FR 6482, Feb. 9, 1999]
§ 291.415
Lease with option to purchase properties for use by the homeless.
(a)
Certification.
Eligible properties are available for lease to applicants, approved by HUD, that certify that the property will be utilized only for the purpose of providing transitional housing for the homeless during the lease term, and that the intended use of the property will be consistent with all local laws and regulations. The lease agreement will be in a form prescribed by the Secretary. Lessees must execute a sublease with occupants in a form prescribed by the Secretary limiting an occupant's tenancy to no longer than two years.
(b)
Term of lease.
(1) A lease of an eligible property may be negotiated for such time as the lessee requires, not to exceed one year. Leases are renewable, at the option of the lessee and with the approval of HUD, at the end of the first lease term for up to four additional one-year terms, on a year-to-year basis, provided the lessee has met the requirements under this program.
(2) Approvals for lease renewals will be denied if HUD determines that the lessee has not complied with the requirements of this part of the lease.
(3) A property will not be leased to a lessee for a period longer than five years. At the end of the five-year period, if the lessee has not exercised the option to purchase, HUD will notify the lessee to vacate the property and, if necessary, will take appropriate action under the eviction laws of the jurisdiction in which the property is located. All property returned to HUD must be vacant, and will be placed on the market for sale to the general public.
(4) Within 30 days of leasing a property from HUD or within 30 days after a property is vacated, a lessee must sublease the property to the homeless, unless a longer period is approved by HUD.
(c)
Rent.
(1) The lessee must pay HUD a nominal rent of $1 for each one-year lease period.
(2) A lessee may charge rent, including utilities, to an occupant at a rate appropriate to the financial means of the occupant. Unless HUD approves after consideration of such factors as the cost of operating housing in the area and the amount of the lessee's contributions to the program, such rent may not exceed the highest of:
(i) Thirty percent of the family's monthly adjusted income (adjustment factors include the number of people in the family, age of family members, medical expenses, and child care expenses);
(ii) Ten percent of the family's monthly income; or
(iii) If the family is receiving payments for welfare assistance from a public agency and a part of the payments, adjusted in accordance with the family's actual housing costs, is specifically designated by the agency to meet the family's housing costs, the portion of the payments that is designated.
(3) In no event may the rent charged an occupant exceed the occupant's pro rata share of the lessee's costs of operating the property.
(d)
Damage to leased properties.
Any damage to leased property caused by the intentional or negligent acts of the lessee or occupants must be repaired by the lessee at its own expense. If the lessee does not make the necessary repairs within a reasonable time after the damage occurs, HUD may, at its option, make the repairs and charge the cost to the lessee. Failure by the lessee to make the necessary repairs or to reimburse HUD for the cost of repairs will constitute grounds for termination of the lease and may result in termination from the program.
(e)
Purchase of leased properties.
(1) Lessees that desire to purchase leased properties during the lease term will be offered the properties at the lower of the fair market value established at the time of the initiation of the lease or at the time of the sale, less a discount determined appropriate by the Secretary but not less than 10 percent, provided lessees agree to use the properties either to house low-income tenants for a period of not less than 10 years or to resell the properties to low-income buyers. If the lessee does not agree to such conditions, the lessee must purchase the properties at the higher of the fair market value at the time of the initiation of the lease or at the time of the sale, less 10 percent.
Any repairs to or rehabilitation of a property done by a lessee during the lease term will not be reflected in the purchase price.
(2) Sales of leased properties will be on as-is, all-cash basis. HUD will not pay a fee for a selling broker. HUD will pay the closing agent's fee. The purchaser must pay all other closing costs.
[61 FR 55715, Oct. 28, 1996]
§ 291.430
Elimination of lead-based paint hazards.
The Lead-Based Paint Poisoning Prevention Act (42 U.S.C. 4821-4846), the Residential Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 4851-4856), and implementing regulations at part 35, subparts A, B, F, and R of this title, apply to activities covered by this subpart.
[64 FR 50225, Sept. 15, 1999, as amended at 69 FR 34275, June 21, 2004]
§ 291.435
Applicability of other Federal requirements.
In addition to the requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5, the following Federal requirements apply to lessees and purchasers under this subpart:
(a)
Nondiscrimination and equal opportunity.
(1) The nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth in 24 CFR part 5 are modified as follows:
(i) As applicable, lessees and purchasers must also comply with the Americans With Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131) and implementing regulations in 28 CFR parts 35 and 36.
(ii) The requirements of section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (12 U.S.C. 1701u), and Executive Order 11246 (30 FR 12319, 12935, 3 CFR, 1946-1965 Comp., p. 339; Executive Order 11625 (36 FR 19967, 3 CFR, 1971-1975 Comp., p. 616); Executive Order 12432 (48 FR 32551, 3 CFR, 1983 Comp., p. 198; and Executive Order 12138 (44 FR 29637, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 393) do not apply to this subpart.
(2) Lessees or purchasers that intend to serve designated populations of the homeless must comply, within the designated population, with the requirements for nondiscrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, familial status, and disability.
(3) If the procedures that the lessee or purchaser intends to use to make known the availability of housing are unlikely to reach persons of any particular race, color, religion, sex, age, national origin, familial status, or disability who may qualify for admission to the housing, the recipient must establish additional procedures that will ensure that interested persons can obtain information concerning the availability of the housing.
(4) The lessee or purchaser must adopt procedures to make available information on the existence and locations of facilities and services that are accessible to persons with a handicap and maintain evidence of implementation of the procedures.
(b)
Conflicts of interest.
No person who is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected or appointed official of the lessee or purchaser of property under this subpart, or who is in a position to participate in a decisionmaking process or gain inside information with regard to the lease or purchase of the property, may obtain a personal or financial interest or benefit from the lease or purchase of the property, or have an interest in any contract, subcontract, or agreement with respect thereto, or the proceeds thereunder, either for himself or herself or for those with whom he or she has family or business ties, during his or her tenure or for one year thereafter.
[61 FR 55715, Oct. 28, 1996]
§ 291.440
Recordkeeping requirements.
Each lessee must establish and maintain sufficient records to enable the Secretary to determine whether the requirements of this subpart have been met. This includes, where available, racial, ethnic, gender, and disability status data on the applicants for, and beneficiaries of, this homeless initiative.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB control number 2502-0412)
[61 FR 55716, Oct. 28, 1996]

# Subpart F—Good Neighbor Next Door Sales Program

# Source:
71 FR 64426, Nov. 1, 2006, unless otherwise noted.
§ 291.500
Purpose.
This subpart describes the policies and procedures governing the Good Neighbor Next Door (GNND) Sales Program. The purpose of the GNND Sales Program is to improve the quality of life in distressed urban communities. This is to be accomplished by encouraging law enforcement officers, teachers, and firefighters/emergency medical technicians to purchase and live in homes that are located in the same communities where they perform their daily responsibilities and duties.
[81 FR 53003, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.505
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart:
Locality
means the community, neighborhood, or jurisdiction of the unit of general local government, or Indian tribal government;
Unit of general local government
means a county or parish, city, town, township, or other political subdivision of a State.
[81 FR 53003, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.510
Overview of the GNND Sales Program.
(a)
General.
The GNND Sales Program enables a full-time law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician to purchase a specifically designated HUD-acquired home located in a HUD-designated revitalization area:
(1) At a 50 percent discount from the list price; and
(2) With a downpayment of $100, but only if the law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician finances the home through a Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insured mortgage.
(b)
Eligible properties.
Under the GNND Sales Program, single-unit properties acquired by HUD located in HUD-designated revitalization areas (except occupied properties, those located in Asset Control Areas, or those that HUD has determined will be sold through an alternative sales method) will be made available to interested law enforcement officers, teachers, and firefighters/emergency medical technicians prior to listing the properties for sale to other purchasers.
(c)
Multiple bids.
In the event that several bids are received on a single property, HUD will randomly select a winning offer by lottery and will also randomly select two backup bids, to be utilized in the order selected, in the event the winning purchaser is unable to close on the property. If both of the backup purchasers are also unable to close on the property, the property will then be made available for sale to purchasers through other sales methods.
(d)
Real estate brokers.
Law enforcement officers, teachers, and firefighters/emergency medical technicians must submit bids through a participating real estate broker. Any real estate broker who has agreed to comply with HUD requirements may participate in the GNND Sales Program. Real estate brokers may submit unlimited numbers of bids on an individual property provided each bid is from a different prospective purchaser.
(e)
Cap on sales.
The number of HUD-acquired homes sold under the GNND Sales Program in a fiscal year shall not exceed 5 percent of the number of “Part A” mortgage insurance conveyance claims paid by HUD in the prior fiscal year. The cap shall apply on a national basis, but HUD reserves the right to geographically apportion the cap to address regional or local differences in the number of homes sold through the GNND Sales Program. Additionally, HUD may adjust the percentage of the cap for any fiscal year. Any HUD determination to geographically distribute the cap, change a current geographic distribution, or adjust the percentage of the cap will be announced by HUD through publication of a notice in the
Federal Register
at least 30 days before the revision takes effect.
[71 FR 64426, Nov. 1, 2006, as amended at 73 FR 1974, Jan. 11, 2008]
§ 291.515
Purchaser qualifications.
To qualify to purchase a home through the GNND Sales Program:
(a) The person must be employed as a law enforcement officer (as described in § 291.520), teacher (as described in § 291.525), or firefighter/emergency medical technician (as described in § 291.530) at the time he/she submits a bid to purchase a home through the program and at the time of closing on the purchase of the home;
(b) The person must certify to his/her good faith intention to continue employment as a law enforcement officer (as described in § 291.520), teacher (as described in § 291.525), or firefighter/emergency medical technician (as described in § 291.530) for at least one year following the date of closing;
(c) The person must make an earnest money deposit at the time of signing the contract for purchase of the home, as described in § 291.535;
(d) The person must agree to own, and live in as his/her sole residence, the home for the entire duration of the owner-occupancy term, as described in § 291.540, and to certify to that occupancy, as described in § 291.565;
(e) The person must agree to execute a second mortgage and note on the home, as described in § 291.550, for the difference between the list price and the discounted selling price;
(f) Neither the person (nor his/her spouse) may have owned any residential real property during the year prior to the date of submitting a bid on the home being acquired through the GNND Sales Program;
(g) Neither the person (nor his/her spouse) must ever have purchased another home under the GNND Sales Program or under the predecessor Officer Next Door Sales and Teacher Next Door Sales Programs; and
(h) Although both spouses, if otherwise eligible, may submit a bid on a single home made available for sale under the GNND Sales Program, HUD will approve a bid from only one spouse.
§ 291.520
Eligible law enforcement officers.
A person qualifies as a law enforcement officer for the purposes of the GNND Sales Program if the person is:
(a) Employed full-time by a law enforcement agency of the federal government, a state, a unit of general local government, or an Indian tribal government;
(b) In carrying out such full-time employment, the person is sworn to uphold, and make arrests for violations of, federal, state, tribal, county, township, or municipal laws and
(c) The full-time employment in paragraph (a) of this section must, in the normal course of business, directly serve the locality in which the home is located.
[71 FR 64426, Nov. 1, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 53003, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.525
Eligible teachers.
A person qualifies as a teacher for the purposes of the GNND Sales Program if the person is:
(a) Employed as a full-time teacher by a state-accredited public school or private school that provides direct services to students in grades pre-kindergarten through 12; and
(b) The full-time employment in paragraph (a) of this section must, in the normal course of business, serve students from the locality where the home is located.
[71 FR 64426, Nov. 1, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 53003, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.530
Eligible firefighter/emergency medical technicians.
A person qualifies as a firefighter/emergency medical technician for the purposes of the GNND Sales Program if the person is:
(a) Employed full-time as a firefighter or emergency medical technician by a fire department or emergency medical services responder unit of the Federal Government, a State, unit of general local government, or an Indian tribal government; and
(b) The full-time employment in paragraph (a) of this section must, in the normal course of business, directly serve the locality where the home is located.
[81 FR 53003, Aug. 11, 2016]
§ 291.535
Earnest money deposit.
(a)
General.
The earnest money deposit is the sum of money that must be paid by the law enforcement officer,
teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician at the time of submitting a bid to purchase a property under the GNND Sales Program. Each bid must be accompanied by a certification from the real estate broker that the earnest money deposit has been deposited in the broker's escrow account.
(b)
Amount of earnest money deposit.
The amount of the earnest money deposit required is an amount equal to one percent of the list price, but no less than $500 and no more than $2,000.
(c)
Acceptance or rejection of offer.
If an offer is accepted, the earnest money deposit will be credited to the purchaser at closing. If the offer is rejected, the earnest money deposit will be returned. Earnest money deposits are subject to total forfeiture for failure of the participant to close a sale.
§ 291.540
Owner-occupancy term.
(a)
General.
The owner-occupancy term is the number of months a participant in the GNND Sales Program must agree to own, and live in as his/her sole residence, a home purchased through the GNND Sales Program.
(b)
Start of owner-occupancy term.
The owner-occupancy term is 36 months, commencing either:
(1) Thirty days following closing if HUD determines that the home requires no more than $10,000 in repairs prior to occupancy;
(2) Ninety days following closing if HUD determines that the home requires more than $10,000, but not more than $20,000 in repairs prior to occupancy; or
(3) One hundred and eighty days following closing if HUD determines that the home requires more than $20,000 in repairs prior to occupancy.
(c)
Interruptions to owner-occupancy term
—(1)
General.
HUD may, at its sole discretion, allow interruptions to the 36-month owner-occupancy term if it determines that the interruption is necessary to prevent hardship, but only if the law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician submits a written and signed request to HUD containing the following information:
(i) The reason(s) why the interruption is necessary;
(ii) The dates of the intended interruption; and
(iii) A certification from the law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician that:
(A) The law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician is not abandoning the home as his/her permanent residence; and
(B) The law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician will resume occupancy of the home upon the conclusion of the interruption and complete the remainder of the 36-month owner-occupancy term.
(2)
Timing of written request to HUD.
The written request for approval of an interruption to the owner-occupancy term must be submitted to HUD at least 30 calendar days before the anticipated interruption. Military service members protected by the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act need not submit their written request to HUD 30 days in advance of an anticipated interruption, but should submit their written request as soon as practicable upon learning of a potential interruption, in order to ensure timely processing and approval of the request.
§ 291.545
Financing purchase of the home.
(a)
Purchase using conventional financing.
If the law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician uses conventional financing to purchase a home under the GNND Sales Program, the amount of the mortgage may not exceed the discounted sales price of the home.
(b)
Purchase with FHA-insured mortgage.
(1) A law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician using an FHA-insured mortgage to finance purchase of the home may finance reasonable and customary closing costs with the FHA-insured mortgage.
(2) The amount of the FHA-insured mortgage may not exceed the discounted sales price of the home plus:
(i) The closing costs; and
(ii) The costs of rehabilitating and/or improving the home, where purchase of the home is being financed with an
FHA-insured 203(k) rehabilitation loan (see 24 CFR part 203).
(c)
Closing costs and selling broker's commissions.
In no event will HUD pay a buyer's closing costs on the purchase of a property or a selling broker's commission through the GNND Sales Program.
§ 291.550
Second mortgage.
(a)
General.
The second mortgage is a mortgage and note, payable to HUD, on the home purchased through the GNND Sales Program in the amount of the difference between the list price of the home and the discounted selling price.
(b)
Second mortgage term.
The term of the second mortgage is equal to the owner-occupancy term (36 months) plus 30, 90, or 180 days, as provided in § 291.540(b). The amount of the second mortgage will be reduced by 1/36th on the last day of each month of occupancy following the occupancy start date. At the end of the 36th month of occupancy, the amount of the second mortgage will be zero.
(c)
Sale or vacancy of home.
If the law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician sells his/her home or stops living in the home as his/her sole residence prior to the expiration of the owner-occupancy term, he/she will owe HUD the amount due on the second mortgage as of the date the property is either sold or vacated.
§ 291.555
Refinancing.
(a)
General.
A law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician may refinance the mortgage and note used to purchase the home. However, the total of the refinanced mortgage and the remaining principal balance of the second mortgage may not exceed 95 percent of the value of the property, as appraised at the time of the refinancing. Unless HUD permits subordination pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the second mortgage described in § 291.550 must hold a superior lien position to the refinanced mortgage.
(b)
Subordination of second mortgage.
HUD may permit subordination of the second mortgage to the refinanced mortgage, but only if HUD, at its sole discretion, determines that the refinancing will satisfy one of the following:
(1) Will result in a lower annual percentage rate (APR) on the first mortgage;
(2) Will be undertaken pursuant to HUD's Section 203(k) Rehabilitation Loan Insurance Program in order to rehabilitate or repair the home; or
(3) Is necessary to prevent the law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician from defaulting on the first mortgage.
§ 291.560
Ineligibility of multiple-unit properties.
Only single-unit properties are eligible for the GNND Sales Program.
§ 291.565
Continuing obligations after purchase.
To remain in compliance with the GNND Sales Program, the law enforcement officer, teacher, or firefighter/emergency medical technician must, for the entire duration of the owner-occupancy term:
(a) Continue to own, and live in as his/her sole residence, the home purchased through the GNND Sales Program; and
(b) Certify initially and once annually thereafter during and at the conclusion of the owner-occupancy term that he/she was at all times fully in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.

# Subpart G—Sale of HUD-Held Single Family Mortgage Loans

# Source:
89 FR 99716, Dec. 11, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 291.601
Definitions.
For purposes of this subpart, the following definitions apply:
Aggregate Loan Database (ALD)
means the electronic data file containing Single Family Loan information available for Qualified Participants to review before a Single Family Sale.
Bidder Information Package (BIP)
means the documents prepared for participants in a Single Family Sale, which may include, but are not limited
to, the following: an executive summary of the Programs; the Single Family Sale post-sale servicing and reporting requirements published by HUD; due diligence information and reports; Single Family Loan information; the Conveyance, Assignment and Assumption Agreement (CAA); bidding and settlement information; and necessary information and requirements as determined by the Secretary.
Bidder Qualification Statement
means HUD Forms 9611 and 9612, or any form approved for similar purpose in the future as prescribed by the Secretary. (OMB number 2502-0576)
Claim Date
means, with respect to each Single Family Loan, the date on which the Single Family Sale assignment claim is paid by HUD to the P-Servicer.
Competitive Sale of Single Family Loans
means a sale of an individual or group of Single Family Loans to Qualified Participants through a bid process prescribed by the Secretary in competition with other Qualified Participants in accordance with § 291.609.
Confidentiality Agreement
means a nondisclosure agreement under which the individual or entity seeking to participate in Single Family Sales agrees that Single Family Loan data and documentation shared with the individual or entity as due diligence will remain confidential in accordance with the terms of the agreement as determined by the Secretary.
Conveyance, Assignment and Assumption Agreement (CAA)
means the contract between HUD and a Purchaser, along with all applicable exhibits and riders, that governs the terms of the Single Family Sale as prescribed by the Secretary. The CAA will include any sale-specific post-sale servicing and outcome requirements, representations, repurchase requirements, schedule of dates, and reporting requirements published by the Secretary for the Single Family Sale through a Sale Notice.
Cut-off date
or
claim submission cut-off date
means the last date specified by the Secretary on which the P-Servicer is permitted to submit to HUD a Single Family Sale insurance claim for payment under 24 CFR 203.413 and 206.130.
Desk Guide
means the technical manual included in the PSA detailing the P-Servicer's steps for submitting Single Family Loans related to a Single Family Sale, including but not limited to the process for identifying eligible Single Family Loans, uploading due diligence files, and submitting insurance claims.
Direct Sale of Single Family Loans
means a sale of an individual or group of Single Family Loans to a Qualified Participant through the process described in § 291.619.
Home Equity Conversion Mortgage (HECM)
means reverse mortgages insured in accordance with 24 CFR part 206 under the FHA Home Equity Conversion Mortgage insurance program.
Interim Servicing Agreement (ISA)
means the agreement between a Purchaser and P-Servicer that governs the servicing and administration of the purchased loans, including but not limited to transfer of mortgage information and loss mitigation evaluations, during the Interim Servicing Period in accordance with the terms prescribed by the Secretary.
Interim Servicing Period
means the period commencing with Claim Date and ending with the Servicing Transfer Date.
Low-value
means, in reference to a Mortgage, the value minimum stated in the Participating Servicer Agreement (PSA).
Nonprofit organization
means an entity that is tax-exempt under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 (26 U.S.C.A. 501(c)(3)) and meets the qualification requirements prescribed by the Secretary for participation in a Single Family Sale.
Participating Servicer (P-Servicer)
means a mortgagee that complies with § 291.605 and submits Single Family Loans for a Single Family Sale.
Participating Servicer Agreement (PSA)
means the agreement between HUD and a P-Servicer that governs the P-Servicers submission of Single Family Loans to be sold in a Single Family Sale on terms as prescribed by the Secretary.
Purchaser
means a Qualified Participant to which HUD has awarded one or more Single Family Loans through a
Single Family Sale, as of the date of notification of the award.
Qualified Participant
means an individual or entity that satisfies the requirements in § 291.607 for participation in Single Family Sales.
Sale Notice
means an announcement published by HUD for an upcoming Single Family Sale and includes any stated mission objectives and additional sale, participant qualification, and loan eligibility requirements; representations; post-sale servicing, outcomes, and reporting requirements; and repurchase requirements for inclusion in the Qualification Statement, PSA, ISA, and CAA as applicable.
Servicing Transfer Date
means, with respect to any Single Family Loan, the date on which the actual servicing duties for such Single Family Loan has been or will be transferred from the P-Servicer to the Purchaser's servicer. The latest Servicing Transfer Date will be set forth in a schedule of dates prescribed by the Secretary and included in the PSA, ISA, and CAA.
Single Family Loan
means any HUD-selected eligible forward mortgage loan insured under Section 203 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1709) that has or will be assigned to HUD and any HUD-selected eligible HECM insured under section 255 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z-20) that has or will be assigned to HUD, or any other eligible single family mortgage loans owned by the Secretary that will be sold in a Single Family Sale.
Single Family Sale
means a Competitive Sale of Single Family Loans or Direct Sale of Single Family Loans conducted by HUD in accordance with this subpart.
Vacant
means a mortgaged property is determined to be vacant or abandoned in accordance with the requirements of 24 CFR part 203 and FHA policy.
§ 291.603
Purpose, scope, and applicability.
The sale of Single Family Loans is at the discretion of the Secretary. All Single Family Loans will be sold without recourse to HUD and without FHA insurance. HUD may sell individual Single Family Loans or groups of Single Family Loans to Qualified Participants as a Competitive Sale of Single Family Loans, § 291.609, or as a Direct Sale of Single Family Loans, § 291.619. Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent HUD from grouping Single Family Loans with other types of HUD assets for sale, including grouping any associated HUD-held mortgages subordinate to the respective assets. The procedures set out in this subpart, including any cross-referenced regulations, documentation, and published notices detailed in this subpart, govern the Single Family Sales.
§ 291.605
Participating Servicers.
(a)
Participation.
To participate in a Single Family Sale, a Participating Servicer must:
(1) Be an FHA-approved Mortgagee contributing eligible Single Family Loans and assigning loans to HUD; and
(2) Execute a PSA and agree to execute an ISA, as needed.
(b)
Sale.
For each Single Family Sale, the Participating Servicer must:
(1) Identify mortgages that meet the eligibility criteria in accordance with terms of the PSA;
(2) Conduct all sale activities in accordance with the PSA and ISA;
(3) Comply with any Single Family Sale and Loan Sale Notification requirements as prescribed by the Secretary through notice; and
(4) Comply with the terms of the Sale Notice.
(5) Ensure the Loan Sale Notification is provided to each borrower and any other parties as required by the Secretary and the Loan Sale Notification complies with all applicable law. Loan Sale notification requirements will be announced to the Participating Servicer through notice.
(c)
Claim payment requirements.
The Participating Servicer must comply with the claim payment process and requirements for Single Family Sales in accordance with the PSA and processes outlined in §§ 203.413 and 206.130, as applicable.
(d)
Interim servicing.
During the Interim Servicing Period, the Participating Servicer must service the purchased Single Family Loans on behalf of the Purchaser in accordance with the ISA.
(e)
Transfer documents and servicing.
The Participating Servicer must conduct the servicing transfer of the Single Family Loans in accordance with the requirements of the PSA and ISA and must service the purchased Single Family Loans in accordance with all applicable state and Federal law requirements, including applicable Consumer Finance Protection Bureau (CFPB) requirements.
§ 291.607
Qualified participants.
(a)
Confidentiality Agreement and Bidder Qualification Statement.
Individuals or entities must become a Qualified Participant before they may bid or purchase Single Family Loans in a Single Family Sale. An individual or entity seeking to participate in a Single Family Sale must sign a Confidentiality Agreement and complete a Bidder Qualification Statement. The Secretary will specify which Bidder Qualification Statement form(s) are applicable to a particular Single Family Sale and any additional sale specific qualification criteria through notice. HUD will only provide access to sensitive Single Family Sale materials to Qualified Participants.
(b)
Process for determining Qualified Participant.
HUD will qualify any individual or entity seeking to participate in a Single Family Sale if they have met the qualification requirements and executed the applicable Bidder Qualification Statement for the Single Family Sale.
§ 291.609
Bidding process.
(a)
Sale notice.
The Secretary will prescribe requirements for a Single Family Sale through the Sale Notice. For each Single Family Sale, HUD will publish the PSA Addendum, Desk Guide, ISA Addendum, CAA Addendum, and Sale Notices on HUD's public website.
(b)
Submission of bids.
All bids by a Qualified Participant must be submitted to HUD in accordance with the Sale Notice and the instructions in the BIP. By submitting a bid, the Qualified Participant is considered to have made an offer to purchase Single Family Loans as presented in the BIP. Submission of a bid constitutes acceptance of the terms and conditions set forth in the BIP. Along with the bid, the Qualified Participant must submit an executed copy of the CAA and ISA, as applicable.
(c)
Bids by brokers or agents.
Any bid submitted by a broker or agent for a Qualified Participant must be made in the name of the Qualified Participant and signed by the broker or agent as the attorney-in-fact for the Qualified Participant. All such bid documents must bind the Qualified Participant. Each bid must also include a power of attorney satisfactory to HUD as to form and content.
(d)
Earnest money deposits.
The Qualified Participant must submit to HUD, along with its bid, an earnest money deposit, as required in the CAA or Sale Notice. The earnest money deposit is nonrefundable for a Qualified Participant whose bid is selected for award and will be credited toward the purchase price. If a Qualified Participant's bid is not selected for any award, their earnest money will be returned.
(e)
Timing for withdrawal of bids.
A Qualified Participant may withdraw a submitted bid in accordance with the instructions in the BIP for a Single Family Sale. However, a previously submitted bid may not be withdrawn once the bidding has closed.
(f)
Termination of Single Family Sale.
HUD reserves the right to terminate a Single Family Sale in whole or in part at any time before the bid date.
(g)
Withdrawal of Single Family Loans.
HUD reserves the right to withdraw Single Family Loans from a Single Family Sale prior to the settlement date. Any earnest money deposits made by a Purchaser relating to withdrawn Single Family Loans will be retained by the Secretary and credited toward the total purchase price of the remaining Single Family Loans in the pool, in accordance with the CAA and BIP. After the bid date, HUD can withdraw Single Family Loans or not deliver all the Single Family Loans for settlement for any reason, including those set forth in the BIP and CAA.
(h)
Rejection of bids.
At HUD's discretion, any bid may be rejected under the following circumstances:
(1) The bid does not conform with the instructions in the BIP;
(2) HUD determines that an award based on the bid would not be in the best interests of the Secretary because the award would not further HUD's fiduciary responsibility to the mutual mortgage insurance fund (MMIF) or any stated mission objectives in the Sale Notice; or
(3) HUD can also issue a conditional rejection that would provide the opportunity for the bid to be amended and resubmitted for acceptance upon fulfillment of HUD's requests.
§ 291.611
Post-bid process and HUD's execution of the CAA.
After HUD evaluates conforming bids, HUD may request an adjustment to a bid in accordance with the BIP. After any bid adjustments, HUD will select bids for award and provide notice of award in a manner set forth in the BIP. After selection of a Purchaser, HUD will execute the CAA.
§ 291.613
Settlement requirements.
(a)
Settlement payment.
On the settlement date of a Single Family Sale, the Purchaser must pay to HUD the settlement payment, consisting of the balance of the amount due on the bid price, as adjusted in accordance with the CAA.
(b)
Settlement statement.
When the Purchaser delivers to HUD the documents required at settlement and the settlement payment in paragraph (a) of this section, HUD will execute and deliver to the Purchaser a settlement statement and updated Single Family Loan schedule for the CAA to document the Single Family Loans sold to the Purchaser in the Single Family Sale.
(c)
Endorsement and assignment.
HUD may grant a temporary Limited Power of Attorney to the Purchaser to effect endorsement and assignment of the Single Family Loans to the Purchaser.
(d)
Purchaser's special purpose entity.
HUD may allow a Purchaser to endorse and assign Single Family Loans from HUD to Purchaser's special purpose entity acquisition vehicle on terms permitted in the CAA.
§ 291.615
Purchaser servicing requirements.
(a)
Purchaser post-sale servicing.
The Purchaser and its servicer, and any subsequent transferee of or servicer for the Single Family Loan, must comply with the terms of the CAA and the Sale Notice post-sale loss mitigation and outcome requirements. Post-sale requirements will include a requirement that any Single Family Loan that converts to real estate owned property via foreclosure or deed-in-lieu of foreclosure be offered for sale through a first look program, providing an exclusive listing period for owner occupant, nonprofit organization, governmental entities, and other prospective buyers as permitted by HUD. Post-sale requirements will also include requirements that Purchasers offer borrowers loss mitigation options that are as or more generous than the FHA loss mitigation options, a prohibition on reselling real estate owned property through a contract for deed or similar financing mechanism, a requirement that the Purchaser obtain prior approval from HUD before entering into a lease-purchase agreement with a prospective purchaser, and a prohibition on releasing liens on particular categories of properties, including vacant properties. Purchasers must take all lawful steps to service the Single Family Loans and collect amounts due in accordance with requirements as set forth by the CAA and all state and Federal law requirements, including applicable CFPB requirements.
(b)
Purchaser reporting requirements.
Purchasers must report on the post-sale servicing actions and outcomes obtained for each Single Family Loan purchased as prescribed by the CAA. HUD will publish reports for the public on loan and property outcomes and will include a breakdown of outcomes in different geographies. HUD will prescribe the reporting period as a specified period after settlement in the CAA.
(c)
Remedy for performance failures.
HUD may pursue appropriate remedies, including, but not limited to, the ability to deny future participation in loan sales, for a Purchaser's failure to comply with Single Family Sale requirements, including CAA obligations.
§ 291.617
General policy—Direct Sale of Single Family Loans.
The Secretary may pursue a Direct Sale of Single Family Loans to individuals or entity type the Secretary determines may be eligible to qualify as set forth in the Sale Notice. The Direct Sale of Single Family Loans will be subject to the requirements of this subpart, excluding §§ 291.609 and 291.611. The Secretary will publish in the Sale Notice, sale specific Single Family Loan eligibility criteria.
§ 291.619
Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process.
(a)
Sale Notice.
The Secretary will prescribe requirements for a Direct Sale of Single Family Loans through a Sale Notice.
(b)
Sale feasibility.
In all stages of the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process, HUD may determine whether continuation with the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans is feasible and in HUD's interest, consistent with HUD's fiduciary responsibility to the MMIF and any stated mission objectives.
(c)
Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process.
An individual or entity interested in purchasing Single Family Loans through a Direct Sale of Single Family Loans must:
(1) Meet the Secretary's prescribed requirements for the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans in the Sale Notice;
(2) Submit a letter of interest to the Secretary that includes, at a minimum:
(i) The description of the individual or entity and a statement about how it would be able to satisfy the participant eligibility requirements and mission objectives, if any;
(ii) The geographic area of interest where the party wishes to purchase the loans;
(iii) The individual or entity's goals and how this purchase would assist in achieving these goals through post-sale outcomes;
(iv) The approximate timeframe for the purchase;
(v) The approximate number of loans or, alternatively, the approximate gross sale amount desired; and
(vi) The organizational documents for an entity including, but not limited to organizational documents, any required authorizing resolutions, and disclosure of all nonprofit organization or private entity partnership interests in the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans transaction.
(d)
HUD determination.
Upon receipt of a letter in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, HUD will respond in writing to the submitter to confirm receipt of the letter and, if necessary, request additional information needed for a final determination.
(e)
Secretary's determination to proceed.
(1) If the Secretary makes a final determination to proceed, the Secretary will request from the individual or entity, a business plan proposal from the individual or entity that details its ability to meet any stated mission objectives in the Sale Notice along with its goals and how these goals will be achieved with post-sale outcomes. Business plans must be received by HUD within 30 business days of request.
(2) Upon receipt and review of business plan proposal, HUD will:
(i) Reject the business plan proposal;
(ii) Issue a conditional rejection that would provide the opportunity for a business plan proposal to be amended and resubmitted for approval upon fulfillment of HUD's request; or
(iii) Approve the business plan proposal.
(3) Upon approval of such business plan proposal, HUD and the individual or entity will begin the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans process that includes:
(i) An executed Confidentiality Agreement;
(ii) An executed Bidder Qualification Statement;
(iii) A P-Servicer executed PSA; and
(iv) Review of Single Family Loans from P-Servicer(s) or HUD.
(4) HUD and the individual or entity reviews the ALD and will agree on the Single Family Loan Sale List for the Direct Sale of Single Family Loans.
(f)
Direct Sale of Single Family Loans.
After satisfaction of the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section, HUD will conduct its valuation review, and issue a final price determination and a CAA, containing an estimated settlement date, to the individual or entity. If accepted, a final Settlement date is
scheduled, and the Single Family Loan List is appended to the CAA.
(g)
Settlement.
HUD and the Purchaser will execute the CAA for settlement. The remaining settlement and transfer requirements will follow those in § 291.613.
§ 291.621
Disqualifications.
(a)
Fraudulent information.
If HUD determines there is any information indicating any certification or required document provided by any party participating in a Single Family Sale, including but not limited to P-Servicer, Purchaser, Qualified Participant, or a Purchaser's servicer, is false, misleading, or constitutes fraud or misrepresentation, HUD will not approve that party's participation in the Single Family Sale and will revoke any prior approval. The submission of false information or misrepresentation by an approved lender or mortgagee may result in the referral of the mortgagee to the Mortgagee Review Board.
(b)
Participant ineligibility.
An individual or entity is ineligible to participate in a Single Family Sale if, at the time of the Single Family Sale, that individual or entity is suspended, debarred, under a limited denial of participation (LDP), or otherwise restricted under 2 CFR part 180 or 2424, 24 CFR part 25, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, or under similar procedures of any other Federal agency.
(c)
Future participation.
Purchasers that made misrepresentations in the qualification process or failed to meet their contractual obligations under CAAs, including failing to meet post-sale requirements, for previous Single Family Sales in which they participated may be disqualified from participation in one or more future Single Family Sales or for a set period of time at the discretion of the Secretary.
PARTS 292-299 [RESERVED]
24 CFR Ch. III (4-1-25 Edition)
Government National Mortgage Association, HUD

# CHAPTER III—GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Part
Page
300
General
617
310
Bylaws of the Government National Mortgage Association
618
320
Guaranty of mortgage-backed securities
618
330
Guaranty of multiclass securities
623
340
Fiduciary activities
626
341-349
[Reserved]
350
Book-entry procedures
627
351-399
[Reserved]
Pt. 300

# PART 300—GENERAL
Sec.
300.1
Scope of chapter.
300.3
Description.
300.5
Creation and status.
300.7
Area of operations.
300.9
Office.
300.11
Authority of officers.
300.13
Power of attorney.
300.15
Exceptions.
300.17
Audits and reports.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1723a, unless otherwise noted, and 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
60 FR 42015, Aug. 14, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 300.1
Scope of chapter.
This chapter consists of general information and does not purport to set forth all of the procedures and requirements that apply to the operations of the Association. Complete specific information as to any aspect of such operations may be obtained from the office listed in § 300.9.
§ 300.3
Description.
The Government National Mortgage Association (hereinafter in this chapter called the Association, GNMA or Ginnie Mae) furnishes fiduciary services to itself and other departments and agencies of the Government, and guarantees privately issued securities backed by trusts or pools of mortgages or loans which are insured or guaranteed by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA), the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) or the Rural Housing Service (RHS) and certain other loans or mortgages guaranteed or insured by the Government. In the course of its business, the Association is referred to as GNMA or Ginnie Mae.
[66 FR 44265, Aug. 22, 2001]
§ 300.5
Creation and status.
The Association is a Government corporation in the Department of Housing and Urban Development. It is derived from the Federal National Mortgage Association, which was partitioned by the Congress into two corporations effective September 1, 1968, one of which is the Association. The operations of the Association are conducted under its statutory charter contained in title III of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1716,
et seq.
§ 300.7
Area of operations.
The Association is authorized to conduct its business in any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 300.9
Office.
The Association directs its operations from its office located at 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington DC 20410.
§ 300.11
Authority of officers.
The President, each Vice President, and each Assistant Vice President of the Association are severally expressly empowered in the name of the Association to sign all contracts and other documents, instruments, and writings which call for execution by the Association in the conduct of its business and affairs, and to encumber, mortgage, pledge, convey or otherwise alien any property which the Association may own or in which it may have an estate, right, title or interest. In addition, the President, each Vice President, each Assistant Vice President, the Secretary of the Association, each Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer and the Controller shall have the authority as may be provided in the Bylaws of the Association or as may be delegated to them in a manner not inconsistent with the Bylaws.
§ 300.13
Power of attorney.
In order to efficiently carry out the purposes of the Association, the Association may appoint any person its true and lawful attorney-in-fact by publication in the
Federal Register
or by appointment from the President of the Association in writing. Any such attorney-in-fact shall have the power outlined in the publication or appointment.
§ 300.15
Exceptions.
In the conduct of its affairs, in individual cases or classes of cases, the Association reserves the right, consistent with law, without prior notice and at
any time, to alter or waive any of the requirements contained in this chapter or elsewhere or to impose other and additional requirements; it further reserves the right, without prior notice and at any time, to amend or rescind any or all of the material set forth herein.
§ 300.17
Audits and reports.
The Association and its designees may at any reasonable time audit the books and examine the records of any issuer, mortgage servicer, trustee, agent or other person bearing on compliance with the requirements of the Association's programs, and the Association may require reasonable and necessary reports from such persons.
Pt. 310

# PART 310—BYLAWS OF THE GOVERNMENT NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1723 and 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
60 FR 42015, Aug. 14, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 310.1
Bylaws of the Association.
The bylaws of the Association shall be duly adopted by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to section 308 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1723) and shall govern the performance of the powers and duties granted to or imposed upon the Association by law.
Pt. 320

# PART 320—GUARANTY OF MORTGAGE-BACKED SECURITIES

# Subpart A—Pass-Through Type Securities
Sec.
320.1
General.
320.3
Eligible issuers of securities.
320.5
Securities.
320.7
Mortgages.
320.8
Excess Yield Securities.
320.9
Pool administration.
320.10
Financial reporting.
320.11
Insurance coverage.
320.12
Integrity.
320.13
Guaranty.
320.15
Default.
320.17
Fees.

# Subpart B—Bond-Type Securities
320.21
General.
320.23
Eligible issuers.
320.25
Securities.
320.27
Mortgages.
320.29
Guaranty.
320.31
Default.
320.33
Fees.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1721(g) and 1723a(a); and 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
60 FR 42015, Aug. 14, 1995, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Pass-Through Type Securities
§ 320.1
General.
The Association is authorized by section 306(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)) upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate, to guarantee the timely payment of principal of and interest on securities that are based on and backed by a trust or pool composed of mortgages which are insured or guaranteed by FHA, FmHA or VA. The Association's guaranty of mortgage-backed securities is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. This subpart is limited to “modified pass-through” securities, and does not purport to set forth all the procedures and requirements that apply to the issuance and guaranty of such securities. All such transactions are governed by the specific terms and provisions of the Association's Mortgage-Backed Securities Guides (MBS Guides) and contracts entered into by the parties.
§ 320.3
Eligible issuers of securities.
(a)
Eligibility requirements.
A mortgage lender, including an instrumentality of a State or local government, to be eligible to issue or service mortgage-backed securities guaranteed by the Association must satisfy all of the following standards:
(1) Be in good standing as a mortgagee approved by the FHA;
(2) Be in good standing as a mortgage seller or servicer approved by the Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC), or the Association. Loss of either FNMA approval or FHLMC approval may cause
the issuer to become ineligible to issue and service the Association's mortgage-backed securities and constitute a default under the applicable guaranty or contractual agreement whether or not the issuer qualified for new issuer approval on the basis of FNMA or FHLMC approval;
(3) Have management with adequate experience, and access to adequate facilities to issue or service mortgage-backed securities, as determined by the Association;
(4) Maintain the applicable minimum net worth discussed in paragraph (c) of this section; and
(5) Meet the requirements, conditions, and limitations prescribed by the Association in this part or the applicable MBS Guides.
(b)
Time of eligibility.
The Association shall not commit to guarantee, or guarantee any issue of mortgage-backed securities unless the mortgage lender requesting such commitment or guaranty qualifies as an eligible issuer both at the time of commitment approval and at the time of the issuance of the guaranty.
(c)
Net worth requirements.
Issuers shall maintain at all times a net worth acceptable to the Association of not less than the applicable minimum amount. The applicable minimum amount shall be published in the MBS Guides.
(d)
Disqualification.
A mortgage lender shall not qualify as an eligible issuer at any time in which:
(1) The lending policies of the issuer permit any discrimination based on race, religion, color, national origin, age, or sex of a borrower; or
(2) The issuer is not in compliance with any rules, regulations, or orders issued under title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; Executive Order 11063, Equal Opportunity in Housing, November 20, 1962; Executive Order 11246, Equal Employment Opportunity, issued on September 24, 1965 and amended on October 13, 1967; title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968; title VIII of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 as amended by the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988; or by the FHA or VA.
(e)
Ethics and standards.
A mortgage lender shall qualify as an eligible issuer only so long as it conducts its business operations in accordance with accepted mortgage banking practices, ethics, and standards, as determined by the Association, and maintains its books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
(f)
Change in control.
Issuers shall notify the Association of any change in issuer control. A change in control occurs whenever a new party obtains significant influence over an issuer, as defined by the Association. In a merger where the surviving party is not the approved issuer and in a consolidation, the surviving party must apply formally for approval as a new issuer prior to the merger or consolidation taking place. In other business combinations, such as a stock sale of an existing issuer, which result in a change in control of issuer, the issuer shall demonstrate that it continues to meet all issuer eligibility requirements prior to the business combination being finalized.
(g)
Cross-Default.
Related issuers, as defined by the Association, shall execute a cross-default agreement, in a form prescribed by the Association, that authorizes the default of one or more related issuers in the event of a default by any one of the related issuers. Issuers may be granted an exemption from this section, provided that they submit a legal opinion, acceptable to the Association, which demonstrates that the execution of a cross-default agreement would be prohibited by the issuer's Federal regulator.
(h)
Failure to comply.
In the event that an issuer subsequently fails to comply with any of the requirements prescribed in this part or the applicable MBS Guide, as determined by the Association, the Association may, among other things, withhold further commitments to guarantee securities until such time as the Association is satisfied that the issuer has resumed business operations in compliance with such requirements.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 2503-0003, 2503-0004, 2503-0006, 2503-0007, and 2503-0026)
§ 320.5
Securities.
(a)
Instruments.
Securities issued pursuant to the provisions of this subpart must be modified pass-through securities, that provide for payment, whether or not collected, of both specified principal installments and interest on the unpaid principal balance, with all prepayments and other unscheduled recoveries of principal being passed through to the holder. In the case of delinquent mortgages in a pool backing modified pass-through securities, the issuer is required to make advances if necessary to maintain the specified schedule of interest and principal payments to the holders, or at its option, at any time 90 days or more after default of any such mortgage, the issuer may repurchase such mortgage for an amount equal to the unpaid principal balance of the mortgage. The securities, if issued in certificated form, must specify the dates by which payments are to be made to the holders thereof, and must indicate the accounting period for collections on the pool's mortgages relating to each such payment, and the securities, if issued in certificated form, must also specify a date on which the entire principal will have been paid or will be payable.
(b)
Issue amount.
Each issue of guaranteed securities must be in a minimum face amount as specified in the applicable MBS Guide. The total face amount of any issue of securities cannot exceed the aggregate unpaid principal balances of the mortgages in the pool. The Association may provide for issuers to submit packages of mortgages that may be consolidated, with other packages of similar types of mortgages, into multiple issuer pools.
(c) [Reserved]
(d)
Transferability.
Securities are transferable, but the share of the proceeds collected on account of the pool of mortgages is payable only to the registered holder of a security according to the policies established by the Association.
(e)
Issue Date.
Securities backed by single-family mortgages with issue dates of October 1, 1998, or before, serial notes with issue dates of July 1, 2002, or before, and securities backed by multifamily mortgages with issue dates of February 1, 2002, or before, have been issued in certificated form. Securities issued after these dates will be issued in book-entry form. The Association may approve the issuance of certificated securities for good cause.
(f)
Delivery.
Delivery of uncertificated securities occurs when the book-entry depository's nominee is registered as the registered owner of the securities on Ginnie Mae's central registry.
(g)
Registered Ownership.
Ownership of mortgage-backed securities issued pursuant to this subpart registered in the name of a Depository shall be conclusively established by registration in the name of the Depository as owner on the Association's central registry and it shall be unnecessary for a Depository to maintain custody of any physical certificates evidencing such ownership.
(h)
Payments on Mortgage-Backed Securities.
Issuers must remit all payments due to holders of mortgage-backed securities such that holders will receive their installments as follows:
(1)
Payment to a Depository.
(i) For all securities registered in the name of a Depository or the designated nominee for a Depository, issuers are required to make payments in immediately available funds by ACH transaction, Fedwire, or by such other method as directed and/or authorized by the Association pursuant to the MBS Guide, including requiring that issuers maintain funds accounts in institutions that are accessible by debit ACH transactions originated by such Depository or its designee.
(ii) Payment must be made by the hour specified in the MBS Guide on the calendar day of the month specified in the MBS Guide for payment on such mortgage-backed securities (the “applicable Payment Date”), with adjustments to such time as may be specified in the MBS Guide for Payments Dates that do not fall on business days.
(2)
Payments to other holders.
An issuer of mortgage-backed securities that are not registered in the name of a Depository or its nominee may make payments to a security holder by ACH transaction or Fedwire, provided that it obtains the prior written approval of
the holder of such mortgage-backed securities. If an issuer begins to make such payments by electronic transfer, it must continue to do so while the securities are registered in the name of that security holder. If an issuer makes payments on mortgage-backed securities by check, the check must be received by the security holder not later than the applicable Payment Date each month.
(i)
Guaranty.
The Association's guaranty described in § 320.13 is a guaranty that payment will be made to the registered owner of securities as reflected in the Association's central registry. The Association makes no other guaranty, including any guaranty that a Depository will appropriately credit payments to beneficial owners of such mortgage-backed securities. The Association's guarantee of securities payable to a Depository or its nominee becomes effective when the Depository or its nominee is registered as the registered owner of the securities on the Association's central registry.
(j)
Definition of Depository.
As used in this section, Depository means a clearing corporation within the meaning of Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code, including any Federal Reserve Bank, that maintains systems by which ownership and transfer of interests in mortgage-backed securities are made through the books of such clearing corporation.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2503-0009)
[60 FR 42015, Aug. 14, 1995, as amended at 63 FR 51251, Sept. 24, 1998; 64 FR 34106, June 24, 1999; 66 FR 44265, Aug. 22, 2001; 70 FR 33652, June 8, 2005; 72 FR 49125, Aug. 27, 2007]
§ 320.7
Mortgages.
Each issue of guaranteed securities must be backed by a separate pool of mortgages which meet the requirements of the applicable MBS Guide.
§ 320.8
Excess Yield Securities.
(a)
Definition.
Excess Yield Securities are securities backed by the excess servicing income relating to mortgages underlying previously issued Ginnie Mae mortgage-backed securities.
(b)
GNMA guaranty.
The Association guarantees the timely payment of interest as provided by the terms of the security.
[71 FR 32389, June 5, 2006]
§ 320.9
Pool administration.
The Association will only guarantee securities if the issuer executes a guaranty agreement or contractual agreement in the form prescribed by the Association. Pool administration requirements are set forth in such agreements or the applicable MBS Guide.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control numbers 2503-0003, 2503-0004, 2503-0006, 2503-0007, and 2503-0026)
§ 320.10
Financial reporting.
Issuers shall submit to the Association audited annual financial statements within 90 days of their fiscal year end. All financial statements shall include a balance sheet and a statement of operations and cash flows. The audit shall be conducted in accordance with the standards for financial audits of the U.S. Government Accountability Office's
Government Auditing Standards,
issued by the Comptroller General of the United States.
[72 FR 49125, Aug. 27, 2007]
§ 320.11
Insurance coverage.
The issuer shall maintain, for the benefit of the Association, insurance, errors and omissions, fidelity bond and other coverage as required by the Association and set forth in the appropriate MBS Guide.
§ 320.12
Integrity.
(a)
Background.
Issuers shall disclose the background of all individuals serving on their Board of Directors and all individuals acting as authorized signatories. The disclosures shall include any prior convictions, fines or other adverse actions against these individuals by a Federal, state or local agency, or a government-related entity where the action is related to the responsibilities that are commensurate with those of the financial services industry. The term government-related entity includes, but is not limited to, FHA, VA, FmHA, FNMA, FHLMC, Office of Thrift Supervision, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and National Credit Union Administration.
(b)
Change in status.
Issuers shall disclose material changes in their status with other government-related entities and regulatory agencies, or state or local agencies with similar authority, within 5 business days of their occurrence. The disclosures shall include, but not be limited to, voluntary and non-voluntary terminations, defaults, fines, and material non-compliance with agency rules and policies. Disclosures that are specifically prohibited by an agency are exempted from this section.
§ 320.13
Guaranty.
The Association guarantees the timely payment, whether or not collected, of the interest on the outstanding balance and the specified principal installments on securities that are registered on Ginnie Mae's central registry. The Association's guaranty is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
[64 FR 34107, June 24, 1999]
§ 320.15
Default.
(a)
Issuer default.
Any failure or inability of the issuer to make payments as due as well as such other events as may be identified by the Association and included in the applicable guaranty agreement, contractual agreement or MBS Guide, shall constitute a default of the issuer.
(b)
Action upon default.
Upon any default by the issuer, the Association may:
(1) Institute a claim against the issuer's insurance, bond or other coverage, as specified in § 320.11;
(2) Pursuant to section 306(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), extinguish all the right, title, or other interest of the issuer in the pooled mortgages; and
(3) Exercise such other rights and remedies as it may have.
§ 320.17
Fees.
The Association may impose application fees, guaranty fees, securities transfer fees and other fees.

# Subpart B—Bond-Type Securities
§ 320.21
General.
In addition to the “pass-through” securities dealt with in subpart A of this part, the Association is authorized by section 306(g) of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1721(g), upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate, to guarantee the timely payment of principal of and interest on “bond-type” securities which are based on and backed by a trust or pool composed of mortgages which are insured or guaranteed by FHA, FmHA or the VA. The Association's guaranty of mortgage-backed securities is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States. This subpart deals with such “bond-type” securities and does not purport to set forth all the procedures and requirements that apply to the issuance and guaranty of such securities. All such transactions are governed by the specific terms and provisions of the contracts entered into by the parties and the Bond-Type Securities Guide (the “Bond Guide”).
§ 320.23
Eligible issuers.
Any corporation, trust, partnership, or other entity with a net worth acceptable to the Association as set forth in the Bond Guide, which has the capability to assemble acceptable and eligible mortgages in sufficient quantity to support required minimum issuances of securities and which meets such other requirements as are set forth in the Bond Guide, may be approved to issue and service bond-type securities guaranteed by the Association. Further, the Association reserves the right to limit the number of issuers in the interest of conducting an orderly market of securities of this type.
§ 320.25
Securities.
(a)
Instruments.
Securities to be issued pursuant to the provisions of this subpart B may be in registered or bearer form. Each security shall have terms acceptable to the Association as provided in the Bond Guide.
(b)
Issue amount.
Each issue of guaranteed securities must be in a minimum face amount as specified in the Bond Guide. The total face amount of any issue of securities cannot exceed
the aggregate unpaid principal balances of the mortgages in the pool.
(c)
Face amount of securities.
The face amount of any security cannot be less than $25,000.
(d)
Transferability.
Bearer securities are freely transferrable. Registered securities are transferable only on the books of an agent, as shall be agreed upon by the Association and the issuer.
(e)
Treasury approval.
Issues of $100 million or larger will be subject to approval of the Secretary of the Treasury.
§ 320.27
Mortgages.
Guaranteed securities issued under these provisions must be based on and backed by mortgages pooled under trust arrangements satisfactory to the Association. Such mortgages must meet the requirements of the Bond Guide.
§ 320.29
Guaranty.
With respect to bond-type securities, the Association will guarantee the timely payment of principal of and interest on such securities, subject to the terms and conditions of the securities. The Association's guaranty is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
§ 320.31
Default.
Upon default of the issuer, the Association has the right, pursuant to section 306(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)), to take title to the mortgages and other assets that are subject to the trust arrangements, and to proceed against other assets of the issuer to the extent necessary to satisfy its own claims and the rights of the holders of securities then outstanding. Such action by the Association shall be taken subject to an accounting to the issuer.
§ 320.33
Fees.
The Association may impose application and guaranty fees, which may vary with relation to the size or risk of the guaranty transaction undertaken.
Pt. 330

# PART 330—GUARANTY OF MULTICLASS SECURITIES
Sec.
330.1
Scope of part.
330.5
Definitions.
330.10
Eligible collateral.
330.15
Participation requirements.
330.20
Eligible participants.
330.25
Fees.
330.30
GNMA guaranty.
330.35
Investors.
330.40
Consultation.
330.45
Limitation on GNMA liability.
330.50
Administration of multiclass securities.
330.55
Basis for removal from participation.
330.60
Removal procedure.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1721(g) and 1723a(a); and 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
60 FR 42018, Aug. 14, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 330.1
Scope of part.
This part is limited to multiclass securities. It does not purport to set forth all the procedures and requirements that apply to the issuance and guaranty of such securities. All such transactions are governed by the specific terms and provisions of the contracts entered into by the parties and by the GNMA Multiclass Securities Guide (Multiclass Guide).
§ 330.5
Definitions.
As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
Consolidated securities.
A series of multiclass securities, each class of which provides for payments proportionate with payments on the underlying eligible collateral.
Depositor.
The entity that deposits, or executes an agreement to deposit, as contained in the Multiclass Guide, eligible collateral into a trust in exchange for consolidated securities.
Depository.
A clearing corporation within the meaning of Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code, including any Federal Reserve Bank, that maintains systems by which ownership and transfer of interests in Ginnie Mae multiclass securities are made through entries on the books of such clearing corporation.
GNMA electronic bulletin board.
An information distribution system established by the Association for the Multiclass Securities program.
GNMA MBS certificates.
The guaranteed mortgage-backed securities issued under part 320 of this chapter.
Government mortgages.
Mortgages that are eligible under section 306(g) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)) for inclusion in GNMA mortgage-backed securities pools.
Multiclass Registrar.
The institution that is specified by the Association as the registrar of the related class and series of multiclass securities.
Participant.
For structured securities, the sponsor, co-sponsor, trustee, trust counsel, and accounting firm. For consolidated securities, the depositor. Other entities may be designated as participants in the Multiclass Guide.
Sponsor.
With respect to structured securities, the entity that establishes the required trust executing the trust agreement and depositing the eligible collateral in the trust in exchange for the structured securities.
Structured securities.
Securities of a series at least one class of which provides for payments of principal or interest disproportionately from payments on the underlying eligible collateral.
[66 FR 44265, Aug. 22, 2001]
§ 330.10
Eligible collateral.
The Association, in its discretion, shall determine what collateral is eligible for inclusion in the Multiclass Securities program. Eligible collateral may include GNMA MBS certificates, government mortgages, consolidated securities, and other securities approved by the Association. Categories of these GNMA MBS certificates, government mortgages, consolidated securities, and other securities as approved by the Association become eligible collateral when they are published as eligible collateral in the Multiclass Guide or on the GNMA electronic bulletin board. Eligible collateral may differ for various Association guaranteed multiclass securities.
§ 330.15
Participation requirements.
To participate in the Multiclass Securities program, a participant must meet the following criteria:
(a)
Certification.
A participant must submit such certifications and other documents as are required by the Multiclass Guide.
(b)
Compliance with Multiclass Guide.
By completing a multiclass securities transaction, a participant is deemed to have represented and warranted to the Association that it has complied with, and that it agrees to comply with, the Multiclass Guide in effect as of the date that the Association's guaranty is placed on the securities.
(c)
Material changes in status.
A participant must report, as required in the Multiclass Guide, material adverse changes in status including voluntary and non-voluntary termination, defaults, fines and findings of material non-conformance with rules and policies of state and federal agencies and federal government sponsored enterprises.
(d)
Integrity.
The participant must conduct its business operations in accordance with industry practices, ethics and standards, and maintain its books and records in an appropriate manner, as determined by the Association.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2503-0030)
§ 330.20
Eligible participants.
In addition to requirements set forth in this part, a participant must meet the following requirements.
(a)
Structured securities
—(1)
Description.
The Association guarantees the payment of principal and interest on structured securities issued by trusts organized by sponsors in accordance with procedures established and approved by the Association. The structured securities are backed by eligible collateral, as described in this part, held by the trustee.
(2)
Eligibility requirements for participants
—(i)
Sponsors.
A sponsor must:
(A) Apply and be approved by the Association;
(B) Demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Association its capacity to accumulate the eligible collateral, as described in this part, needed for a proposed structured securities issuance;
(C) Be in good standing with and either have been responsible for at least one structured securities transaction with FNMA or FHLMC, or have demonstrated to the Association's satisfaction its capability to act as sponsor of GNMA guaranteed structured securities;
(D) Have the minimum required amount, as set forth in the Multiclass Guide, in shareholders' equity or partners' capital, evidenced by the sponsor's audited financial statements, which must have been issued within the preceding 12-month period;
(E) Represent the structural integrity of the issuance under all cash flow scenarios and demonstrate to the Association's satisfaction its ability to indemnify the Association for a breach of this representation;
(F) Comply with the Association's policies regarding participation by minority and/or women-owned businesses and take appropriate measures to assure compliance by the other participants as specified in the Multiclass Guide; and
(G) Provide the Association with the opinions of trust counsel and accounting firms which are acceptable to the Association and on which the Association may rely.
(ii)
Co-sponsors.
A Co-sponsor must submit to the Association an application and a certification, as set forth in the Multiclass Guide, as to its status as a minority and/or women-owned business.
(iii)
Trustees.
A trustee is selected by the Sponsor from institutions approved by the Association using such procedures as the Association deems appropriate.
(b)
Consolidated securities
—(1)
Description.
A Depositor delivers, or executes an agreement to deliver, eligible collateral to a trust in exchange for a single Association guaranteed multiclass security, as set forth in the Multiclass Guide.
(2)
Eligibility requirements for participant.
A Depositor must certify that:
(i) It is an “accredited investor” within the meaning of 17 CFR 230.501(a)(1), (a)(3) or (a)(7);
(ii) It has authority to deliver, and will deliver, the collateral to the trustee and that the collateral is free and clear of all liens and encumbrances; and
(iii) The information set forth by the depositor regarding the eligible collateral is true and correct.
(c)
Other types of Association guaranteed multiclass securities.
The Association will set forth the requirements for the guaranty by the Association of other types of multiclass securities, and the eligibility requirements for the appropriate participants, in the Multiclass Guide or on the GNMA electronic bulletin board.
§ 330.25
Fees.
The Association, in its discretion, through publication in the Multiclass Guide or on the GNMA electronic bulletin board, may impose fees for application, guaranty, transfer, change from book entry to certificated form, or other related fees. Fees may vary, at the Association's discretion, depending upon, but not limited to, such factors as size, collateral characteristics, expense or risk of the guaranty transaction undertaken.
§ 330.30
GNMA Guaranty.
(a)
Securities held by Depositories.
Ownership of multiclass securities registered in the name of a Depository shall be conclusively established by registration in the name of the Depository as owner on the books and records of the Multiclass Registrar, and it shall be unnecessary for a Depository to maintain custody of any physical certificates evidencing such ownership.
(b)
Guaranty.
The Association's guaranty is a guaranty that payment will be made to the registered owner of securities as reflected on the books and records of the Multiclass Registrar.
(1) The Association makes no other guaranty, including any guaranty that a Depository will appropriately credit payments to beneficial owners of GNMA multiclass securities. The Association's guarantee of securities payable to a Depository or its nominee becomes effective when the Depository or
its nominee is registered as the registered owner of the securities on the books and records of the Multiclass Registrar.
(2) The Association guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest as provided by the terms of the multiclass security. The Association's guaranty is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
[66 FR 44266, Aug. 22, 2001]
§ 330.35
Investors.
Association guaranteed multiclass securities may not be suitable investments for all investors. No investor should purchase securities of any class unless the investor understands, and is able to bear, the prepayment, yield, liquidity and market risks associated with the class. The Association assumes no obligation or liability to any person with regard to determining the suitability of such securities for such investor.
§ 330.40
Consultation.
The Association may consult with persons or entities in such manner as the Association deems appropriate to ensure the efficient commencement and operation of the Multiclass Securities program.
§ 330.45
Limitation on GNMA liability.
Except for its guaranty, the Association undertakes no obligation and assumes no liability to any person with regard to or on account of the existence or operation of this part or the conduct of any participants in the Multiclass Securities program.
§ 330.50
Administration of multiclass securities.
The GNMA guaranteed multiclass securities will be administered in accordance with the Association's requirements described in the Multiclass Guide.
§ 330.55
Basis for removal from participation.
A participant may be removed from the Multiclass Securities program if the Association, in its discretion, determines that any of the following exists or has occurred:
(a) The participant, at any time, fails to meet any condition for eligibility;
(b) The participant fails to comply with any provision of the Multiclass Guide or this part;
(c) The participant is unable or fails to truthfully, correctly or fully submit such certifications as are required; and
(d) Such further reasons as the Association determines necessary to protect the safety and soundness of the Multiclass Securities program, as set out in the Multiclass Guide.
§ 330.60
Removal procedure.
(a) A participant may be suspended from participation in the Multiclass Securities program upon written notice from the Association, which shall include the reasons for the suspension. The participant shall have the opportunity to submit a written presentation to the President of the Association, or designee, in support of its reinstatement, subject to such limitations as the Association in its discretion may impose as to length, time for submission, or otherwise. A determination by the President of the Association, or designee, shall exhaust the participant's administrative remedies.
(b) If a participant is suspended from the Multiclass Securities program, the Association shall have no obligation to complete a pending transaction involving the participant.
(c) After a participant has been removed from the Multiclass Securities program, the participant may request reinstatement. Approval of the reinstatement is at the sole discretion of the Association.
Pt. 340

# PART 340—FIDUCIARY ACTIVITIES
Sec.
340.1
General.
340.3
Appropriations.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1723a and 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
60 FR 42019, Aug. 14, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 340.1
General.
The Association is authorized by section 302(c) of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1717(c)) to create, accept, execute, and administer trusts and
other fiduciary undertakings appropriate for financing purposes. Under this authority, the Association is authorized to acquire and otherwise deal in any mortgages or other types of obligations in which any department or agency of the United States listed in section 302(c)(2) of such Act may have a financial interest. Under its fiduciary powers, the Association may create, accept, and administer trusts consisting of interests in mortgages and obligations, sell to private investors certificates of beneficial interest, or participations, in the mortgages or obligations or in the interest and principal payments derived therefrom, and provide for payment of interest and principal and for retirement of the participations. The Association, in its ordinary corporate capacity as contrasted to its fiduciary capacity, is expressly authorized to guarantee the participations.
§ 340.3
Appropriations.
There is authority for Congress to appropriate such sums as may be necessary to enable the trustor of any trust (as described in § 340.1) to pay to the Association, as trustee, any insufficiency in aggregate receipts from the obligations subject to the trust to provide for the timely payment by the trustee of all interest or principal on the beneficial interests or participations related to such trust.
PARTS 341-349 [RESERVED]
Pt. 350

# PART 350—BOOK-ENTRY PROCEDURES
Sec.
350.1
Purpose.
350.2
Definitions.
350.3
Maintenance of Ginnie Mae Securities.
350.4
Law governing rights and obligations of United States, and Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories; Rights of any Person against United States, and Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories; Law Governing Other Interests.
350.5
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; Security Interests.
350.6
Obligations of the Reserve Banks as Depositories; No Adverse Claims.
350.7
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories.
350.8
Withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities for Conversion to Definitive Form.
350.9
Waiver of Regulations.
350.10
Liability of Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories.
350.11
Notice of Attachment for Ginnie Mae Securities in Book-entry System.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1721(g) and 1723a(a); 42 U.S.C. 3535(d).

# Source:
66 FR 44266, Aug. 22, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 350.1
Purpose.
The purpose of this part is to achieve the efficiencies and fungibility through use of a single system for transferring interests both in Ginnie Mae Securities and other United States Government securities and in mortgage-backed securities issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. The Association only guarantees that payments required to be made by issuers of Ginnie Mae Securities will be made to the registered owner of those Ginnie Mae Securities. The Association undertakes no other obligation. Under the Book-entry System, the Federal Reserve Banks will be the registered owner of Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities, not the agent of the Association, and the Association makes no warranty or guaranty with respect to the maintenance of the Book-entry System by the Federal Reserve Banks.
§ 350.2
Definitions.
(a)
Specified Terms.
As used in this part, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated:
Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security.
A Ginnie Mae Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System. Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security also means the separate interest and principal components of a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security if such security has been designated by Ginnie Mae as eligible for division into such components and the components are maintained separately on the books of one or more Federal Reserve Banks.
Book-entry System.
The automated book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks acting as Depositories for Ginnie Mae, on which Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities are
recorded, transferred and maintained in book-entry form.
Definitive Ginnie Mae Security.
A Ginnie Mae Security in engraved or printed form, or that is otherwise represented by a certificate.
Depository.
A clearing corporation within the meaning of Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code, including any Federal Reserve Bank, that maintains systems by which ownership and transfer of interests in Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities are made through entries on the books of such clearing corporation.
Eligible Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security.
A Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security issued or maintained in the Book-entry System which by the terms of its Security Documentation is eligible to be converted from book-entry form into definitive form.
Entitlement Holder.
A Person to whose account an interest in a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security is credited on the records of a Securities Intermediary.
Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular.
The publication issued by each Federal Reserve Bank that sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Reserve Bank maintains book-entry securities accounts (including Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities accounts) and transfers book-entry Securities (including Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities).
Ginnie Mae Security.
Any security or obligation guaranteed as to payment of principal and/or interest by Ginnie Mae under its Charter Act and issued in the form of a Definitive Ginnie Mae Security or a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security.
Participant.
A Person that maintains a Participant's Securities Account with a Federal Reserve Bank.
Person.
An individual, corporation, company, governmental entity, association, firm, partnership, trust, estate, representative, and any other similar organization, but such term does not mean or include the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank.
Revised Article 8.
The same meaning as in 31 CFR 357.2.
Secretary.
The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and, where appropriate, any person designated by the Secretary to perform a particular function for the Secretary, including any HUD officer, employee, or agent.
Security.
Any mortgage participation certificate, note, bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, collateral-trust certificate, transferable share, certificate of deposit for a security, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a security.
Securities Documentation.
The applicable statement of terms, trust agreement, trust indenture, securities agreement or other documents establishing the terms of a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security.
Transfer message.
An instruction of a member of a Federal Reserve Bank to effect a transfer of a Book-entry Security (including a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security) maintained in the Book-entry System, as set forth in Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars.
(b)
Other Terms.
Unless the context requires otherwise, terms used in this part that are not defined in this part, have the meanings as set forth in 31 CFR 357.2. Definitions and terms used in 31 CFR part 357 should read as though modified to effectuate their application to Ginnie Mae Securities.
§ 350.3
Maintenance of Ginnie Mae Securities.
A Ginnie Mae Security may be maintained in the form of a Definitive Ginnie Mae Security or a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security. A Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security shall be maintained in the Book-entry System.
§ 350.4
Law governing rights and obligations of United States, and Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories; Rights of any Person against United States, and Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories; Law Governing Other Interests.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the following rights and obligations are governed solely by the book-entry regulations contained in this part, the Securities Documentation, and Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars (but not including any choice of law provisions in the Security Documentation to the extent such provisions conflict with the Book-entry regulations contained in this part):
(1) The rights and obligations of a Federal Reserve Bank as a Depository with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of a book-entry system operated by a Depository as it applies to Ginnie Mae Securities; and
(2) The rights of any Person, including a Participant, against the Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories with respect to:
(i) A Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security or Security Entitlement; and
(ii) The operation of the book-entry system operated by the Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories as it applies to Ginnie Mae Securities.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Participant and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 350.5(c)(1), is governed by the law (not including the conflict-of-law rules) of the jurisdiction where the head office of the Federal Reserve Bank maintaining the Participant's Securities Account is located. A security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank from a Person that is not a Participant, and that is not recorded on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to § 350.5(c)(1), is governed by the law determined in the manner specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(c) If the jurisdiction specified in the first sentence of paragraph (b) of this section is a State that has not adopted Revised Article 8, then the law specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall be the law of that State as though Revised Article 8 had been adopted by that State.
(d) To the extent not otherwise inconsistent with this part, and notwithstanding any provision in the Security Documentation setting forth a choice of law, the provision set forth in 31 CFR 357.11 regarding law governing other interests apply and shall be read as though modified to effectuate the application of 31 CFR 357.11 to Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities.
§ 350.5
Creation of Participant's Security Entitlement; Security Interests.
(a) A Participant's Security Entitlement is created when a Federal Reserve Bank indicates by book-entry that a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security has been credited to a Participant's Securities Account.
(b) A security interest in a Security Entitlement of a Participant in favor of the United States to secure deposits of public money, including without limitation deposits to the Treasury tax and loan accounts, or other security interests in favor of the United States that is required by Federal statute, regulation, or agreement, and that is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank is thereby effected and perfected, and has priority over any other interest in the securities. Where a security interest in favor of the United States in a Security Entitlement of a Participant is marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank, such Reserve Bank may rely, and is protected in relying, exclusively on the order of an authorized representative of the United States directing the transfer of the security. For purposes of this paragraph, an “authorized representative of the United States” is the official designated in the applicable regulations or agreement to which a Federal Reserve Bank is a party, governing the security interest.
(c)(1) The Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories have no obligation to agree to act on behalf of any Person or to recognize the interest of any transferee of a security interest or other limited interest in favor of any Person except to the extent of any specific requirement of Federal law or regulation or to the extent set forth in any specific agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank on whose books the interest of the Participant is recorded. To the extent required by such law or regulation or set forth in an agreement with a Federal Reserve Bank, or the Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular, a security interest in a Security Entitlement that is in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank or a Person may be created and perfected by a Federal Reserve Bank as Depository marking its books to record the security interest. Except
as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, a security interest in a Security Entitlement marked on the books of a Federal Reserve Bank shall have priority over any other interest in the securities.
(2) In addition to the method provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, a security interest, including a security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank, may be perfected by any method by which a security interest may be perfected under applicable law as described in § 350.4(b) or (d). The perfection, effect of perfection or non-perfection and priority of a security interest are governed by such applicable law. A security interest in favor of a Federal Reserve Bank shall be treated as a security interest in favor of a clearing corporation in all respects under such law, including with respect to the effect of perfection and priority of such security interest. A Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circular shall be treated as a rule adopted by a clearing corporation for such purposes.
§ 350.6
Obligations of the Reserve Banks as Depositories; No Adverse Claims.
Except in the case of a security interest in favor of the United States or a Federal Reserve Bank or otherwise as provided in § 350.5(c)(1), for the purposes of this part, the Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories shall treat the Participant to whose Securities Account an interest in a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security has been credited as the person exclusively entitled to issue a Transfer Message, to receive interest and other payments with respect thereof and otherwise to exercise all the rights and powers with respect to such Security, notwithstanding any information or notice to the contrary. The Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories are not liable to a Person asserting or having an adverse claim to a Security Entitlement or to a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security in a Participant's Securities Account, including any such claim arising as a result of the transfer or disposition of a Book-entry Ginnie Mae Security by a Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to a Transfer Message that the Federal Reserve Bank reasonably believes to be genuine.
§ 350.7
Authority of Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories.
(a) Each Federal Reserve Bank is hereby authorized as Depository for Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities to perform the following functions with respect to Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities to which this part applies, in accordance with the Securities Documentation, Federal Reserve Bank Operating Circulars, this part, and procedures established by the Secretary consistent with these authorities:
(1) To service and maintain Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities in accounts established for such purposes;
(2) To make payments with respect to such securities;
(3) To effect transfer of Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities between Participants' Securities Accounts as directed by the Participants;
(4) To effect conversions between Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities and Definitive Ginnie Mae Securities pursuant to the applicable Securities Documentation; and
(5) To perform such other duties as the Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories may be requested by Ginnie Mae.
(b) Each Federal Reserve Bank as Depository may issue Operating Circulars, not inconsistent with this part, governing the details of its handling of Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities, Security Entitlements, and the operation of the book-entry system under this part.
§ 350.8
Withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities for Conversion to Definitive Form.
(a) Eligible book-entry Ginnie Mae securities may be withdrawn from the book-entry system after Ginnie Mae has approved a request for the delivery of definitive Ginnie Mae securities in the same amount.
(b) A Reserve Bank as Depository shall, upon receipt of appropriate instructions to withdraw Eligible Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities from book-entry in the Book-entry System, facilitate the conversion of such securities into Definitive Ginnie Mae Securities and their delivery in accordance with such instructions. No such conversion shall affect existing interests in such Ginnie Mae Securities.
(c) All requests for withdrawal of Eligible Book-entry Ginnie Mae Securities must be made prior to the maturity or date of call of the securities.
(d) Definitive Ginnie Mae Securities that are to be delivered upon withdrawal may be issued in either registered or bearer form, to the extent permitted by the applicable Securities Documentation.
[66 FR 44266, Aug. 22, 2001, as amended at 72 FR 49125, Aug. 27, 2007]
§ 350.9
Waiver of Regulations.
Ginnie Mae reserves the right in its discretion, to waive any provision(s) of these regulations in any case or class of cases for the convenience of Ginnie Mae or the United States, or in order to relieve any Person(s) of unnecessary hardship, if such action is not inconsistent with law, does not adversely affect any substantial existing rights, and the Association is satisfied that such action will not subject the Association or the United States to any substantial expense or liability.
§ 350.10
Liability of Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories.
The Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories may rely on the information provided in a Transfer Message, and are not required to verify the information. The Federal Reserve Banks as Depositories shall not be liable for any action taken in accordance with the information set out in a Transfer Message, or evidence submitted in support thereof.
§ 350.11
Notice of Attachment for Ginnie Mae Securities in Book-entry System.
The interest of a debtor in a Security Entitlement may be reached by a creditor only by legal process upon the Securities Intermediary with whom the debtor's securities account is maintained, except where a Security Entitlement is maintained in the name of a secured party, in which case the debtor's interest may be reached by legal process upon the secured party. These regulations do not purport to establish whether a Federal Reserve Bank as Depository is required to honor an order or other notice of attachment in any particular case or class of cases.
PARTS 351-399 [RESERVED]
24 CFR Ch. IV (4-1-25 Edition)
Housing and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, HUD

# CHAPTER IV—OFFICE OF HOUSING AND OFFICE OF MULTIFAMILY HOUSING ASSISTANCE RESTRUCTURING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Part
Page
400
[Reserved]
401
Multifamily Housing Mortgage and Housing Assistance Restructuring Program (Mark-to-Market)
635
402
Section 8 Project-based contract renewal under section 524 of MAHRA
660
403-499
[Reserved]
PART 400 [RESERVED]
Pt. 401

# PART 401—MULTIFAMILY HOUSING MORTGAGE AND HOUSING ASSISTANCE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM (MARK-TO-MARKET)

# Subpart A—General Provisions; Eligibility
Sec.
401.1
What is the purpose of part 401?
401.2
What special definitions apply to this part?
401.3
Who may waive provisions in this part?
401.99
How does an owner request a section 8 contract renewal?
401.100
Which projects are eligible for a Restructuring Plan under this part?
401.101
Which owners are ineligible to request Restructuring Plans?

# Subpart B—Participating Administrative Entity (PAE) and Portfolio Restructuring Agreement (PRA)
401.200
Who may be a PAE?
401.201
How does HUD select PAEs?
401.300
What is a PRA?
401.301
Partnership arrangements.
401.302
PRA administrative requirements.
401.303
PRA indemnity provisions for SHFAs and HAs.
401.304
PRA provisions on PAE compensation.
401.309
PRA term and termination provisions; other provisions.
401.310
Conflicts of interest.
401.311
Standards of conduct.
401.312
Confidentiality of information.
401.313
Consequences of PAE violations; finality of HUD determination.
401.314
Environmental review responsibilities.

# Subpart C—Restructuring Plan
401.400
Required elements of a Restructuring Plan.
401.401
Consolidated Restructuring Plans.
401.402
Cooperation with owner and qualified mortgagee in Restructuring Plan development.
401.403
Rejection of a request for a Restructuring Plan because of actions or omissions of owner or affiliate or project condition.
401.404
Proposed Restructuring Commitment.
401.405
Restructuring Commitment review and approval by HUD.
401.406
Execution of Restructuring Commitment.
401.407
Closing conducted by PAE.
401.408
Affordability and use restrictions required.
401.410
Standards for determining comparable market rents.
401.411
Guidelines for determining exception rents.
401.412
Adjustment of rents based on operating cost adjustment factor (OCAF) or budget.
401.420
When must the Restructuring Plan require project-based assistance?
401.421
Rental Assistance Assessment Plan.
401.450
Owner evaluation of physical condition.
401.451
PAE Physical Condition Analysis (PCA).
401.452
Property standards for rehabilitation.
401.453
Reserves.
401.460
Modification or refinancing of first mortgage.
401.461
HUD-held second mortgage.
401.471
HUD payment of a section 541(b) claim.
401.472
Rehabilitation funding.
401.473
HUD grants for rehabilitation under section 236(s) of NHA.
401.474
Project accounts.
401.480
Sale or transfer of project.
401.481
Subsidy layering limitations on HUD funds.
401.500
Required notices to third parties and meeting with third parties.
401.501
Delivery of notices and recipients of notices.
401.502
Notice requirement when debt restructuring will not occur.
401.503
Access to information.

# Subpart D—Implementation of the Restructuring Plan After Closing
401.550
Monitoring and compliance agreements.
401.552
Servicing of second mortgage.
401.554
Contract renewal and administration.
401.556
Leasing units to voucher holders.
401.558
Physical condition standards.
401.560
Property management standards.

# Subpart E—Section 8 Requirements for Restructured Projects
401.595
Contract and regulatory provisions.
401.600
Will a section 8 contract be extended if it would expire while an owner's request for a Restructuring Plan is pending?
401.601
[Reserved]
401.602
Tenant protections if an expiring contract is not renewed.
401.605
Project-based assistance provisions.
401.606
Tenant-based assistance provisions.

# Subpart F—Owner Dispute of Rejection and Administrative Appeal
401.645
Owner request to review HUD decision.
401.650
When may the owner request an administrative appeal?
401.651
Appeal procedures.
401.652
No judicial review.

# Authority:
12 U.S.C. 1715z-1 and 1735f-19(b); 42 U.S.C. 1437(c)(8), 1437f(t), 1437f note, and 3535(d).

# Source:
65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Provisions; Eligibility
§ 401.1
What is the purpose of part 401?
This part contains the regulations implementing the authority in the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997 (MAHRA) for the Mark-to-Market Program. Section 511(b) of MAHRA details the purposes, and section 512(2) details the scope, of the Program.
§ 401.2
What special definitions apply to this part?
(a)
MAHRA
means the Multifamily Assisted Housing Reform and Affordability Act of 1997, title V of Pub. L. 105-65, 42 U.S.C. 1437f note.
(b)
Statutory terms.
Terms defined in section 512 of MAHRA are used in this part in accordance with their statutory meaning. These terms are: comparable properties, expiring contract, expiration date, fair market rent, mortgage restructuring and rental assistance sufficiency plan, nonprofit organization, qualified mortgagee, portfolio restructuring agreement, participating administrative entity, project-based assistance, renewal, State, tenant-based assistance, and unit of general local government.
(c)
Other terms.
As used in this part, the term—
Affiliate
means an “affiliate of the owner” or an “affiliate of the purchaser”, as such terms are defined in section 516(a) of MAHRA.
Applicable Federal rate
has the meaning given in section 1274(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 26 U.S.C. 1274(d).
Community-based nonprofit organization
means a nonprofit organization that maintains at least one-third of its governing board's membership for low-income tenants from the local community, or for elected representatives of community organizations that represent low-income tenants.
Comparable market rents
has the meaning given in § 401.410(b).
Disabled family
has the meaning given in § 5.403(b) of this title.
Elderly family
has the meaning given in § 5.403(b) of this title.
Eligible project
means a project that meets the requirements for eligibility for a Restructuring Plan in § 401.100.
HUD
means a HUD official authorized to act under the provisions of MAHRA, and otherwise has the meaning given in § 5.100 of this title.
NHA
means the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1702
et seq.
OAHP
means the Office of Affordable Housing Preservation, and any successor office.
Owner
means the owner of a project and any purchaser of the project.
PAE
means a participating administrative entity as defined in section 512(10) of MAHRA, or HUD when appropriate in accordance with section 513(b)(4) of MAHRA.
PCA
means a physical condition assessment of a project prepared by a PAE under § 401.451.
PRA
means a portfolio restructuring agreement as defined in section 512(9) of MAHRA.
Priority purchaser
means a purchaser of a project, meeting qualifications established by HUD, that is:
(1) A tenant organization;
(2) A tenant-endorsed community-based nonprofit organization or public agency; or
(3) A limited partnership with a sole general partner that itself is a priority purchaser under this definition.
Rental Assistance Assessment Plan
means the plan described in section 515(c)(2) of MAHRA.
Restructured rent
means the rent determined at the time of restructuring in accordance with section 514(g) of MAHRA.
Restructuring Plan
or
Plan
means the Mortgage Restructuring and Rental
Assistance Sufficiency Plan described in section 514 of MAHRA.
Section 8
means section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, 42 U.S.C. 1437f.
Section 541(b) claim
means a claim paid by HUD under an insurance contract under authority of section 541(b) of the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. 1735f-19(b).
Tenant organization
of a project means an organization that meets regularly, whose officers are elected by a majority of heads of households of occupied units in the project, and whose membership is open to all tenants of the project.
Unit of local government
means the smallest unit of general local government in which the project is located.
Voucher
means any tenant-based assistance.
(d)
Conflicts of interest.
Additional definitions applicable to §§ 401.310 through 401.313 appear in § 401.310.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000; 71 FR 2120, Jan. 12, 2006; 72 FR 66038, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.3
Who may waive provisions in this part?
The Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner may waive any provision of this part, subject to § 5.110 of this title.
[68 FR 3363, Jan. 23, 2003]
§ 401.99
How does an owner request a section 8 contract renewal?
(a)
Requesting Restructuring Plan.
An owner may request a section 8 contract renewal as part of a Restructuring Plan by, at least 3 months before the expiration date of any project-based assistance, certifying to HUD that to the best of the owner's knowledge:
(1) Project rents are above comparable market rents; and
(2) The owner is not suspended or debarred or has been notified by HUD of any pending suspension or debarment or other enforcement action, or, if so, a voluntary sale or transfer of the property is proposed in accordance with § 401.480.
(b)
Eligible but not requesting Restructuring Plan.
If an owner is eligible for a Restructuring Plan but requests a renewal of project-based assistance without a Plan, in accordance with the applicable requirements in § 402.6 of this chapter, HUD will consider the request in accordance with § 402.4(a)(2) of this chapter.
(c)
Not eligible for Restructuring Plan.
Section 402.5 of this chapter addresses renewal of project-based assistance for a Restructuring Plan. An owner of such a project may also request renewal under § 402.4 of this chapter.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.100
Which projects are eligible for a Restructuring Plan under this part?
(a)
What are the requirements for eligibility?
To be eligible for a Restructuring Plan under this part, a project must:
(1) Have a mortgage insured or held by HUD;
(2) Be covered in whole or in part by a contract for project-based assistance under—
(i) The new construction or substantial rehabilitation program under section 8(b)(2) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 as in effect before October 1, 1983;
(ii) The property disposition program under section 8(b) of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937;
(iii) The moderate rehabilitation program under section 8(e)(2) of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
(iv) The loan management assistance program under section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937;
(v) Section 23 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 as in effect before January 1, 1975;
(vi) The rent supplement program under section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965;
(vii) Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937, following conversion from assistance under Section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965; or
(viii) Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937 as renewed under section 524 of MAHRA;
(3) Have current gross potential rent for the project-based assisted units that exceeds the gross potential rent for the project-based assisted units using comparable market rents;
(4) Have a first mortgage that has not previously been restructured under this part or under HUD's Portfolio Reengineering demonstration authority as defined in § 402.2(c) of this chapter;
(5) Not be a project that is described in section 514(h) of MAHRA; and
(6) Otherwise meet the definition of “eligible multifamily housing project” in section 512(2) of MAHRA or meet the following three criteria:
(i) The project is assisted pursuant to a contract for Section 8 assistance renewed under section 524 of MAHRA;
(ii) It has an owner that consents for the project to be treated as eligible; and
(iii) At the time of its initial renewal under section 524, it met the requirements of section 512(2)(A), (B), and (C) of MAHRA.
(b)
When is eligibility determined?
Eligibility for a Restructuring Plan under paragraph (a) of this section is determined by the status of a project on the earlier of the termination or expiration date of the project-based assistance contract, which includes a contract renewed under section 524 of MAHRA, or the date of the owner's request to HUD for a Restructuring Plan. Eligibility is not affected by a subsequent change in status, such as contract extension under § 401.600 or part 402 of this chapter.
[71 FR 2121, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 401.101
Which owners are ineligible to request Restructuring Plans?
(a)
Mandatory rejection.
The request of an owner of an eligible project will not be considered for a Restructuring Plan if the owner is debarred or suspended under 2 CFR part 2424.
(b)
Discretion to reject.
HUD may also decide not to accept a request for a Restructuring Plan if:
(1) An affiliate is debarred or suspended under 2 CFR part 2424; or
(2) HUD notifies the owner that HUD is engaged in a pending suspension, debarment or other enforcement action against an owner or affiliate, and the grounds for the pending action are included in § 401.403(b)(2)(ii).
(c)
Exception for sale.
This section does not apply if a sale or transfer of the property is proposed in accordance with § 401.480.
(d)
Notice to tenants.
The PAE or HUD will give notice to tenants of a rejection in accordance with §§ 401.500(f)(2), 401.501, and 401.502.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66038, Nov. 26, 2007; 72 FR 73496, Dec. 27, 2007]

# Subpart B—Participating Administrative Entity (PAE) and Portfolio Restructuring Agreement (PRA)
§ 401.200
Who may be a PAE?
A PAE must qualify under the definition in section 512(10) of MAHRA. It must not have any outstanding violations of civil rights laws, determined in accordance with criteria in use by HUD. If the PAE is a private entity, whether nonprofit or for-profit, it must enter into a partnership with a public purpose entity, which may include HUD. A PAE may delegate responsibilities only as agreed in the PRA.
§ 401.201
How does HUD select PAEs?
(a)
Selection of PAE.
HUD will select qualified PAEs in accordance with the criteria established in 513(b) of MAHRA and criteria established by HUD. The selection method is within HUD's discretion, including but not limited to a request for qualifications.
(b)
Priority for public agencies.
HUD will provide a one-time priority period for State housing finance agencies and local housing agencies to qualify as the PAEs for their jurisdictions. If more than one agency qualifies for the same jurisdiction, HUD will provide an opportunity for the agencies to allocate responsibility for projects in the jurisdiction. If the agencies are unable to agree, HUD will choose a PAE in accordance with section 513(b)(2) of MAHRA.
(c)
Qualification for PAE by nonprofit and for-profit entities.
After the priority period expires, HUD will consider other eligible entities as PAEs for jurisdictions in which no public agency has qualified as the PAE, or for projects that have not been assigned to a qualified public agency.
(d)
No PAE for project.
If HUD does not select a PAE for a project, HUD may perform the functions of the PAE,
or contract with other qualified entities to perform those functions.
§ 401.300
What is a PRA?
A PRA is an agreement between HUD and a PAE that delineates rights and responsibilities in connection with development and implementation of a Restructuring Plan. The PRA must contain or incorporate by reference the matters required by section 513(a)(2) of MAHRA and §§ 401.301 through 401.314, as well as other terms and conditions required by HUD.
§ 401.301
Partnership arrangements.
If the PAE is in a partnership, the PRA must specify the following:
(a) The responsibilities of each partner regarding the Restructuring Plan;
(b) The resources each partner will provide to accomplish its designated responsibilities; and
(c) All compensation to each partner, whether direct or indirect.
§ 401.302
PRA administrative requirements.
(a)
Inapplicability of certain requirements.
Part 200 of 2 CFR and contract procurement requirements do not apply to a PRA.
(b)
Recordkeeping.
The PAE must keep complete and accurate records of all activities related to the PAE's performance under the PRA. The PAE must retain the records for at least 3 years after the PRA terminates.
(c)
Inspection of records and audit.
Upon reasonable notice, the PAE must permit the Comptroller General of the United States and HUD (including representatives of the HUD Office of Inspector General) to inspect, audit, and copy any records required to be retained under this section.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 80 FR 75936, Dec. 7, 2015]
§ 401.303
PRA indemnity provisions for SHFAs and HAs.
When a PRA requires HUD to indemnify a PAE in accordance with section 513(a)(2)(G) of MAHRA, any payment under this indemnity is contingent upon the availability of funds that are permitted by law to be used for this purpose.
§ 401.304
PRA provisions on PAE compensation.
(a)
Base fee.
(1) The PRA will provide for base fees to be paid by HUD.
(2) HUD will establish a substantially uniform baseline for base fees for public entities. The base fee for a PAE will be adjusted, if necessary, after the first term of the PRA.
(3) Private PAEs will be compensated based on the results of a competitive bid process which evaluates bidders' capability, timeliness, ability to work with tenant and community groups, and cost.
(b)
Incentives.
The PRA may provide for incentives to be paid by HUD. While individual components may vary between PAEs (both public and private), the total amount potentially payable under the incentive package will be uniform. Objectives may include maximizing savings to the Federal Government, timely performance, tenant satisfaction with the PAE's performance, the infusion of public funds from non-HUD sources, and other benchmarks that HUD considers appropriate.
(c)
Expenses.
The PRA will identify expenses incurred by the PAE that will qualify for reimbursement by HUD. Limits on these expenses will be established annually by HUD, but HUD may waive the limits for high-cost areas.
(d)
Other matters.
HUD will retain the right of final approval of any fee schedule. HUD will publish the standard form of PRA and the compensation package annually on its Internet Web site.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66038, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.309
PRA term and termination provisions; other provisions.
(a)
1-year term with renewals.
The PRA will have a term of 1 year, to be renewed for successive terms of 1 year with the mutual agreement of both parties. The PRA will provide for HUD to pay final compensation to the PAE and to assign responsibility for continuing activities if the PRA is not renewed.
(b)
Termination for cause or convenience of Federal Government
—(1)
Termination for cause.
HUD may terminate a PRA at any time for cause, with payment required by HUD as provided in
the PRA only for matters authorized by the PRA and performed by the PAE to the date of termination. HUD will retain the right of set-off against any payments due as well as such other rights afforded at law and in equity.
(2)
Termination for convenience of Federal Government.
HUD may terminate a PRA, and may remove an eligible property from a PRA, at any time in accordance with the PRA or applicable law, regardless of whether the PAE is in default of any of its obligations under the PRA, if such termination is in the best interests of the Federal Government. The PRA will provide for payment to the PAE of a specified percentage of the base fee authorized by § 401.304(a) and amounts for reimbursement of third-party vendors to the PAE authorized by § 401.304(c).
(3)
Transfer to another PAE; temporary waiver of rights.
If a PRA is terminated:
(i) HUD may order an immediate transfer of some or all of the PAE's duties to another PAE designated by HUD; and
(ii) HUD may temporarily waive its right of immediate termination in order to allow an orderly transfer of duties and responsibilities under a PRA, without waiving the right of termination after the transfer has been completed to HUD's satisfaction.
(c)
Liability for damages.
During the term of a PRA, and notwithstanding any termination of a PRA, HUD may seek its actual, direct, and consequential damages from any PAE for failure to comply with its obligations under PRA.
(d)
Cumulative remedies.
The remedies under this section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies or rights HUD may have under the terms of the PRA, at law, or otherwise.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66038, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.310
Conflicts of interest.
(a)
Definitions.
(1)
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a PAE or other restricted person:
(i) Has a financial interest, direct or indirect, that prevents or may prevent the PAE or other restricted person from acting at all times in the best interests of HUD;
(ii) Has one or more personal, business, or financial interests or relationships that would cause a reasonable person with knowledge of the relevant facts to question the integrity or impartiality of those who are or will be acting under the PRA; or
(iii) Is taking an adverse position to HUD or to an owner whose project is covered by a PRA in a lawsuit, administrative proceeding, or other contested matter.
(2)
Control
means the power to vote, directly or indirectly, 25 percent or more of any class of the voting stock of a company; the ability to direct in any manner the election of a majority of a company (or other entity's) directors or trustees; or the ability to exercise a controlling influence over the company or entity's management and policies. For purposes of this definition, a general partner of a limited partnership is presumed to be in control of that partnership.
(3)
Restricted person
means a PAE; any management official of the PAE; any legal entity that is under the control of the PAE, is in control of the PAE, or is under common control with the PAE; or any employee, agent or contractor of the PAE, or employee of such agent or contractor, who will perform or has performed services under a PRA with HUD.
(b)
General prohibitions.
(1) The PAE may not permit conflicts of interest to exist without obtaining a waiver in accordance with this section.
(2) The PAE must establish procedures to identify conflicts of interest and to ensure that conflicts of interest do not arise or continue, subject to waiver under paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) HUD will not enter into PRAs with potential PAEs who have conflicts of interest associated with a particular project, or permit PAEs to continue performance under existing PRAs when such PAEs have conflicts of interest, unless such conflicts have been eliminated to HUD's satisfaction by the PAE or potential PAE or are waived by HUD.
(4) The PAE has a continuing obligation to take all action necessary to
identify whether it or any other restricted person has a conflict of interest.
(c)
Waivers.
HUD will waive conflicts of interest only when, in light of all relevant circumstances, the interests of HUD in the PAE's or another restricted persons's participation outweigh the concern that a reasonable person may question the integrity of HUD's operations.
(d)
Conflicts of interest arising prior to PAE selection
—(1)
Request for review of conflicts of interest.
(i) A potential PAE, with its request to HUD for consideration for selection as a PAE, must identify existing conflicts of interest and may make a written request for a determination as to the existence of a conflict of interest, may request that the conflict of interest, if any, be waived, or may propose how it could eliminate the conflict.
(ii) If, after submitting a request but prior to selection, a potential PAE discovers that it has a conflict, it must notify HUD in writing within 10 days of submitting the request or prior to selection, whichever is earlier. Such notification must contain a detailed description of the conflict. The potential PAE may, with its notification, request that the conflict be waived or may propose how it may eliminate the conflict. The potential PAE may also request a determination as to the existence of the conflict. The potential PAE may also request a determination as to the existence of the conflict.
(2)
Review by HUD.
Subject to the restrictions set forth in this section, HUD in its sole discretion may determine whether a conflict of interest exists, may waive the conflict of interest, or may approve in writing a PAE's proposal to eliminate a conflict of interest.
(e)
Conflicts of interest that arise or are discovered after PAE selection.
(1) A PAE must notify HUD in writing within 10 days after discovering that it or another restricted person has a conflict of interest. Such notification must contain a detailed description of the conflict of interest and state how the PAE intends to eliminate the conflict. The PAE may also request a determination as to the existence of a conflict.
(2) HUD will, after receipt of such notification or other discovery of the PAE's conflict or potential conflict of interest, take such action as it determines is in its best interests, which may involve proceeding under § 401.313 or as provided in the following sentences. HUD may notify the PAE in writing of its findings as to whether a conflict of interest exists and the basis for such determination, whether or not a waiver will be granted, or whether corrective actions may be taken in order to eliminate the conflict of interest. Corrective action must be completed by the PAE not later than 30 days after notification is mailed by HUD unless HUD, at its sole discretion, determines that it is in its best interests to grant the PAE an extension in which to complete the corrective action.
(f)
Reconsideration of decisions.
Decisions issued pursuant to this section may be reconsidered by HUD upon application by the PAE. Such requests must be in writing and must contain the basis for the request. HUD may, at its discretion and after determining that it is in its best interests, stay any corrective or other actions previously ordered pending reconsideration of a decision.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.311
Standards of conduct.
(a)
Minimum ethical standards for PAEs.
In connection with the performance of any PRA and during the term of such PRA, a PAE or other restricted person (as defined in § 401.310) may not:
(1) Solicit for itself or others favors, gifts, or other items of monetary value from any person who is seeking official action from HUD or the PAE in connection with the PRA or has interests that may be substantially affected by the restricted person's performance or nonperformance of duties to HUD;
(2) Use improperly (or allow the improper use of) HUD property or property over which the restricted person has supervision or charge by reason of the PRA;
(3) Use its status as PAE for its own benefit, or the financial or business benefit of a third party, except as contemplated by the PRA; or
(4) Make any unauthorized promise or commitment on behalf of HUD.
(b)
18 U.S.C. 201.
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 201, whoever acts for or on behalf of HUD in connection with the matters covered by this part is deemed to be a public official. Public officials are prohibited from soliciting or accepting anything of value in return for being influenced in the performance of official actions. Violators are subject to criminal sanctions.
(c)
18 U.S.C. 1001.
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1001, whoever knowingly and willingly falsifies a material fact, makes a false statement or utilizes a false writing in connection with a PRA is subject to criminal sanctions. Other Federal civil statutes also apply to making false statements to the United States.
(d)
18 U.S.C. 207.
Former Federal Government employees are subject to the prohibitions in 18 U.S.C. 207.
§ 401.312
Confidentiality of information.
A PAE and every other restricted person (as defined in § 401.310) has a duty to protect confidential information, except as provided in §§ 401.500 through 401.503, and to prevent its use to further a private interest other than as contemplated by the PRA. As used in this section, confidential information means information that a PAE or other restricted person obtains from or on behalf of HUD or a third party in connection with a PRA but does not include information generally available to the public unless the information becomes available to the public as a result of unauthorized disclosure by the PAE or another restricted person.
§ 401.313
Consequences of PAE violations; finality of HUD determination.
(a)
Effect on PRA.
If a PAE, potential PAE or other restricted person (as defined in § 401.310) violates §§ 401.310, 410.311, or 401.312, HUD may:
(1) Find the potential PAE unqualified to enter into a PRA;
(2) Find the PAE unqualified to receive additional projects for restructuring under an existing PRA;
(3) Find the PAE in default under an existing PRA with the right of termination for cause under § 401.309; or
(4) Seek from a PAE or other restricted person HUD's actual, direct, and consequential damages resulting from the violation.
(b)
Cumulative remedies.
The remedies under this section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies or rights HUD may have under the terms of the PRA, at law, or otherwise.
(c)
Finality of determination.
Any determination made by HUD pursuant to this section is at HUD's sole discretion and is not subject to further administrative review.
§ 401.314
Environmental review responsibilities.
HUD will retain all responsibility for environmental review under part 50 of this title. Compliance with part 50 of this title will be completed before any HUD approval of the Restructuring Commitment under § 401.405.

# Subpart C—Restructuring Plan
§ 401.400
Required elements of a Restructuring Plan.
(a)
General.
A PAE is responsible for the development of a Restructuring Plan for each project included in its PRA.
(b)
Required elements.
The Restructuring Plan must contain a narrative that fully describes the restructuring transaction. The Restructuring Plan must include the elements required by section 514(e) of MAHRA. The Restructuring Plan must describe the use of any restructuring tools listed at sections 517(a) and (b) of MAHRA, and must contain other requirements as determined by HUD.
§ 401.401
Consolidated Restructuring Plans.
A PAE may request HUD to approve a Consolidated Restructuring Plan that presents an overall strategy for more than one project included in the PRA. HUD will consider approval of a Consolidated Restructuring Plan for projects having common ownership, geographic proximity, common mortgagee or servicer, or other factors that contribute to more efficient use of the
PAE's resources. Notwithstanding the more efficient use of a PAE's resources, HUD will not approve any Consolidated Restructuring Plans that have a detrimental effect on tenants or the community, or a higher cost to the Federal Government. HUD's decision to approve or disapprove a Consolidated Restructuring Plan will be made on a case-by-case basis.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66038, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.402
Cooperation with owner and qualified mortgagee in Restructuring Plan development.
A PAE must comply with section 514(a)(2) of MAHRA by using its best efforts to seek the cooperation of the owner and qualified mortgagee or its designee in the development of the Restructuring Plan. If the owner fails to cooperate (as demonstrated by reasonable progress in development of a Restructuring Plan) to the satisfaction of the PAE and HUD agrees, the PAE must notify the owner that the PAE will not develop a Restructuring Plan. This notice will be subject to dispute and administrative appeal under subpart F of this part. If the qualified mortgagee does not cooperate in modifying the mortgage, the PAE and owner may continue to develop a Restructuring Plan to restructure the loan using alternative financing.
§ 401.403
Rejection of a request for a Restructuring Plan because of actions or omissions of owner or affiliate or project condition.
(a)
Ongoing determination of owner and project eligibility.
Notwithstanding an initial determination to accept the owner's request for a Restructuring Plan, the PAE is responsible for a further more complete and ongoing assessment of the eligibility of the owner and project while the Restructuring Plan is developed. The PAE must advise HUD if at any time any of the grounds for rejection listed in paragraph (b) of this section exist.
(b)
Grounds for rejection
—(1)
Suspension or debarment.
Neither a PAE nor HUD will continue to develop or consider a Restructuring Plan if, at any time before a closing under § 401.407, the owner is debarred or suspended under 2 CFR part 2424.
(2)
Other grounds.
HUD may elect not to permit continued consideration of the Restructuring Plan at any time before closing under § 401.407, if:
(i) An affiliate is debarred or suspended under 2 CFR part 2424;
(ii) HUD or the PAE determines that the owner or an affiliate has engaged in material adverse financial or managerial actions or omissions as described in section 516(a) of MAHRA, including any outstanding violations of civil rights laws in connection with any project of the owner or affiliate; or
(iii) HUD or the PAE determines (under § 401.451(c) or otherwise) that the project does not meet the housing quality standards in § 401.558 and that the poor condition of the project is not likely to be remedied in a cost-effective manner through the Restructuring Plan.
(3)
Exception for sale.
This paragraph does not apply (except (2)(iii)) if a sale or transfer is proposed under § 401.480.
(c)
Dispute and appeal.
An owner may dispute a rejection under this section and seek administrative review under the procedures in subpart F of this part.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 73496, Dec. 27, 2007]
§ 401.404
Proposed Restructuring Commitment.
A PAE must submit a Restructuring Plan and a proposed Restructuring Commitment to HUD for approval, prior to submitting the Commitment to the owner for execution. The submission may not occur earlier than 10 days after the public meeting required by § 401.500(d). The proposed Restructuring Commitment must be in a form approved by HUD, incorporate the Restructuring Plan, and include the following:
(a) The lender, loan amount, interest rate, and term of any mortgages or unsecured financing for the mortgage restructuring and rehabilitation, and any credit enhancement;
(b) The amount of any payment of a section 541(b) claim;
(c) The type of section 8 assistance and the section 8 restructured rents;
(d) The rehabilitation required, the source of the owner contribution, and escrow arrangements;
(e) The uses for project accounts;
(f) The terms of any sale or transfer of the project;
(g) A schedule setting forth all sources and uses of funds to implement the Restructuring Plan, including setting forth the balances of project accounts before and after restructuring;
(h) All consideration, direct or indirect, received or to be received by the PAE or a related party, if known, in connection with any matter addressed in the Restructuring Commitment, except amounts paid or to be paid by HUD; and
(i) Other terms and conditions prescribed by HUD.
§ 401.405
Restructuring Commitment review and approval by HUD.
HUD will either approve the Restructuring Commitment as submitted, require changes as a condition for approval, or reject the Plan. If the Plan is rejected, HUD will inform the PAE of the reasons for rejection, and the PAE will inform the owner. HUD's rejection of the Plan is subject to the dispute and administrative appeal provisions of subpart F of this part.
§ 401.406
Execution of Restructuring Commitment.
When HUD approves the Restructuring Commitment, the PAE will deliver the Restructuring Commitment to the owner for execution. The Restructuring Commitment becomes binding upon execution by the owner. An owner who does not execute the Restructuring Commitment may appeal its terms and seek modification under subpart F of this part.
§ 401.407
Closing conducted by PAE.
After the owner has executed the Restructuring Commitment, the PAE must arrange for a closing to execute all documents necessary for implementation of the Restructuring Plan. The PAE must use standard documents approved by HUD, with modifications only as necessary to comply with applicable State or local laws, or such other modifications as are approved in writing by HUD.
§ 401.408
Affordability and use restrictions required.
(a)
General.
The Restructuring Plan must provide that the project will be subject to affordability and use restrictions in a Use Agreement acceptable to HUD. The Use Agreement must be recorded and in effect for at least 30 years. It must include at least the provisions required by paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section.
(b)
Use restriction.
The project must continue to be used for residential use with no reduction in the number of residential units without prior HUD approval.
(c)
Affordability restrictions.
Except during a period when at least 20 percent of the units in a project receive project-based assistance:
(1) At least 20 percent of the units in the project must be leased to families whose adjusted income does not exceed 50 percent of the area median income as determined by HUD, with adjustments for household size, at rents no greater than 30 percent of 50 percent of the area median income; or
(2) At least 40 percent of the units in the project must be leased to families whose adjusted income does not exceed 60 percent of the area median income as determined by HUD, with adjustments for household size, at rents no greater than 30 percent of 60 percent of the area median income.
(d)
Comparable configuration.
The type and size of the units that satisfy the affordability restrictions of paragraph (c) of this section must be comparable to the type and size of the units for the project as a whole.
(e)
Nondiscrimination against voucher holders.
An owner must comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of § 401.556.
(f)
Enforcement.
The Use Agreement must contain remedies for breach of the Use Agreement, including monetary damages for non-compliance with paragraphs (c) and (g) of this section.
(g)
Compliance with physical condition standards.
The Use Agreement must require that the property be maintained in compliance with the requirements of § 401.558.
(h)
Reporting.
The Use Agreement must contain appropriate financial and other reporting requirements for the
owner. These reports must comply with the Real Estate Assessment Center protocol or subsequent standards required by HUD.
(i)
Enforcement and amendment.
The Use Agreement will be enforceable by interested parties to be specified in the Agreement, which will include HUD, the PAE, project tenants, organizations representing project tenants, and the unit of local government. The Use Agreement must require the party bringing enforcement action to give the owner notice and a reasonable opportunity to cure any violations.
(j)
Modifications.
HUD will retain the right to approve modifications of the Use Agreement agreed to by the owner without the consent of any other party, including those having the right of enforcement. The owner must post prominently on project property notice of any modifications approved by HUD.
(k)
Owner obligation to accept project-based assistance.
Subject to the availability of appropriated funds, the owner of the project must accept any offer of renewal of project-based assistance if the offer is in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the Restructuring Plan.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.410
Standards for determining comparable market rents.
(a)
When are comparable market rents required?
The Restructuring Plan must establish restructured rents for project-based assistance at comparable market rents unless the PAE finds that exception rents are necessary under § 401.411.
(b)
Comparable market rents defined.
Comparable market rents are the rents charged for properties that the PAE determines to be comparable properties (as defined in section 512(1) of MAHRA, but also excluding section 202 or section 811 projects assisted under part 891 of this title). For purposes of section 512(1), other relevant characteristics include any applicable rent control and other characteristics determined by the PAE. The PAE may make appropriate adjustments when needed to ensure comparability of properties.
(c)
Methodology for determining comparable market rents.
If the PAE is unable to identify at least three comparable properties within the local market, the PAE may:
(1) Use non-comparable housing stock within that market from which adjustments can be made; or
(2) If necessary to go outside the market, use comparable properties as far outside the local market as it finds reasonable, from which adjustments can be made.
(d)
Using FMR as last resort.
If the PAE is unable to identify enough properties under paragraph (c) of this section, comparable market rents must be set at 90 percent of the Fair Market Rents for the relevant market area.
§ 401.411
Guidelines for determining exception rents.
(a)
When do exception rents apply?
(1) The Restructuring Plan may provide for exception rents established under section 514(g)(2) of MAHRA for project-based assistance if the PAE determines that project income under the rent levels established under § 401.410 would be inadequate to meet the costs of operating the project as described in paragraph (b) of this section and that the housing needs of the tenants and the community could not be adequately addressed.
(2) In any fiscal year, the PAE may not request HUD to approve Restructuring Plans with exception rents for more than 20 percent of all units covered by the PRA, except that HUD may approve a waiver of this 20 percent limitation based on the PAE's narrative explanation of special need.
(b)
How are exception rents calculated?
(1) Exception rents must be set at a level sufficient to support the costs of operating the project. The PAE must take into account the following cost items:
(i) Debt service on the second mortgage under § 401.461(a) or a rehabilitation loan included in the Restructuring Plan;
(ii) The operating expenses of the project, as determined by the PAE, including:
(A) Contributions to adequate reserves for replacement;
(B) The costs of maintenance and necessary rehabilitation;
(C) Other eligible costs permitted under the section 8 program;
(iii) An adequate allowance for potential operating losses due to vacancies and failure to collect rents, as determined by the PAE;
(iv) A return to the owner to the extent permitted by § 401.461(b)(3)(ii)(A); and
(v) Other expenses determined by the PAE to be necessary for the operation of the project.
(2) The exception rent must not exceed 120 percent of the Fair Market Rent for the market area, except that HUD may approve an exception rent greater than 120 percent of Fair Market Rent, based on a narrative explanation of special need submitted by the PAE, subject to the 5 percent limitation in section 514(g)(2)(A) of MAHRA.
§ 401.412
Adjustment of rents based on operating cost adjustment factor (OCAF) or budget.
(a)
OCAF.
(1) The Restructuring Plan must provide for annual adjustment of the restructured rents for project-based assistance by an OCAF determined by HUD.
(2)
Application of OCAF.
HUD will apply the OCAF to the previous year's contract rent less the portion of that rent paid for debt service. This paragraph applies to renewals of contracts that receive restructured rents under either section 514(g)(1) or (2) of MAHRA.
(b)
Budget-based.
Rents will be adjusted to the lesser of budget-based rents or the comparable market rents for the market area instead of OCAF not more often than once every ten years upon request of an owner or purchaser who
(1) Demonstrates that:
(i) Project income is insufficient to operate and maintain the project, and no rehabilitation is currently needed, as determined by the Secretary; or
(ii) The rent adjustment or renewal contract is necessary to support commercially reasonable financing (including any required debt service coverage and replacement reserve) for rehabilitation necessary to ensure the long-term sustainability of the project, as determined by the Secretary, and in the event the owner or purchaser fails to implement the rehabilitation as required by the Secretary, the Secretary may take such action against the owner or purchaser as allowed by law; and
(2) Agrees to:
(i) Extend the affordability and use restrictions required under 514(e)(6) for an additional twenty years; and
(ii) Enter into a binding commitment to continue to renew such contract for and during such extended term, provided that after the affordability and use restrictions required under 514(e)(6) have been maintained for a term of 30 years:
(A) An owner with a contract for which rent levels were set at the time of its initial renewal under section 514(g)(2) shall request that the Secretary renew such contract under section 524 for and during such extended term; and
(B) An owner with a contract for which rent levels were set at the time of its initial renewal under section 514(g)(1) may request that the Secretary renew such contract under section 524 for and during such extended term.
[89 FR 14590, Feb. 28, 2024]
§ 401.420
When must the Restructuring Plan require project-based assistance?
The Restructuring Plan must provide for the section 8 contract to be renewed as project-based assistance, subject to the availability of funds for this purpose, if:
(a) The PAE determines there is a market-wide vacancy rate of 6 percent or less;
(b) At least 50 percent of the units in the project are occupied by elderly families, disabled families, or elderly and disabled families; or
(c) The project is held by a nonprofit cooperative ownership housing corporation or nonprofit cooperative housing trust.
§ 401.421
Rental Assistance Assessment Plan.
(a)
Plan required.
For any project not subject to mandatory project-based assistance under § 401.420, the PAE must develop a Rental Assistance Assessment Plan in accordance with section
515(c)(2) of MAHRA to determine whether assistance should be renewed as project-based assistance or whether some or all of the assisted units should be converted to tenant-based assistance.
(b)
Matters to be assessed.
The PAE must include an assessment of the impact of converting to tenant-based assistance and the impact of renewing project-based assistance on:
(1) The ability of the tenants to find adequate, available, decent, comparable, and affordable housing in the local market;
(2) The types of tenants residing in the project (such as elderly families, disabled families, large families, and cooperative homeowners);
(3) The local housing needs identified in the applicable Consolidated Plan developed under part 91 of this title;
(4) The cost of providing assistance, comparing the applicable payment standard to the rent levels permitted by §§ 401.410 and 401.411;
(5) The long-term financial stability of the project;
(6) The ability of residents to make reasonable choices about their individual living situations;
(7) The quality of the neighborhood in which the tenants would reside; and
(8) The project's ability to compete in the marketplace.
(c)
Conversion may be phased in.
Any conversion from project-based assistance to tenant-based assistance may occur over a period of not more than 5 years if the PAE decides the transition period is needed for the financial viability of the project.
(d)
Reports to HUD.
The PAE must report to HUD on the matters specified in section 515(c)(2)(C) of MAHRA at least semi-annually.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.450
Owner evaluation of physical condition.
(a)
Initial evaluation.
The owner must evaluate the physical condition of the project and provide the following information to the PAE in a form acceptable to the PAE:
(1) All work items required to bring the project to the standard in § 401.452, including any work items needed to ensure compliance with applicable requirements of part 8 of this title concerning accessibility to persons with disabilities;
(2) The capital repair or replacement items that will be necessary to maintain the long-term physical integrity of the property;
(3) A plan for funding the rehabilitation work included in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, which work must be completed in a timely manner after closing the restructuring transaction, that identifies the source of the required owner contribution of non-project funds; and
(4) An estimate of the initial deposit, if any, and the estimated monthly deposit to the reserve for replacement account for the next 20 years.
(b)
Use of CNA.
An owner may comply with paragraph (a) of this section by submitting a comprehensive needs assessment in accordance with title IV of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (12 U.S.C. 1715z-1a note) if the CNA:
(1) Was completed or updated within 1 year; and
(2) Contains all of the matters required by paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Reconsideration and modification of evaluation.
If the PAE, after its independent review under § 401.451, determines that the owner's evaluation either fails to address specific necessary work items or fails to propose a cost-effective approach to rehabilitation, the owner may modify its evaluation to satisfy the concerns of the PAE.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.451
PAE Physical Condition Analysis (PCA).
(a)
Review and certification of owner evaluation.
(1) The PAE must independently evaluate the physical condition of the project by means of a PCA. If the PAE finds any immediate threats to health and safety, the owner must complete those work items immediately, or the PAE must evaluate the project's eligibility in accordance with § 401.403(b)(2)(iii).
(2) After consultation with the owner and an opportunity for the owner to modify its evaluation performed under § 401.450, the PAE must either certify to
the accuracy and completeness of the owner's evaluation performed under § 401.450 for each project covered by the PRA, or state that the evaluation fails to address certain items or does not propose a cost effective approach.
(b)
Rejection due to inaccurate or incomplete owner evaluation.
If the PAE cannot certify to the accuracy and completeness of the owner's evaluation due to its failure to address specific work items or because it does not propose a cost effective approach, the PAE must notify HUD. If HUD agrees with the PAE's determination, the PAE must notify the owner that the request for a Restructuring Plan is rejected.
(c)
Rejection due to poor condition of the project.
Based on the completed PCA, the PAE must determine whether proceeding with a Restructuring Plan with necessary rehabilitation is more cost-effective in terms of Federal resources than rejecting the Request for a Restructuring Plan under § 401.403(b)(2)(iii) and providing tenant-based assistance for displaced tenants under § 401.602. HUD will provide guidance to PAEs for making the determination. If the PAE concludes that a request for a Restructuring Plan should be rejected because of lack of cost-effectiveness due to poor condition of the project, it must also consider the effect on tenants and the community and advise HUD of the effect. HUD will make the final decision after considering the PAE's recommendation.
(d)
Dispute and appeal of rejection.
The dispute and appeal provisions of subpart F of this part apply to rejections under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
§ 401.452
Property standards for rehabilitation.
The restructuring plan must provide for the level of rehabilitation needed to restore the property to the non-luxury standard adequate for the rental market for which the project was originally approved. If the standard has changed over time, the rehabilitation may include improvements to meet the current standards. The rehabilitation also may include the addition of significant features, in accordance with § 401.472. The result of the rehabilitation should be a project that can attract non-subsidized tenants, but competes on rent rather than on amenities. When a range of options exists for satisfying the rehabilitation standard, the PAE must choose the least costly option considering both capital and operating costs and taking into account the marketability of the property and the remaining useful life of all building systems. Nothing in this part exempts rehabilitation from the requirements of part 8 of this title concerning accessibility to persons with disabilities.
[72 FR 66038, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.453
Reserves.
The Restructuring Plan must provide for reserves for capital replacement sufficient to ensure the property's long-term structural integrity so that the property can be maintained as affordable housing in decent, safe, and sanitary condition meeting the standards of § 401.558.
§ 401.460
Modification or refinancing of first mortgage.
(a)
Principal amount.
As part of the Restructuring Plan, the PAE will determine the size of the restructured first mortgage that will result from the modification or refinancing of the existing FHA-insured or HUD-held first mortgage. The restructured first mortgage must be in the amount that can be supported by net operating income based on the lower of the restructured section 8 rents or the rents allowed by the Use Agreement under § 401.408. Neither the outstanding principal balance of the existing first mortgage, nor the monthly principal and interest payments on that debt, may be increased through modification under the Restructuring Plan. The debt service coverage used by the PAE must be adequate for purposes of the Restructuring Plan and for the requirements of any refinancing.
(b)
Fully amortizing.
The modified or refinanced first mortgage must be fully amortizing through level monthly payments.
(c)
Rates and other terms.
Interest rates and other terms of the modified or refinanced first mortgage must be competitive in the market.
(d)
Fees.
Any fees or costs associated with mortgage modification or refinancing determined by the PAE to be above normal processing fees must be paid by the owner from non-project funds and must not be included in the modified or refinanced first mortgage.
(e)
Refinancing.
(1) The owner must contact the mortgagee to determine the mortgagee's willingness to consider a modification and re-amortization of the existing first mortgage through a Restructuring Plan before considering any other source of first mortgage financing. If the mortgagee does not agree to modify and re-amortize in accordance with the Restructuring Plan, the loan must be refinanced.
(2) The refinancing may be either without credit enhancement or with credit enhancement under one of the following:
(i)
FHA mortgage insurance.
If the Restructuring Plan provides for FHA mortgage insurance for the refinanced first mortgage, the insurance will be provided in accordance with all usually applicable FHA legal requirements except that insurance will be documented as provided in section 517(b)(2) of MAHRA. HUD will issue the commitment for mortgage insurance but may adapt its procedures as necessary to facilitate development and implementation of a Restructuring Plan.
(ii)
Other FHA credit enhancement.
If FHA credit enhancement, including risk-sharing, is provided under part 266 of this title, the credit enhancement will be provided in accordance with all usually-applicable FHA legal requirements under part 266 of this title, except that special approval from HUD will be required before the PAE engages in risk-sharing with FHA under part 266 of this title. HUD will approve risk-sharing financing that complies with part 266 whenever required by section 517(b)(3) of MAHRA.
(iii)
Credit enhancement from non-FHA sources.
If credit enhancement is to be provided by a non-FHA source under section 517(b)(4) of MAHRA, HUD will consider waiver of any non-statutory provision in this part only if the waiver will not materially impair achievement of the purposes of MAHRA and if the waiver is essential to meet the legitimate business or legal requirements of the provider of credit enhancement.
§ 401.461
HUD-held second mortgage.
(a)
Amount.
(1) The Restructuring Plan must provide for a second mortgage to HUD whenever the Plan provides for either payment of a claim under section 541(b) of the National Housing Act (541(b) claim) or the modification or refinancing of a HUD-held first mortgage that results in a first mortgage with a lower principal amount. The term “second mortgage” in this section also includes a new HUD-held first mortgage (not a refinancing mortgage), if a full payment of claim is made under § 401.471 or if a full payment of claim is unnecessary because surplus project accounts are available to facilitate the Restructuring Plan, pursuant to section 517(b)(6) of MAHRA, or if § 401.460(a) does not permit a restructured first mortgage in any amount.
(2) The second mortgage must be in a principal amount that does not exceed the lesser of:
(i) The amount the PAE reasonably expects to be repaid based on objective criteria such as the amount of anticipated net cash flow, trending assumptions, amortization provisions, and expected residual value of the property; and
(ii) The greater of:
(A) The section 541(b) claim (or the difference between the unpaid principal balance on HUD-held mortgage debt immediately before and after the restructuring), plus surplus project accounts from residual receipts accumulated pursuant to 24 CFR 880.205(e), 881.205(e), or 883.306(e) and derived from an expiring Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments contract and not otherwise distributed to the owner and made available to facilitate the Restructuring Plan pursuant to section 517(b)(6) of MAHRA, and
(B) The difference between the unpaid balance on the first mortgage immediately before and after the restructuring.
(b)
Terms and conditions.
(1) The second mortgage must have an interest rate of at least one percent, but not more than the applicable Federal rate.
(2) The second mortgage must have a term concurrent with the modified or refinanced first mortgage, if any. HUD may provide that if there is no first mortgage, the second mortgage may continue for a term established by HUD.
(3)(i) Principal and interest on the second mortgage is payable only out of net cash flow during its term. “Net cash flow” means that portion of project income that remains after the payment of all required debt service payments on the modified or refinanced first mortgage, if any, including payment of any past due principal or interest, and payment of all reasonable and necessary operating expenses (including deposits to the reserve for replacement account) and any other expenditure approved by HUD.
(ii) The priority and distribution of net cash flow is as follows:
(A) HUD or the PAE may approve the payment to the owner of up to 25 percent of net cash flow based on consideration of relevant conditions and circumstances including, but not limited to, compliance with the management standards prescribed in § 401.560 and the physical condition standards prescribed in § 401.558; and
(B) All remaining net cash flow will be applied to the principal and interest on the second mortgage, until paid in full, and then to any additional subordinate mortgage under § 401.461(c).
(4) HUD may cause the second mortgage to be immediately due and payable on the grounds provided in section 517(a)(4) of MAHRA, including an assumption of the mortgage in violation of HUD standards for approval of transfers of physical assets (if applicable), or if the owner materially fails to comply with other material HUD requirements after a reasonable opportunity for the owner to cure such failure. A decision by HUD in this regard is subject to the administrative appeals procedure in subpart F of this part, unless HUD acts on the basis of the grounds specified in sections 517(a)(4)(A) or (B) of MAHRA.
(5) HUD will consider modification, assignment to the acquiring entity, or forgiveness of all or part of the second mortgage, if: The Secretary holds the second mortgage; and if the project has been sold or transferred to a tenant organization or tenant-endorsed community-based nonprofit or public agency that meets eligibility guidelines determined by HUD; accepts additional affordability requirements acceptable to HUD; and requests such modification, assignment, or forgiveness. A community-based nonprofit group or public agency demonstrates that it is tenant-endorsed in accordance with § 401.480(e).
(c)
Additional mortgage to HUD.
(1) A Restructuring Plan shall require the owner to give an additional mortgage on the project to HUD in an amount that:
(i) For the restructuring of a mortgage insured by HUD, does not exceed the difference between:
(A) The amount of a section 541(b) claim paid under § 401.471 increased by any residual receipts, pursuant to 24 CFR 880.205(e), 881.205(e), or 883.306(e); and
(B) The principal amount of the second mortgage; or
(ii) For the restructuring of a mortgage held by HUD, does not exceed the difference between:
(A) The principal amount of a restructured HUD-held mortgage and the sum of, as applicable, a restructured HUD-held first mortgage at reduced principal amount, new mortgage funds paid to HUD at closing, and surplus project accounts other than residual receipts, pursuant to 24 CFR 880.205(e), 881.205(e), or 883.306(e); and
(B) The principal amount of the second mortgage.
(2) HUD may approve a Plan that does not require an additional mortgage, or provides for less than the full difference to be payable under the additional mortgage, or allows for subsequent modification, assignment, or forgiveness of the additional mortgage under any of the following circumstances:
(i) The anticipated recovery on the additional mortgage is less than the servicing costs; or
(ii) HUD has approved modification, assignment, or forgiveness of the second mortgage, pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(3) With respect to the second mortgage required by paragraph (a) of this section, any additional mortgage must:
(i) Be junior in priority;
(ii) Bear interest at the same rate; and
(iii) Require no payment until the second mortgage is satisfied, at which time it will be payable upon demand of HUD or as otherwise agreed by HUD.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66038, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.471
HUD payment of a section 541(b) claim.
HUD will pay a section 541(b) claim from the appropriate insurance fund to the insured mortgagee on behalf of the mortgagor. The mortgagee must use the claim payment to prepay the principal balance of the insured mortgage, in whole or in part, as provided in the Restructuring Plan. All section 541(b) claims will be paid in cash. Part 207 of this title and sections 207(g) and 541(a) of the NA do not apply to a section 541(b) claim.
§ 401.472
Rehabilitation funding.
(a)
Sources of funds
—(1)
Project accounts.
The Restructuring Plan for funding rehabilitation must include funds from the project's residual receipts account, surplus cash account, replacement reserve account, and other project accounts, to the extent the PAE determines that those accounts will not be needed for the initial deposit to the reserves.
(2)
Debt restructuring.
The Restructuring Plan may provide for funding of rehabilitation through a new first mortgage in conjunction with a payment of a section 541(b) claim. The payment of claim may be in an amount necessary to facilitate the funding of the rehabilitation, by reducing the existing first mortgage debt to make refinancing proceeds available to fund rehabilitation.
(3)
Section 236(s) rehabilitation grant.
The Restructuring Plan may include a direct grant from HUD under section 236(s) of the NA made in accordance with § 401.473, to the extent that HUD has determined that funding is available for such a grant.
(4)
Section 8 budget authority increase.
The Restructuring Plan may include funding of rehabilitation from budget authority provided to HUD for increases in section 8 contracts, to the extent that HUD has determined that funding from this source is available.
(b)
Statutory restrictions.
Any rehabilitation funded from the sources described in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the requirements in section 517(c) of MAHRA for an owner contribution.
(1)
Addition of significant features.
With respect to significant added features, the required owner contribution will be as proposed by the PAE and approved by HUD, and not to exceed 20 percent of the total cost. Significant added features include the addition of air conditioning (including conversions from window air conditioning to central air conditioning), an elevator, or additional community space.
(2)
Cap on owner contribution.
If a restructuring plan includes additions other than those specified, and the PAE considers the additions significant, the PAE may propose to make those additions subject to the cap on owner contribution. In general, the owner will contribute 3 percent toward the cost of each significant addition. The PAE may propose a lower or higher owner contribution, not to exceed 20 percent, with respect to significant additions.
(3)
Other rehabilitation.
With respect to other rehabilitation, the required owner contribution will be calculated as 20 percent of the total cost of rehabilitation, unless HUD or the PAE determines that a higher percentage is required. The owner contribution must include a reasonable proportion (as determined by HUD) of the total cost of rehabilitation from nongovernmental resources.
(4)
Cooperatives.
The PAE may exempt housing cooperatives from the owner contribution requirement.
(c)
Escrow agent.
The Restructuring Plan must provide for progress payments for rehabilitation, which must be disbursed by an acceptable escrow agent subject to PAE oversight or as otherwise provided by HUD.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66039, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.473
HUD grants for rehabilitation under section 236(s) of NA.
HUD will consider a direct grant for rehabilitation under section 236(s) of
the NA only if the owner provides an acceptable work schedule and cost-analysis that is consistent with the owner's evaluation of physical condition under § 401.450, as certified by the PAE. The owner must execute a grant agreement with terms and conditions acceptable to HUD. If the PAE is a State or local government, or an agency or instrumentality of such a government, the PAE and HUD may agree that the PAE will be delegated the responsibility for the administration of any grant made under this section. HUD may make grant funding available for the cost of administration if HUD has determined that such funding is available.
§ 401.474
Project accounts.
(a)
Accounts from other projects.
The accounts listed in § 401.472(a)(1) may be used for other eligible projects only if:
(1) The projects are included in a Consolidated Restructuring Plan under § 401.401; and
(2) The funds are used for rehabilitation or to reduce a section 541(b) claim paid by HUD under § 401.471.
(b)
Distribution to owner.
The Restructuring Plan may provide for a one-time distribution to the owner, not to exceed 10 percent of the excess funds in project accounts, to be released after completion of the rehabilitation required by the Restructuring Plan.
§ 401.480
Sale or transfer of project.
(a)
May the owner request a Restructuring Plan that includes a sale or transfer of the property?
The owner may request a Restructuring Plan that includes a condition that the property be sold or transferred to a purchaser acceptable to HUD in a reasonable period needed to consummate the transaction. The failure to consummate a sale or transfer of the property requested under paragraph (a) of this section will neither adversely affect an owner's eligibility for a Restructuring Plan nor exempt the owner from the requirements of § 401.600. There are no priority purchaser requirements for a voluntary sale or transfer by an owner that is eligible for a Restructuring Plan.
(b)
When must the restructuring plan include sale or transfer of the property?
If the owner is determined to be ineligible pursuant to § 401.101 or § 401.403, or if the property is subject to an approved plan of action under the Emergency Low Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 or the Low Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990, as described in section 524(e)(3) of MAHRA, the property must be sold or transferred as a condition of implementation of a restructuring plan, which must include a condition that the owner sell or transfer the property to a purchaser acceptable to HUD, in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Such sale or transfer shall be a condition to the implementation of the Restructuring Plan.
(c)
Owner's notice of intent to sell or transfer.
(1) The owner must provide notice to the PAE affirming the owner's intent to sell or transfer the property. This notice must be received by the PAE no later than 30 days after a notice of rejection under § 401.101 or § 401.403 has become a final determination under subpart F of this part.
(2) The owner must cooperate in selling or transferring the property. Failure to do so will result in the PAE's determination to reject the owner's request for a Restructuring Plan. The owner must distribute and publish, in an appropriate publication, a notice to potential purchasers that describes the property, proposed terms of sale, and procedures for submitting a purchase offer. The notice in form and substance must be acceptable to HUD, and must inform potential offerors of a preference for priority purchasers.
(3) During a period to be determined by HUD that begins when the owner gives notice of intent to sell or transfer, an owner may accept an offer only from a priority purchaser.
(4) No sale or transfer to a non-priority purchaser will be approved without evidence of tenant support.
(d)
Informing PAE; approval required.
The owner must inform the PAE of any offer to purchase the property and the owner must advise the PAE of the substance and on-going status of the owner's discussions with any prospective purchaser. The owner's acceptance of the offer must be subject to PAE approval, and HUD approval of the Restructuring Plan.
(e)
Tenant endorsement procedure for priority purchaser status
—(1)
Required meeting.
(i) A community-based nonprofit or public agency purchaser requesting tenant endorsement to obtain priority purchaser status must conduct an informational meeting with the tenants of the project to disseminate information about both the endorsement request and the purchaser's plans for the project.
(ii) If the purchaser is acting contemporaneously with the Restructuring Plan, the informational meeting must occur at the second meeting of tenants convened by the PAE to discuss the restructuring plan pursuant to § 401.500(d).
(iii) A representative of the purchasing entity must attend the informational meeting to present its plans for the acquisition and improvement of the project and to respond to questions about the purchaser's plans for the property.
(iv) Tenants shall have the opportunity, but are not to be required, to vote for or against the acquisition at the informational meeting.
(v) For the purpose of obtaining tenant endorsement, a purchaser may conduct additional meetings with tenants in accordance with the notice requirements of paragraphs (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section.
(2)
Parties who must receive notice.
The purchaser must deliver notice of the informational meeting, and any subsequent meeting, to each tenant household in the project and any tenant organization for the project, and post notices of the meeting in the project.
(3)
Notice contents.
The notice must identify the place, date, and time of the informational meeting, and any subsequent meeting. Include a brief description of the purpose of the meeting and provide a narrative outlining the purchaser's plans for the project, including any request made to HUD for debt relief under § 401.461(b)(5) of the second and any additional mortgage.
(4)
Tenant endorsement.
(i) A purchaser may demonstrate that it is tenant endorsed by submitting documentation to HUD that a majority (51 percent) of the tenant heads of household have given their endorsement in writing. Such documentation may include, but is not limited to, ballots, letters of support, or petitions. The endorsement of tenants who did not attend, or vote at, the informational meeting, or any subsequent meeting, may be sought directly from each of these tenants subsequent to the meeting.
(ii)(A) If the purchaser has made a reasonable effort to obtain the endorsement of a majority (51 percent) of the tenants and the necessary percentage of votes was not obtained, the purchaser may seek HUD approval to obtain endorsement based on a lower percentage of endorsing tenants.
(B) The purchaser must deliver notice to each tenant household that the purchaser is seeking HUD approval of a tenant endorsement based on less than 51 percent of tenant approval and provide tenants with at least 10 days from the date of the notice to submit comments to the purchaser on the approval of endorsement.
(C) The purchaser and/or seller must submit, in writing, to HUD an account of the efforts taken to secure tenant endorsement, the number and percentage of tenants voting for and against endorsement, and any comments received from tenants regarding the approval of endorsement.
(D) HUD will determine whether or not to approve endorsement on the basis of all the information available to HUD and will promptly notify the purchaser of HUD's determination.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66039, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.481
Subsidy layering limitations on HUD funds.
(a)
PAE subsidy layering certification required for Restructuring Plan.
The PAE must certify to HUD that any Restructuring Plan for which it submits a proposed Restructuring Commitment meets the requirements of either paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.
(b)
Purpose of subsidy layering certification.
The purpose of the subsidy layering certification is to ensure that any HUD assistance provided to the owner of a project pursuant to a Restructuring Plan is no more than is necessary to permit the project to continue to house tenants with an income mix comparable to the income mix of
the project before the Restructuring Plan is implemented, after taking into account other Government assistance described in section 102(b)(1) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545(b)(1)). This section does not limit a PAE from presenting for approval a Restructuring Plan that includes project reconfiguration (
e.g.,
conversion of efficiency units to one-bedroom units) where necessary to meet the needs of the community, provided the conditions of § 401.452 are also met.
(c)
Relationship to section 102(d) of HUD Reform Act.
HUD is not required to perform a separate subsidy layering analysis under section 102(d) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3545(d)), section 911 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 3545 note), or § 4.13 of this title for any HUD assistance that is included in the Restructuring Plan. HUD will adopt the PAE certification under this section if a HUD certification otherwise would be required under section 102(d).
(d)
Certification under existing HUD guidelines.
If the PAE has delegated authority from HUD to make section 102(d) subsidy layering certifications in accordance with section 911 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, the PAE may comply with this section by using a procedure substantially similar to the procedure described in the Administrative Guidelines published on December 15, 1994 (59 FR 64748), or any subsequent procedure adopted by HUD to implement section 911.
(e)
Other procedures.
If the PAE does not have the delegated authority described in paragraph (d) of this section, the PAE must submit to HUD for approval proposed procedures for making the subsidy layering certification under this section. Any procedures must conform to the procedures described in paragraph (d) of this section to the extent feasible and appropriate.
§ 401.500
Required notices to third parties and meeting with third parties.
(a)
General.
The PAE must solicit, and document the consideration of, tenant and local community comments. As a minimum, the notices described in paragraphs (b), (c) and (f) of this section, in form and substance acceptable to HUD, must be provided. The PAE may require the owner to give the notices if permitted by HUD.
(b)
Notice of intent to restructure and consultation meeting.
(1) This notice must include at a minimum:
(i) The project, including its name and FHA Project Number;
(ii) The responsible PAE and contact person, including the address and telephone number;
(iii) The owner's notice of intent to restructure through the Mark-to-Market Program; and
(iv) The date of expiration of the project-based assistance.
(2) This notice must state how comments may be provided to the PAE regarding any of the following: the physical condition of the property, whether the rental assistance should be tenant-based or project-based, any proposed sale or transfer of the property, and other matters regarding the property and its management. The notice must establish the date, time, and place for a public meeting to be held no sooner than 20 days and no later than 40 days following the date of this notice. The public may provide written comments up to the date of the meeting.
(c)
Access to Restructuring Plan.
(1) The PAE must make the Restructuring Plan available to the parties identified in § 401.501 at least 20 days before the PAE submits the Restructuring Plan to HUD (subject to any Federal, State, or local laws restricting access to any information in the Plan or related documents).
(2) As soon as the PAE determines that the Restructuring Plan is substantively complete and ready for submission to HUD, notice of the following must be provided:
(i) The location of the Plan for inspection and copying; and
(ii) The date, time, and place of a public meeting to be held at least 10 days before the PAE submits the Plan to HUD.
(3) When the PAE gives notice under this section, it must make the Plan available during normal business hours at the management office of the
project, or if there is no such office, at another location specified by the PAE that is convenient to the tenants.
(d)
Meeting to discuss the Restructuring Plan.
After the PAE has given notice under this section and at least 10 days before the PAE submits the Plan to HUD, the PAE must conduct a public meeting to obtain comments on the substantively completed Plan. The PAE must accept written comments through the date of the meeting.
(e)
Disposition of comments.
The PAE must document and provide to HUD with the Restructuring Plan a summary of the disposition of all public comments.
(f)
Notice of completion of Restructuring Plan.
(1) Within 10 days after the owner executes the Restructuring Commitment, notice must be provided that describes the completed Restructuring Plan and Restructuring Commitment. The PAE must make the completed Restructuring Plan and Restructuring Commitment available during normal business hours to the public at a place described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, subject to Federal, State, or local laws restricting access to any information in any of these documents.
(2) Within 10 days after a determination that the Restructuring Plan will not move forward for any reason, HUD or the PAE shall provide notice to affected tenants that describes the reasons for the failure of the Plan to move forward and the availability of tenant-based assistance under § 401.602(c).
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66040, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.501
Delivery of notices and recipients of notices.
(a)
Whom must the owner or PAE notify?
The PAE must notify, or ensure that the owner notifies, each tenant and any tenant organization for the project, and post a notice in the project, for all notices required by §§ 401.500 and 401.502.
(b)
Whom must the PAE notify?
The PAE must notify:
(1) The Chief Executive Officer of the unit of local government and the Executive Director of the Public Housing Authority with jurisdiction over the project location;
(2) The recipient of any Outreach and Training Grant (OTAG) or Intermediary Technical Assistance Grant (ITAG) for the project location; and
(3) Other appropriate neighborhood representatives and other affected parties.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.502
Notice requirement when debt restructuring will not occur.
(a)
PAE responsibility.
If an owner of an eligible project requests a renewal of a section 8 contract without a Restructuring Plan under § 402.4 of this chapter, HUD or the PAE must notify, or ensure that the owner notifies, all parties identified in § 401.501 of the request and of:
(1) The availability (as provided in § 401.500(c)(3)) of the following information:
(i) The owner evaluation of physical condition (OEPC), or a comprehensive needs assessment (CNA) if used instead of an OEPC, as required by § 401.450 and § 402.6(a)(3) of this chapter;
(ii) The market analysis required by § 402.6(a)(2) of this chapter, but without addresses (or other specific information indicating location) for comparable properties; and
(iii) The items identified in § 401.500(b)(1)(i), (ii), and (iv); and
(2) A procedure for submitting public comments regarding this information.
(b)
Expense and profit/loss information.
The PAE should remove project expense, property valuation, and profit and loss information before disclosing any information obtained by the PAE directly from an owner or project manager, unless the owner has given written consent to disclosure with that information included.
(c)
Consideration of comments.
The PAE must consider written public comments on the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section, if the comments are submitted within 30 days after giving notice under paragraph (a), and document the consideration for HUD. No public meeting is required.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53900, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.503
Access to information.
(a)
PAE responsibilities.
The PAE must provide to parties entitled to notice under § 401.501 access to information obtained by the PAE about the project and its management if the PAE determines that such information is reasonably likely to contribute to effective participation by those parties in the restructuring process, or if HUD requires the PAE to provide access to the information. The PAE is not required to make public any information received from the owner or manager that the PAE reasonably characterizes as confidential or proprietary information that would not ordinarily be made public, except:
(1) Owner evaluation of physical condition (OEPC), or a comprehensive needs assessment (CA) if used instead of an OEPC, as required by § 401.450;
(2) Owner-prepared 1-year project rent analysis; and
(3) As directed by HUD.
(b)
Information on expenses and profit/loss.
Before disclosing any information, the PAE must remove any information obtained by the PAE directly from the owner or project manager that is related to project expenses, property valuation, or profit and loss, unless the owner gives written consent to disclosure with that information.

# Subpart D—Implementation of the Restructuring Plan After Closing
§ 401.550
Monitoring and compliance agreements.
(a)
Compliance agreements.
The PAE must ensure long-term compliance by the owner with MAHRA, this part, and the Restructuring Plan. As part of this responsibility, the PAE must require each owner with an approved Restructuring Plan to execute and record a Use Agreement that satisfies the requirements of § 401.408. All provisions of this subpart apply as long as the Use Agreement is in effect.
(b)
Periodic monitoring and inspection.
At least once a year, a PAE must review the status of each project for which it developed an executed restructuring Plan. Monitoring must include on-site inspections. HUD will accept an inspection by a PAE that complies with subpart G of part 5 of this title in lieu of an inspection required by any other party under that subpart.
(c)
HUD acting instead of PAE.
HUD will perform, or contract with other parties to perform, the PAE's functions under this section if:
(1) The project is subject to a PRA with a PAE that is not qualified to be a section 8 contract administrator; or
(2) The project is not currently subject to a PRA.
(d)
Regulatory agreement.
As long as the Secretary is the holder of a second mortgage or an additional mortgage under § 401.461, HUD will regulate the operations of the mortgagor through a regulatory agreement providing terms, conditions, and standards established by HUD, which may be in addition to any regulatory agreement otherwise required in connection with mortgage insurance programs. The regulatory agreement must contain remedies for breach, including monetary damages in the event of non-compliance.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53901, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.552
Servicing of second mortgage.
HUD or its designee will be responsible for servicing the second mortgage, including determining the amounts receivable by the owner under § 401.461(b)(3)(ii)(A). HUD may designate the PAE, with the PAE's consent, as servicer for the second mortgage.
§ 401.554
Contract renewal and administration.
HUD will offer to renew section 8 contracts as provided in each Restructuring Plan, subject to the availability of appropriations and subject to the renewal authority available at the time of each contract expiration. The offer will be made by HUD directly or through a PAE that has contracted with HUD to be a contract administrator for such contracts. HUD will offer to any PAE that is qualified to be the section 8 contract administrator the opportunity to serve as the section 8 contract administrator for a project restructured under a Restructuring Plan developed by the PAE under the Mark-to-Market Program. Qualifications will be determined under both
statutory requirements and requirements issued by the appropriate office within HUD, depending on the type of section 8 assistance that is provided.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53901, Sept. 6, 2000; 89 FR 14590, Feb. 28, 2024]
§ 401.556
Leasing units to voucher holders.
A Restructuring Plan must prohibit any refusal of the owner to lease a unit solely because of the status of the prospective tenant as a section 8 voucher holder.
§ 401.558
Physical condition standards.
The Restructuring Plan must require the owner to maintain the project in a decent and safe condition that meets the applicable standards under this section. As long as project-based assistance is provided, the applicable standards are the physical conditions standards for HUD housing in § 5.703 of this title. At any other time, the applicable standards are the local housing codes or codes adopted by the public housing agency if such codes meet or exceed the standards in § 5.703 of this title and do not severely restrict housing choice or, if there are no such local housing codes or codes adopted by the public housing agency, the standards in § 5.703 of this title will apply. In addition, any unit in which the tenant receives tenant-based assistance must comply with the housing quality standards of the section 8 tenant-based programs.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53901, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.560
Property management standards.
(a)
General.
Each PAE is required by section 518 of MAHRA to establish management standards consistent with industry standards and HUD guidelines. The management standards must be included or referenced in the Restructuring Plan.
(b)
HUD guidelines.
At a minimum, the PAE's management standards must require the project management to:
(1) Protect the physical integrity of the property over the long term through preventative maintenance, repair, or replacement;
(2) Ensure that the building and grounds are routinely cleaned;
(3) Maintain good relations with the tenants;
(4) Protect the financial integrity of the project by operating the property with competitive and reasonable costs and maintaining appropriate property and liability insurance at all times;
(5) Take all necessary measures to ensure the tenants' physical safety; and
(6) Comply with other provisions that are required by HUD, including termination of the management agent for cause.
(c)
Conflicts of interest.
The PAE management standards must also conform to any guidelines established by HUD, and industry standards, governing conflicts of interest between owners, managers, and contractors.

# Subpart E—Section 8 Requirements for Restructured Projects
§ 401.595
Contract and regulatory provisions.
The provisions of chapter VIII of this title will apply to renewal of a section 8 project-based assistance contract under this part only to the extent, if any, provided in the contract. Part 983 of this title will not apply. The term of the contract renewals under this part will be determined by the appropriate HUD official.
[65 FR 53901, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.600
Will a section 8 contract be extended if it would expire while an owner's request for a Restructuring Plan is pending?
(a) If a section 8 contract for an eligible project would expire before a Restructuring Plan is implemented, the contract may be extended at rents not exceeding current rents:
(1) For up to the earlier of one year or closing on the Restructuring Plan under § 401.407; or
(2) For such period of time beyond one year as HUD may approve, up to the closing of the Restructuring Plan.
(b) Any extension of the contract beyond one year for a pending Restructuring Plan, other than an extension approved under this section, must be at
comparable market rents or exception rents. An extension at comparable market rents will not affect a project's eligibility for the Mark-to-Market program once it has been established under this part.
(c) HUD may terminate the contract earlier if the PAE or HUD determines that an owner is not cooperative under § 401.402 or if the owner's request is rejected under § 401.403 or § 401.405.
[71 FR 2121, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 401.601
[Reserved]
§ 401.602
Tenant protections if an expiring contract is not renewed.
(a)
Required notices.
(1)(i) The owner of an eligible project who has requested a Restructuring Plan and contract renewal must provide a 12-month notice as provided in section 514(d) if MAHRA, if the owner later decides not to renew an expiring contract (except due to a rejection under §§ 401.101, 401.403, 401.405, or 401.451.) If the owner gives such 12-month notice, the owner is not required to give a separate notice under section 8(c)(8) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
(ii) An owner who gives the 12-month notice required by paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section and who determines not to renew a contract must give additional notice not less than 120 days before the contract expiration.
(2) The owner of an eligible project who has requested a Restructuring Plan but who has been rejected under §§ 401.101, 401.403, 401.405, or 401.451 must provide 12 months advance notice under section 8(c)(8)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937, unless project-based assistance is renewed under § 402.4 of this chapter.
(3) Notices required by this paragraph must be provided to tenants and to HUD or the contract administrator. HUD will prescribe the form of notices under this paragraph, to the extent that the form is not prescribed by section 8(c)(8) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
(b)
If owner does not give notice.
If an owner described in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section does not give timely notice of non-renewal or termination, the owner must permit the tenants in assisted units to remain in their units for the required notice period with no increase in the tenant portion of their rent, and with no eviction due to inability to collect an increased tenant portion of rent.
(c)
Availability of tenant-based assistance.
(1) Subject to the availability of amounts provided in advance in appropriations and the eligibility requirements of the tenant-based assistance program regulations, HUD will make tenant-based assistance available under the following circumstances:
(i) If the owner of an eligible project does not renew the project-based assistance, any eligible tenant residing in a unit assisted under the expiring contract on the date of expiration will be eligible to receive assistance on the later of the date of expiration or the date the owner's obligations under paragraph (b) of this section expire; and
(ii) If a request for a Restructuring Plan is rejected under § 401.101, § 401.403, § 401.405, or 401.451, and project-based assistance is not otherwise renewed, any eligible tenant who is a low-income family or who resides in a project-based assisted unit on the date of Plan rejection will be eligible to receive assistance on the later of the date the Restructuring Plan is rejected, or the date the owner's obligations under paragraph (b) of this section expire.
(2) If the tenant was assisted under the expiring contract, assistance under this paragraph will be in the form of enhanced vouchers as provided in section 8(t) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 65 FR 53901, Sept. 6, 2000]
§ 401.605
Project-based assistance provisions.
The project-based assistance rents for a restructured project must be the restructured rents determined under the Restructuring Plan in accordance with §§ 401.410 or 401.411.
§ 401.606
Tenant-based assistance provisions.
If the Restructuring Plan provides for tenant-based assistance, each assisted family residing in a unit assisted
under the expiring project-based assistance contract when the contract terminates will be offered tenant-based assistance if the family meets the eligibility requirements under part 982. Whenever permitted by section 515(c)(4) of MAHRA, the tenant-based assistance will be in the form of enhanced vouchers as provided in section 8(t) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.

# Subpart F—Owner Dispute of Rejection and Administrative Appeal
§ 401.645
Owner request to review HUD decision.
(a)
HUD notice of decision.
(1) HUD will provide notice to the owner of:
(i) A decision that the owner or project is not eligible for the Mark-to-Market program;
(ii) A decision not to offer a proposed Restructuring Commitment to the owner; and
(iii) A decision to offer a proposed Restructuring Commitment. The proposed Restructuring Commitment provided to the owner constitutes the notice of decision for purposes of requesting a review of a HUD decision.
(2) The notice of decision will include the reasons for the decision.
(3) The notice of decision will also notify the owner of the right to request a review of the decision or to cure any deficiencies on which the decision was based; the date by which the review request must be submitted or the deficiencies must be cured, which will be at least 30 days after the date of the notice of decision; and the address to which the review request is to be submitted.
(b)
Review request by owner
—(1)
Written statement.
The review request must specify in writing:
(i) Each item of the decision to which the owner objects;
(ii) The reasons for the owner's objections; and
(iii) All information in support of the objections that the owner wants HUD to consider.
(2)
Scope of information submitted.
HUD will not consider information first submitted to HUD in conjunction with an owner's request for review except for:
(i) Information that could not have been submitted previously; and
(ii) New health and safety information.
(c)
HUD review and final decision.
(1) HUD may expand the scope of review beyond the issues raised by the owner and may review and modify any term within the Restructuring Commitment without regard to whether the owner has raised an objection to that term, including adjustments to rents or expenses as underwritten by the PAE. If HUD does expand the scope of review, HUD will notify the owner of such action and provide an additional 30 days for the owner to raise any additional objections and provide additional information.
(2) Within 30 days of HUD's receipt of the owner's review request and any additional objections and information, HUD will review the request and, using a standard of what is reasonable in light of all of the evidence presented, issue a final decision. The final decision will:
(i) Affirm the notice of decision; or
(ii) Modify the notice of decision and, if applicable, modify the Restructuring Commitment, in which event HUD will issue an amended or restated Restructuring Commitment that incorporates the final decision; or
(iii) Revoke the notice of decision and, if applicable, terminate the Restructuring Commitment and notify the owner that the owner is not eligible for participation in the Mark-to-Market program or that a restructuring of the property is not feasible.
[72 FR 66040, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.650
When may the owner request an administrative appeal?
(a)
No review request by owner.
If the owner does not request a review of the notice of decision under § 401.645 or does not execute the proposed Restructuring Commitment within the time provided in the notice of decision, HUD will send a written notice to the owner stating that the notice of decision is HUD's final decision and that the owner has 10 days after receipt of the letter to accept the decision, including a Restructuring Commitment, if applicable, or request an administrative appeal in accordance with § 401.651.
(b)
Upon receipt of final decision.
HUD will send the owner a written notice of the final decision under § 401.645 that will also provide the owner with 10 days to request an administrative appeal of the final decision.
(c)
HUD decision to accelerate the second mortgage.
Upon receipt of notice from HUD of a decision to accelerate the second mortgage under § 401.461(b)(4), the owner may request an administrative appeal in accordance with § 401.651.
[72 FR 66040, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.651
Appeal procedures.
(a)
How to appeal.
An owner may submit a written appeal to HUD, within 10 days of receipt of written notice of the decision described in § 401.650, contesting the decision and requesting a conference with HUD. At the conference, the owner may submit (in person, in writing, or through a representative) its reasons for appealing the decision. The HUD or PAE official who issued the decision under appeal may participate in the conference and submit (in person, in writing, or through a representative) the basis for the decision.
(b)
Written decision.
Within 20 days after the conference, or 20 days after any agreed-upon extension of time for submission of additional materials by or on behalf of the owner, HUD will review the evidence presented for the administrative appeal and, using the standard of whether the determination of the final decision was reasonable, will advise the owner in writing of the decision to terminate, modify, or affirm the original decision. HUD will act, as necessary, to implement the decision, for example, by offering a revised Restructuring Commitment to the owner.
(c)
Who is responsible for reviewing appeals?
HUD will designate an official to review any appeal, conduct the conference, and issue the written decision. The official designated must be one who was neither directly involved in, nor reports to another directly involved in, making the decision being appealed.
[65 FR 15485, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 72 FR 66040, Nov. 26, 2007]
§ 401.652
No judicial review.
The reviewing official's decision under § 401.651 is a final determination for purposes of section 516(c) of MAHRA and is not subject to judicial review.
Pt. 402

# PART 402—SECTION 8 PROJECT-BASED CONTRACT RENEWAL UNDER SECTION 524 OF MAHRA
Sec.
402.1
What is the purpose of part 402?
402.2
Definitions.
402.3
Contract provisions.
402.4
Contract renewals under section 524(a)(1) of MAHRA.
402.5
Contract renewals under section 524(b) or (e) of MAHRA .
402.6
What actions must an owner take to request section 8 contract renewal under this part?
402.7
Refusal to consider an owner's request for a Section 8 contract renewal because of actions or omissions of owner or affiliate.
402.8
Tenant protections if a contract is not renewed.
402.9
Waivers and delegations of waiver authority.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1437(c)(8), 1437f note, and 3535(d).

# Source:
63 FR 48953, Sept. 11, 1998, unless otherwise noted.
§ 402.1
What is the purpose of part 402?
This part sets out the terms and conditions under which HUD will renew project-based assistance contracts under the authority provided in section 524 of MAHRA.
[71 FR 2121, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 402.2
Definitions.
(a)
Terms defined in part 401.
In this part, the following terms have the meanings given in § 401.2 of this chapter: affiliate, disabled family, elderly family, eligible project, HUD, MAHRA, owner, PAE, Restructuring Plan, and section 8.
(b)
Terms defined in MAHRA.
In this part, the following terms have the meanings given in section 512 of MAHRA: expiration date, fair market rent, renewal, and tenant-based assistance.
(c)
Other defined terms.
In this part, the term—
Comparable market rents
means rents determined in accordance with section 524(a)(5) of MAHRA and HUD's instructions.
Large family
means a family of five or more persons.
OCAF
means an operating cost adjustment factor established by HUD, which may not be negative, that is applied to the existing contract rent (less the portion of that rent paid for debt service).
Portfolio Reengineering demonstration authority
means the authority specified in section 524(e)(2)(B) of MAHRA.
Project-based assistance
means the types of assistance listed in section 512(2)(B) of MAHRA, or a project-based assistance contract under the Section 8 program renewed under section 524 of MAHRA.
Project eligible for exception rents
means a project described in section 524(b) of MAHRA.
SRO contract
and
SRO project
mean, respectively, a project-based assistance contract for single-room occupancy dwellings under section 441 of the Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11401), and a project with units covered by such a contract.
[71 FR 2121, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 402.3
Contract provisions.
The renewal HAP contract shall be construed and administered in accordance with all statutory requirements, and with all HUD regulations and other requirements, including changes in HUD regulations and other requirements during the term of the renewal HAP contract, unless the contract provides otherwise.
[71 FR 2121, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 402.4
Contract renewals under section 524(a)(1) of MAHRA.
(a)
Initial renewal.
(1) HUD may renew any expiring section 8 project-based assistance contract at initial rents that do not exceed comparable market rents.
(2)
Procedure for projects eligible for Restructuring Plan.
(i) If an owner requests renewal of a contract under this section for a project that is eligible for a Restructuring Plan under the Mark-to-Market program under part 401 and that has not been rejected under that part, HUD or a PAE will determine whether renewal under this section, instead of through a Restructuring Plan under part 401 of this chapter, would be sufficient. Renewal without a Restructuring Plan will be considered sufficient if the rents after renewal would be sufficient to maintain both adequate debt service coverage on the HUD-insured or HUD-held mortgage and necessary replacement reserves to ensure the long-term physical integrity of the project, taking into account any comments received under § 401.502(c) of this chapter.
(ii) If HUD or the PAE determines that renewal under this section would be sufficient, HUD will not require a Restructuring Plan.
(iii) If HUD or the PAE determines that renewal under this section would not be sufficient, HUD or the PAE may require a Restructuring Plan before the owner's request for contract renewal will be given further consideration. If the owner does not cooperate in the development of an acceptable Restructuring Plan, HUD will pursue whatever administrative actions it considers necessary.
(b) [Reserved]
[65 FR 15498, Mar. 22, 2000, as amended at 71 FR 2121, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 402.5
Contract renewals under section 524(b) or (e) of MAHRA.
(a)
Renewal of projects eligible for exception rents at owner's request.
HUD will offer to renew project-based assistance for a project eligible for exception rents under section 524(b) of MAHRA at rent levels determined under this section instead of § 402.4, except as provided in § 402.7, but the owner of a project other than a project with assistance under the Section 8 moderate rehabilitation program may request renewal under § 402.4.
(b)
Rent levels for projects eligible for exception rents.
HUD will renew the contract with rent levels at the least of:
(1) Existing rents adjusted by an OCAF;
(2) A budget-based rent determined in accordance with instructions issued by
HUD, subject to a determination by HUD that such a rent level is appropriate; or
(3) In the case of a contract under the Section 8 moderate rehabilitation program (other than an SRO contract), the lesser of existing rents adjusted by an OCAF, fair market rents (less any amounts for tenant-purchased utilities), or comparable market rents, as provided in section 524(b)(3) of MAHRA.
(c)
Rent adjustments.
(1) After rents have been established under this section, rent adjustments will comply with section 524(c) of MAHRA except as otherwise required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section for preservation projects.
(2) Rent adjustments for projects assisted under the Section 8 moderate rehabilitation program, other than projects assisted under the moderate rehabilitation single-room occupancy program, shall be determined in accordance with section 524(b)(3) of MAHRA.
(d)
Preservation projects and demonstration projects.
(1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part except § 402.7, upon expiration of a section 8 contract for a project subject to an approved plan of action under the Emergency Low-Income Housing Preservation Act of 1987 (ELIHPA) or the Low-Income Housing Preservation and Resident Homeownership Act of 1990 (LIHPRHA), the Secretary will provide benefits that are comparable to those provided under such plan of action. This paragraph (d)(1) applies only to the extent amounts are specifically made available in appropriations acts.
(2) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part except § 402.7, upon expiration of a Section 8 contract entered into pursuant to a Portfolio Reengineering demonstration authority for which HUD made a determination that debt restructuring is inappropriate, and the owner of the project executed a Portfolio Reengineering Demonstration Program Use Agreement, the Secretary will provide the owner, at the request of the owner, with benefits comparable to those provided under the contract that is expiring. This paragraph (d)(2) applies only to the extent amounts are made available in appropriations acts.
[71 FR 2122, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 402.6
What actions must an owner take to request section 8 contract renewal under this part?
(a)
In general.
An owner requesting contract renewal under this part must submit to HUD or HUD's designee, at least 120 days before the termination or expiration date of any project-based assistance contract, all documents or information prescribed by HUD.
(b)
Subsequent renewals.
A contract that was initially renewed under MAHRA will be renewed at the owner's request under any renewal option for which the project is eligible. However, in the case of a project that is eligible for a Restructuring Plan under § 401.100, HUD or a PAE will determine whether renewal with a Restructuring Plan under part 401, or without a Restructuring Plan under this part, is necessary.
[71 FR 2122, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 402.7
Refusal to consider an owner's request for a Section 8 contract renewal because of actions or omissions of owner or affiliate.
(a)
Determination of eligibility.
Notwithstanding 2 CFR part 2424, HUD may elect to not consider a request for renewal of project-based assistance, if at any time before contract renewal:
(1) The owner or an affiliate is debarred or suspended under part 2 CFR part 2424;
(2) HUD determines that the owner or an affiliate has engaged in material adverse financial or managerial actions or omissions as described in section 516 of MAHRA, including any outstanding violations of civil rights laws, or has failed to certify to compliance with the nondiscrimination requirements of 24 CFR 5.105(a), in connection with any project of the owner or an affiliate; or
(3) The project does not meet the physical condition standards in 24 CFR 5.703 of this title, unless HUD determines that the project will meet the standards within a reasonable time after renewal.
(b)
Dispute and appeal.
An owner may dispute a rejection under this section and seek administrative review under
the procedures in subpart F of part 401 of this chapter.
[71 FR 2122, Jan. 12, 2006, as amended at 72 FR 73496, Dec. 27, 2007]
§ 402.8
Tenant protections if a contract is not renewed.
(a)
Notice of termination.
An owner who is not eligible for a Restructuring Plan under part 401 of this chapter, or who is eligible but does not request restructuring, and who does not renew a contract, must provide one year's notice to tenants, to HUD, and to the contract administrator as provided in section 8(c)(8)(A) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
(b)
If an owner does not give timely notice.
If an owner does not give one year's notice of termination as described in paragraph (a) of this section, the owner must permit the tenants in assisted units to remain in their units at a rental rate no higher than the tenant rent payable for the tenants' last month of assisted occupancy under the terminated HAP contract until one year after notice is given, even if HUD does not continue to make housing assistance payments with respect to such units.
(c)
If an owner opts out or fails to renew.
In the case where a contract for Section 8 rental assistance for a project is terminated or expires, an assisted family may elect to remain in the project and, if eligible, receive tenant-based Section 8 assistance under Section 8(t) of the United States Housing Act of 1937.
[71 FR 2122, Jan. 12, 2006]
§ 402.9
Waivers and delegations of waiver authority.
All waivers of provisions of this part, and delegations of the authority to waive provisions of this part, are governed by § 5.110 of this title.
[71 FR 2123, Jan. 12, 2006]
PARTS 403-499 [RESERVED]

# FINDING AIDS
A list of CFR titles, subtitles, chapters, subchapters and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are included in the CFR Index and Finding Aids volume to the Code of Federal Regulations which is published separately and revised annually.
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
List of CFR Sections Affected
Chap.

# Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)

# Title 1—General Provisions
I
Administrative Committee of the Federal Register (Parts 1—49)
II
Office of the Federal Register (Parts 50—299)
III
Administrative Conference of the United States (Parts 300—399)
IV
Miscellaneous Agencies (Parts 400—599)
VI
National Capital Planning Commission (Parts 600—699)

# Title 2—Federal Financial Assistance
Subtitle A—Office of Management and Budget Guidance for Federal Financial Assistance
I
Office of Management and Budget Governmentwide Guidance for Grants and Agreements (Parts 2—199)
II
Office of Management and Budget Guidance (Parts 200—299)
Subtitle B—Federal Agency Regulations for Grants and Agreements
III
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
VI
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
VII
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
IX
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
X
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Department of Defense (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVIII
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
U.S. Agency for Global Media (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
United States Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
XXII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2200—2299)
XXIII
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Small Business Administration (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
Department of Education (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
Office of National Drug Control Policy, Executive Office of the President (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Peace Corps (Parts 3700—3799)
LVIII
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
LIX
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 5900—5999)
LX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 6000—6099)

# Title 3—The President
I
Executive Office of the President (Parts 100—199)

# Title 4—Accounts
I
Government Accountability Office (Parts 1—199)

# Title 5—Administrative Personnel
I
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1—1199)
II
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 1200—1299)
III
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 1300—1399)
IV
Office of Personnel Management and Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1400—1499)
V
The International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VIII
Office of Special Counsel (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Appalachian Regional Commission (Parts 1900—1999)
XI
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 2100—2199)
XIV
Federal Labor Relations Authority, General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority and Federal Service Impasses Panel (Parts 2400—2499)
XVI
Office of Government Ethics (Parts 2600—2699)
XXI
Department of the Treasury (Parts 3100—3199)
XXII
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 3200—3299)
XXIII
Department of Energy (Parts 3300—3399)
XXIV
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Parts 3400—3499)
XXV
Department of the Interior (Parts 3500—3599)
XXVI
Department of Defense (Parts 3600—3699)
XXVIII
Department of Justice (Parts 3800—3899)
XXIX
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 3900—3999)
XXX
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 4000—4099)
XXXI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 4100—4199)
XXXIII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 4300—4399)
XXXIV
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 4400—4499)
XXXV
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 4500—4599)
XXXVI
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 4600—4699)
XXXVII
Federal Election Commission (Parts 4700—4799)
XL
Interstate Commerce Commission (Parts 5000—5099)
XLI
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 5100—5199)
XLII
Department of Labor (Parts 5200—5299)
XLIII
National Science Foundation (Parts 5300—5399)
XLV
Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 5500—5599)
XLVI
Postal Rate Commission (Parts 5600—5699)
XLVII
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 5700—5799)
XLVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 5800—5899)
XLIX
Federal Labor Relations Authority (Parts 5900—5999)
L
Department of Transportation (Parts 6000—6099)
LII
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 6200—6299)
LIII
Department of Education (Parts 6300—6399)
LIV
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 6400—6499)
LV
National Endowment for the Arts (Parts 6500—6599)
LVI
National Endowment for the Humanities (Parts 6600—6699)
LVII
General Services Administration (Parts 6700—6799)
LVIII
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Parts 6800—6899)
LIX
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 6900—6999)
LX
United States Postal Service (Parts 7000—7099)
LXI
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 7100—7199)
LXII
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 7200—7299)
LXIII
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 7300—7399)
LXIV
Merit Systems Protection Board (Parts 7400—7499)
LXV
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 7500—7599)
LXVI
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 7600—7699)
LXVII
Institute of Museum and Library Services (Parts 7700—7799)
LXVIII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 7800—7899)
LXIX
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 7900—7999)
LXX
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 8000—8099)
LXXI
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 8100—8199)
LXXIII
Department of Agriculture (Parts 8300—8399)
LXXIV
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 8400—8499)
LXXVI
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board (Parts 8600—8699)
LXXVII
Office of Management and Budget (Parts 8700—8799)
LXXX
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 9000—9099)
LXXXIII
Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction (Parts 9300—9399)
LXXXIV
Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection (Parts 9400—9499)
LXXXVI
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 9600—9699)
XCVII
Department of Homeland Security Human Resources Management System (Department of Homeland Security—Office of Personnel Management) (Parts 9700—9799)
XCVIII
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency (Parts 9800—9899)
XCIX
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission (Parts 9900—9999)
C
National Council on Disability (Parts 10000—10049)
CI
National Mediation Board (Parts 10100—10199)
CII
U.S. Office of Special Counsel (Parts 10200—10299)
CIII
U.S. Office of Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 10300—10399)
CIV
Office of the Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator (Part 10400—10499)

# Title 6—Domestic Security
I
Department of Homeland Security, Office of the Secretary (Parts 1—199)
X
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 7—Agriculture
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Agriculture (Parts 0—26)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture
I
Agricultural Marketing Service (Standards, Inspections, Marketing Practices), Department of Agriculture (Parts 27—209)
II
Food and Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 210—299)
III
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—399)
IV
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
V
Agricultural Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 500—599)
VI
Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 600—699)
VII
Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Agricultural Marketing Service (Federal Grain Inspection Service, Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 800—899)
IX
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Fruits, Vegetables, Nuts), Department of Agriculture (Parts 900—999)
X
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Milk), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1000—1199)
XI
Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture (Parts 1200—1299)
XIV
Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
[Reserved]
XVII
Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Rural Housing Service, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Utilities Service, and Farm Service Agency, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1800—2099)
XX
[Reserved]
XXI
Office of Energy and Environmental Policy, Department of Agriculture (Part 2100)
XXV
Office of Advocacy and Outreach, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVI
Office of Inspector General, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2600—2699)
XXVII
Office of Information Resources Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of Operations, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2800—2899)
XXIX
Office of Energy Policy and New Uses, Department of Agriculture (Parts 2900—2999)
XXX
Office of the Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3000—3099)
XXXI
Office of Environmental Quality, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3100—3199)
XXXII
Office of Procurement and Property Management, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3200—3299)
XXXIII
Office of Transportation, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3300—3399)
XXXIV
National Institute of Food and Agriculture (Parts 3400—3499)
XXXV
Rural Housing Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3500—3599)
XXXVI
National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3600—3699)
XXXVII
Economic Research Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3700—3799)
XXXVIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board, Department of Agriculture (Parts 3800—3899)
XLI
[Reserved]
XLII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 4200—4299)
L
Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Rural Housing Service, and Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 5000—5099)

# Title 8—Aliens and Nationality
I
Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—499)
V
Executive Office for Immigration Review, Department of Justice (Parts 1000—1399)

# Title 9—Animals and Animal Products
I
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 1—199)
II
Agricultural Marketing Service (Fair Trade Practices Program), Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Food Safety and Inspection Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 300—599)

# Title 10—Energy
I
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Department of Energy (Parts 200—699)
III
Department of Energy (Parts 700—999)
X
Department of Energy (General Provisions) (Parts 1000—1099)
XIII
Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XVII
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 11—Federal Elections
I
Federal Election Commission (Parts 1—9099)
II
Election Assistance Commission (Parts 9400—9499)

# Title 12—Banks and Banking
I
Comptroller of the Currency, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—199)
II
Federal Reserve System (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Export-Import Bank of the United States (Parts 400—499)
V
(Parts 500—599) [Reserved]
VI
Farm Credit Administration (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Credit Union Administration (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Federal Financing Bank (Parts 800—899)
IX
(Parts 900—999)[Reserved]
X
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Federal Housing Finance Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Financial Stability Oversight Council (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Office of Financial Research, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1800—1899)

# Title 13—Business Credit and Assistance
I
Small Business Administration (Parts 1—199)
III
Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board (Parts 400—499)
V
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board (Parts 500—599)

# Title 14—Aeronautics and Space
I
Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—199)
II
Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation (Aviation Proceedings) (Parts 200—399)
III
Commercial Space Transportation, Federal Aviation Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—1199)
V
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
VI
Air Transportation System Stabilization (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 15—Commerce and Foreign Trade
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Commerce (Parts 0—29)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Commerce and Foreign Trade
I
Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce (Parts 30—199)
II
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—499)
VII
Bureau of Industry and Security, Department of Commerce (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of Commerce (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 900—999)
XI
National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce (Parts 1100—1199)
XIII
East-West Foreign Trade Board (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Minority Business Development Agency (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
Office of the Under-Secretary for Economic Affairs, Department of Commerce (Parts 1500—1599)
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Foreign Trade Agreements
XX
Office of the United States Trade Representative (Parts 2000—2099)
Subtitle D—Regulations Relating to Telecommunications and Information
XXIII
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 2300—2399) [Reserved]

# Title 16—Commercial Practices
I
Federal Trade Commission (Parts 0—999)
II
Consumer Product Safety Commission (Parts 1000—1799)

# Title 17—Commodity and Securities Exchanges
I
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (Parts 1—199)
II
Securities and Exchange Commission (Parts 200—399)
IV
Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)

# Title 18—Conservation of Power and Water Resources
I
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Department of Energy (Parts 1—399)
III
Delaware River Basin Commission (Parts 400—499)
VI
Water Resources Council (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Parts 800—899)
XIII
Tennessee Valley Authority (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 19—Customs Duties
I
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Department of Homeland Security; Department of the Treasury (Parts 0—199)
II
United States International Trade Commission (Parts 200—299)
III
International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—599) [Reserved]

# Title 20—Employees' Benefits
I
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Railroad Retirement Board (Parts 200—399)
III
Social Security Administration (Parts 400—499)
IV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board, Department of Labor (Parts 500—599)
V
Employment and Training Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 600—699)
VI
Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Department of Labor (Parts 700—799)
VII
Benefits Review Board, Department of Labor (Parts 800—899)
VIII
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries (Parts 900—999)
IX
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 21—Food and Drugs
I
Food and Drug Administration, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—1299)
II
Drug Enforcement Administration, Department of Justice (Parts 1300—1399)
III
Office of National Drug Control Policy (Parts 1400—1499)

# Title 22—Foreign Relations
I
Department of State (Parts 1—199)
II
Agency for International Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Peace Corps (Parts 300—399)
IV
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada (Parts 400—499)
V
United States Agency for Global Media (Parts 500—599)
VII
U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (Parts 700—799)
IX
Foreign Service Grievance Board (Parts 900—999)
X
Inter-American Foundation (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
United States International Development Cooperation Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Millennium Challenge Corporation (Parts 1300—1399)
XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board; Federal Labor Relations Authority; General Counsel of the Federal Labor Relations Authority; and the Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel (Parts 1400—1499)
XV
African Development Foundation (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Japan-United States Friendship Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
United States Institute of Peace (Parts 1700—1799)

# Title 23—Highways
I
Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1—999)
II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration and Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
III
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1300—1399)

# Title 24—Housing and Urban Development
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Housing and Urban Development
I
Office of Assistant Secretary for Equal Opportunity, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 200—299)
III
Government National Mortgage Association, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Housing and Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 500—599)
VI
Office of Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 600—699) [Reserved]
VII
Office of the Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Housing Assistance Programs and Public and Indian Housing Programs) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Section 8 Housing Assistance Programs, Section 202 Direct Loan Program, Section 202 Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811 Supportive Housing for Persons With Disabilities Program) (Parts 800—899)
IX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 900—1699)
X
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Interstate Land Sales Registration Program) (Parts 1700—1799) [Reserved]
XII
Office of Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2000—2099)
XV
Emergency Mortgage Insurance and Loan Programs, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2700—2799) [Reserved]
XX
Office of Assistant Secretary for Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 3200—3899)
XXIV
Board of Directors of the HOPE for Homeowners Program (Parts 4000—4099) [Reserved]
XXV
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation (Parts 4100—4199)

# Title 25—Indians
I
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—299)
II
Indian Arts and Crafts Board, Department of the Interior (Parts 300—399)
III
National Indian Gaming Commission, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
IV
Office of Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation (Parts 700—899)
V
Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, and Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Part 900—999)
VI
Office of the Assistant Secretary, Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—1199)
VII
Office of the Special Trustee for American Indians, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 26—Internal Revenue
I
Internal Revenue Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—End)

# Title 27—Alcohol, Tobacco Products and Firearms
I
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1—399)
II
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Department of Justice (Parts 400—799)

# Title 28—Judicial Administration
I
Department of Justice (Parts 0—299)
III
Federal Prison Industries, Inc., Department of Justice (Parts 300—399)
V
Bureau of Prisons, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
Offices of Independent Counsel, Department of Justice (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Independent Counsel (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia (Parts 800—899)
IX
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council (Parts 900—999)
XI
Department of Justice and Department of State (Parts 1100—1199)

# Title 29—Labor
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Labor (Parts 0—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Labor
I
National Labor Relations Board (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 200—299)
III
National Railroad Adjustment Board (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Labor-Management Standards, Department of Labor (Parts 400—499)
V
Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor (Parts 500—899)
IX
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
National Mediation Board (Parts 1200—1299)
XII
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service (Parts 1400—1499)
XIV
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2200—2499)
XXV
Employee Benefits Security Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 2500—2599)
XXVII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission (Parts 2700—2799)
XL
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (Parts 4000—4999)

# Title 30—Mineral Resources
I
Mine Safety and Health Administration, Department of Labor (Parts 1—199)
II
Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 200—299)
IV
Geological Survey, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—499)
V
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 500—599)
VII
Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Department of the Interior (Parts 700—999)
XII
Office of Natural Resources Revenue, Department of the Interior (Parts 1200—1299)

# Title 31—Money and Finance: Treasury
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Treasury (Parts 0—50)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Money and Finance
I
Monetary Offices, Department of the Treasury (Parts 51—199)
II
Fiscal Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 200—399)
IV
Secret Service, Department of the Treasury (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Foreign Assets Control, Department of the Treasury (Parts 500—599)
VI
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, Department of the Treasury (Parts 600—699)
VII
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Department of the Treasury (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Investment Security, Department of the Treasury (Parts 800—899)
IX
Federal Claims Collection Standards (Department of the Treasury—Department of Justice) (Parts 900—999)
X
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 32—National Defense
Subtitle A—Department of Defense
I
Office of the Secretary of Defense (Parts 1—399)
V
Department of the Army (Parts 400—699)
VI
Department of the Navy (Parts 700—799)
VII
Department of the Air Force (Parts 800—1099)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to National Defense
XII
Department of Defense, Defense Logistics Agency (Parts 1200—1299)
XVI
Selective Service System (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
Office of the Director of National Intelligence (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
National Counterintelligence Center (Parts 1800—1899)
XIX
Central Intelligence Agency (Parts 1900—1999)
XX
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 2000—2099)
XXI
National Security Council (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIV
Office of Science and Technology Policy (Parts 2400—2499)
XXVII
Office for Micronesian Status Negotiations (Parts 2700—2799)
XXVIII
Office of the Vice President of the United States (Parts 2800—2899)

# Title 33—Navigation and Navigable Waters
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army, Department of Defense (Parts 200—399)
IV
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 34—Education
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary, Department of Education (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Regulations of the Offices of the Department of Education
I
Office for Civil Rights, Department of Education (Parts 100—199)
II
Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education (Parts 400—499)
V
Office of Bilingual Education and Minority [Reserved]
VI
Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education (Parts 600—699)
VII
Office of Educational Research and Improvement, Department of Education (Parts 700—799) [Reserved]
Subtitle C—Regulations Relating to Education
XI
[Reserved]
XII
National Council on Disability (Parts 1200—1299)
Title 35 [Reserved]

# Title 36—Parks, Forests, and Public Property
I
National Park Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
Forest Service, Department of Agriculture (Parts 200—299)
III
Corps of Engineers, Department of the Army (Parts 300—399)
IV
American Battle Monuments Commission (Parts 400—499)
V
Smithsonian Institution (Parts 500—599)
VI
[Reserved]
VII
Library of Congress (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation (Parts 800—899)
IX
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation (Parts 900—999)
X
Presidio Trust (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
National Archives and Records Administration (Parts 1200—1299)
XV
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust (Parts 1500—1599)
XVI
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation (Parts 1600—1699)

# Title 37—Patents, Trademarks, and Copyrights
I
United States Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce (Parts 1—199)
II
U.S. Copyright Office, Library of Congress (Parts 200—299)
III
Copyright Royalty Board, Library of Congress (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Institute of Standards and Technology, Department of Commerce (Parts 400—599)

# Title 38—Pensions, Bonuses, and Veterans' Relief
I
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 0—199)
II
Armed Forces Retirement Home (Parts 200—299)

# Title 39—Postal Service
I
United States Postal Service (Parts 1—999)
III
Postal Regulatory Commission (Parts 3000—3099)

# Title 40—Protection of Environment
I
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1—1099)
IV
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Justice (Parts 1400—1499)
V
Council on Environmental Quality (Parts 1500—1599)
VI
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board (Parts 1600—1699)
VII
Environmental Protection Agency and Department of Defense; Uniform National Discharge Standards for Vessels of the Armed Forces (Parts 1700—1799)
VIII
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council (Parts 1800—1899)
IX
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council (Part 1900)

# Title 41—Public Contracts and Property Management
Subtitle A—Federal Procurement Regulations System [Note]
Subtitle B—Other Provisions Relating to Public Contracts
50
Public Contracts, Department of Labor (Parts 50-1—50-999)
51
Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Parts 51-1—51-99)
60
Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor (Parts 60-1—60-999)
61
Office of the Assistant Secretary for Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Department of Labor (Parts 61-1—61-999)
62—100
[Reserved]
Subtitle C—Federal Property Management Regulations System
101
Federal Property Management Regulations (Parts 101-1—101-99)
102
Federal Management Regulation (Parts 102-1—102-299)
103—104
[Reserved]
105
General Services Administration (Parts 105-1—105-999)
109
Department of Energy Property Management Regulations (Parts 109-1—109-99)
114
Department of the Interior (Parts 114-1—114-99)
115
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 115-1—115-99)
128
Department of Justice (Parts 128-1—128-99)
129—200
[Reserved]
Subtitle D—Federal Acquisition Supply Chain Security
201
Federal Acquisition Security Council (Parts 201-1—201-99)
Subtitle E [Reserved]
Subtitle F—Federal Travel Regulation System
300
General (Parts 300-1—300-99)
301
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances (Parts 301-1—301-99)
302
Relocation Allowances (Parts 302-1—302-99)
303
Payment of Expenses Connected with the Death of Certain Employees (Part 303-1—303-99)
304
Payment of Travel Expenses from a Non-Federal Source (Parts 304-1—304-99)

# Title 42—Public Health
I
Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
II—III
[Reserved]
IV
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—699)
V
Office of Inspector General-Health Care, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)

# Title 43—Public Lands: Interior
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Lands
I
Bureau of Reclamation, Department of the Interior (Parts 400—999)
II
Bureau of Land Management, Department of the Interior (Parts 1000—9999)
III
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission (Parts 10000—10099)

# Title 44—Emergency Management and Assistance
I
Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 0—399)
IV
Department of Commerce and Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)

# Title 45—Public Welfare
Subtitle A—Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1—199)
Subtitle B—Regulations Relating to Public Welfare
II
Office of Family Assistance (Assistance Programs), Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 200—299)
III
Office of Child Support Services, Administration of Families and Services, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
IV
Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 400—499)
V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States, Department of Justice (Parts 500—599)
VI
National Science Foundation (Parts 600—699)
VII
Commission on Civil Rights (Parts 700—799)
VIII
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 800—899)
IX
Denali Commission (Parts 900—999)
X
Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1000—1099)
XI
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities (Parts 1100—1199)
XII
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 1200—1299)
XIII
Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services (Parts 1300—1399)
XVI
Legal Services Corporation (Parts 1600—1699)
XVII
National Commission on Libraries and Information Science (Parts 1700—1799)
XVIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Parts 1800—1899)
XXI
Commission of Fine Arts (Parts 2100—2199)
XXIII
Arctic Research Commission (Parts 2300—2399)
XXIV
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation (Parts 2400—2499)
XXV
Corporation for National and Community Service (Parts 2500—2599)

# Title 46—Shipping
I
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1—199)
II
Maritime Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—399)
III
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage), Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
IV
Federal Maritime Commission (Parts 500—599)

# Title 47—Telecommunication
I
Federal Communications Commission (Parts 0—199)
II
Office of Science and Technology Policy and National Security Council (Parts 200—299)
III
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 300—399)
IV
National Telecommunications and Information Administration, Department of Commerce, and National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 400—499)
V
The First Responder Network Authority (Parts 500—599)

# Title 48—Federal Acquisition Regulations System
1
Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1—99)
2
Defense Acquisition Regulations System, Department of Defense (Parts 200—299)
3
Health and Human Services (Parts 300—399)
4
Department of Agriculture (Parts 400—499)
5
General Services Administration (Parts 500—599)
6
Department of State (Parts 600—699)
7
Agency for International Development (Parts 700—799)
8
Department of Veterans Affairs (Parts 800—899)
9
Department of Energy (Parts 900—999)
10
Department of the Treasury (Parts 1000—1099)
12
Department of Transportation (Parts 1200—1299)
13
Department of Commerce (Parts 1300—1399)
14
Department of the Interior (Parts 1400—1499)
15
Environmental Protection Agency (Parts 1500—1599)
16
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation (Parts 1600—1699)
17
Office of Personnel Management (Parts 1700—1799)
18
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (Parts 1800—1899)
19
Broadcasting Board of Governors (Parts 1900—1999)
20
Nuclear Regulatory Commission (Parts 2000—2099)
21
Office of Personnel Management, Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation (Parts 2100—2199)
23
Social Security Administration (Parts 2300—2399)
24
Department of Housing and Urban Development (Parts 2400—2499)
25
National Science Foundation (Parts 2500—2599)
28
Department of Justice (Parts 2800—2899)
29
Department of Labor (Parts 2900—2999)
30
Department of Homeland Security, Homeland Security Acquisition Regulation (HSAR) (Parts 3000—3099)
34
Department of Education Acquisition Regulation (Parts 3400—3499)
51
Department of the Army Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5100—5199) [Reserved]
52
Department of the Navy Acquisition Regulations (Parts 5200—5299)
53
Department of the Air Force Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (Parts 5300—5399) [Reserved]
54
Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense (Parts 5400—5499)
57
African Development Foundation (Parts 5700—5799)
61
Civilian Board of Contract Appeals, General Services Administration (Parts 6100—6199)
99
Cost Accounting Standards Board, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget (Parts 9900—9999)

# Title 49—Transportation
Subtitle A—Office of the Secretary of Transportation (Parts 1—99)
Subtitle B—Other Regulations Relating to Transportation
I
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 100—199)
II
Federal Railroad Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 200—299)
III
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 300—399)
IV
Coast Guard, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 400—499)
V
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 500—599)
VI
Federal Transit Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 600—699)
VII
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK) (Parts 700—799)
VIII
National Transportation Safety Board (Parts 800—999)
X
Surface Transportation Board (Parts 1000—1399)
XI
Research and Innovative Technology Administration, Department of Transportation (Parts 1400—1499) [Reserved]
XII
Transportation Security Administration, Department of Homeland Security (Parts 1500—1699)

# Title 50—Wildlife and Fisheries
I
United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior (Parts 1—199)
II
National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 200—299)
III
International Fishing and Related Activities (Parts 300—399)
IV
Joint Regulations (United States Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior and National Marine Fisheries Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce); Endangered Species Committee Regulations (Parts 400—499)
V
Marine Mammal Commission (Parts 500—599)
VI
Fishery Conservation and Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce (Parts 600—699)

# Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
(Revised as of April 1, 2025)
Agency
CFR Title, Subtitle or Chapter
Administrative Conference of the United States
1, III
Advisory Council on Historic Preservation
36, VIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Afghanistan Reconstruction, Special Inspector General for
5, LXXXIII
African Development Foundation
22, XV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 57
Agency for International Development
2, VII; 22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Agriculture, Department of
2, IV; 5, LXXIII
Advocacy and Outreach, Office of
7, XXV
Agricultural Marketing Service
7, I, VIII, IX, X, XI; 9, II
Agricultural Research Service
7, V
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Energy Policy and New Uses, Office of
2, IX; 7, XXIX
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 4
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Forest Service
36, II
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Inspector General, Office of
7, XXVI
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Operations, Office of
7, XXVIII
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII
Rural Development Administration
7, XLII
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII
Secretary of Agriculture, Office of
7, Subtitle A
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
Air Force, Department of
32, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement
48, 53
Air Transportation Stabilization Board
14, VI
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
AMTRAK
49, VII
American Battle Monuments Commission
36, IV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service
7, III; 9, I
Appalachian Regional Commission
5, IX
Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board
36, XI
Arctic Research Commission
45, XXIII
Armed Forces Retirement Home
5, XI; 38, II
Army, Department of
32, V
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 51
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Blind or Severely Disabled, Committee for Purchase from People Who Are
41, 51
Broadcasting Board of Governors
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 19
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Census Bureau
15, I
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Central Intelligence Agency
32, XIX
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board
40, VI
Chief Financial Officer, Office of
7, XXX
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Civil Rights, Commission on
5, LXVIII; 45, VII
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Commerce, Department of
2, XIII; 44, IV; 50, VI
Census Bureau
15, I
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 13
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV
National Weather Service
15, IX
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Secretary of Commerce, Office of
15, Subtitle A
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Commodity Credit Corporation
7, XIV
Commodity Futures Trading Commission
5, XLI; 17, I
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Construction Industry Collective Bargaining Commission
29, IX
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
5, LXXXIV; 12, X
Consumer Product Safety Commission
5, LXXI; 16, II
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
Corporation for National and Community Service
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
Cost Accounting Standards Board
48, 99
Council on Environmental Quality
40, V
Council of the Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency
5, XCVIII
Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Defense, Department of
2, XI; 5, XXVI; 32, Subtitle A; 40, VII
Advanced Research Projects Agency
32, I
Air Force Department
32, VII
Army Department
32, V; 33, II; 36, III; 48, 51
Defense Acquisition Regulations System
48, 2
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, I, XII; 48, 54
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
Navy, Department of
32, VI; 48, 52
Secretary of Defense, Office of
2, XI; 32, I
Defense Contract Audit Agency
32, I
Defense Intelligence Agency
32, I
Defense Logistics Agency
32, XII; 48, 54
Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board
10, XVII
Delaware River Basin Commission
18, III
Denali Commission
45, IX
Disability, National Council on
5, C; 34, XII
District of Columbia, Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the
5, LXX; 28, VIII
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
East-West Foreign Trade Board
15, XIII
Economic Affairs, Office of the Under-Secretary for
15, XV
Economic Analysis, Bureau of
15, VIII
Economic Development Administration
13, III
Economic Research Service
7, XXXVII
Education, Department of
2, XXXIV; 5, LIII
Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs, Office of
34, V
Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Office of
34, IV
Civil Rights, Office for
34, I
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 34
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
Secretary of Education, Office of
34, Subtitle A
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
Educational Research and Improvement, Office of
34, VII
Election Assistance Commission
2, LVIII; 11, II
Elementary and Secondary Education, Office of
34, II
Emergency Oil and Gas Guaranteed Loan Board
13, V
Emergency Steel Guarantee Loan Board
13, IV
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Employment Policy, National Commission for
1, IV
Employment Standards Administration
20, VI
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Energy, Department of
2, IX; 5, XXIII; 10, II, III, X
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 9
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Property Management Regulations
41, 109
Energy, Office of
7, XXIX
Energy and Environmental Policy, Office of
7, XXI
Engineers, Corps of
33, II; 36, III
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Environmental Protection Agency
2, XV; 5, LIV; 40, I, IV, VII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 15
Property Management Regulations
41, 115
Environmental Quality, Office of
7, XXXI
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
5, LXII; 29, XIV
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Executive Office of the President
3, I
Environmental Quality, Council on
40, V
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subtitle A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
Presidential Documents
3
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Trade Representative, Office of the United States
15, XX
Export-Import Bank of the United States
2, XXXV; 5, LII; 12, IV
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Farm Credit Administration
5, XXXI; 12, VI
Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation
5, XXX; 12, XIV
Farm Service Agency
7, VII, XVIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 1
Federal Acquisition Security Council
41, 201
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Communications Commission
2, LX; 5, XXIX; 47, I
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Crop Insurance Corporation
7, IV
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
5, XXII; 12, III
Federal Election Commission
5, XXXVII; 11, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
5, XXIV; 18, I
Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council
12, XI
Federal Financing Bank
12, VIII
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation
1, IV
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight Office
12, XVII
Federal Housing Finance Agency
5, LXXX; 12, XII
Federal Labor Relations Authority
5, XIV, XLIX; 22, XIV
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Maritime Commission
46, IV
Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service
5, CIII; 29, XII
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
5, LXXIV; 29, XXVII
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council
40, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Federal Procurement Policy Office
48, 99
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Register, Administrative Committee of
1, I
Federal Register, Office of
1, II
Federal Reserve System
12, II
Board of Governors
5, LVIII
Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board
5, VI, LXXVI
Federal Service Impasses Panel
5, XIV
Federal Trade Commission
5, XLVII; 16, I
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Financial Research Office
12, XVI
Financial Stability Oversight Council
12, XIII
Fine Arts, Commission of
45, XXI
Fiscal Service
31, II
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Food and Nutrition Service
7, II
Food Safety and Inspection Service
9, III
Foreign Agricultural Service
7, XV
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Foreign Service Grievance Board
22, IX
Foreign Service Impasse Disputes Panel
22, XIV
Foreign Service Labor Relations Board
22, XIV
Foreign-Trade Zones Board
15, IV
Forest Service
36, II
General Services Administration
5, LVII; 41, 105
Contract Appeals, Board of
48, 61
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 5
Federal Management Regulation
41, 102
Federal Property Management Regulations
41, 101
Federal Travel Regulation System
41, Subtitle F
General
41, 300
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Temporary Duty (TDY) Travel Allowances
41, 301
Geological Survey
30, IV
Government Accountability Office
4, I
Government Ethics, Office of
5, XVI
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Grain Inspection, Packers and Stockyards Administration
7, VIII; 9, II
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Gulf Coast Ecosystem Restoration Council
2, LIX; 40, VIII
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
Health and Human Services, Department of
2, III; 5, XLV; 45, Subtitle A
Centers for Medicare
Medicaid Services
42, IV
Child Support Services, Office of
45, III
Children and Families, Administration for
45, II, IV, X, XIII
Community Services, Office of
45, X
Families and Services, Administration of
45, III
Family Assistance, Office of
45, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 3
Food and Drug Administration
21, I
Indian Health Service
25, V
Inspector General (Health Care), Office of
42, V
Public Health Service
42, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Homeland Security, Department of
2, XXX; 5, XXXVI; 6, I; 8, I
Coast Guard
33, I; 46, I; 49, IV
Coast Guard (Great Lakes Pilotage)
46, III
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Federal Emergency Management Agency
44, I
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems
5, XCVII
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
HOPE for Homeowners Program, Board of Directors of
24, XXIV
Housing and Urban Development, Department of
2, XXIV; 5, LXV; 24, Subtitle B
Community Planning and Development, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, V, VI
Equal Opportunity, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 24
Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, Office of
12, XVII
Government National Mortgage Association
24, III
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Inspector General, Office of
24, XII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Secretary, Office of
24, Subtitle A, VII
Housing—Federal Housing Commissioner, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, II, VIII, X, XX
Housing, Office of, and Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring, Office of
24, IV
Immigration and Customs Enforcement Bureau
19, IV
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Office of
28, VII
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Indian Health Service
25, V
Industry and Security, Bureau of
15, VII
Information Resources Management, Office of
7, XXVII
Information Security Oversight Office, National Archives and Records Administration
32, XX
Inspector General
Agriculture Department
7, XXVI
Health and Human Services Department
42, V
Housing and Urban Development Department
24, XII, XV
Institute of Peace, United States
22, XVII
Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Office of
5, CIV
Inter-American Foundation
5, LXIII; 22, X
Interior, Department of
2, XIV
American Indians, Office of the Special Trustee
25, VII
Endangered Species Committee
50, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 14
Federal Property Management Regulations System
41, 114
Fish and Wildlife Service, United States
50, I, IV
Geological Survey
30, IV
Indian Affairs, Bureau of
25, I, V
Indian Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary
25, VI
Indian Arts and Crafts Board
25, II
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Park Service
36, I
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Secretary of the Interior, Office of
2, XIV; 43, Subtitle A
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
International Boundary and Water Commission, United States and Mexico, United States Section
22, XI
International Development, United States Agency for
22, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 7
International Development Cooperation Agency, United States
22, XII
International Development Finance Corporation, U.S.
2, XVI; 5, XXXIII; 22, VII
International Joint Commission, United States and Canada
22, IV
International Organizations Employees Loyalty Board
5, V
International Trade Administration
15, III; 19, III
International Trade Commission, United States
19, II
Interstate Commerce Commission
5, XL
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
45, XXIV
Japan-United States Friendship Commission
22, XVI
Joint Board for the Enrollment of Actuaries
20, VIII
Justice, Department of
2, XXVIII; 5, XXVIII; 28, I, XI; 40, IV
Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives, Bureau of
27, II
Drug Enforcement Administration
21, II
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 28
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Prison Industries, Inc.
28, III
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States
45, V
Immigration Review, Executive Office for
8, V
Independent Counsel, Offices of
28, VI
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Property Management Regulations
41, 128
Labor, Department of
2, XXIX; 5, XLII
Benefits Review Board
20, VII
Employee Benefits Security Administration
29, XXV
Employees' Compensation Appeals Board
20, IV
Employment and Training Administration
20, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 29
Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Office of
41, 60
Federal Procurement Regulations System
41, 50
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Public Contracts
41, 50
Secretary of Labor, Office of
29, Subtitle A
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
Labor-Management Standards, Office of
29, II, IV
Land Management, Bureau of
43, II
Legal Services Corporation
45, XVI
Libraries and Information Science, National Commission on
45, XVII
Library of Congress
36, VII
Copyright Royalty Board
37, III
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
Management and Budget, Office of
2, Subpart A; 5, III, LXXVII; 14, VI; 48, 99
Marine Mammal Commission
50, V
Maritime Administration
46, II
Merit Systems Protection Board
5, II, LXIV
Micronesian Status Negotiations, Office for
32, XXVII
Military Compensation and Retirement Modernization Commission
5, XCIX
Millennium Challenge Corporation
22, XIII
Mine Safety and Health Administration
30, I
Minority Business Development Agency
15, XIV
Miscellaneous Agencies
1, IV
Monetary Offices
31, I
Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
36, XVI
Museum and Library Services, Institute of
2, XXXI
National Aeronautics and Space Administration
2, XVIII; 5, LIX; 14, V
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 18
National Agricultural Library
7, XLI
National Agricultural Statistics Service
7, XXXVI
National and Community Service, Corporation for
2, XXII; 45, XII, XXV
National Archives and Records Administration
2, XXVI; 5, LXVI; 36, XII
Information Security Oversight Office
32, XX
National Capital Planning Commission
1, IV, VI
National Counterintelligence Center
32, XVIII
National Credit Union Administration
5, LXXXVI; 12, VII
National Crime Prevention and Privacy Compact Council
28, IX
National Drug Control Policy, Office of
2, XXXVI; 21, III
National Endowment for the Arts
2, XXXII
National Endowment for the Humanities
2, XXXIII
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities
45, XI
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency
32, I
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, VI; 49, V
National Imagery and Mapping Agency
32, I
National Indian Gaming Commission
25, III
National Institute of Food and Agriculture
7, XXXIV
National Institute of Standards and Technology
15, II; 37, IV
National Intelligence, Office of Director of
5, IV; 32, XVII
National Labor Relations Board
5, LXI; 29, I
National Marine Fisheries Service
50, II, IV
National Mediation Board
5, CI; 29, X
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
15, IX; 50, II, III, IV, VI
National Park Service
36, I
National Railroad Adjustment Board
29, III
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (AMTRAK)
49, VII
National Science Foundation
2, XXV; 5, XLIII; 45, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 25
National Security Council
32, XXI; 47, II
National Technical Information Service
15, XI
National Telecommunications and Information Administration
15, XXIII; 47, III, IV, V
National Transportation Safety Board
49, VIII
Natural Resource Revenue, Office of
30, XII
Natural Resources Conservation Service
7, VI
Navajo and Hopi Indian Relocation, Office of
25, IV
Navy, Department of
32, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 52
Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation
24, XXV
Northeast Interstate Low-Level Radioactive Waste Commission
10, XVIII
Nuclear Regulatory Commission
2, XX; 5, XLVIII; 10, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 20
Occupational Safety and Health Administration
29, XVII
Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission
29, XX
Ocean Energy Management, Bureau of
30, V
Oklahoma City National Memorial Trust
36, XV
Operations Office
7, XXVIII
Patent and Trademark Office, United States
37, I
Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses
41, 304
Payment of Expenses Connected With the Death of Certain Employees
41, 303
Peace Corps
2, XXXVII; 22, III
Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation
36, IX
Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
29, XL
Personnel Management, Office of
5, I, IV, XXXV; 45, VIII
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 17
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 21
Federal Employees Health Benefits Acquisition Regulation
48, 16
Human Resources Management and Labor Relations Systems, Department of Homeland Security
5, XCVII
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Postal Regulatory Commission
5, XLVI; 39, III
Postal Service, United States
5, LX; 39, I
Postsecondary Education, Office of
34, VI
President's Commission on White House Fellowships
1, IV
Presidential Documents
3
Presidio Trust
36, X
Prisons, Bureau of
28, V
Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board
6, X
Procurement and Property Management, Office of
7, XXXII
Public and Indian Housing, Office of Assistant Secretary for
24, IX
Public Contracts, Department of Labor
41, 50
Public Health Service
42, I
Railroad Retirement Board
20, II
Reclamation, Bureau of
43, I
Refugee Resettlement, Office of
45, IV
Relocation Allowances
41, 302
Research and Innovative Technology Administration
49, XI
Rural Business-Cooperative Service
7, XVIII, XLII, L
Rural Housing Service
7, XVIII, XXXV, L
Rural Utilities Service
7, XVII, XVIII, XLII, L
Safety and Environmental Enforcement, Bureau of
30, II
Science and Technology Policy, Office of
32, XXIV; 47, II
Secret Service
31, IV
Securities and Exchange Commission
5, XXXIV; 17, II
Selective Service System
32, XVI
Small Business Administration
2, XXVII; 13, I
Smithsonian Institution
36, V
Social Security Administration
2, XXIII; 20, III; 48, 23
Soldiers' and Airmen's Home, United States
5, XI
Special Counsel, Office of
5, VIII
Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Office of
34, III
State, Department of
2, VI; 22, I; 28, XI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 6
Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, Office of
30, VII
Surface Transportation Board
49, X
Susquehanna River Basin Commission
18, VIII
Tennessee Valley Authority
5, LXIX; 18, XIII
Trade Representative, United States, Office of
15, XX
Transportation, Department of
2, XII; 5, L
Commercial Space Transportation
14, III
Emergency Management and Assistance
44, IV
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 12
Federal Aviation Administration
14, I
Federal Highway Administration
23, I, II
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration
49, III
Federal Railroad Administration
49, II
Federal Transit Administration
49, VI
Great Lakes St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation
33, IV
Maritime Administration
46, II
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration
23, II, III; 47, IV; 49, V
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration
49, I
Secretary of Transportation, Office of
14, II; 49, Subtitle A
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Transportation, Office of
7, XXXIII
Transportation Security Administration
49, XII
Transportation Statistics Bureau
49, XI
Travel Allowances, Temporary Duty (TDY)
41, 301
Treasury, Department of the
2, X; 5, XXI; 12, XV; 17, IV; 31, IX
Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
27, I
Community Development Financial Institutions Fund
12, XVIII
Comptroller of the Currency
12, I
Customs and Border Protection
19, I
Engraving and Printing, Bureau of
31, VI
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 10
Federal Claims Collection Standards
31, IX
Federal Law Enforcement Training Center
31, VII
Financial Crimes Enforcement Network
31, X
Fiscal Service
31, II
Foreign Assets Control, Office of
31, V
Internal Revenue Service
26, I
Investment Security, Office of
31, VIII
Monetary Offices
31, I
Secret Service
31, IV
Secretary of the Treasury, Office of
31, Subtitle A
Truman, Harry S. Scholarship Foundation
45, XVIII
United States Agency for Global Media
2, XIX; 22, V
United States and Canada, International Joint Commission
22, IV
United States and Mexico, International Boundary and Water Commission, United States Section
22, XI
U.S. Copyright Office
37, II
U.S. Office of Special Counsel
5, CII
Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission
43, III
Veterans Affairs, Department of
2, VIII; 38, I
Federal Acquisition Regulation
48, 8
Veterans' Employment and Training Service, Office of the Assistant Secretary for
41, 61; 20, IX
Vice President of the United States, Office of
32, XXVIII
Wage and Hour Division
29, V
Water Resources Council
18, VI
Workers' Compensation Programs, Office of
20, I, VI
World Agricultural Outlook Board
7, XXXVIII
24 CFR (4-1-25 Edition)
List of CFR Sections Affected

# List of CFR Sections Affected
All changes in this volume of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) that were made by documents published in the
Federal Register
since January 1, 2020 are enumerated in the following list. Entries indicate the nature of the changes effected. Page numbers refer to
Federal Register
pages. The user should consult the entries for chapters, parts and subparts as well as sections for revisions.
For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to this listing, consult the annual edition of the monthly List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). The LSA is available at
www.govinfo.gov
. For changes to this volume of the CFR prior to 2001, see the “List of CFR Sections Affected, 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000” published in 11 separate volumes. The “List of CFR Sections Affected 1986-2000” is available at
www.govinfo.gov
.
2020
24 CFR
85 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter II
214 Technical correction
80616
214.103 (n)(4) revised; interim
47303
214.103 Regulation at 85 FR 47303 confirmed
78232
232.7 Revised
38324
266 Authority citation revised; nomenclature change
83440
266.1 Revised
83440
266.5 Amended
83440
266.10 Removed
83441
266.30 Revised
83441
266.100 (a) introductory text amended; (a)(1), (6)(i), (b)(1), (2) introductory text, and (3) revised; (b)(4) added
83441
266.105 (b) revised
83441
266.110 (a) heading revised; (a) and (b)(1) introductory text amended
83441
266.115 (a) and (c) amended
83441
266.120 (d) and (e)(5) revised
83441
266.125 (a)(6) revised; (a)(8) added; (d)(1) amended
83441
266.200 (b)(2), (c) through (e), and (g) revised; (h) redesignated as (i); new (h) added
83441
266.205 (a)(1) and (b)(2) amended
83442
266.210 (b) removed; (c) through (e) redesignated as (b) through (d); new (c) and new (d) revised
83442
266.215 (e) revised
83442
266.217 Added
83442
266.220 (c) amended
61567
266.220 Revised
83442
266.225 (a)(1) introductory text, (i), (b), (c), and (d)(1) revised; (e) amended
83443
266.300 (b)(3) through (5) redesignated as (b)(4) through (6); new (b)(3) added; (b)(1), new (5), and (c) revised
83443
266.305 (b)(3) through (5) redesignated as (b)(4) through (6); new (b)(3) added; (a), (b)(1), new (5), and (c) revised;
83443
266.410 (e) revised
83444
266.420 (a) amended; (b)(3), (4), and (7) revised; (b)(13) added
83444
266.500 Revised
83444
266.505 (b)(8) and (10) amended
83444
266.507 Revised
83444
266.510 (a) revised
83444
266.600 Revised
83444
266.602 (a) and (d) revised; (b) and (c) amended
83444
266.604 (a) and (b) revised; (c) and (d) amended
83444
266.620 Heading revised; introductory text and (a) through (g)redesignated as new (a) and (1) through (7); (b) added
83445
266.626 (c) amended; (d) revised
83445
266.628 (a)(3) revised
83445
266.630 (c)(2) and (d)(5) amended; (d)(1), (2), and (4) revised
83445
266.634 (c) amended
83445
266.638 (a) and (b) amended
83445
266.642 Amended
83445
266.644 Introductory text amended
83445
266.648 (c)(4) amended
83445
266.650 (a) revised
83445
266.654 (b) amended
83446
2021
24 CFR
86 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter II
247.4 (c) and (e) amended; interim
55701
2022
24 CFR
87 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter II
201.28 (a) revised
70742
203.16a Revised
70742
203.343 (b)(3) revised
70743
206.45 (c) revised
70743
206.134 (b)(3) amended
70744
2023
24 CFR
88 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter II
200 Notification
4727
200.850 Revised
30498
200.853 Removed
30498
200.855 Removed
30498
200.857 Removed
30498
203.49 (b) revised
12828
203.616 Amended; eff. 5-8-23
14259
206.3 Amended
12828
206.21 (b)(1)(ii) and (2) revised; (b)(3) added
12828
2024
24 CFR
89 FR
Page
Subtitle B
Chapter II
200.54 (c) and (d) redesignated as (b)(1) and (c); (a), (b), and new (1) amended; (b)(2) added
100743
200.926d (c)(4)(i) through (iii) revised; (c)(4)(iv) removed; (c)(4)(v) and (vi) redesignated as (c)(4)(iv) and (v)
30913
201.2 Amended
14587
201.10 (b)(1) introductory text, (2) introductory text, (c), (d)(1), and (2) revised
14587
201.10 (d)(1)(i) through (vii), (2)(i), and (ii) added
26105
202.5 (i) and (k) amended
7277
202.5 (h), (m) introductory text, (n)(1), and (2) revised; (n)(3) removed
30276
202.9 Heading, (a), and (b)(3) revised; (b) introductory text, (1), and (2) amended; (b)(4) added
30277
202.10 (a) revised; (c) removed; (b) redesignated as new (c); (b) and (d) added
30277
203 Compliance date delayed
92033
203.413 Added
99715
203.604 Revised
63098
206.130 Added
99716
214.3 Amended
49807
214.103 (l) revised
75501
214.300 (a)(3) revised; (a)(4) through (9) redesignated as (a)(5) through (10); new (a)(4) added
75502
214.600—214.601 (Subpart F) Added
49807
236 Technical correction
49099
236.1—236.60 (Subpart A) Removed
47850
236.251—236.265 (Subpart B) Removed
47850
236.501—236.599 (Subpart C) Removed
47850
236.701—236.765 (Subpart D) Removed
47850
247.1 (a) amended
38290
247.4 (c) and (e) revised
101302
290.3 Amended
38290
290.9 (b)(2) and (4) amended
38291
290.19 Revised
38291
290.39 (a) amended
38291
291.301—291.307 (Subpart D) Removed
99716
291.601—291.621 (Subpart G) Added
99716
Chapter IV
401.412 Revised
14590
401.554 Amended
14590
2025
(No regulations published from January 1, 2025, through April 1, 2025)
○
