Dec. 23, 2024
Title 7
Agriculture
Parts 1200 to 1599
Revised as of January 1, 2025
Containing a codification of documents of general applicability and future effect
As of January 1, 2025
Published by the Office of the Federal Register National Archives and Records Administration as Special Edition of the Federal Register

# U.S. GOVERNMENT OFFICIAL EDITION NOTICE

# Legal Status and Use of Seals and Logos
e:\seals\archives.ai
The seal of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) authenticates the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) as the official codification of Federal regulations established under the Federal Register Act. Under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 1507, the contents of the CFR, a special edition of the Federal Register, shall be judicially noticed. The CFR is prima facie evidence of the original documents published in the Federal Register (44 U.S.C. 1510).
It is prohibited to use NARA's official seal and the stylized Code of Federal Regulations logo on any republication of this material without the express, written permission of the Archivist of the United States or the Archivist's designee. Any person using NARA's official seals and logos in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of 36 CFR part 1200 is subject to the penalties specified in 18 U.S.C. 506, 701, and 1017.

# Use of ISBN Prefix
This is the Official U.S. Government edition of this publication and is herein identified to certify its authenticity. Use of the 0-16 ISBN prefix is for U.S. Government Publishing Office Official Editions only. The Superintendent of Documents of the U.S. Government Publishing Office requests that any reprinted edition clearly be labeled as a copy of the authentic work with a new ISBN.
e:\seals\gpologo2.eps
U . S . G O V E R N M E N T P U B L I S H I N G O F F I C E
U.S. Superintendent of Documents • Washington, DC 20402-0001
http://bookstore.gpo.gov
Phone: toll-free (866) 512-1800; DC area (202) 512-1800

# Table of Contents
Page
Explanation
v

# Title 7:

# SUBTITLE B—
Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)
Chapter XI—Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
5
Chapter XIV—Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
431
Chapter XV—Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
1177

# Finding Aids:
Table of CFR Titles and Chapters
1241
Alphabetical List of Agencies Appearing in the CFR
1261
List of CFR Sections Affected
1271
Cite this Code:
CFR
To cite the regulations in this volume use title, part and section number. Thus,
7 CFR 1200.1
refers to title 7, part 1200, section 1.

# Explanation
The Code of Federal Regulations is a codification of the general and permanent rules published in the Federal Register by the Executive departments and agencies of the Federal Government. The Code is divided into 50 titles which represent broad areas subject to Federal regulation. Each title is divided into chapters which usually bear the name of the issuing agency. Each chapter is further subdivided into parts covering specific regulatory areas.
Each volume of the Code is revised at least once each calendar year and issued on a quarterly basis approximately as follows:
Title 1 through Title 16
as of January 1
Title 17 through Title 27
as of April 1
Title 28 through Title 41
as of July 1
Title 42 through Title 50
as of October 1
The appropriate revision date is printed on the cover of each volume.

# LEGAL STATUS
The contents of the Federal Register are required to be judicially noticed (44 U.S.C. 1507). The Code of Federal Regulations is prima facie evidence of the text of the original documents (44 U.S.C. 1510).

# HOW TO USE THE CODE OF FEDERAL REGULATIONS
The Code of Federal Regulations is kept up to date by the individual issues of the Federal Register. These two publications must be used together to determine the latest version of any given rule.
To determine whether a Code volume has been amended since its revision date (in this case, January 1, 2025), consult the “List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA),” which is issued monthly, and the “Cumulative List of Parts Affected,” which appears in the Reader Aids section of the daily Federal Register. These two lists will identify the Federal Register page number of the latest amendment of any given rule.

# EFFECTIVE AND EXPIRATION DATES
Each volume of the Code contains amendments published in the Federal Register since the last revision of that volume of the Code. Source citations for the regulations are referred to by volume number and page number of the Federal Register and date of publication. Publication dates and effective dates are usually not the same and care must be exercised by the user in determining the actual effective date. In instances where the effective date is beyond the cut-off date for the Code a note has been inserted to reflect the future effective date. In those instances where a regulation published in the Federal Register states a date certain for expiration, an appropriate note will be inserted following the text.

# OMB CONTROL NUMBERS
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-511) requires Federal agencies to display an OMB control number with their information collection request.
Many agencies have begun publishing numerous OMB control numbers as amendments to existing regulations in the CFR. These OMB numbers are placed as close as possible to the applicable recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

# PAST PROVISIONS OF THE CODE
Provisions of the Code that are no longer in force and effect as of the revision date stated on the cover of each volume are not carried. Code users may find the text of provisions in effect on any given date in the past by using the appropriate List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA). For the convenience of the reader, a “List of CFR Sections Affected” is published at the end of each CFR volume. For changes to the Code prior to the LSA listings at the end of the volume, consult previous annual editions of the LSA. For changes to the Code prior to 2001, consult the List of CFR Sections Affected compilations, published for 1949-1963, 1964-1972, 1973-1985, and 1986-2000.

# “[RESERVED]” TERMINOLOGY
The term “[Reserved]” is used as a place holder within the Code of Federal Regulations. An agency may add regulatory information at a “[Reserved]” location at any time. Occasionally “[Reserved]” is used editorially to indicate that a portion of the CFR was left vacant and not dropped in error.

# INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE
What is incorporation by reference?
Incorporation by reference was established by statute and allows Federal agencies to meet the requirement to publish regulations in the Federal Register by referring to materials already published elsewhere. For an incorporation to be valid, the Director of the Federal Register must approve it. The legal effect of incorporation by reference is that the material is treated as if it were published in full in the Federal Register (5 U.S.C. 552(a)). This material, like any other properly issued regulation, has the force of law.
What is a proper incorporation by reference?
The Director of the Federal Register will approve an incorporation by reference only when the requirements of 1 CFR part 51 are met. Some of the elements on which approval is based are:
(a) The incorporation will substantially reduce the volume of material published in the Federal Register.
(b) The matter incorporated is adequately summarized in the preamble of the final rule and is available to the extent necessary to afford fairness and uniformity in the administrative process.
(c) The incorporating document is drafted and submitted for publication in accordance with 1 CFR part 51.
What if the material incorporated by reference cannot be found?
If you have any problem locating or obtaining a copy of material listed as an approved incorporation by reference, please contact the agency that issued the regulation containing that incorporation. If, after contacting the agency, you find the material is not available, please notify the Director of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001, or email fr.inspection@nara.gov.

# CFR INDEXES AND TABULAR GUIDES
A subject index to the Code of Federal Regulations is contained in a separate volume, revised annually as of January 1, entitled CFR
Index and Finding Aids.
This volume contains the Parallel Table of Authorities and Rules. A list of CFR titles, chapters, subchapters, and parts and an alphabetical list of agencies publishing in the CFR are also included in this volume.
An index to the text of “Title 3—The President” is carried within that volume.
The Federal Register Index is issued monthly in cumulative form. This index is based on a consolidation of the “Contents” entries in the daily Federal Register.
A List of CFR Sections Affected (LSA) is published monthly, keyed to the revision dates of the 50 CFR titles.

# REPUBLICATION OF MATERIAL
There are no restrictions on the republication of material appearing in the Code of Federal Regulations.

# INQUIRIES
For a legal interpretation or explanation of any regulation in this volume, contact the issuing agency. The issuing agency's name appears at the top of odd-numbered pages.
For inquiries concerning CFR reference assistance, call 202-741-6000 or write to the Director, Office of the Federal Register, National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, MD 20740-6001 or e-mail
fedreg.info@nara.gov.

# SALES
The Government Publishing Office (GPO) processes all sales and distribution of the CFR. For payment by credit card, call toll-free, 866-512-1800, or DC area, 202-512-1800, M-F 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. e.s.t. or fax your order to 202-512-2104, 24 hours a day. For payment by check, write to: U.S. Government Publishing Office Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 37082, Washington, DC 20013-7082.

# ELECTRONIC SERVICES
The full text of the Code of Federal Regulations, the LSA (List of CFR Sections Affected), The United States Government Manual, the Federal Register, Public Laws, Compilation of Presidential Documents and the Privacy Act Compilation are available in electronic format via
www.govinfo.gov.
For more information, contact the GPO Customer Contact Center, U.S. Government Publishing Office. Phone 202-512-1800, or 866-512-1800 (toll-free). E-mail,
ContactCenter@gpo.gov.
The Office of the Federal Register also offers a free service on the National Archives and Records Administration's (NARA) website for public law numbers, Federal Register finding aids, and related information. Connect to NARA's website at
www.archives.gov/federal-register.
The eCFR is a regularly updated, unofficial editorial compilation of CFR material and Federal Register amendments, produced by the Office of the Federal Register and the Government Publishing Office. It is available at
www.ecfr.gov.
Oliver A. Potts,
Director,
Office of the Federal Register
January 1, 2025

# THIS TITLE
Title 7—
Agriculture
is composed of fifteen volumes. The parts in these volumes are arranged in the following order: Parts 1-26, 27-52, 53-209, 210-299, 300-399, 400-699, 700-899, 900-999, 1000-1199, 1200-1599, 1600-1759, 1760-1939, 1940-1949, 1950-1999, and part 2000 to end. The contents of these volumes represent all current regulations codified under this title of the CFR as of January 1, 2025.
The Food and Nutrition Service current regulations in the volume containing parts 210-299, include the Child Nutrition Programs and the Food Stamp Program. The regulations of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation are found in the volume containing parts 400-699.
All marketing agreements and orders for fruits, vegetables and nuts appear in the one volume containing parts 900-999. All marketing agreements and orders for milk appear in the volume containing parts 1000-1199.
For this volume, Michele Bugenhagen was Chief Editor. The Code of Federal Regulations publication program is under the direction of John Hyrum Martinez, assisted by Stephen Frattini.
7 CFR Ch. XI (1-1-25 Edition)
Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA

# Title 7—Agriculture
(This book contains parts 1200 to 1599)

# SUBTITLE B—
Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)
Part
chapter xi
—Agricultural Marketing Service (Marketing Agreements and Orders; Miscellaneous Commodities), Department of Agriculture
1200
chapter xiv
—Commodity Credit Corporation, Department of Agriculture
1400
chapter xv
—Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture
1520

# Subtitle B—Regulations of the Department of Agriculture (Continued)

# CHAPTER XI—AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE (MARKETING AGREEMENTS AND ORDERS; MISCELLANEOUS COMMODITIES), DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Part
Page
1200
Rules of practice and procedure governing proceedings under research, promotion, and information programs
7
1205
Cotton research and promotion
18
1206
Mango promotion, research, and information
67
1207
Potato research and promotion plan
82
1209
Mushroom promotion, research, and consumer information order
97
1210
Watermelon research and promotion plan
118
1212
Honey packers and importers research, promotion, consumer education and industry information order
142
1214
Christmas tree promotion, research, and information order
159
1215
Popcorn promotion, research, and consumer information
175
1216
Peanut promotion, research, and information order
187
1217
Softwood lumber research, promotion, consumer education and industry information order
201
1218
Blueberry promotion, research, and information
220
1219
Hass avocado promotion, research, and information
237
1220
Soybean promotion, research, and consumer information
256
1221
Sorghum promotion, research, and information order
282
1222
Paper and paper-based packaging promotion, research and information order
304
1223
Pecan promotion, research, and information order
323
1230
Pork promotion, research, and consumer information
339
1240
Natural grass sod promotion, research, and information order
365
1250
Egg research and promotion
367
1260
Beef promotion and research
386
1270
Wool and mohair advertising and promotion [Reserved]
1280
Lamb promotion, research, and information order
411
1290-1299
[Reserved]
Pt. 1200

# PART 1200—RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE GOVERNING PROCEEDINGS UNDER RESEARCH, PROMOTION, AND INFORMATION PROGRAMS

# Subpart A—Rules of Practice and Procedure Governing Proceedings To Formulate and Amend an Order
Sec.
1200.1
Words in the singular form.
1200.2
Definitions.
1200.3
Proposals.
1200.4
Reimbursement of Secretary's expenses.
1200.5
Institution of proceedings.
1200.6
Docket number.
1200.7
Judge.
1200.8
Motions and requests.
1200.9
Conduct of the hearing.
1200.10
Oral and written arguments.
1200.11
Certification of the transcript.
1200.12
Copies of the transcript.
1200.13
Administrator's recommended decision.
1200.14
Submission to Secretary.
1200.15
Decision by the Secretary.
1200.16
Execution of the order.
1200.17
Filing, extension of time, effective date of filing, and computation of time.
1200.18
Ex parte communications.
1200.19
Additional documents to be filed with hearing clerk.
1200.20
Hearing before Secretary.

# Subpart B—Rules of Practice Governing Proceedings on Petitions to Modify or To Be Exempted from Research, Promotion, and Information Programs
1200.50
Words in the singular form.
1200.51
Definitions.
1200.52
Institution of proceeding.

# Subpart C—General Definitions
1200.100
General.
1200.101
Definitions.

# Subpart D—Administrative Procedures Governing Formulation of a Research and Promotion Order
1200.200
General.
1200.201
Definitions.
1200.202
Proposals.
1200.203
Initial referendum.
1200.204
Reimbursement of Secretary's expenses.
1200.205
Termination of proceedings.
1200.206
Execution of the order.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2101-2119, 2611-2627, 2701-2718, 2901-2911, 4501-4514, 4801-4819, 4901-4916, 6101-6112, 6301-6311, 6401-6417, 7411-7425, 7481-7491, and 7801-7813.

# Subpart A—Rules of Practice and Procedure Governing Proceedings To Formulate and Amend an Order

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2103, 2614, 2704, and 4804.

# Source:
47 FR 44684, Oct. 8, 1982, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1200.1
Words in the singular form.
Words in this subpart in the singular form shall be deemed to import the plural, and vice versa, as the case may demand.
§ 1200.2
Definitions.
(a) The term
Act
means the Cotton Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2101-2119]; the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2701-2718]; the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 4801-4819]; and the Potato Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2611-2627].
(b)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act for the Administrator.
(b)
Board
means the board or council established by the order to administer the program.
(c)
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(d)
Federal Register
means the publication provided for by the
Federal Register
Act, approved July 26, 1935 [44 U.S.C. 1501-1511], and acts supplementing and amending it.
(e)
Hearing
means that part of the proceeding which involves the submission of evidence.
(f)
Judge
means any administrative law judge appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or any presiding official appointed by the Secretary, and assigned to conduct the proceeding.
(g)
Hearing
means that part of the proceeding that involves the submission of evidence.
(h)
Hearing clerk
means the Hearing Clerk, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.
(i)
Order
means any order or any amendment thereto which may be issued pursuant to the Act. The term
order
shall include plans issued under the Acts listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(j)
Proceeding
means a proceeding before the Secretary arising under the pertinent section of an Act.
(k)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act for the Secretary.
[67 FR 44350, July 2, 2002, as amended at 82 FR 58098, Dec. 11, 2017]
§ 1200.3
Proposals.
(a) An order may be proposed by any organization certified pursuant to the Act or any interested person affected by the Act, including the Secretary. Any person or organization other than the Secretary proposing an order shall file with the Administrator a written application, together with a copy of the proposal, requesting the Secretary to hold a hearing upon the proposal. Upon receipt of such proposal, the Administrator shall cause such investigation to be made and such consideration to be given as, in the Administrator's opinion, are warranted. If the investigation and consideration lead the Administrator to conclude that the proposed order will not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, or that for other proper reasons a hearing should not be held on the proposal, the Administrator shall deny the application, and promptly notify the applicant of such denial, which notice shall be accompanied by a brief statement of the grounds for the denial.
(b) If the investigation and consideration lead the Administrator to conclude that the proposed order will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, or if the Secretary desires to propose an order, the Administrator shall sign and cause to be served a notice of hearing, as provided herein.
§ 1200.4
Reimbursement of Secretary's expenses.
If provided for in the Act or any amendment thereto, expenses incurred by the Secretary in preparing or amending the order, administering the order, and conducting the referendum shall be reimbursed.
§ 1200.5
Institution of proceedings.
(a)
Filing and contents of the notice of hearing.
The proceeding shall be instituted by filing the notice of hearing with the hearing clerk. The notice of hearing shall contain a reference to the authority under which the order is proposed; shall define the scope of the hearing as specifically as may be practicable; shall contain either the terms or substance of the proposed order or a description of the subjects and issues involved; and shall state the time and place of such hearing, and the place where copies of such proposed order may be obtained or examined. The time of the hearing shall not be less than 15 days after the date of publication of the notice in the
Federal Register,
as provided herein, unless the Administrator shall determine that an emergency exists which requires a shorter period of notice, in which case the period of notice shall be that which the Administrator may determine to be reasonable in the circumstances: Except that in the case of hearings on amendments to an order, the time of the hearing may be less than 15 days but shall not be less than three days after the date of publication in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Giving notice of hearing and supplemental publicity.
(1) The Administrator shall give or cause to be given notice of hearing in the following manner:
(i) By publication of the notice of hearing in the
Federal Register
;
(ii) By mailing a copy of the notice of hearing to each organization known by the Administrator to be interested therein;
(iii) By issuing a press release containing the complete text or a summary of the contents of the notice of hearing and making the same available to such newspapers as, in the Administrator's discretion, are best calculated to bring the notice to the attention of the persons interested therein; and
(iv) By forwarding copies of the notice of hearing addressed to those Governors of the States and executive heads of territories and possessions of the United States and the mayor of the District of Columbia that are directly affected by such order.
(2) Legal notice of the hearing shall be deemed to be given if notice is given in the manner provided by paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section; failure to give notice in the manner provided in paragraphs (b)(2) (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section shall not affect the legality of the notice.
(c)
Record of notice and supplemental publicity.
There shall be filed with the hearing clerk or submitted to the judge at the hearing an affidavit or certificate of the person giving the notice provided in paragraphs (b)(1) (iii) and (iv) of this section. In regard to the provisions relating to mailing in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, determination by the Administrator that such provisions have been complied with shall be filed with the hearing clerk or submitted to the judge at the hearing. In the alternative, if notice is not given in the manner provided in paragraphs (b)(1) (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section there shall be filed with the hearing clerk or submitted to the judge at the hearing a determination by the Administrator that such notice is impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest with a brief statement of the reasons for such determination. Determinations by the Administrator as herein provided shall be final.
§ 1200.6
Docket number.
Each proceeding, immediately following its institution, shall be assigned a docket number by the hearing clerk and thereafter the proceeding may be referred to by such number.
§ 1200.7
Judge.
(a)
Assignment.
No judge who has any pecuniary interest in the outcome of a proceeding shall serve as judge in such proceeding.
(b)
Power of judge.
Subject to review by the Secretary, as provided elsewhere in this subpart, the judge in any proceeding shall have power to:
(1) Rule upon motions and requests;
(2) Change the time and place of hearings, and adjourn the hearing from time to time or from place to place;
(3) Administer oaths and affirmations and take affidavits;
(4) Examine and cross-examine witnesses and receive evidence;
(5) Admit or exclude evidence;
(6) Hear oral argument on facts or law; and
(7) Do all acts and take all measures necessary for the maintenance of order at the hearings and the efficient conduct of the proceeding.
(c)
Who may act in absence of judge.
In case of the absence of the judge or the judge's inability to act, the powers and duties to be performed by the judge under this part in connection with a proceeding may, without abatement of the proceeding unless otherwise ordered by the Secretary, be assigned to any other judge.
(d)
Disqualification of judge.
The judge may at any time withdraw as judge in a proceeding if such judge deems himself or herself to be disqualified. Upon the filing by an interested person in good faith of a timely and sufficient affidavit of personal bias or disqualification of a judge, the Secretary shall determine the matter as a part of the record and decision in the proceeding, after making such investigation or holding such hearings, or both, as the Secretary may deem appropriate in the circumstances.
§ 1200.8
Motions and requests.
(a)
General.
(1) All motions and requests shall be filed with the hearing clerk, except that those made during the course of the hearing may be filed with the judge or may be stated orally and made a part of the transcript.
(2) Except as provided in § 1200.17(b) such motions and requests shall be addressed to, and ruled on by, the judge if made prior to certification of the transcript pursuant to § 1200.11 or by the Secretary if made thereafter.
(b)
Certification to Secretary.
The judge may, in his or her discretion, submit or certify to the Secretary for decision any motion, request, objection, or other question addressed to the judge.
§ 1200.9
Conduct of the hearing.
(a)
Time and place.
The hearing shall be held at the time and place fixed in the notice of hearing, unless the judge shall have changed the time or place, in which event the judge shall file with the hearing clerk a notice of such change, which notice shall be given in the same manner as provided in § 1200.5 (relating to the giving of notice of the hearing): Except that if the change in time or place of hearing is made less than five days prior to the date previously fixed for the hearing, the judge either in addition to or in lieu of causing the notice of the change to be given, shall announce, or cause to be announced, the change at the time and place previously fixed for the hearing.
(b)
Appearances
—(1)
Right to appear.
At the hearing, any interested person shall be given an opportunity to appear, either in person or through authorized counsel or representative, and to be heard with respect to matters relevant and material to the proceeding. Any interested person who desires to be heard in person at any hearing under these rules shall, before proceeding to testify, state his or her name, address, and occupation. If any such person is appearing through a counsel or representative, such person or such counsel or representative shall, before proceeding to testify or otherwise to participate in the hearing, state for the record the authority to act as such counsel or representative, and the names, addresses, and occupations of such person and such counsel or representative. Any such person or such counsel or representative shall give such other information respecting such appearance as the judge may request.
(2)
Debarment of counsel or representative.
(i) Whenever, while a proceeding is pending before the judge, such judge finds that a person, acting as counsel or representative for any person participating in the proceeding, is guilty of unethical or unprofessional conduct, the judge may order that such person be precluded from further acting as counsel or representative in such proceeding. An appeal to the Secretary may be taken from any such order, but the proceeding shall not be delayed or suspended pending disposition of the appeal: Except that the judge may suspend the proceeding for a reasonable time for the purpose of enabling the client to obtain other counsel or representative.
(ii) In case the judge has ordered that a person be precluded from further action as counsel or representative in the proceeding, the judge within a reasonable time thereafter shall submit to the Secretary a report of the facts and circumstances surrounding such order and shall recommend what action the Secretary should take respecting the appearance of such person as counsel or representative in other proceedings before the Secretary. Thereafter the Secretary may, after notice and an opportunity for hearing, issue such order respecting the appearance of such person as counsel or representative in proceedings before the Secretary as the Secretary finds to be appropriate.
(3)
Failure to appear.
If any interested person fails to appear at the hearing, that person shall be deemed to have waived the right to be heard in the proceeding.
(c)
Order of procedure.
(1) The judge shall, at the opening of the hearing prior to the taking of testimony, have noted as part of the record the notice of hearing as filed with the Office of the Federal Register and the affidavit or certificate of the giving of notice or the determination provided for in § 1200.5(c).
(2) Evidence shall then be received with respect to the matters specified in the notice of the hearing in such order as the judge shall announce.
(d)
Evidence
—(1)
General.
The hearing shall be publicly conducted, and the testimony given at the hearing shall be reported verbatim.
(i) Every witness shall, before proceeding to testify, be sworn or make affirmation. Cross-examination shall be permitted to the extent required for a full and true disclosure of the facts.
(ii) When necessary, in order to prevent undue prolongation of the hearing, the judge may limit the number of times any witness may testify to the same matter or the amount of corroborative or cumulative evidence.
(iii) The judge shall, insofar as practicable, exclude evidence which is immaterial, irrelevant, or unduly repetitious, or which is not of the sort upon which responsible persons are accustomed to rely.
(2)
Objections.
If a party objects to the admission or rejection of any evidence or to any other ruling of the judge during the hearing, such party shall state briefly the grounds of such objection, whereupon an automatic exception will follow if the objection is overruled by the judge. The transcript shall not include argument or debate thereon except as ordered by the judge. The ruling of the judge on any objection shall be a part of the transcript. Only objections made before the judge may subsequently be relied upon in the proceeding.
(3)
Proof and authentication of official records or documents.
An official record or document, when admissible for any purpose, shall be admissible as evidence without the presence of the person who made or prepared the same. The judge shall exercise discretion in determining whether an official publication of such record or document shall be necessary, or whether a copy would be permissible. If permissible such a copy should be attested to by the person having legal custody of it, and accompanied by a certificate that such person has the custody.
(4)
Exhibits.
All written statements, charts, tabulations, or similar data offered in evidence at the hearing shall, after identification by the proponent and upon satisfactory showing of authenticity, relevancy, and materiality, be numbered as exhibits and received in evidence and made a part of the record. Such exhibits shall be submitted in quadruplicate and in documentary form. In case the required number of copies is not made available, the judge shall exercise discretion as to whether said exhibits shall, when practicable, be read in evidence or whether additional copies shall be required to be submitted within a time to be specified by the judge. If the testimony of a witness refers to a statute, or to a report or document (including the record of any previous hearing), the judge, after inquiry relating to the identification of such statute, report, or document, shall determine whether the same shall be produced at the hearing and physically be made a part of the evidence as an exhibit, or whether it shall be incorporated into the evidence by reference. If relevant and material matter offered in evidence is embraced in a report or document (including the record of any previous hearing) containing immaterial or irrelevant matter, such immaterial or irrelevant matter shall be excluded and shall be segregated insofar as practicable, subject to the direction of the judge.
(5)
Official notice.
Official notice at the hearing may be taken of such matters as are judicially noticed by the courts of the United States and of any other matter of technical, scientific, or commercial fact of established character: Except that interested persons shall be given an adequate period of time, at the hearing or subsequent to it, of matters so noticed and shall be given adequate opportunity to show that such facts are inaccurate or are erroneously noticed.
(6)
Offer of proof.
Whenever evidence is excluded from the record, the party offering such evidence may make an offer of proof, which shall be included in the transcript. The offer of proof shall consist of a brief statement describing the evidence to be offered. If the evidence consists of a brief oral statement or of an exhibit, it shall be inserted into the transcript in toto. In such event, it shall be considered a part of the transcript if the Secretary decides that the judge's ruling in excluding the evidence was erroneous. The judge shall not allow the insertion of such evidence in toto if the taking of such evidence will consume a considerable length of time at the hearing. In the latter event, if the Secretary decides that the judge erred in excluding the evidence, and that such error was substantial, the hearing shall be reopened to permit the taking of such evidence.
§ 1200.10
Oral and written arguments.
(a)
Oral argument before the judge.
Oral argument before the judge shall be in the discretion of the judge. Such argument, when permitted, may be limited by the judge to any extent that
the judge finds necessary for the expeditious disposition of the proceeding and shall be reduced to writing and made part of the transcript.
(b)
Briefs, proposed findings, and conclusions.
The judge shall announce at the hearing a reasonable period of time within which interested persons may file with the hearing clerk proposed findings and conclusions, and written arguments or briefs, based upon the evidence received at the hearing, citing, where practicable, the page or pages of the transcript of the testimony where such evidence appears. Factual material other than that adduced at the hearing or subject to official notice shall not be alluded to therein, and, in any case, shall not be considered in the formulation of the order. If the person filing a brief desires the Secretary to consider any objection made by such person to a ruling of the judge, as provided in § 1200.9(d), that person shall include in the brief a concise statement concerning each such objection, referring, where practicable, to the pertinent pages of the transcript.
§ 1200.11
Certification of the transcript.
The judge shall notify the hearing clerk of the close of a hearing as soon as possible thereafter and of the time for filing written arguments, briefs, proposed findings, and proposed conclusions and shall furnish the hearing clerk with such other information as may be necessary. As soon as possible after the hearing, the judge shall transmit to the hearing clerk an original and three copies of the transcript of the testimony and the original and all copies of the exhibits not already on file in the office of the hearing clerk. The judge shall attach to the original transcript of the testimony a certificate stating that, to the best of the judge's knowledge and belief, the transcript is a true transcript of the testimony given at the hearing, except in such particulars as the judge shall specify, and that the exhibits transmitted are all the exhibits as introduced at the hearing with such exceptions as the judge shall specify. A copy of such certificate shall be attached to each of the copies of the transcript of testimony. In accordance with such certificate the hearing clerk shall note upon the official record copy, and cause to be noted on other copies of the transcript, each correction detailed therein by adding or crossing out (but without obscuring the text as originally transcribed) at the appropriate place any words necessary to make the same conform to the correct meaning, as certified by the judge. The hearing clerk shall obtain and file certifications to the effect that such corrections have been effectuated in copies other than the official record copy.
§ 1200.12
Copies of the transcript.
(a) During the period in which the proceeding has an active status in the Department, a copy of the transcript and exhibits shall be kept on file in the office of the hearing clerk where it shall be available for examination during official hours of business. Thereafter said transcript and exhibits shall be made available by the hearing clerk for examination during official hours of business after prior request and reasonable notice to the hearing clerk.
(b) Transcripts of hearings shall be made available to any person at actual cost of duplication.
[47 FR 44684, Oct. 8, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 10830, Mar. 11, 2002]
§ 1200.13
Administrator's recommended decision.
(a)
Preparation.
As soon as practicable following the termination of the period allowed for the filing of written arguments or briefs and proposed findings and conclusions the Administrator shall file with the hearing clerk a recommended decision.
(b)
Contents.
The Administrator's recommended decision shall include: (1) a preliminary statement containing a description of the history of the proceedings, a brief explanation of the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record, and proposed findings and conclusions about such issues, including the reasons or basis for such proposed findings; (2) a ruling upon each proposed finding or conclusion submitted by interested persons; and (3) an appropriate proposed order effectuating the Administrator's recommendations.
(c)
Exceptions to recommended decision.
Immediately following the filing of the recommended decision, the Administrator shall give notice thereof and opportunity to file exceptions thereto by publication in the
Federal Register.
Within a period of time specified in such notice any interested person may file with the hearing clerk exceptions to the Administrator's proposed order and a brief in support of such exceptions. Such exceptions shall be in writing, shall refer, where practicable, to the related pages of the transcript, and may suggest appropriate changes in the proposed order.
(d)
Omission of recommended decision.
The procedure provided in this section may be omitted only if the Secretary finds on the basis of the record that due and timely execution of the Secretary's functions imperatively and unavoidably requires such omission.
§ 1200.14
Submission to Secretary.
Upon the expiration of the period allowed for filing exceptions or upon request of the Secretary, the hearing clerk shall transmit to the Secretary the record of the proceeding. Such record shall include: All motions and requests filed with the hearing clerk and rulings thereon; the certified transcript; any proposed findings or conclusions or written arguments or briefs that may have been filed; the Administrator's recommended decision, if any; and such exceptions as may have been filed.
§ 1200.15
Decision by the Secretary.
After due consideration of the record, the Secretary shall render a decision. Such decision shall become a part of the record and shall include: (a) a statement of findings and conclusions, including the reasons or basis for such findings, upon all the material issues of fact, law, or discretion presented on the record, (b) a ruling upon each proposed finding and proposed conclusion not previously ruled upon in the record, (c) a ruling upon each exception filed by interested persons, and (d) either (1) denial of the proposal to issue an order, or (2) if the findings upon the record so warrant, an order, the provisions of which shall be set forth and such order shall be complete except for its effective date and any determinations to be made under § 1200.16:
Except that
such order shall not be executed, issued, or made effective until and unless the Secretary determines that the requirements of § 1200.16 have been met.
§ 1200.16
Execution of the order.
(a)
Issuance of the order.
The Secretary shall, if the Secretary finds that it will tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, issue and make effective the order which was filed as part of the Secretary's decision pursuant to § 1200.15: Except that the issuance of such order shall have been approved or favored by eligible voters as required by the applicable Act.
(b)
Effective date of order.
No order shall become effective in less than 30 days after its publication in the
Federal Register,
unless the Secretary, upon good cause found and published with the order, fixes an earlier effective date.
(c)
Notice of issuance.
After issuance of the order, such order shall be filed with the hearing clerk, and notice thereof, together with notice of the effective date, shall be given by publication in the
Federal Register.
§ 1200.17
Filing, extension of time, effective date of filing, and computation of time.
(a)
Number of copies.
Except as provided otherwise herein, all documents or papers required or authorized by the foregoing provisions hereof to be filed with the hearing clerk shall be filed in quadruplicate. Any documents or papers so required or authorized to be filed with the hearing clerk shall be filed with the judge during the course of an oral hearing.
(b)
Extension of time.
The time for filing of any document or paper required or authorized by the foregoing provisions to be filed may be extended by the judge (before the record is so certified by the judge) or by the Administrator (after the record is so certified by the judge but before it is transmitted to the secretary), or by the Secretary (after the record is transmitted to the secretary) upon request filed, and if, in the judgment of the judge, Administrator, or the Secretary, as the case may be, there is good reason for
the extension. All rulings made pursuant to this paragraph shall be filed with the hearing clerk.
(c)
Effective date of filing.
Any document or paper required or authorized in this subpart to be filed shall be deemed to be filed at the time it is received by the Hearing Clerk.
(d)
Computation of time.
Each day, including Saturdays, Sundays, and legal public holidays, shall be included in computing the time allowed for filing any document or paper:
Provided,
That when the time for filing a document or paper expires on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal public holiday, the time allowed for filing the document or paper shall be extended to include the following business day.
[47 FR 44684, Oct. 8, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 10830, Mar. 11, 2002]
§ 1200.18
Ex parte communications.
(a) At no stage of the proceeding following the issuance of a notice of hearing and prior to the issuance of the Secretary's decision thereon shall an employee of the Department who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decision process of the proceeding discuss ex parte the merits of the proceeding with any person having an interest in the proceeding or with any representative of such person: Except that procedural matters and status reports shall not be included within the limitation: And except further that an employee of the Department who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding may discuss the merits of the proceeding with such a person if all parties known to be interested in the proceeding have been given notice and an opportunity to participate. A memorandum of any such discussion shall be included in the record of the proceeding.
(b) No person interested in the proceeding shall make or knowingly cause to be made to an employee of the Department who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding an ex parte communication relevant to the merits of the proceeding except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) If an employee of the Department who is or may reasonably be expected to be involved in the decisional process of the proceeding receives or makes a communication prohibited by this section, the Department shall place on the public record of the proceeding:
(1) All such written communications;
(2) Memoranda stating the substance of all such oral communications; and
(3) All written responses, and memoranda, stating the substance of all oral responses thereto.
(d) Upon receipt of a communication knowingly made or knowingly caused to be made by a party in violation of this section, the Department may, to the extent consistent with the interest of justice and the policy of the underlying statute, take whatever steps are deemed necessary to nullify the effect of such communication.
(e) For the purposes of this section,
ex parte communication
means any oral or written communication not on the public record with respect to which reasonable prior notice to all interested parties is not given, but which shall not include requests for status reports (including requests on procedural matters) on a proceeding.
§ 1200.19
Additional documents to be filed with hearing clerk.
In addition to the documents or papers required or authorized by the foregoing provisions of this subpart to be filed with the hearing clerk, the hearing clerk shall receive for filing and shall have custody of all papers, reports, records, orders, and other documents which relate to the administration of any order and which the Secretary is required to issue or to approve.
§ 1200.20
Hearing before Secretary.
The Secretary may act in the place and stead of a judge in any proceeding herein. When the Secretary so acts, the hearing clerk shall transmit the record to the Secretary at the expiration of the period provided for the filing of proposed findings of fact, conclusions, and orders, and the Secretary shall then, after due consideration of the record, issue the final decision in the proceeding: Except the Secretary may issue a tentative decision in which
event the parties shall be afforded an opportunity to file exceptions before the issuance of the final decision.

# Subpart B—Rules of Practice Governing Proceedings on Petitions to Modify or To Be Exempted from Research, Promotion and Information Programs

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2111, 2620, 2713, 4509, 4609, 4814, 4909, 6008, 6106, 6306, 6410, 6807, 7106, 7418, 7486, and 7806.

# Source:
60 FR 37326, July 20, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1200.50
Words in the singular form.
Words in this subpart in the singular form shall be deemed to import the plural, and
vice versa,
as the case may demand.
§ 1200.51
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the terms as defined in the Act shall apply with equal force and effect. In addition, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) The term
Act
means the Commodity Research, Promotion, and Information Act of 1996 [7 U.S.C. 7401-7425]; the Cotton Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2101-2119]; the Dairy Production Stabilization Act of 1983 [7 U.S.C. 4501-4513]; the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2701-2718]; the Fluid Milk Promotion Act of 1990 [7 U.S.C. 6401-6417]; the Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 2000 [7 U.S.C. 7801-7813]; the Honey Research, Promotion, and Consumer Information Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 4601-4612]; the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 [7 U.S.C. 6101-6112]; the Pecan Promotion and Research Act of 1990 [7 U.S.C. 6001-6013]; the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 7481-7491]; the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 4801-4819]; the Potato Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2611-2627]; the Sheep Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1994 [7 U.S.C. 7101-7111]; the Soybean Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 6301-6311]; and the Watermelon Research and Promotion Act, as amended, [7 U.S.C. 4901-4916].
(b)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act for the Administrator.
(c)
Decision
means the judge's initial decision and includes the judge's:
(1) Findings of fact and conclusions with respect to all material issues of fact, law or discretion, as well as the reasons or basis thereof;
(2) Order; and
(3) Rulings on findings, conclusions and orders submitted by the parties.
(d)
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(e) Hearing means that part of the proceedings which involves the submission of evidence.
(f)
Hearing clerk
means the Hearing Clerk, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C.
(g)
Judge
means any administrative law judge appointed pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 3105 or any presiding official appointed by the Secretary, and assigned to conduct the proceeding.
(h)
Order
means any order or any amendment thereto which may be issued pursuant to the Act. The term order shall include plans issued under the Acts listed in paragraph (a) of this section.
(i)
Party
includes the Department.
(j)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity subject to an order or to whom an order is sought to be made applicable, or on whom an obligation has been imposed or is sought to be imposed under an order.
(k)
Petition
includes an amended petition.
(l)
Proceeding
means a proceeding before the Secretary arising under the pertinent section of an Act.
(m)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or
any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act for the Secretary.
[67 FR 44350, July 2, 2002, as amended at 82 FR 58098, Dec. 11, 2017]
§ 1200.52
Institution of proceeding.
(a)
Filing and service of petitions.
Any person subject to an order desiring to complain that such order or any provision of such order or any obligation imposed in connection with an order is not in accordance with law, shall file with the hearing clerk, in quintuplicate, a petition in writing addressed to the Secretary. Promptly upon receipt of the petition in writing the hearing clerk shall transmit a true copy thereof to the Administrator and the General Counsel, respectively.
(b)
Contents of petitions.
A petition shall contain:
(1) The correct name, address, and principal place of business of the petitioner. If the petitioner is a corporation, such fact shall be stated, together with the name of the State of incorporation, the date of incorporation, and the names, addresses, and respective positions held by its officers and directors; if an unincorporated association, the names and addresses of its officers, and the respective positions held by them; if a partnership, the name and address of each partner;
(2) Reference to the specific terms or provisions of the order, or the interpretation or application of such terms or provisions, which are complained of;
(3) A full statement of the facts, avoiding a mere repetition of detailed evidence, upon which the petition is based, and which it is desired that the Secretary consider, setting forth clearly and concisely the nature of the petitioner's business and the manner in which petitioner claims to be affected by the terms or provisions of the order or the interpretation or application thereof, which are complained of;
(4) A statement of the grounds on which the terms or provisions of the order, or the interpretation or application thereof, which are complained of, are challenged as not in accordance with law;
(5) Requests for the specific relief which the petitioner desires the Secretary to grant; and
(6) An affidavit by the petitioner, or, if the petitioner is not an individual, by an officer of the petitioner having knowledge of the facts stated in the petition, verifying the petition and stating that it is filed in good faith and not for purposes of delay.
(c)
A motion to dismiss a petition: filing, contents, and responses to a petition.
If the Administrator is of the opinion that the petition, or any portion thereof, does not substantially comply, in form or content, with the Act or with requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator may, within 30 days after the service of the petition, file with the hearing clerk a motion to dismiss the petition, or any portion of the petition, on one or more of the grounds stated in this paragraph. Such motion shall specify the grounds for objection to the petition and if based, in whole or in part, on allegations of fact not appearing on the face of the petition, shall be accompanied by appropriate affidavits or documentary evidence substantiating such allegations of fact. The motion may be accompanied by a memorandum of law. Upon receipt of such motion, the hearing clerk shall cause a copy thereof to be served upon the petitioner, together with a notice stating that all papers to be submitted in opposition to such motion, including any memorandum of law, must be filed by the petitioner with the hearing clerk not later than 20 days after the service of such notice upon the petitioner. Upon the expiration of the time specified in such notice, or upon receipt of such papers from the petitioner, the hearing clerk shall transmit all papers which have been filed in connection with the motion to the judge for the judge's consideration.
(d)
Further proceedings.
Further proceedings on petitions to modify or to be exempted from the Order shall be governed by §§ 900.52(c)(2) through 900.71 of the Rules of Practice Governing Proceedings on Petitions To Modify or To Be Exempted From Marketing Orders.
However, each reference to
marketing order
in the title shall mean
order.
[47 FR 44684, Oct. 8, 1982, as amended at 67 FR 10830, Mar. 11, 2002]

# Subpart C—General Definitions

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2114, 2616, 2716, 2904, 4503, 4803, 4905, 6112, 6311, 6406, 7490, 7424 and 7812.

# Source:
83 FR 27682, June 14, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1200.100
General.
The terms defined/specified in this subpart shall apply to all research and promotion programs authorized under the Act.
§ 1200.101
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Commodity Research, Promotion, and Information Act of 1996 [7 U.S.C. 7411-7425]; the Beef Promotion and Research Act of 1985 [7 U.S.C. 2901-2911]; the Cotton Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2101-2119]; the Dairy Production Stabilization Act of 1983 [7 U.S.C. 4501-4514]; the Egg Research and Consumer Information Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2701-2718]; the Fluid Milk Promotion Act of 1990 [7 U.S.C. 6401-6417]; the Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 2000 [7 U.S.C. 7801-7813]; the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990 [7 U.S.C. 6101-6112]; the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 7481-7491]; the Pork Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 4801-4819]; the Potato Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C. 2611-2627]; the Soybean Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act [7 U.S.C. 6301-6311]; and the Watermelon Research and Promotion Act, as amended, [7 U.S.C. 4901-4916].
(b)
Mail
means to transmit either electronically or through a postal or other delivery system, information or a package (
e.g.,
letter or envelope) to a recipient.

# Subpart D—Administrative Procedures Governing Formulation of a Research and Promotion Order

# Source:
85 FR 45305, July 28, 2020, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1200.200
General.
The terms defined/specified in this subpart shall apply to all research and promotion programs authorized under the Act.
§ 1200.201
Definitions.
Act
means the Commodity Research, Promotion, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425).
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service or any officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act for the Administrator.
Cost of the Referendum
means all USDA expenditures related to development of an order proposal, including, but not limited to, salaries, travel, supplies, printing, mailing, and shipping, and any costs related to an initial referendum.
Order
means any order which may be issued pursuant to the Act.
Secretary
means the United States Secretary of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the United States Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act for the Secretary.
§ 1200.202
Proposals.
(a) An order may be proposed by any association of producers of an agricultural commodity, by any person that may be affected by the issuance of an order with respect to an agricultural commodity, or by the Secretary. Any person or organization other than the Secretary proposing an order shall file with the Administrator a written proposal.
(b) Upon receipt of a proposal, the Administrator shall investigate and evaluate the proposal.
(c) If the proposal is submitted by an association of producers of the agricultural commodity or by any person that may be affected by the issuance of an order, and the investigation and consideration lead the Administrator to conclude that the proposed order will not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, the Administrator shall deny the proposal. The Administrator will promptly notify the proponent(s) of such denial, which will be accompanied by a brief statement of the grounds for the denial.
(d) If the proposal was submitted by an association of producers of the agricultural commodity or by any person that may be affected by the issuance of an order and the investigation and consideration lead the Administrator to conclude that an order will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, the Administrator will promptly notify the proponent(s) of such conclusion, and the proponent(s) will be required to post a bond or other collateral in accordance with § 1200.204.
(e) If the Administrator concludes that an order will tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, the Administrator shall publish the proposed order in the
Federal Register
and give due notice and opportunity for public comment on the proposed order.
§ 1200.203
Initial referendum.
For the purpose of ascertaining whether the persons to be covered by an order favor the order going into effect, the Administrator may conduct an initial referendum among persons to be subject to an assessment under the order who, during a representative period determined by the Administrator, engaged in the production or handling of the agricultural commodity or the importation of the agricultural commodity.
§ 1200.204
Reimbursement of Secretary's expenses.
The Administrator may require any person or organization proposing an order to post a bond or other collateral to cover the cost of the referendum as defined in § 1200.201.
§ 1200.205
Termination of proceedings.
If at any time during development of a new program the Administrator concludes, based on public comments, referendum votes, or other available information, that an order will not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, the Administrator shall terminate the proceedings and collect reimbursements from the bond or other collateral posted pursuant to § 1200.204 for any expenses incurred in development of the proposed program.
§ 1200.206
Execution of the order.
(a)
Issuance of the order.
The Administrator shall, if the Administrator finds that it will tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, issue the final order.
(b)
Effective date of order.
No order shall become effective in less than 30 days after its publication in the
Federal Register,
unless the Administrator, upon good cause found and published with the order, fixes an earlier effective date.
(c)
Notice of issuance.
After the Administrator issues the order, AMS will publish notice of the order's issuance in the
Federal Register
.
Pt. 1205

# PART 1205—COTTON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION

# Subpart—Procedures for Conduct of Sign-up Period

# Definitions
Sec.
1205.10
Act.
1205.11
Administrator.
1205.12
Cotton.
1205.13
Upland cotton.
1205.14
Department.
1205.15
Farm Service Agency.
1205.16
Order.
1205.17
Person.
1205.18
Producer.
1205.19
Importer.
1205.20
Representative period.
1205.21
Secretary.
1205.22
State.
1205.23
United States.

# Procedures
1205.24
General.
1205.25
Supervision of sign-up period.
1205.26
Eligibility.
1205.27
Participation in the sign-up period.
1205.28
Counting.
1205.29
Reporting results.
1205.30
Instructions and forms.

# Subpart—Procedures for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection With Cotton Research and Promotion Order
1205.200
General.
1205.201
Definitions.
1205.202
Agencies through which a referendum shall be conducted.
1205.203
Voting eligibility.
1205.204
Voting.
1205.205
Canvass of ballots.
1205.206
Reporting results of referendum.
1205.207
Challenge of correctness of county summary of ballots.
1205.208
Disposition of ballots and records.
1205.209
Confidential Information.
1205.210
Additional instructions and forms.

# Subpart—Cotton Research and Promotion Order

# Definitions
1205.301
Secretary.
1205.302
Act.
1205.303
Person.
1205.304
Cotton.
1205.305
Upland cotton.
1205.306
Bale.
1205.307
Fiscal period.
1205.308
Cotton Board.
1205.309
Producer.
1205.310
Importer.
1205.311
Handler.
1205.312
Handle.
1205.313
United States.
1205.314
Cotton-producing State.
1205.315
Marketing.
1205.316
Cotton-Producer organization.
1205.317
Cotton-Importer organization.
1205.318
Contracting organization or association.
1205.319
Cotton-producing region.
1205.320
Marketing year.
1205.321
Part and subpart.

# Cotton Board
1205.322
Establishment and membership.
1205.323
Term of office.
1205.324
Nominations.
1205.325
Selection.
1205.326
Acceptance.
1205.327
Vacancies.
1205.328
Alternate members.
1205.329
Procedure.
1205.330
Compensation and reimbursement.
1205.331
Powers.
1205.332
Duties.

# Research and Promotion
1205.333
Research and promotion.

# Expenses and Assessments
1205.334
Expenses.
1205.335
Assessments.
1205.336
“Importer Reimbursements”.
1205.337
Influencing governmental action.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1205.338
Reports.
1205.339
Books and records.
1205.340
Confidential treatment.

# Certification of Cotton Producer Organization
1205.341
Certification of cotton producer organization.
1205.342
Certification of cotton importer organizations.

# Miscellaneous
1205.343
Suspension and termination.
1205.345
Proceedings after termination.
1205.346
Effect of termination or amendment.
1205.347
Personal liability.
1205.348
Separability.

# Subpart—Members of Cotton Board
1205.401
Definitions.
1205.402
Determination of Cotton Board membership.
1205.403
Nomination procedure.

# Subpart—Cotton Board Rules and Regulations

# Definitions
1205.500
Terms defined.

# General
1205.505
Communication.

# Assessments
1205.510
Levy of assessments.
1205.511
Payment and collection.
1205.512
Collecting handlers and time of collection of $1 per bale assessment.
1205.513
Collecting handlers and time of collection of the supplemental assessment.
1205.514
Customs Service and the Collection of the $1 per bale assessment.
1205.515
Customs Service and the collection of the supplemental assessment.
1205.516
Reports and remittance to the Cotton Board.
1205.517
Failure to report and remit.
1205.518
Receipts for payment of assessments.
1205.519
Organic exemption.

# Reimbursements
1205.520
Procedure for obtaining reimbursement.

# Warehouse Receipts
1205.525
Entry of gin code number.

# Reports and Records
1205.530
Gin reports and reporting schedule.
1205.531
Records.
1205.532
Retention period for reports and records.
1205.533
Availability of reports and records.

# Confidential Information
1205.540
Confidential books, records, and reports.
1205.541
OMB control numbers.
Subpart—Fiscal Period [Reserved]

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2101-2118; 7 U.S.C 7401.

# Subpart—Procedures for Conduct of Sign-up Period

# Source:
62 FR 1660, Jan. 13, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1205.10
Act.
The term
Act
means the Cotton Research and Promotion Act, as amended [7 U.S.C 2101-2118; Public Law 89-502, 80 Stat 279, as amended].
§ 1205.11
Administrator.
The term
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1205.12
Cotton.
The term
cotton
means all Upland cotton harvested in the United States and all imports of Upland cotton, including the Upland cotton content of products derived thereof.
[81 FR 38894, June 15, 2016]
§ 1205.13
Upland cotton.
The term
Upland cotton
means all cultivated varieties of the species
Gossypium hirsutum L.
§ 1205.14
Department.
The term
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
§ 1205.15
Farm Service Agency.
The term
Farm Service Agency
—formerly Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS)—also referred to as “FSA,” means the Farm Service Agency of the Department.
§ 1205.16
Order.
The term
Order
means the Cotton Research and Promotion Order.
§ 1205.17
Person.
The term
person
means any individual 18 years of age or older, or any partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity.
§ 1205.18
Producer.
The term
producer
means any person who shares in a cotton crop, or in the proceeds thereof, as an owner of the farm, cash tenant, landlord of a share tenant, share tenant, or sharecropper, that planted the cotton during the representative period.
[67 FR 21169, Apr. 30, 2002]
§ 1205.19
Importer.
The term
importer
means any person who enters, or withdraws from warehouse, cotton for consumption in the customs territory of the United States, and the term import means any such entry.
§ 1205.20
Representative period.
The term
representative period
means the 2020 calendar year.
[86 FR 20257, Apr. 19, 2021]
§ 1205.21
Secretary.
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1205.22
State.
The term
State
means each of the 50 states.
§ 1205.23
United States.
The term
United States
means the 50 states of the United States of America.

# Procedures
§ 1205.24
General.
A sign-up period will be conducted to determine whether eligible producers and importers favor the conduct of a
referendum on the continuance of the 1991 amendments to the Order.
(a) If the Secretary determines, based on the results of the sign-up period, that at least 10 percent (4,622) or more of the number of cotton producers and importers who voted in the 1991 referendum request the conduct of a continuance referendum on the 1991 Order amendments, a referendum will be held within 12 months after the end of the sign-up period. Not more than 20 percent of the total requests counted toward the 10 percent figure may be from producers from any one state or from importers of cotton.
(b) If the Secretary determines that fewer than 10 percent (4,622) of the number of producers and importers who voted in the 1991 referendum do not favor a continuance referendum, no referendum will be held.
§ 1205.25
Supervision of sign-up period.
The Administrator shall be responsible for conducting the sign-up period in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1205.26
Eligibility.
Only persons who meet the eligibility requirements in this subpart may participate in the sign-up period. No person is entitled to sign up more than once.
(a) Except as set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the following persons are eligible to request the conduct of a continuance referendum:
(1) Any person who was engaged in the production of Upland cotton during calendar year 2020; and
(2) Any person who was an importer of Upland cotton during calendar year 2020.
(b) A general partnership is not eligible to request a continuance referendum, however, the individual partners of an eligible general partnership are each entitled to submit a request.
(c) Where a group of individuals is engaged in the production of Upland cotton under the same lease or cropping agreement, only the individual or individuals who signed or entered into the lease or cropping agreement are eligible to participate in the sign-up period. Individuals who are engaged in the production of Upland cotton as joint tenants, tenants in common, or owners of community property, are each entitled to submit a request if they share in the proceeds of the required crop as owners, cash tenants, share tenants, sharecroppers or landlords of a fixed rent, standing rent or share tenant.
(d) An officer or authorized representative of a qualified corporation, association, or limited partnership may submit a request on behalf of that corporation, association, or limited partnership.
(e) A guardian, administrator, executor, or trustee of any qualified estate or trust may submit a request on behalf of that estate or trust.
(f) An individual may not submit a request on behalf of another individual.
(g) Participation in the sign-up by proxy or power of attorney is not authorized.
[62 FR 1660, Jan. 13, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 21169, Apr. 30, 2002; 72 FR 51160, Sept. 6, 2007; 80 FR 36233, June 24, 2015; 86 FR 20257, Apr. 19, 2021]
§ 1205.27
Participation in the sign-up period.
The sign-up period will be from June 21, 2021, until July 2, 2021, and October 18, 2021, until October 29, 2021. Those persons who favor the conduct of a continuance referendum and who wish to request that Department of Agriculture (USDA) conduct such a referendum may do so by submitting such request in accordance with this section. All requests must be received by the appropriate USDA office by October 29, 2021.
(a) Before the sign-up period begins, FSA shall establish a list of known, eligible, Upland cotton producers in the county that it serves during the representative period, and AMS shall also establish a list of known, eligible Upland cotton importers.
(b) Before the start of the sign-up period, Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) will post sign-up information, including sign-up forms, on its website:
http://www.ams.usda.gov/Cotton.
Importers who favor the conduct of a continuance referendum can download a form from the website, or request a sign-up form by contacting
CottonRP@usda.gov
or (540) 361-2726 and one will be provided to them. Importers may participate in the sign-up period by submitting a signed, written request for a continuance referendum, along with a copy of a U.S. Customs and Border Protection form 7501 showing payment of a cotton assessment for calendar year 2020. The USDA, AMS, Cotton and Tobacco Program, Attention: Cotton Sign-Up, P.O. Box 23181, Washington, DC 20077-8249 shall be considered the polling place for all cotton importers. All requests and supporting documents must be received by October 29, 2021.
(c) Each person on the county FSA office lists may participate in the sign-up period. Eligible producers must date and sign their name on the “County FSA Office Sign-up Sheet.” A person whose name does not appear on the county FSA office list may participate in the sign-up period. Such person must be identified on FSA-578 during the representative period or provide documentation that demonstrates that the person was a cotton producer during the representative period. Cotton producers not listed on the FSA-578 shall submit at least one sales receipt for cotton they planted during the representative period. Cotton producers must make requests to the county FSA office where the producer's farm is located. If the producer's land is in more than one county, the producer shall make request at the county office where FSA administratively maintains and processes the producer's farm records. It is the responsibility of the person to provide the information needed by the county FSA office to determine eligibility. It is not the responsibility of the county FSA office to obtain this information. If any person whose name does not appear on the county FSA office list fails to provide at least one sales receipt for the cotton they produced during the representative period, the county FSA office shall determine that such person is ineligible to participate in the sign-up period, and shall note “ineligible” in the remarks section next to the person's name on the county FSA office sign-up sheet. In lieu of personally appearing at a county FSA office, eligible producers may request a sign-up form from the county FSA office where the producer's farm is located. If the producer's land is in more than one county, the producer shall make the request for the sign-up form at the county office where FSA administratively maintains and processes the producer's farm records. Such request must be accompanied by a copy of at least one sales receipt for cotton they produced during the representative period. The appropriate FSA office must receive all completed forms and supporting documentation by October 29, 2021.
[86 FR 52399, Sept. 21, 2021]
§ 1205.28
Counting.
County FSA offices and FSA, Deputy Administrator for Field Operations (DAFO), shall begin counting requests no later than October 29, 2021.FSA shall determine the number of eligible persons who favor the conduct of a continuance referendum.
[62 FR 1660, Jan. 13, 1997, as amended at 67 FR 21170, Apr. 30, 2002; 72 FR 51161, Sept. 6, 2007; 80 FR 36234, June 24, 2015; 86 FR 20258, Apr. 19, 2021; 86 FR 52399, Sept. 21, 2021]
§ 1205.29
Reporting results.
(a) Each county FSA office shall prepare and transmit to the state FSA office, by November 5, 2021, a written report of the number of eligible producers who requested the conduct of a referendum and the number of ineligible persons who made requests.
(b) DAFO shall prepare, by November 5, 2021, a written report of the number of eligible importers who requested the conduct of a referendum and the number of ineligible persons who made requests.
(c) Each state FSA office shall, by November 5, 2021, forward all county reports to DAFO. By November 12, 2021, DAFO shall forward its report of the total number of eligible producers and importers that requested a continuance referendum, through the sign-up period, to the Deputy Administrator, Cotton and Tobacco Program, Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA, 100 Riverside Parkway, Suite 101, Fredericksburg, Virginia 22406.
[86 FR 52399, Sept. 21, 2021]
§ 1205.30
Instructions and forms.
The Administrator is hereby authorized to prescribe additional instructions and forms consistent with the provisions of this subpart to govern conduct of the sign-up period.

# Subpart—Procedures for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection With Cotton Research and Promotion Order

# Source:
74 FR 51070, Oct. 5, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1205.200
General.
Referenda for the purpose of ascertaining whether producers and importers favor the issuance, continuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Cotton Research and Promotion Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1205.201
Definitions.
(a)
Act
means the Cotton Research and Promotion Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2101-2118; Pub. L. 89-502, as amended).
(b)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom authority has been delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(c)
Agricultural Marketing Service
also referred to as “AMS” means the Agricultural Marketing Service of the Department.
(d)
Cotton
means all Upland cotton harvested in the United States or imports of Upland cotton, including the Upland cotton content of the products derived thereof. The term
cotton
shall not, however, include any entry of imported cotton by an importer which has a value or weight less than the
de minimis
value established by the Secretary or industrial products as that term is defined by regulation.
(e)
Upland Cotton
means all cultivated varieties of the species
Gossypium hirsutum L.
(f)
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(g)
Deputy Administrator
means the Deputy Administrator for Field Operations and also referred to as “DAFO.”
(h)
Farm Service Agency
also referred to as “FSA” means the Farm Service Agency of the Department.
(i)(1)
Importer
means any person who enters, or withdraws from warehouse, cotton for consumption in the customs territory of the United States and who, during a 12-month period ending no later than 90 days prior to the conduct of the referendum, imported Upland cotton, and
(2) the term
import
means any such entry.
(j)
Order
means the Cotton Research and Promotion Order.
(k)
Person
means any individual 18 years of age or older, or any partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity.
(l)
Producer
means any person who shares in a cotton crop, or in the proceeds thereof, as an owner of the farm, cash tenant, landlord of a share tenant, share tenant, or sharecropper, that planted the cotton during the representative period.
(m)
Representative Period
means the period designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 8 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 2107).
(n)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture or any other officer or employee of the Department of Agriculture to whom there has heretofore been delegated, or to whom there may be hereafter be delegated, the authority to act in the Secretary's stead.
(o)
State
means each of the 50 states.
(p)
United States
means 50 states of the United States of America.
(q)
Customs and Border Protection
means the U.S. Customs and Border Protection of the Department of Homeland Security. Customs and Border Protection is also referred to as “CBP.”
§ 1205.202
Agencies through which a referendum shall be conducted.
(a) Agricultural Marketing Service. The Administrator shall:
(1) Determine the referendum period.
(2) Give producers and importers reasonable advance notice of the referendum
(i) by utilizing without advertising expense, available media of public information (including, but not being limited to, press and radio facilities) to
announce the dates, places, or methods of voting, and other pertinent information, and
(ii) by such other means as the Administrator may deem advisable.
(3) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum to FSA. The ballots:
(i) shall provide for recording essential information for ascertaining whether the person voting is an eligible voter, and
(ii) may provide for recording the total amount of Upland cotton produced by the producer or the total amount of cotton imported by the importer during the appropriate representative period.
(4) Make available to producers through FSA county offices instructions on voting, an appropriate ballot and, except in the case of a referendum on the termination or suspension of an order, a summary of the terms and conditions of the order. The instructions on voting shall explain the method to be used in determining the amount of Upland cotton produced during the representative period and shall specify whether such amount is to be entered on the ballot by the voter, subject to the following terms and conditions:
(i) If a current production year for which harvesting has not been completed is designated as the representative period, the amount of Upland cotton produced shall be determined by the FSA county office on the basis of the acreage planted or in the case of approved prevented plantings under the disaster payment program, the acreage the person intended to plant up to the allotted acreage as determined by the FSA county office, and the established yield for FSA program payment purposes:
Provided,
That on farms for which an established yield has not been established, the county committee shall determine an established yield based on actual production records on the farm for the preceding three years, as adjusted for any abnormal conditions, if available; if not available, on the basis of yield on similar farms in the area.
(ii) On farms in which more than one eligible voter is engaged in production, the vote cast by each voter shall represent only the amount of Upland cotton that is the voter's share of the crop, or proceeds thereof.
(iii) If an eligible voter is engaged in production of Upland cotton on more than one farm, such voter is entitled to only one vote but any vote cast by such voter shall represent the total amount of Upland cotton that is that voter's share of the crop, or proceeds thereof, on all such farms:
Provided,
That only farms for which records are maintained by the FSA county office designated as the voter's polling place shall be considered unless the voter, prior to the expiration of the referendum period, establishes to the satisfaction of such county office the voter's share of the crop, or proceeds thereof, on an additional farm or farms.
(5) Make available to importers through FSA instructions on voting, an appropriate ballot and, except in the case of a referendum on the termination or suspension of an order, a summary of the terms and conditions of the order. The instructions on voting shall explain the appropriate method to be used in determining the amount of cotton imported during the representative period and specify whether such amount is to be entered on the ballot. If applicable, the following terms and conditions apply:
(i) For importer entities in which more than one importer is eligible to vote, the vote cast by each importer shall represent only the amount in weight or value of cotton imported by each eligible voter.
(ii) If an eligible importer is engaged in importation of cotton as more than one importer entity, such voter is entitled to only one vote but any vote cast by such voter shall represent the total amount in weight or value, of cotton in the voters share of cotton imported from each such importer entity: Provided, that only the importer entities for which records are maintained by CBP or other source determined by the Administrator shall be considered unless the voter, prior to the expiration of the referendum period, establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator the voters share, in weight or value, of the imported cotton.
(b)
Farm Service Agency.
Except for the functions specified in paragraph (a)
of this section the Deputy Administrator shall be in charge of and responsible for conducting the referendum. Each FSA county office shall be in charge and responsible for conducting such referendum in its State. Each county office shall be responsible for the proper holding of such referendum in its county. It shall be the duty of each FSA county office to conduct each referendum in a fair, unbiased, and impartial manner in accordance with the regulations in this subpart.
§ 1205.203
Voting eligibility.
(a)
General eligibility requirements.
The following persons shall be eligible to vote in an announced referendum—
(1) each person who was engaged in the production of Upland cotton during the representative period; and
(2) each person who is an importer of Upland cotton and who, during a 12-month period ending no later than 90 days prior to the conduct of the referendum, imported Upland cotton.
(b)
Special eligibility requirements.
(1)(i) A person may qualify as an eligible voter by meeting the eligibility requirements, but no such person shall be entitled to more than one vote regardless of the number of importing entities or Upland cotton farms in which the person is interested or the number of communities, counties, or States in which are located farms in which such person is interested:
Provided, however,
That the individual members of a qualified partnership shall each have one vote, but the partnership as such shall not have a vote and an individual who qualifies as an eligible voter by reason of that individual's separate farming or importing operations will be entitled to one vote even though that person is interested in an entity such as (but not limited to) a corporation which is also eligible as a voter and entitled to one vote. A person who, as a guardian, administrator, executor, or trustee engages in the production of Upland cotton or importation of cotton will be eligible to vote in such a fiduciary capacity if, in such a capacity, that person qualifies as an eligible voter.
(ii) In such cases the person for whom he or she is acting in a fiduciary capacity will not be eligible to vote. An individual may, if otherwise eligible, cast a ballot in his or her individual capacity although that person may also cast a ballot as a guardian, administrator, executor, or trustee. An individual who holds more than one fiduciary position may vote as a fiduciary in each case in which that person is otherwise eligible, as for example, if an individual is administrator of estate X, he or she may cast a ballot as administrator of estate X, and if the same individual is administrator of estate Y, he or she may cast another ballot as administrator or estate Y.
(2) Where a group of several persons, such as a spouse or marital partner, and children, or unrelated individuals, are engaged in the production of Upland cotton under the same lease or cropping agreement, only the person or persons who signed or entered into the lease or cropping agreement shall be eligible to vote. In the event two or more persons are engaged in the production of Upland cotton as joint tenants, tenants in common, or owners of community property, each such person shall be entitled to one vote if otherwise qualified. For example, a husband or a wife is eligible to vote if he or she shares with his or her spouse in the proceeds of the required crop as an owner, cash tenant, share tenant, sharecropper or landlord of a fixed rent, standing rent or share tenant. Thus, if a husband and wife are tenants or sharecropper on a farm, jointly responsible under the rental or sharecropping agreement, both are eligible to vote. This is true whether the rental or sharecropping agreement is written, signed by both parties, or oral, provided both husband and wife made the oral agreement. A minor is not disqualified from voting solely because of minority if otherwise eligible and the minor is not less than 18 years of age.
(c)
Voting by proxy prohibited.
There shall be no voting by proxy or agent but a duly authorized officer of a corporation, association or their legal entity may cast its vote.
§ 1205.204
Voting.
(a)
Place of voting.
The FSA county office serving the county in which the producer's farm is located shall be the producer's polling place. For a person
not participating in an FSA program, the opportunity to vote in a referendum will be provided at the FSA county office serving the county where the person owns or rents land. If a person's operation is located in several counties, the voting office shall be determined based on the major portion of the operation's location. The U.S. Department of Agriculture, FSA, DAFO, P.O. Box 23704, Washington, DC 20026-3704 shall be the polling place for all cotton importers.
(b)
Register of eligible voters.
The FSA county office shall establish a register of known eligible producer voters prior to the referendum. AMS shall establish a register of known eligible importer voters prior to the referendum and provide the list to FAS.
(c)
Voting.
(1) For Upland producers to vote, eligible persons may obtain form CN-100 in-person, by mail or by facsimile from FSA county offices or through the Internet during the voting period. A completed and signed CN-100 and supporting documentation, such as a sales receipt or remittance form, must be returned to the appropriate FSA county office. Forms obtained via the Internet will be located at
http://www.ams.usda.gov/Cotton.
Upon request by Upland producers, ballots shall be mailed by FSA county offices.
(2) For cotton importers to vote, eligible persons may obtain form CN-100 in-person, by mail or by facsimile from USDA, FSA in Washington, D.C. or through the Internet during the voting period. In addition, before the referendum, USDA shall mail a request form to each known, eligible, cotton importer. A completed and signed CN-100 and supporting documentation of CBP Form 7501, must be returned USDA, FSA, DAFO, P.O. Box 23704, Washington, DC 20026-3704. Forms obtained via the Internet will be located at
http://www.ams.usda.gov/Cotton.
(d) Returning ballot to polling place. Each person to whom a ballot is issued by Internet, mail, facsimile, or in-person shall only be allowed to vote in the referendum by completing and signing the ballot, placing it in an envelope, and delivering or mailing it to the appropriate polling place. In order to be eligible for tabulation, voted ballots must be received at the polling place during the period established for holding the referendum. A ballot shall be considered to have been received during the referendum period if:
(1) In the case of the ballot delivered to the polling place, it was received in the office prior to the close of the work day on the final day of the referendum period, or
(2) In the case of the mailed ballot, it was postmarked not later than midnight of the final day of the referendum period and was received in the polling place prior to the start of canvassing the ballots.
(e)
Placing ballots in ballot box.
Notwithstanding the fact that a ballot(s) may be later challenged by FSA county office or a representative of FSA, envelopes containing ballots received at the polling place during the referendum period shall remain unopened and shall be placed immediately in a ballot box provided by FSA for producers and importers. Such ballot box shall be arranged so that ballots cannot be read or moved without breaking the seal on the container.
§ 1205.205
Canvass of ballots.
(a)
Canvassing procedure.
Canvassing of returned ballots shall take place as soon as possible after the opening of the FSA offices on the fifth day following the close of the referendum period. Such canvassing shall be in the presence of at least one member of the FSA county office for producer ballots or an FSA representative for importer ballots and shall be open to the public. The canvassing and ballots shall be handled in such a manner so that no member of the public may see how any person voted in the referendum. The county office or FSA representative shall supervise the opening of the sealed ballot box, the opening of the envelopes containing the ballots and a determination as to:
(1) The number of eligible voters favoring the Order and where necessary, the amount of cotton represented by them,
(2) The number of eligible voters disapproving the Order and, where necessary, the amount of cotton represented by them.
(3) The number of ballots cast by voters found to be ineligible to vote in the referendum, and
(4) The number of spoiled ballots. The ballots determined to be spoiled or cast by ineligible voters shall not be considered as approving or disapproving the Order, and the persons who cast such ballots shall not be regarded as participating in the referendum.
(b)
Spoiled ballots.
A ballot shall be considered as a spoiled ballot if:
(1) It is mutilated or marked in such a way that it is not possible to determine with certainty how the ballot was intended to be counted, or
(2) It does not contain the signature of the voter, or the voter's properly witnessed mark.
(c)
Challenge of ballots.
A producer ballot may be challenged by the member of the FSA county office and the importer ballot may be challenged by the representative of FSA. Before a challenged ballot is either counted or declared invalid, a determination shall be made by the FSA county office or representative of FSA as to the eligibility of the voter to vote in the referendum.
§ 1205.206
Reporting results of referendum.
(a) Each FSA county office shall transmit a written county summary of ballots showing the results of the referendum in its county to its State office.
(b) Each State office shall transmit a written summary of the referendum results from the county offices within its State to DAFO, and DAFO will provide a copy to the AMS. AMS will make the results available for public inspection for a period of 5 years following the end of the referendum period.
(c) AMS shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a report as to the results of the referendum. The Secretary shall then publically proclaim the results of the referendum.
§ 1205.207
Challenge of correctness of county summary of ballots.
The FSA state offices shall make a prompt investigation and decision in case of any dispute or challenge regarding the correctness of the county summary of ballots in any county:
Provided,
That no dispute of challenge shall be investigated unless it is brought to the attention of the State FSA office within 3 days after receipt by the FSA State office of the county summary of ballots from such county.
§ 1205.208
Disposition of ballots and records.
The FSA county office shall seal the voted ballots, challenged ballots found to be ineligible, spoiled ballots, register sheets, and summary sheets for the county in one or more envelopes or packages, plainly marked with the identification of the referendum, the date and the names of the county and State, and place them under lock and key in a safe place under the custody of the FSA county office for a period of 45 days after the referendum period. If no notice to the contrary is received by the end of such time, and after the ballots and other records have been examined by a representative of the State FSA office, the voted ballots and challenged ballots shall be destroyed, but the registers and county summary sheets shall be filed for a period of 5 years in the office of the FSA county office.
§ 1205.209
Confidential information.
(a) The ballots cast or the manner in which any person voted and all information furnished to, compiled by, or in the possession of the referendum agent shall be regarded as confidential.
(b) The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Order and the voter list shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1205.210
Additional instructions and forms.
AMS is hereby authorized to prescribe additional instructions and forms not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart for the use of State and County FSA offices in conducting a referendum. Such additional instructions may include procedures for FSA county and State offices to report and announce the results of the preliminary count of the votes in the county and the State.

# Subpart—Cotton Research and Promotion Order

# Source:
31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1205.301
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.
§ 1205.302
Act.
Act
means the Cotton Research and Promotion Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2101-2118; Public Law 89-502, 80 Stat 279, as amended).
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.303
Person.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity.
§ 1205.304
Cotton.
Cotton
means:
(a) All Upland cotton harvested in the United States, and, except as used in §§ 1205.311 and 1205.335, includes cottonseed of such cotton and the products derived from such cotton and its seed, and
(b) Imports of Upland cotton, including the Upland cotton content of the products derived thereof. The term “cotton” shall not, however, include:
(1) Any entry of imported cotton by an importer which has a value or weight less than a de minimis amount established in regulations issued by the Secretary and
(2) Industrial products as that term is defined by regulation.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.305
Upland cotton.
Upland cotton
means all cultivated varieties of the species Gossypium hirsutum L.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.306
Bale.
Except as used in § 1205.322,
Bale
means the package of lint cotton produced at a cotton gin or the amount of processed cotton in a manufactured product that is equivalent to a 500 pound bale of lint cotton.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.307
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
is the 12-month budgetary period and means the calendar year unless the Cotton Board, with the approval of the Secretary, selects some other 12-months budgetary period.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.308
Cotton Board.
Cotton Board
means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1205.318.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.309
Producer.
Producer
means any person who shares in a cotton crop actually harvested on a farm, or in the proceeds thereof, as an owner of the farm, cash tenant, landlord of a share tenant, share tenant, or sharecropper.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.310
Importer.
Importer
means many person who enters, or withdraws from warehouse, cotton for consumption in the customs territory of the United States, and the term
import
means any such entry.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.311
Handler.
Handler
means any person who handles cotton, including the Commodity Credit Corporation.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.312
Handle.
Handle
means to harvest, gin, warehouse, compress, purchase, market,
transport, or otherwise acquire ownership or control of cotton.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.313
United States.
United States
means the 50 States of the United States of America.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.314
Cotton-producing State.
Cotton-producing State
means each of the following States and combination of States: Alabama; Arizona; Arkansas; California-Nevada; Florida; Georgia; Kansas; Louisiana; Mississippi; Missouri-Illinois; New Mexico; North Carolina; Oklahoma; South Carolina; Tennessee-Kentucky; Texas; Virginia.
[75 FR 24374, May 5, 2010]
§ 1205.315
Marketing.
Marketing
includes the sale of cotton or the pledging of cotton to the Commodity Credit Corporation as collateral for a price support loan.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.316
Cotton-Producer organization.
Cotton-Producer organization
means any organization which has been certified by the Secretary pursuant to § 1205.341.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.317
Cotton-Importer organization.
Cotton-Importer organization
means any organization which has been certified by the Secretary pursuant to § 1205.342.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.318
Contracting organization or association.
Contracting organization or association
means the organization or association with which the Cotton Board has entered into a contract or agreement pursuant to § 1205.328(c).
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.319
Cotton-producing region.
Cotton-producing region
means each of the following groups of cotton-producing States:
(a) Southeast Region: Alabama, Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia;
(b) Midsouth Region: Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri-Illinois, and Tennessee-Kentucky;
(c) Southwest Region: Kansas, Oklahoma and Texas;
(d) Western Region: Arizona, California-Nevada, and New Mexico.
[75 FR 24374, May 5, 2010]
§ 1205.320
Marketing year.
Marketing year
means a consecutive 12-month period ending on July 31.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.321
Part and subpart.
Part
means the cotton research and promotion order and all rules, regulations and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the act and the order, and the aforesaid order shall be a “subpart” of such part.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]

# Cotton Board
§ 1205.322
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a Cotton Board composed of:
(1) Representatives of cotton producers, each of whom shall have an alternate, selected by the Secretary from nominations submitted by eligible producer organizations within a cotton-producing state, as certified pursuant to § 1205.341, or, if the Secretary determines that a substantial number of producers are not members of or their interests are not represented by any such eligible organizations, from nominations made by producers in a manner authorized by the Secretary, and
(2) Representatives of cotton importers, each of whom shall have an alternate, selected by the Secretary from nominations submitted by eligible importer organizations, as certified pursuant to § 1205.342, or, if the Secretary determines that a substantial number
of importers are not members of or their interests are not represented by any such eligible organization, from nominations made by importers in a manner authorized by the Secretary.
(b) Representation on the Cotton Board shall be as follows:
(1) Each cotton-producing state shall have at least one member and an additional member for each 1 million bales or major fraction (more than half) thereof of cotton produced in the state and marketed above one million bales during the period specified in the regulations for determining Board membership; and
(2) Cotton importers shall be represented by an appropriate number of representatives, as determined by the Secretary, of importers of cotton subject to assessment during the period specified in the regulations for determining Board membership. That number shall not be less than two members. The initial importer representation on the Board shall consist of four representatives. The Secretary may, after consultation with organizations representing importers, reduce or increase the number of importer representatives, in the manner prescribed by the Secretary.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.323
Term of office.
All members of the Board and their alternatives shall serve for terms of three years. Each member and alternate shall continue to serve until a successor is selected and has qualified.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.324
Nominations.
All nominations authorized under § 1205.322 shall be made within such a period of time and in such a manner as the Secretary shall prescribe. The eligible producer organizations within each cotton-producing state, as certified pursuant to § 1205.341, shall caucus for the purpose of jointly nominating two qualified persons for each member and each alternate member to be selected to represent the cotton producers of such cotton-producing state. The eligible importer organizations, as certified pursuant to § 1205.342, shall caucus for the purpose of jointly nominating two qualified persons for each member and alternate member to be selected to represent cotton importers. If joint agreement is not reached with respect to the nominees for any such position, each such organization may nominate two qualified persons for any position on which there is no agreement.
[56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991; 56 FR 66670, Dec. 24, 1991]
§ 1205.325
Selection.
From the nominations made pursuant to §§ 1205.322 and 1205.324, the Secretary shall select the members of the Board and an alternate for each member on the basis of representation provided for in §§ 1205.322 and 1205.323.
[56 FR 64473, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.326
Acceptance.
Any person selected by the Secretary as a member or as an alternate member of the Board shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary promptly after being notified of such selection.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.327
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the failure of any person selected as a member or as an alternate member of the Board to qualify, or in the event of death, removal, resignation or disqualification of any member or alternate member of the Board, a successor for the unexpired term of such member or alternate member of the Board shall be nominated and selected in the manner specified in §§ 1205.322, 1205.324 and 1205.325.
[56 FR 64473, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.328
Alternate members.
An alternate member of the Board, during the absence of the member for whom the person is the alternate, shall act in the place and stead of such member and perform such other duties as assigned. In the event of death, removal, resignation or disqualification of a member, the alternate for the member shall act for the member until a successor for such member is selected
and qualified. In the event that both a producer member of the Board and the member's alternate are unable to attend a meeting, the Board may designate any other alternate member from the same cotton-producing state or region to serve in such member's place and stead of such meeting. In the event that both an importer member and the member's alternate are unable to attend a meeting, the Board may designate any other importer alternate member to serve in such member's place and stead at such meeting.
[56 FR 64473, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.329
Procedure.
A majority of the members of the Board, or alternates acting for members, shall constitute a quorum and any action of the Board shall require the concurring votes of at least a majority of those present and voting. At assembled meetings all votes shall be cast in person. For routine and noncontroversial matters which do not require deliberation and the exchange of views, and in matters of an emergency nature when there is not enough time to call an assembled meeting of the Board, the Board may also take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members by mail, telegraph or telephone, but any such action by telephone shall be confirmed promptly in writing.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.330
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board, and alternates when acting as members, shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for necessary expenses, as approved by the Board, incurred by them in the performance of their duties under this subpart.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.331
Powers.
The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the provisions of this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(b) Subject to the approval of the Secretary, to make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart including the designation of the handler, importer, or other person responsible for collecting the assessments authorized by § 1205.335, which designation may be of different handlers, importers, or other persons, or classes of handlers, importers, or other persons, to recognize differences in marketing practices or procedures in any state or area;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the provisions of this subpart;
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966, as amended at 42 FR 4813, Jan. 26, 1977. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 64472, 64473, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.332
Duties.
The Board shall have the following duties:
(a) To select from among its members a chairman and such other officers as may be necessary for the conduct of its business, and to define their duties;
(b) To appoint or employ such persons as it may deem necessary and to determine the compensation and to define the duties of each;
(c) With the approval of the Secretary, to enter into contracts or agreements for the development and submission to it of research and promotion plans or projects authorized by § 1205.333, and for the carrying out of such plans or projects when approved by the Secretary, and for the payment of costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to § 1205.335, with an organization or association whose governing body consists of cotton producers selected by the cotton-producer organizations certified by the Secretary under § 1205.341, in such manner that the producers of each cotton-producing state will, to the extent practicable, have representation on the governing body of such organization in the proportion that the cotton marketed by the producers of such state bears to the total marketed by the producers of all cotton-producing states. Any such contract or agreement shall provide that
such contracting organization or association shall develop and submit annually to the Cotton Board, for the purpose of review and making recommendations to the Secretary, a program of research, advertising, and sales promotion projects, together with a budget, or budgets, which shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such projects, and that any such projects shall become effective upon approval by the Secretary. Any such contract or agreement shall also provide that the contracting organization shall keep accurate records of all its transactions, which shall be available to the Secretary and Board on demand, and make an annual report to the Cotton Board of activities carried out and an accounting for funds received and expended, and such other reports as the Secretary may require;
(d) To review and submit to the Secretary any research and promotion plans or projects which have been developed and submitted to it by the contracting organization or association, together with its recommendations with respect to the approval thereof by the Secretary;
(e) To submit to the Secretary for his approval budgets on a fiscal period basis of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of this subpart, including probable costs of advertising and promotion and research and development projects as estimated in the budget or budgets submitted to it by the contracting organization or association, with the Board's recommendations with respect thereto;
(f) To maintain such books and records and prepare and submit such reports from time to time to the Secretary as he may prescribe, and to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it;
(g) To cause its books to be audited by a competent public accountant at least once each fiscal period and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a copy of each such audit to the Secretary;
(h) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board as is given to members in order that his representative may attend such meetings;
(i) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, importer, or handler.
(j) To submit to the Secretary such information as he may request.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 64472, 64473, Dec. 10, 1991]

# Research and Promotion
§ 1205.333
Research and promotion.
The Cotton Board shall in the manner prescribed in § 1205.332(c) establish or provide for:
(a) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate plans or projects for the advertising and sales promotion of cotton and its products, which plans or projects shall be directed toward increasing the general demand for cotton or its products in accordance with section 6(a) of the act;
(b) The establishment and carrying on of research and development projects and studies with respect to the production, ginning, processing, distribution, or utilization of cotton and its products in accordance with section 6(b) of the act, to the end that the marketing and utilization of cotton may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more efficient.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 64472, 64473, Dec. 10, 1991]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1205.334
Expenses.
(a) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart.
(b) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for:
(1) Expenses up to $300,000 incurred by the Secretary in connection with any referendum conducted under the Act and
(2) Expenses incurred by the Department of Agriculture for administrative and supervisory costs up to five employee years annually.
(c) The Board shall reimburse any agency of the United States Government that assists in administering the import provisions of the order for a reasonable amount of the expenses incurred by that agency in connection therewith.
(d) The funds to cover such expenses incurred under paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section shall be paid from assessments received pursuant to § 1205.335.
[42 FR 4813, Jan. 26, 1977. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 64472, 64473, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.335
Assessments.
(a) Each cotton producer or other person for whom cotton is being handled shall pay to the handler thereof designated by the Cotton Board pursuant to regulations issued by the Secretary and such handler shall collect from the producer or other person for whom the cotton, including cotton owned by the handler, is being handled, and shall pay to the Cotton Board, at such times and in such manner as prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary, assessments as prescribed in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section:
(1) An assessment at the rate of $1 per bale of cotton handled;
(2) A supplemental assessment on cotton handled which shall not exceed one percent of the value of such cotton as determined by the Cotton Board and approved by the Secretary and published in the Cotton Board rules and regulations. The rate of the supplemental assessment may be increased or decreased by the Cotton Board with the approval of the Secretary. The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation whether the assessment rate shall be levied on:
(i) The current value of the cotton, or
(ii) An average value determined from current and/or historical cotton prices and converted to a fixed amount for each bale.
(b) Each importer of cotton shall pay to the Cotton Board through the U.S. Customs Service, or in such other manner and at such times as prescribed by regulations issued by the Secretary, assessments as prescribed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section:
(1) An assessment of $1 per bale of cotton imported or the bale equivalent thereof for cotton products.
(2) A supplemental assessment on each bale of cotton imported, or the bale equivalent thereof for cotton products, which shall not exceed one percent of the value of such cotton as determined by the Cotton Board and approved by the Secretary and published in the Cotton Board rules and regulations. The rate of the supplemental assessment on imported cotton shall be the same as that paid on cotton produced in the United States. The rate of the supplemental assessment may be increased or decreased by the Cotton Board with the approval of the Secretary. The Secretary shall prescribe by regulation the value of imported cotton based on an average of current and/or historical cotton prices.
(c) The Secretary may designate by regulation exemptions to assessments provided for in this section for the following:
(1) Entries of products designated by specific Harmonized Tariff Schedule numbers which the Secretary determines are composed of U.S. cotton or other than Upland cotton, and for;
(2) Cotton contained in entries of imported cotton and cotton products that is U.S. produced cotton or is other than Upland cotton.
(d) Assessments collected under this section are to be used for such expenses and expenditures, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Cotton Board and the Secretary under this subpart.
[56 FR 64473, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.336
“Importer Reimbursements”.
Any cotton importer against whose imports any assessment is made and collected under the authority of the Act who has reason to believe that such assessment or any portion of such assessment was made on U.S. produced cotton or cotton other than Upland cotton shall have the right to demand and receive from the Cotton Board a reimbursement of the assessment or portion of the assessment upon submission of proof satisfactory to the Board that the importer paid the assessment
and that the cotton was produced in the U.S. or is other than Upland cotton. Any such demand shall be made by the importer in accordance with regulations and on a form and within a time period prescribed by the Board and approved by the Secretary. Such time periods shall provide the importer at least 90 days from the date of collection to submit the reimbursement form to the Board. Any such reimbursement shall be made within 60 days after demand therefor.
[56 FR 64474, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.337
Influencing governmental action.
No funds collected by the Board under this subpart shall in any manner be used for the purpose of influencing governmental policy or action except in recommending to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1205.338
Reports.
Each handler and importer subject to this subpart and importers of de minimis amounts of cotton may be required to report to the Cotton Board periodically such information as is required by regulations, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(a) Number of bales handled or imported;
(b) Number of bales on which an assessment was collected;
(c) Name and address of person from whom the handler has collected the assessments on each bale handled or imported;
(d) Date collection was made on each bale handled or imported.
[56 FR 64474, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.339
Books and records.
Each handler and importer subject to this subpart and importers of de minimis amounts of cotton shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Secretary such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart and the regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the marketing year of their applicability.
[56 FR 64474, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.340
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from such books, records or reports shall be kept confidential by all officers and employees of the Department of Agriculture and of the Cotton Board, and only such information so furnished or acquired as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or upon the request, of the Secretary of Agriculture, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this § 1205.340 shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of a number of handlers or importers subject to this subpart or importers of de minimis amounts of cotton, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person, or
(b) The publication by the direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person violating this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.
[56 FR 64474, Dec. 10, 1991]

# Certification of Cotton Producer Organization
§ 1205.341
Certification of cotton producer organization.
Any cotton producer organization within a cotton-producing State may request the Secretary for certification of eligibility to participate in nominating members and alternate members to represent such State on the Cotton Board. Such eligibility shall be based in addition to other available information upon a factual report submitted by the organization which shall contain information deemed relevant and specified by the Secretary for the making of such determination, including the following:
(a) Geographic territory within the State covered by the organization's active membership;
(b) Nature and size of the organization's active membership in the State, proportion of total of such active membership accounted for by farmers, a map showing the cotton-producing counties in such State in which the organization has members, the volume of cotton produced in each such county, the number of cotton producers in each such county, and the size of the organization's active cotton producer membership in each such county;
(c) The extent to which the cotton producer membership of such organization is represented in setting the organization's policies;
(d) Evidence of stability and permanency of the organization;
(e) Sources from which the organization's operating funds are derived;
(f) Functions of the organization; and
(g) The organization's ability and willingness to further the aims and objectives of the act.
The primary consideration in determining the eligibility of an organization shall be whether its cotton producer membership consists of a sufficiently large number of cotton producers who produce a relatively significant volume of cotton to reasonably warrant its participation in the nomination of members for the Cotton Board. Any cotton producer organization found eligible by the Secretary under this § 1205.341 will be certified by the Secretary, and the Secretary's determination as to eligibility is final.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 64472, 64474, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.342
Certification of cotton importer organizations.
Any importer organization may request the Secretary for certification of eligibility to participate in nominating members and alternate members to represent cotton importers on the Cotton Board. Such eligibility shall be based, in addition to other available information, upon a factual report submitted by the organization which shall contain information deemed relevant and specified by the Secretary for the making of such determination, including the following:
(a) Nature and size of organization's active membership, proportion of total active membership accounted for by cotton importers and the total amount of cotton imported by the organization's cotton importer members;
(b) The extent to which the cotton importer membership of such organization is represented in setting the organization's policies;
(c) Evidence of stability and permanency of the organization;
(d) Sources from which the organization's operating funds are derived;
(e) Functions of the organization; and
(f) The organization's ability and willingness to further the aims and objectives of the Act.
The primary consideration in determining the eligibility of an organization shall be whether its membership consist of a sufficient large number of cotton importers who import a relatively significant volume of cotton to reasonably warrant its participation in the nomination of members for the Cotton Board. Any importer organization found eligible by the Secretary under this § 1205.342 will be certified by the Secretary, and the Secretary's determination as to eligibility is final.
[56 FR 64475, Dec. 10, 1991]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1205.343
Suspension and termination.
(a) The Secretary will, whenever the Secretary finds that this subpart or any provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, terminate or suspend the operation of this subpart or such provision.
(b) The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time, and shall hold a referendum on request of 10 percent or more of the number of cotton producers and importers (if subject to the Order) voting in the most recent referendum, to determine whether cotton producers and importers subject to the Order favor the suspension or termination of this subpart, except that in counting such request for a referendum, not more than 20 percent of such request may be from producers
from any one state or importers of cotton (if subject to the Order). The Secretary shall suspend or terminate such subpart at the end of the marketing year whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is approved or favored by a majority of producers and importers subject to the Order voting in such referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of cotton, and who produced and imported more than 50 percent of the volume of cotton produced and imported by those voting in the referendum.
[56 FR 64474, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.345
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart the Cotton Board shall recommend not more than five of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees, for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Cotton Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall—
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Cotton Board under any contracts or agreements entered into by it pursuant to § 1205.332 (c);
(3) From time-to-time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the trustees, to such person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons full title and right to all funds, property and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to this § 1205.345.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to this § 1205.345 shall be subject to the same obligation imposed upon the Cotton Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practicable, in the interest of continuing one or more of the cotton research or promotion programs hitherto authorized.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated and amended at 56 FR 64472, 64475, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.346
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder, or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary, or of any other person, with respect to any such violation.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.347
Personal liability.
No member or alternate member of the Cotton Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or alternate, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]
§ 1205.348
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances
is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
[31 FR 16758, Dec. 31, 1966. Redesignated at 56 FR 64472, Dec. 10, 1991]

# Subpart—Members of Cotton Board
§ 1205.401
Definitions.
(a)
Cotton Division. Cotton Division
means the Cotton Division of the Agricultural Marketing Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(b)
Director. Director
means the Director of the Cotton Division.
[32 FR 1084, Jan. 31, 1967, as amended at 41 FR 37092, Sept. 2, 1976]
§ 1205.402
Determination of Cotton Board membership.
(a) In determining whether any cotton-producing state is entitled to be represented by more than one member of the Cotton Board as provided in § 1205.322, average annual production of Upland cotton in terms of 480-pound net weight bales for the five most recent marketing years will be used as the criteria for determination of such additional members.
(b) In determining whether importers of cotton and cotton-containing products are entitled to be represented by more than a minimum of two members on the Cotton Board as provided in § 1205.322, the average annual volume of imported cotton and the cotton content of imported products on which assessments have been collected will be used as the criteria for determination of such additional members. This volume of cotton will be expressed in terms of 480-pound net weight bales for the five most recent calendar years. The initial importer representation on the Board shall consist of four importer representatives.
(c) All members appointed from a state will be entitled to serve a full three-year term even though it is determined in a subsequent year that a state should have fewer additional members by using the average production of the five most recent marketing years as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) All members appointed to represent importers will be entitled to serve a full three-year term even though it is determined in a subsequent year that importers should be represented by fewer additional members by using the average volume of imports of cotton and the cotton content of products on which assessments have been collected as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) Each year the Director shall:
(1) Based on the average annual production of Upland cotton in terms of 480-pound net weight bales for the five most recent marketing years, notify all certified cotton producer organizations in each cotton-producing state of the number of vacancies to be filled by cotton producers on the Cotton Board; and
(2) Based on the average annual volume of imports of cotton and the cotton content of cotton-containing products on which assessments as provided for in § 1205.335 have been collected in terms of 480-pound net weight bales for the five most recent calendar years, notify all certified cotton importer organizations of the number of vacancies to be filled by cotton importers on the Cotton Board.
[56 FR 65980, Dec. 20, 1991]
§ 1205.403
Nomination procedure.
(a) The Director shall notify all certified producer organizations within each cotton-producing state and all certified importer organizations of the location, date, and time of the caucus for nominating producer and importer representatives for the Cotton Board as specified in § 1205.324. The Director will designate a representative from the Cotton Division to attend the caucus meeting of cotton producer organizations in each state, and of cotton importer organizations. Each eligible cotton producer organization within each cotton-producing state and each importer organization will be entitled to only one representative at the caucus for the purpose of nominating two qualified persons for each member and for each alternate member to be selected. The representative of a cotton producer organization shall be a cotton
producer and resident of such state, an officer or member of the Board of Directors of such organization, and duly and unqualifiedly authorized in writing by such organization to make nominations on its behalf. The representative of an importer organization shall be an importer of cotton and/or products containing cotton, an officer or member of the Board of Directors of such organization, and duly and unqualifiedly authorized in writing by such organization to make nominations on its behalf. The representative of the Director designated to attend the caucus meeting of cotton producer organizations in each state and of cotton importer organizations will ascertain the qualifications and eligibility of each representative of a cotton producer organization or cotton importer organization to participate in said meeting and to make nominations.
(b) Each caucus will be conducted as follows:
(1) The representative from the Cotton Division will act as temporary chairperson and will explain the procedure for nominations and the duties of the Cotton Board;
(2) The representatives in attendance from the certified organizations will then select a chairperson and secretary;
(3) At each caucus there will be presented for nomination and there will be nominated not less than the number of nominees required under the provisions of §§ 1205.322, 1205.324, and 1205.402.
[56 FR 65981, Dec. 20, 1991]

# Subpart—Cotton Board Rules and Regulations

# Source:
42 FR 35974, July 13, 1977, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1205.500
Terms defined.
As used throughout this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall mean:
(a)
ASCS
means the Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(b)
Cotton Board
means the administrative body established pursuant to the Cotton Research and Promotion Order.
(c)
CCC
means the Commodity Credit Corporation.
(d)
Current value of Cotton
means the gross price per pound of lint cotton received by the producer for cotton as shown on the producers' settlement document before deductions are made for weight penalties, buyer's commission or brokerage fees, marketing fees, the $1 per bale cotton research and promotion assessment, picking charges, ginning charges, warehouse receiving charges, warehouse storage charges, transportation charges or any other charges, plus any amount received by a producer in the form of a loan deficiency payment with respect to such cotton.
(e)
Form A
means Cotton Producer's Note, Form CCC Cotton A.
(f)
Gin code number
means the identification number assigned to each cotton gin by the Cotton Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(g)
Handle
means to harvest, gin, warehouse, compress, purchase, market, transport, or otherwise acquire ownership or control of cotton.
(h)
Handler
means any person who handles cotton, including CCC.
(i)
Marketing
means any sale of cotton, or the pledging of cotton to CCC as collateral for a price support loan.
(j)
Marketing year
means a consecutive 12-month period ending on July 31.
(k)
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or any other entity, whether governmental or private.
(l)
Producer
means any person who owns or shares in a cotton crop (or in the proceeds thereof) as landowner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper.
(m)
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
(n)
Loan deficiency payment
means any payment on Upland cotton made by the Commodity Credit Corporation to a producer in accordance with 7 CFR 713.55.
(o)
Importer
means any person who enters, or withdraws from warehouse, cotton for consumption in the customs territory of the United States and
import
means any such entry.
(p)
Customs Service
means the United States Customs Service of the United States Department of Treasury.
(q)
Cotton
means:
(1) All Upland cotton harvested in the United States, and, except as used in section 7(e) of the Act, includes cottonseed of such cotton and the products derived from such cotton and its seed, and
(2) Imports of Upland cotton, including the Upland cotton content of the products derived thereof. The term
cotton
shall not, however, include:
(i) Any entry of imported cotton by an importer which has a value or weight less than a de minimis amount established in regulations issued by the Secretary and
(ii) Industrial products as that term is defined by regulation.
(r)
Industrial products
means cotton-containing products which are classified in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States under classifications other than textile classifications. Certain cotton-containing textile products under textile classifications shall also be considered to be industrial products, and are therefore not included in the table appearing in these regulations as products subject to assessment. Such products include, but are not limited to textile fabrics coated, impregnated, covered, or laminated, with other materials, textile piping and tubing, and belting materials.
[42 FR 35974, July 13, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 10932, Mar. 19, 1985; 51 FR 6098, Feb. 20, 1986; 51 FR 37705, Oct. 24, 1986; 57 FR 29185, July 1, 1992]

# General
§ 1205.505
Communication.
All reports, requests, applications for reimbursements, and communications in connection with the Cotton Research and Promotion Order shall be addressed as follows: Cotton Board, Post Office Box 2121, Memphis, Tennessee, 38101-2121.
[57 FR 29186, July 1, 1992]

# Assessments
§ 1205.510
Levy of assessments.
(a)
Producer assessments.
An assessment of $1 per bale for cotton research and promotion is hereby levied on each bale of Upland cotton that is produced from cotton harvested and ginned except cotton consumed by any governmental agency from its own production. Such assessment shall be payable and collected only once on each bale.
(1) A supplemental assessment for cotton research and promotion in addition to the $1 per bale assessment provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, is hereby levied on each bale of Upland cotton harvested and ginned except cotton consumed by any governmental agency from its own production. The supplemental assessment rate shall be levied at the rate of five-tenths of one percent of:
(i) The current value of the cotton multiplied by the number of pounds of lint cotton or;
(ii) The current value of the cotton converted to a fixed amount per bale as reflected in the following assessment chart:
Assessment Chart
1
Current value (cents per pound)
Supplemental Assessment, dollars per bale
.00 to 9.99
0.15
10.00 to 19.99
.40
20.00 to 29.99
.65
30.00 to 39.99
.90
40.00 to 49.99
1.15
50.00 to 59.99
1.40
60.00 to 69.99
1.65
70.00 to 79.99
1.90
80.00 to 89.99
2.15
90.00 to 99.99
2.40
100.00 to 109.99
2.65
110.00 to 119.99
2.90
1
Assessment is calculated on
5/10
of 1 percent of the midpoint of each 10¢ increment, based on a 500 lb. bale and converted to a fixed amount per bale.
(2) Each marketing year the collecting handler must select one of the two options for collecting the supplemental assessment as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The handler shall notify the Cotton Board as to the method selected at the time the handler files the first handler report each marketing year.
(b)
Importer assessment.
An assessment for cotton research and promotion of $1 per bale is hereby levied on each bale of cotton, or the bale equivalent thereof for cotton in cotton-containing products identified in the HTS conversion factor table in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and imported into the United States on or after July 31, 1992. The $1 per bale assessment shall be converted to a fixed amount per kilogram to facilitate the U.S. Customs Service in collecting this assessment.
(1) A supplemental assessment for cotton research and promotion in addition to the $1 per bale assessment provided for in paragraph (b) of this section is hereby levied on each bale of cotton or bale equivalent of cotton in cotton-containing products, identified in this subpart, imported into the United States on or after July 31, 1992. The supplemental assessment shall be levied at the rate of five-tenths of one percent of the historical value of cotton as determined by the Secretary and expressed in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. The rate of the supplemental assessment on imported cotton will be the same as that levied on cotton produced within the United States. The supplemental assessment will be calculated as a fixed amount per kilogram and added to the $1 per bale or bale equivalent assessment to facilitate the Customs Service in collecting assessments.
(2) The 12-month average of monthly weighted average prices received by U.S. farmers will be calculated annually. Such weighted average will be used as the value of imported cotton for the purpose of levying the supplemental assessment on imported cotton and will be expressed in kilograms. The value of imported cotton for the purpose of levying this supplemental assessment is $1.3247 cents per kilogram.
(3) The following table contains Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) classification numbers and corresponding conversion factors and assessments. The left column of the following table indicates the HTS classifications of imported cotton and cotton-containing products subject to assessment. The center column indicates the conversion factor for determining the raw fiber content for each kilogram of the HTS. HTS numbers for raw cotton have no conversion factor in the table. The right column indicates the total assessment per kilogram of the article assessed. In the event that any HTS number subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on the physical properties, description, or cotton content of the product involved, assessments will continue to be collected based on the new number.
Table 2 to Paragraph (
b
)(3)—Import Assessment Table
[Raw cotton fiber]
HTS No.
Conv. factor.
Cents/kg.
5007106010
0.2713
0.3594
5007106020
0.2713
0.3594
5007906010
0.2713
0.3594
5007906020
0.2713
0.3594
5112904000
0.1085
0.1437
5112905000
0.1085
0.1437
5112909010
0.1085
0.1437
5112909090
0.1085
0.1437
5201000500
1
1.3247
5201001200
1
1.3247
5201001400
1
1.3247
5201001800
1
1.3247
5201002200
1
1.3247
5201002400
1
1.3247
5201002800
1
1.3247
5201003400
1
1.3247
5201003800
1
1.3247
5204110000
1.0526
1.3943
5204190000
0.6316
0.8367
5204200000
1.0526
1.3943
5205111000
1
1.3247
5205112000
1
1.3247
5205121000
1
1.3247
5205122000
1
1.3247
5205131000
1
1.3247
5205132000
1
1.3247
5205141000
1
1.3247
5205142000
1
1.3247
5205151000
1
1.3247
5205152000
1
1.3247
5205210020
1.0440
1.3829
5205210090
1.0440
1.3829
5205220020
1.0440
1.3829
5205220090
1.0440
1.3829
5205230020
1.0440
1.3829
5205230090
1.0440
1.3829
5205240020
1.0440
1.3829
5205240090
1.0440
1.3829
5205260020
1.0440
1.3829
5205260090
1.0440
1.3829
5205270020
1.0440
1.3829
5205270090
1.0440
1.3829
5205280020
1.0440
1.3829
5205280090
1.0440
1.3829
5205310000
1
1.3247
5205320000
1
1.3247
5205330000
1
1.3247
5205340000
1
1.3247
5205350000
1
1.3247
5205410020
1.0440
1.3829
5205410090
1.0440
1.3829
5205420021
1.0440
1.3829
5205420029
1.0440
1.3829
5205420090
1.0440
1.3829
5205430021
1.0440
1.3829
5205430029
1.0440
1.3829
5205430090
1.0440
1.3829
5205440021
1.0440
1.3829
5205440029
1.0440
1.3829
5205440090
1.0440
1.3829
5205460021
1.0440
1.3829
5205460029
1.0440
1.3829
5205460090
1.0440
1.3829
5205470021
1.0440
1.3829
5205470029
1.0440
1.3829
5205470090
1.0440
1.3829
5205480020
1.0440
1.3829
5205480090
1.0440
1.3829
5206110000
0.7368
0.9760
5206120000
0.7368
0.9760
5206130000
0.7368
0.9760
5206140000
0.7368
0.9760
5206150000
0.7368
0.9760
5206210000
0.7692
1.0189
5206220000
0.7692
1.0189
5206230000
0.7692
1.0189
5206240000
0.7692
1.0189
5206250000
0.7692
1.0189
5206310000
0.7368
0.9760
5206320000
0.7368
0.9760
5206330000
0.7368
0.9760
5206340000
0.7368
0.9760
5206350000
0.7368
0.9760
5206410000
0.7692
1.0189
5206420000
0.7692
1.0189
5206430000
0.7692
1.0189
5206440000
0.7692
1.0189
5206450000
0.7692
1.0189
5207100000
0.9474
1.2550
5207900000
0.6316
0.8367
5208112020
1.0852
1.4375
5208112040
1.0852
1.4375
5208112090
1.0852
1.4375
5208114020
1.0852
1.4375
5208114040
1.0852
1.4375
5208114060
1.0852
1.4375
5208114090
1.0852
1.4375
5208116000
1.0852
1.4375
5208118020
1.0852
1.4375
5208118090
1.0852
1.4375
5208124020
1.0852
1.4375
5208124040
1.0852
1.4375
5208124090
1.0852
1.4375
5208126020
1.0852
1.4375
5208126040
1.0852
1.4375
5208126060
1.0852
1.4375
5208126090
1.0852
1.4375
5208128020
1.0852
1.4375
5208128090
1.0852
1.4375
5208130000
1.0852
1.4375
5208192020
1.0852
1.4375
5208192090
1.0852
1.4375
5208194020
1.0852
1.4375
5208194090
1.0852
1.4375
5208196020
1.0852
1.4375
5208196090
1.0852
1.4375
5208198020
1.0852
1.4375
5208198090
1.0852
1.4375
5208212020
1.0852
1.4375
5208212040
1.0852
1.4375
5208212090
1.0852
1.4375
5208214020
1.0852
1.4375
5208214040
1.0852
1.4375
5208214060
1.0852
1.4375
5208214090
1.0852
1.4375
5208216020
1.0852
1.4375
5208216090
1.0852
1.4375
5208224020
1.0852
1.4375
5208224040
1.0852
1.4375
5208224090
1.0852
1.4375
5208226020
1.0852
1.4375
5208226040
1.0852
1.4375
5208226060
1.0852
1.4375
5208226090
1.0852
1.4375
5208228020
1.0852
1.4375
5208228090
1.0852
1.4375
5208230000
1.0852
1.4375
5208292020
1.0852
1.4375
5208292090
1.0852
1.4375
5208294020
1.0852
1.4375
5208294090
1.0852
1.4375
5208296020
1.0852
1.4375
5208296090
1.0852
1.4375
5208298020
1.0852
1.4375
5208298090
1.0852
1.4375
5208312000
1.0852
1.4375
5208314020
1.0852
1.4375
5208314040
1.0852
1.4375
5208314090
1.0852
1.4375
5208316020
1.0852
1.4375
5208316040
1.0852
1.4375
5208316060
1.0852
1.4375
5208316090
1.0852
1.4375
5208318020
1.0852
1.4375
5208318090
1.0852
1.4375
5208321000
1.0852
1.4375
5208323020
1.0852
1.4375
5208323040
1.0852
1.4375
5208323090
1.0852
1.4375
5208324020
1.0852
1.4375
5208324040
1.0852
1.4375
5208324060
1.0852
1.4375
5208324090
1.0852
1.4375
5208325020
1.0852
1.4375
5208325090
1.0852
1.4375
5208330000
1.0852
1.4375
5208392020
1.0852
1.4375
5208392090
1.0852
1.4375
5208394020
1.0852
1.4375
5208394090
1.0852
1.4375
5208396020
1.0852
1.4375
5208396090
1.0852
1.4375
5208398020
1.0852
1.4375
5208398090
1.0852
1.4375
5208412000
1.0852
1.4375
5208414000
1.0852
1.4375
5208416000
1.0852
1.4375
5208418000
1.0852
1.4375
5208421000
1.0852
1.4375
5208423000
1.0852
1.4375
5208424000
1.0852
1.4375
5208425000
1.0852
1.4375
5208430000
1.0852
1.4375
5208492000
1.0852
1.4375
5208494010
1.0852
1.4375
5208494020
1.0852
1.4375
5208494090
1.0852
1.4375
5208496010
1.0852
1.4375
5208496020
1.0852
1.4375
5208496030
1.0852
1.4375
5208496090
1.0852
1.4375
5208498020
1.0852
1.4375
5208498090
1.0852
1.4375
5208512000
1.0852
1.4375
5208514020
1.0852
1.4375
5208514040
1.0852
1.4375
5208514090
1.0852
1.4375
5208516020
1.0852
1.4375
5208516040
1.0852
1.4375
5208516060
1.0852
1.4375
5208516090
1.0852
1.4375
5208518020
1.0852
1.4375
5208518090
1.0852
1.4375
5208521000
1.0852
1.4375
5208523020
1.0852
1.4375
5208523035
1.0852
1.4375
5208523045
1.0852
1.4375
5208523090
1.0852
1.4375
5208524020
1.0852
1.4375
5208524035
1.0852
1.4375
5208524045
1.0852
1.4375
5208524055
1.0852
1.4375
5208524065
1.0852
1.4375
5208524090
1.0852
1.4375
5208525020
1.0852
1.4375
5208525090
1.0852
1.4375
5208591000
1.0852
1.4375
5208592015
1.0852
1.4375
5208592025
1.0852
1.4375
5208592085
1.0852
1.4375
5208592095
1.0852
1.4375
5208594020
1.0852
1.4375
5208594090
1.0852
1.4375
5208596020
1.0852
1.4375
5208596090
1.0852
1.4375
5208598020
1.0852
1.4375
5208598090
1.0852
1.4375
5209110020
1.0309
1.3656
5209110025
1.0309
1.3656
5209110035
1.0309
1.3656
5209110050
1.0309
1.3656
5209110090
1.0309
1.3656
5209120020
1.0309
1.3656
5209120040
1.0309
1.3656
5209190020
1.0309
1.3656
5209190040
1.0309
1.3656
5209190060
1.0309
1.3656
5209190090
1.0309
1.3656
5209210020
1.0309
1.3656
5209210025
1.0309
1.3656
5209210035
1.0309
1.3656
5209210050
1.0309
1.3656
5209210090
1.0309
1.3656
5209220020
1.0309
1.3656
5209220040
1.0309
1.3656
5209290020
1.0309
1.3656
5209290040
1.0309
1.3656
5209290060
1.0309
1.3656
5209290090
1.0309
1.3656
5209313000
1.0309
1.3656
5209316020
1.0309
1.3656
5209316025
1.0309
1.3656
5209316035
1.0309
1.3656
5209316050
1.0309
1.3656
5209316090
1.0309
1.3656
5209320020
1.0309
1.3656
5209320040
1.0309
1.3656
5209390020
1.0309
1.3656
5209390040
1.0309
1.3656
5209390060
1.0309
1.3656
5209390080
1.0309
1.3656
5209390090
1.0309
1.3656
5209413000
1.0309
1.3656
5209416020
1.0309
1.3656
5209416040
1.0309
1.3656
5209420020
0.9767
1.2938
5209420040
0.9767
1.2938
5209420060
0.9767
1.2938
5209420080
0.9767
1.2938
5209430030
1.0309
1.3656
5209430050
1.0309
1.3656
5209490020
1.0309
1.3656
5209490040
1.0309
1.3656
5209490090
1.0309
1.3656
5209513000
1.0309
1.3656
5209516015
1.0852
1.4375
5209516025
1.0852
1.4375
5209516032
1.0852
1.4375
5209516035
1.0852
1.4375
5209516050
1.0852
1.4375
5209516090
1.0852
1.4375
5209520020
1.0852
1.4375
5209520040
1.0852
1.4375
5209590015
1.0852
1.4375
5209590025
1.0852
1.4375
5209590040
1.0852
1.4375
5209590060
1.0852
1.4375
5209590090
1.0852
1.4375
5210114020
0.6511
0.8625
5210114040
0.6511
0.8625
5210114090
0.6511
0.8625
5210116020
0.6511
0.8625
5210116040
0.6511
0.8625
5210116060
0.6511
0.8625
5210116090
0.6511
0.8625
5210118020
0.6511
0.8625
5210118090
0.6511
0.8625
5210191000
0.6511
0.8625
5210192020
0.6511
0.8625
5210192090
0.6511
0.8625
5210194020
0.6511
0.8625
5210194090
0.6511
0.8625
5210196020
0.6511
0.8625
5210196090
0.6511
0.8625
5210198020
0.6511
0.8625
5210198090
0.6511
0.8625
5210214020
0.6511
0.8625
5210214040
0.6511
0.8625
5210214090
0.6511
0.8625
5210216020
0.6511
0.8625
5210216040
0.6511
0.8625
5210216060
0.6511
0.8625
5210216090
0.6511
0.8625
5210218020
0.6511
0.8625
5210218090
0.6511
0.8625
5210291000
0.6511
0.8625
5210292020
0.6511
0.8625
5210292090
0.6511
0.8625
5210294020
0.6511
0.8625
5210294090
0.6511
0.8625
5210296020
0.6511
0.8625
5210296090
0.6511
0.8625
5210298020
0.6511
0.8625
5210298090
0.6511
0.8625
5210314020
0.6511
0.8625
5210314040
0.6511
0.8625
5210314090
0.6511
0.8625
5210316020
0.6511
0.8625
5210316040
0.6511
0.8625
5210316060
0.6511
0.8625
5210316090
0.6511
0.8625
5210318020
0.6511
0.8625
5210318090
0.6511
0.8625
5210320000
0.6511
0.8625
5210392020
0.6511
0.8625
5210392090
0.6511
0.8625
5210394020
0.6511
0.8625
5210394090
0.6511
0.8625
5210396020
0.6511
0.8625
5210396090
0.6511
0.8625
5210398020
0.6511
0.8625
5210398090
0.6511
0.8625
5210414000
0.6511
0.8625
5210416000
0.6511
0.8625
5210418000
0.6511
0.8625
5210491000
0.6511
0.8625
5210492000
0.6511
0.8625
5210494010
0.6511
0.8625
5210494020
0.6511
0.8625
5210494090
0.6511
0.8625
5210496010
0.6511
0.8625
5210496020
0.6511
0.8625
5210496090
0.6511
0.8625
5210498020
0.6511
0.8625
5210498090
0.6511
0.8625
5210514020
0.6511
0.8625
5210514040
0.6511
0.8625
5210514090
0.6511
0.8625
5210516020
0.6511
0.8625
5210516040
0.6511
0.8625
5210516060
0.6511
0.8625
5210516090
0.6511
0.8625
5210518020
0.6511
0.8625
5210518090
0.6511
0.8625
5210591000
0.6511
0.8625
5210592020
0.6511
0.8625
5210592090
0.6511
0.8625
5210594020
0.6511
0.8625
5210594090
0.6511
0.8625
5210596020
0.6511
0.8625
5210596090
0.6511
0.8625
5210598020
0.6511
0.8625
5210598090
0.6511
0.8625
5211110020
0.6511
0.8625
5211110025
0.6511
0.8625
5211110035
0.6511
0.8625
5211110050
0.6511
0.8625
5211110090
0.6511
0.8625
5211120020
0.6511
0.8625
5211120040
0.6511
0.8625
5211190020
0.6511
0.8625
5211190040
0.6511
0.8625
5211190060
0.6511
0.8625
5211190090
0.6511
0.8625
5211202120
0.6511
0.8625
5211202125
0.6511
0.8625
5211202135
0.6511
0.8625
5211202150
0.6511
0.8625
5211202190
0.6511
0.8625
5211202220
0.6511
0.8625
5211202240
0.6511
0.8625
5211202920
0.6511
0.8625
5211202940
0.6511
0.8625
5211202960
0.6511
0.8625
5211202990
0.6511
0.8625
5211310020
0.6511
0.8625
5211310025
0.6511
0.8625
5211310035
0.6511
0.8625
5211310050
0.6511
0.8625
5211310090
0.6511
0.8625
5211320020
0.6511
0.8625
5211320040
0.6511
0.8625
5211390020
0.6511
0.8625
5211390040
0.6511
0.8625
5211390060
0.6511
0.8625
5211390090
0.6511
0.8625
5211410020
0.6511
0.8625
5211410040
0.6511
0.8625
5211420020
0.7054
0.9344
5211420040
0.7054
0.9344
5211420060
0.6511
0.8625
5211420080
0.6511
0.8625
5211430030
0.6511
0.8625
5211430050
0.6511
0.8625
5211490020
0.6511
0.8625
5211490090
0.6511
0.8625
5211510020
0.6511
0.8625
5211510030
0.6511
0.8625
5211510050
0.6511
0.8625
5211510090
0.6511
0.8625
5211520020
0.6511
0.8625
5211520040
0.6511
0.8625
5211590015
0.6511
0.8625
5211590025
0.6511
0.8625
5211590040
0.6511
0.8625
5211590060
0.6511
0.8625
5211590090
0.6511
0.8625
5212111010
0.5845
0.7743
5212111020
0.6231
0.8254
5212116010
0.8681
1.1499
5212116020
0.8681
1.1499
5212116030
0.8681
1.1499
5212116040
0.8681
1.1499
5212116050
0.8681
1.1499
5212116060
0.8681
1.1499
5212116070
0.8681
1.1499
5212116080
0.8681
1.1499
5212116090
0.8681
1.1499
5212121010
0.5845
0.7743
5212121020
0.6231
0.8254
5212126010
0.8681
1.1499
5212126020
0.8681
1.1499
5212126030
0.8681
1.1499
5212126040
0.8681
1.1499
5212126050
0.8681
1.1499
5212126060
0.8681
1.1499
5212126070
0.8681
1.1499
5212126080
0.8681
1.1499
5212126090
0.8681
1.1499
5212131010
0.5845
0.7743
5212131020
0.6231
0.8254
5212136010
0.8681
1.1499
5212136020
0.8681
1.1499
5212136030
0.8681
1.1499
5212136040
0.8681
1.1499
5212136050
0.8681
1.1499
5212136060
0.8681
1.1499
5212136070
0.8681
1.1499
5212136080
0.8681
1.1499
5212136090
0.8681
1.1499
5212141010
0.5845
0.7743
5212141020
0.6231
0.8254
5212146010
0.8681
1.1499
5212146020
0.8681
1.1499
5212146030
0.8681
1.1499
5212146090
0.8681
1.1499
5212151010
0.5845
0.7743
5212151020
0.6231
0.8254
5212156010
0.8681
1.1499
5212156020
0.8681
1.1499
5212156030
0.8681
1.1499
5212156040
0.8681
1.1499
5212156050
0.8681
1.1499
5212156060
0.8681
1.1499
5212156070
0.8681
1.1499
5212156080
0.8681
1.1499
5212156090
0.8681
1.1499
5212211010
0.5845
0.7743
5212211020
0.6231
0.8254
5212216010
0.8681
1.1499
5212216020
0.8681
1.1499
5212216030
0.8681
1.1499
5212216040
0.8681
1.1499
5212216050
0.8681
1.1499
5212216060
0.8681
1.1499
5212216090
0.8681
1.1499
5212221010
0.5845
0.7743
5212221020
0.6231
0.8254
5212226010
0.8681
1.1499
5212226020
0.8681
1.1499
5212226030
0.8681
1.1499
5212226040
0.8681
1.1499
5212226050
0.8681
1.1499
5212226060
0.8681
1.1499
5212226090
0.8681
1.1499
5212231010
0.5845
0.7743
5212231020
0.6231
0.8254
5212236010
0.8681
1.1499
5212236020
0.8681
1.1499
5212236030
0.8681
1.1499
5212236040
0.8681
1.1499
5212236050
0.8681
1.1499
5212236060
0.8681
1.1499
5212236090
0.8681
1.1499
5212241010
0.5845
0.7743
5212241020
0.6231
0.8254
5212246010
0.8681
1.1499
5212246020
0.7054
0.9344
5212246030
0.8681
1.1499
5212246040
0.8681
1.1499
5212246090
0.8681
1.1499
5212251010
0.5845
0.7743
5212251020
0.6231
0.8254
5212256010
0.8681
1.1499
5212256020
0.8681
1.1499
5212256030
0.8681
1.1499
5212256040
0.8681
1.1499
5212256050
0.8681
1.1499
5212256060
0.8681
1.1499
5212256090
0.8681
1.1499
5309213005
0.5426
0.7188
5309213010
0.5426
0.7188
5309213015
0.5426
0.7188
5309213020
0.5426
0.7188
5309214010
0.2713
0.3594
5309214090
0.2713
0.3594
5309293005
0.5426
0.7188
5309293010
0.5426
0.7188
5309293015
0.5426
0.7188
5309293020
0.5426
0.7188
5309294010
0.2713
0.3594
5309294090
0.2713
0.3594
5311003005
0.5426
0.7188
5311003010
0.5426
0.7188
5311003015
0.5426
0.7188
5311003020
0.5426
0.7188
5311004010
0.8681
1.1499
5311004020
0.8681
1.1499
5407810010
0.5426
0.7188
5407810020
0.5426
0.7188
5407810030
0.5426
0.7188
5407810040
0.5426
0.7188
5407810090
0.5426
0.7188
5407820010
0.5426
0.7188
5407820020
0.5426
0.7188
5407820030
0.5426
0.7188
5407820040
0.5426
0.7188
5407820090
0.5426
0.7188
5407830010
0.5426
0.7188
5407830020
0.5426
0.7188
5407830030
0.5426
0.7188
5407830040
0.5426
0.7188
5407830090
0.5426
0.7188
5407840010
0.5426
0.7188
5407840020
0.5426
0.7188
5407840030
0.5426
0.7188
5407840040
0.5426
0.7188
5407840090
0.5426
0.7188
5509210000
0.1053
0.1395
5509220010
0.1053
0.1395
5509220090
0.1053
0.1395
5509530030
0.3158
0.4183
5509530060
0.3158
0.4183
5509620000
0.5263
0.6972
5509920000
0.5263
0.6972
5510300000
0.3684
0.4880
5511200000
0.3158
0.4183
5512110010
0.1085
0.1437
5512110022
0.1085
0.1437
5512110027
0.1085
0.1437
5512110030
0.1085
0.1437
5512110040
0.1085
0.1437
5512110050
0.1085
0.1437
5512110060
0.1085
0.1437
5512110070
0.1085
0.1437
5512110090
0.1085
0.1437
5512190005
0.1085
0.1437
5512190010
0.1085
0.1437
5512190015
0.1085
0.1437
5512190022
0.1085
0.1437
5512190027
0.1085
0.1437
5512190030
0.1085
0.1437
5512190035
0.1085
0.1437
5512190040
0.1085
0.1437
5512190045
0.1085
0.1437
5512190050
0.1085
0.1437
5512190090
0.1085
0.1437
5512210010
0.0326
0.0432
5512210020
0.0326
0.0432
5512210030
0.0326
0.0432
5512210040
0.0326
0.0432
5512210060
0.0326
0.0432
5512210070
0.0326
0.0432
5512210090
0.0326
0.0432
5512290010
0.2170
0.2875
5512910010
0.0543
0.0719
5512990005
0.0543
0.0719
5512990010
0.0543
0.0719
5512990015
0.0543
0.0719
5512990020
0.0543
0.0719
5512990025
0.0543
0.0719
5512990030
0.0543
0.0719
5512990035
0.0543
0.0719
5512990040
0.0543
0.0719
5512990045
0.0543
0.0719
5512990090
0.0543
0.0719
5513110020
0.3581
0.4744
5513110040
0.3581
0.4744
5513110060
0.3581
0.4744
5513110090
0.3581
0.4744
5513120000
0.3581
0.4744
5513130020
0.3581
0.4744
5513130040
0.3581
0.4744
5513130090
0.3581
0.4744
5513190010
0.3581
0.4744
5513190020
0.3581
0.4744
5513190030
0.3581
0.4744
5513190040
0.3581
0.4744
5513190050
0.3581
0.4744
5513190060
0.3581
0.4744
5513190090
0.3581
0.4744
5513210020
0.3581
0.4744
5513210040
0.3581
0.4744
5513210060
0.3581
0.4744
5513210090
0.3581
0.4744
5513230121
0.3581
0.4744
5513230141
0.3581
0.4744
5513230191
0.3581
0.4744
5513290010
0.3581
0.4744
5513290020
0.3581
0.4744
5513290030
0.3581
0.4744
5513290040
0.3581
0.4744
5513290050
0.3581
0.4744
5513290060
0.3581
0.4744
5513290090
0.3581
0.4744
5513310000
0.3581
0.4744
5513390111
0.3581
0.4744
5513390115
0.3581
0.4744
5513390191
0.3581
0.4744
5513410020
0.3581
0.4744
5513410040
0.3581
0.4744
5513410060
0.3581
0.4744
5513410090
0.3581
0.4744
5513491000
0.3581
0.4744
5513492020
0.3581
0.4744
5513492040
0.3581
0.4744
5513492090
0.3581
0.4744
5513499010
0.3581
0.4744
5513499020
0.3581
0.4744
5513499030
0.3581
0.4744
5513499040
0.3581
0.4744
5513499050
0.3581
0.4744
5513499060
0.3581
0.4744
5513499090
0.3581
0.4744
5514110020
0.4341
0.5750
5514110030
0.4341
0.5750
5514110050
0.4341
0.5750
5514110090
0.4341
0.5750
5514120020
0.4341
0.5750
5514120040
0.4341
0.5750
5514191020
0.4341
0.5750
5514191040
0.4341
0.5750
5514191090
0.4341
0.5750
5514199010
0.4341
0.5750
5514199020
0.4341
0.5750
5514199030
0.4341
0.5750
5514199040
0.4341
0.5750
5514199090
0.4341
0.5750
5514210020
0.4341
0.5750
5514210030
0.4341
0.5750
5514210050
0.4341
0.5750
5514210090
0.4341
0.5750
5514220020
0.4341
0.5750
5514220040
0.4341
0.5750
5514230020
0.4341
0.5750
5514230040
0.4341
0.5750
5514230090
0.4341
0.5750
5514290010
0.4341
0.5750
5514290020
0.4341
0.5750
5514290030
0.4341
0.5750
5514290040
0.4341
0.5750
5514290090
0.4341
0.5750
5514303100
0.4341
0.5750
5514303210
0.4341
0.5750
5514303215
0.4341
0.5750
5514303280
0.4341
0.5750
5514303310
0.4341
0.5750
5514303390
0.4341
0.5750
5514303910
0.4341
0.5750
5514303920
0.4341
0.5750
5514303990
0.4341
0.5750
5514410020
0.4341
0.5750
5514410030
0.4341
0.5750
5514410050
0.4341
0.5750
5514410090
0.4341
0.5750
5514420020
0.4341
0.5750
5514420040
0.4341
0.5750
5514430020
0.4341
0.5750
5514430040
0.4341
0.5750
5514430090
0.4341
0.5750
5514490010
0.4341
0.5750
5514490020
0.4341
0.5750
5514490030
0.4341
0.5750
5514490040
0.4341
0.5750
5514490090
0.4341
0.5750
5515110005
0.1085
0.1437
5515110010
0.1085
0.1437
5515110015
0.1085
0.1437
5515110020
0.1085
0.1437
5515110025
0.1085
0.1437
5515110030
0.1085
0.1437
5515110035
0.1085
0.1437
5515110040
0.1085
0.1437
5515110045
0.1085
0.1437
5515110090
0.1085
0.1437
5515120010
0.1085
0.1437
5515120022
0.1085
0.1437
5515120027
0.1085
0.1437
5515120030
0.1085
0.1437
5515120040
0.1085
0.1437
5515120090
0.1085
0.1437
5515190005
0.1085
0.1437
5515190010
0.1085
0.1437
5515190015
0.1085
0.1437
5515190020
0.1085
0.1437
5515190025
0.1085
0.1437
5515190030
0.1085
0.1437
5515190035
0.1085
0.1437
5515190040
0.1085
0.1437
5515190045
0.1085
0.1437
5515190090
0.1085
0.1437
5515290005
0.1085
0.1437
5515290010
0.1085
0.1437
5515290015
0.1085
0.1437
5515290020
0.1085
0.1437
5515290025
0.1085
0.1437
5515290030
0.1085
0.1437
5515290035
0.1085
0.1437
5515290040
0.1085
0.1437
5515290045
0.1085
0.1437
5515290090
0.1085
0.1437
5515999005
0.1085
0.1437
5515999010
0.1085
0.1437
5515999015
0.1085
0.1437
5515999020
0.1085
0.1437
5515999025
0.1085
0.1437
5515999030
0.1085
0.1437
5515999035
0.1085
0.1437
5515999040
0.1085
0.1437
5515999045
0.1085
0.1437
5515999090
0.1085
0.1437
5516210010
0.1085
0.1437
5516210020
0.1085
0.1437
5516210030
0.1085
0.1437
5516210040
0.1085
0.1437
5516210090
0.1085
0.1437
5516220010
0.1085
0.1437
5516220020
0.1085
0.1437
5516220030
0.1085
0.1437
5516220040
0.1085
0.1437
5516220090
0.1085
0.1437
5516230010
0.1085
0.1437
5516230020
0.1085
0.1437
5516230030
0.1085
0.1437
5516230040
0.1085
0.1437
5516230090
0.1085
0.1437
5516240010
0.1085
0.1437
5516240020
0.1085
0.1437
5516240030
0.1085
0.1437
5516240040
0.1085
0.1437
5516240085
0.1085
0.1437
5516240095
0.1085
0.1437
5516410010
0.3798
0.5031
5516410022
0.3798
0.5031
5516410027
0.3798
0.5031
5516410030
0.3798
0.5031
5516410040
0.3798
0.5031
5516410050
0.3798
0.5031
5516410060
0.3798
0.5031
5516410070
0.3798
0.5031
5516410090
0.3798
0.5031
5516420010
0.3798
0.5031
5516420022
0.3798
0.5031
5516420027
0.3798
0.5031
5516420030
0.3798
0.5031
5516420040
0.3798
0.5031
5516420050
0.3798
0.5031
5516420060
0.3798
0.5031
5516420070
0.3798
0.5031
5516420090
0.3798
0.5031
5516430010
0.2170
0.2875
5516430015
0.3798
0.5031
5516430020
0.3798
0.5031
5516430035
0.3798
0.5031
5516430080
0.3798
0.5031
5516440010
0.3798
0.5031
5516440022
0.3798
0.5031
5516440027
0.3798
0.5031
5516440030
0.3798
0.5031
5516440040
0.3798
0.5031
5516440050
0.3798
0.5031
5516440060
0.3798
0.5031
5516440070
0.3798
0.5031
5516440090
0.3798
0.5031
5516910010
0.0543
0.0719
5516910020
0.0543
0.0719
5516910030
0.0543
0.0719
5516910040
0.0543
0.0719
5516910050
0.0543
0.0719
5516910060
0.0543
0.0719
5516910070
0.0543
0.0719
5516910090
0.0543
0.0719
5516920010
0.0543
0.0719
5516920020
0.0543
0.0719
5516920030
0.0543
0.0719
5516920040
0.0543
0.0719
5516920050
0.0543
0.0719
5516920060
0.0543
0.0719
5516920070
0.0543
0.0719
5516920090
0.0543
0.0719
5516930010
0.0543
0.0719
5516930020
0.0543
0.0719
5516930090
0.0543
0.0719
5516940010
0.0543
0.0719
5516940020
0.0543
0.0719
5516940030
0.0543
0.0719
5516940040
0.0543
0.0719
5516940050
0.0543
0.0719
5516940060
0.0543
0.0719
5516940070
0.0543
0.0719
5516940090
0.0543
0.0719
5601210010
0.9767
1.2938
5601210090
0.9767
1.2938
5601220010
0.1085
0.1437
5601220050
0.1085
0.1437
5601220091
0.1085
0.1437
5601300000
0.3256
0.4313
5602101000
0.0543
0.0719
5602109090
0.4341
0.5750
5602290000
0.4341
0.5750
5602909000
0.3256
0.4313
5603143000
0.2713
0.3594
5603910010
0.0217
0.0287
5603910090
0.0651
0.0862
5603920010
0.0217
0.0287
5603920070
0.0651
0.0862
5603920095
0.0651
0.0862
5603930010
0.0217
0.0287
5603930090
0.0651
0.0862
5603941090
0.3256
0.4313
5603943000
0.1628
0.2157
5603949010
0.0326
0.0432
5604100000
0.2632
0.3486
5604909000
0.2105
0.2788
5605009000
0.1579
0.2092
5606000010
0.1263
0.1673
5606000090
0.1263
0.1673
5607502500
0.1684
0.2231
5607909000
0.8421
1.1155
5608901000
1.0526
1.3943
5608902300
0.6316
0.8367
5608902700
0.6316
0.8367
5608903000
0.3158
0.4183
5609001000
0.8421
1.1155
5609004000
0.2105
0.2788
5701101300
0.0526
0.0697
5701101600
0.0526
0.0697
5701104000
0.0526
0.0697
5701109000
0.0526
0.0697
5701901010
1
1.3247
5701901020
1
1.3247
5701901030
0.0526
0.0697
5701901090
0.0526
0.0697
5701902010
0.9474
1.2550
5701902020
0.9474
1.2550
5701902030
0.0526
0.0697
5701902090
0.0526
0.0697
5702101000
0.0447
0.0592
5702109010
0.0447
0.0592
5702109020
0.8500
1.1260
5702109030
0.0447
0.0592
5702109090
0.0447
0.0592
5702201000
0.0447
0.0592
5702311000
0.0447
0.0592
5702312000
0.0895
0.1186
5702322000
0.0895
0.1186
5702391000
0.0895
0.1186
5702392010
0.8053
1.0667
5702392090
0.0447
0.0592
5702411000
0.0447
0.0592
5702412000
0.0447
0.0592
5702421000
0.0895
0.1186
5702422020
0.0895
0.1186
5702422080
0.0895
0.1186
5702491020
0.8947
1.1852
5702491080
0.8947
1.1852
5702492000
0.0895
0.1186
5702502000
0.0895
0.1186
5702504000
0.0447
0.0592
5702505200
0.0895
0.1186
5702505600
0.8500
1.1260
5702912000
0.0447
0.0592
5702913000
0.0447
0.0592
5702914000
0.0447
0.0592
5702921000
0.0447
0.0592
5702929000
0.0447
0.0592
5702990500
0.8947
1.1852
5702991500
0.8947
1.1852
5703291000
0.0452
0.0599
5703292010
0.0452
0.0599
5703391000
0.0452
0.0599
5703900000
0.3615
0.4789
5705001000
0.0452
0.0599
5705002005
0.0452
0.0599
5705002015
0.0452
0.0599
5705002020
0.7682
1.0176
5705002030
0.0452
0.0599
5705002090
0.1808
0.2395
5801210000
0.9767
1.2938
5801221000
0.9767
1.2938
5801229000
0.9767
1.2938
5801230000
0.9767
1.2938
5801260010
0.7596
1.0062
5801260020
0.7596
1.0062
5801271000
0.9767
1.2938
5801275010
1.0852
1.4375
5801275020
0.9767
1.2938
5801310000
0.2170
0.2875
5801320000
0.2170
0.2875
5801330000
0.2170
0.2875
5801360010
0.2170
0.2875
5801360020
0.2170
0.2875
5802101000
1.0309
1.3656
5802109000
1.0309
1.3656
5802200020
0.1085
0.1437
5802200090
0.3256
0.4313
5802300030
0.4341
0.5750
5802300090
0.1085
0.1437
5803001000
1.0852
1.4375
5803002000
0.8681
1.1499
5803003000
0.8681
1.1499
5803005000
0.3256
0.4313
5804101000
0.4341
0.5750
5804109090
0.2193
0.2905
5804291000
0.8772
1.1620
5804300020
0.3256
0.4313
5805001000
0.1085
0.1437
5805003000
1.0852
1.4375
5806101000
0.8681
1.1499
5806103090
0.2170
0.2875
5806200010
0.2577
0.3414
5806200090
0.2577
0.3414
5806310000
0.8681
1.1499
5806393080
0.2170
0.2875
5806400000
0.0814
0.1078
5807100510
0.8681
1.1499
5807102010
0.8681
1.1499
5807900510
0.8681
1.1499
5807902010
0.8681
1.1499
5808104000
0.2170
0.2875
5808107000
0.2170
0.2875
5808900010
0.4341
0.5750
5810100000
0.3256
0.4313
5810910010
0.7596
1.0062
5810910020
0.7596
1.0062
5810921000
0.2170
0.2875
5810929030
0.2170
0.2875
5810929050
0.2170
0.2875
5810929080
0.2170
0.2875
5811002000
0.8681
1.1499
5901102000
0.5643
0.7475
5901904000
0.8139
1.0781
5903101000
0.4341
0.5750
5903103000
0.1085
0.1437
5903201000
0.4341
0.5750
5903203090
0.1085
0.1437
5903901000
0.4341
0.5750
5903903090
0.1085
0.1437
5904901000
0.0326
0.0432
5905001000
0.1085
0.1437
5905009000
0.1085
0.1437
5906100000
0.4341
0.5750
5906911000
0.4341
0.5750
5906913000
0.1085
0.1437
5906991000
0.4341
0.5750
5906993000
0.1085
0.1437
5907002500
0.3798
0.5031
5907003500
0.3798
0.5031
5907008090
0.3798
0.5031
5908000000
0.7813
1.0350
5909001000
0.6837
0.9057
5909002000
0.4883
0.6468
5910001010
0.3798
0.5031
5910001020
0.3798
0.5031
5910001030
0.3798
0.5031
5910001060
0.3798
0.5031
5910001070
0.3798
0.5031
5910001090
0.6837
0.9057
5910009000
0.5697
0.7547
5911101000
0.1736
0.2300
5911102000
0.0434
0.0575
5911201000
0.4341
0.5750
5911310010
0.4341
0.5750
5911310020
0.4341
0.5750
5911310030
0.4341
0.5750
5911310080
0.4341
0.5750
5911320010
0.4341
0.5750
5911320020
0.4341
0.5750
5911320030
0.4341
0.5750
5911320080
0.4341
0.5750
5911400100
0.5426
0.7188
5911900040
0.3158
0.4183
5911900080
0.2105
0.2788
6001106000
0.1096
0.1452
6001210000
0.9868
1.3072
6001220000
0.1096
0.1452
6001290000
0.1096
0.1452
6001910010
0.8772
1.1620
6001910020
0.8772
1.1620
6001920010
0.0548
0.0726
6001920020
0.0548
0.0726
6001920030
0.0548
0.0726
6001920040
0.0548
0.0726
6001999000
0.1096
0.1452
6002404000
0.7401
0.9804
6002408020
0.1974
0.2615
6002408080
0.1974
0.2615
6002904000
0.7895
1.0458
6002908020
0.1974
0.2615
6002908080
0.1974
0.2615
6003201000
0.8772
1.1620
6003203000
0.8772
1.1620
6003301000
0.1096
0.1452
6003306000
0.1096
0.1452
6003401000
0.1096
0.1452
6003406000
0.1096
0.1452
6003901000
0.1096
0.1452
6003909000
0.1096
0.1452
6004100010
0.2961
0.3922
6004100025
0.2961
0.3922
6004100085
0.2961
0.3922
6004902010
0.2961
0.3922
6004902025
0.2961
0.3922
6004902085
0.2961
0.3922
6004909000
0.2961
0.3922
6005210000
0.7127
0.9441
6005220000
0.7127
0.9441
6005230000
0.7127
0.9441
6005240000
0.7127
0.9441
6005360010
0.1096
0.1452
6005360080
0.1096
0.1452
6005370010
0.1096
0.1452
6005370080
0.1096
0.1452
6005380010
0.1096
0.1452
6005380080
0.1096
0.1452
6005390010
0.1096
0.1452
6005390080
0.1096
0.1452
6005410010
0.1096
0.1452
6005410080
0.1096
0.1452
6005420010
0.1096
0.1452
6005420080
0.1096
0.1452
6005430010
0.1096
0.1452
6005430080
0.1096
0.1452
6005440010
0.1096
0.1452
6005440080
0.1096
0.1452
6005909000
0.1096
0.1452
6006211000
1.0965
1.4525
6006219020
0.7675
1.0167
6006219080
0.7675
1.0167
6006221000
1.0965
1.4525
6006229020
0.7675
1.0167
6006229080
0.7675
1.0167
6006231000
1.0965
1.4525
6006239020
0.7675
1.0167
6006239080
0.7675
1.0167
6006241000
1.0965
1.4525
6006249020
0.7675
1.0167
6006249080
0.7675
1.0167
6006310020
0.3289
0.4357
6006310040
0.3289
0.4357
6006310060
0.3289
0.4357
6006310080
0.3289
0.4357
6006320020
0.3289
0.4357
6006320040
0.3289
0.4357
6006320060
0.3289
0.4357
6006320080
0.3289
0.4357
6006330020
0.3289
0.4357
6006330040
0.3289
0.4357
6006330060
0.3289
0.4357
6006330080
0.3289
0.4357
6006340020
0.3289
0.4357
6006340040
0.3289
0.4357
6006340060
0.3289
0.4357
6006340080
0.3289
0.4357
6006410025
0.3289
0.4357
6006410085
0.3289
0.4357
6006420025
0.3289
0.4357
6006420085
0.3289
0.4357
6006430025
0.3289
0.4357
6006430085
0.3289
0.4357
6006440025
0.3289
0.4357
6006440085
0.3289
0.4357
6006909000
0.1096
0.1452
6101200010
1.0200
1.3511
6101200020
1.0200
1.3511
6101301000
0.2072
0.2745
6101900500
0.1912
0.2533
6101909010
0.5737
0.7600
6101909030
0.5100
0.6756
6101909060
0.2550
0.3378
6102100000
0.2550
0.3378
6102200010
0.9562
1.2666
6102200020
0.9562
1.2666
6102300500
0.1785
0.2365
6102909005
0.5737
0.7600
6102909015
0.4462
0.5911
6102909030
0.2550
0.3378
6103101000
0.0637
0.0844
6103104000
0.1218
0.1613
6103105000
0.1218
0.1613
6103106010
0.8528
1.1297
6103106015
0.8528
1.1297
6103106030
0.8528
1.1297
6103109010
0.5482
0.7262
6103109020
0.5482
0.7262
6103109030
0.5482
0.7262
6103109040
0.1218
0.1613
6103109050
0.1218
0.1613
6103109080
0.1827
0.2420
6103220040
0.7919
1.0490
6103220050
0.7919
1.0490
6103220080
0.9747
1.2911
6103230040
0.2437
0.3228
6103230045
0.2437
0.3228
6103230070
0.1218
0.1613
6103230075
0.3655
0.4842
6103292054
0.1218
0.1613
6103320000
0.8722
1.1554
6103398010
0.7476
0.9903
6103398030
0.3738
0.4952
6103398060
0.2492
0.3301
6103411010
0.3576
0.4737
6103411020
0.3576
0.4737
6103412000
0.3576
0.4737
6103421020
0.8343
1.1052
6103421035
0.8343
1.1052
6103421040
0.8343
1.1052
6103421050
0.8343
1.1052
6103421065
0.8343
1.1052
6103421070
0.8343
1.1052
6103422010
0.8343
1.1052
6103422015
0.8343
1.1052
6103422025
0.8343
1.1052
6103431520
0.2384
0.3158
6103431535
0.2384
0.3158
6103431540
0.2384
0.3158
6103431550
0.2384
0.3158
6103431565
0.2384
0.3158
6103431570
0.2384
0.3158
6103432020
0.2384
0.3158
6103432025
0.2384
0.3158
6103491020
0.2437
0.3228
6103491060
0.2437
0.3228
6103492000
0.2437
0.3228
6103498010
0.5482
0.7262
6103498014
0.3655
0.4842
6103498024
0.2437
0.3228
6103498026
0.2437
0.3228
6103498034
0.5482
0.7262
6103498038
0.3655
0.4842
6103498060
0.2437
0.3228
6104196010
0.8722
1.1554
6104196020
0.8722
1.1554
6104196030
0.8722
1.1554
6104196040
0.8722
1.1554
6104198010
0.5607
0.7427
6104198020
0.5607
0.7427
6104198030
0.5607
0.7427
6104198040
0.5607
0.7427
6104198060
0.3738
0.4952
6104198090
0.2492
0.3301
6104220010
0.8528
1.1297
6104220030
0.8528
1.1297
6104220040
0.8528
1.1297
6104220050
0.8528
1.1297
6104220060
0.8528
1.1297
6104220080
0.7310
0.9683
6104220090
0.8528
1.1297
6104230020
0.1218
0.1613
6104230026
0.1218
0.1613
6104230030
0.1218
0.1613
6104230032
0.1827
0.2420
6104230034
0.1827
0.2420
6104230036
0.1827
0.2420
6104291010
0.1218
0.1613
6104291020
0.1218
0.1613
6104291050
0.1827
0.2420
6104320000
0.8722
1.1554
6104392010
0.5607
0.7427
6104392030
0.3738
0.4952
6104392090
0.2492
0.3301
6104420010
0.8528
1.1297
6104420020
0.8528
1.1297
6104499010
0.5482
0.7262
6104499030
0.3655
0.4842
6104499060
0.2437
0.3228
6104520010
0.8822
1.1686
6104520020
0.8822
1.1686
6104598010
0.5672
0.7513
6104598030
0.3781
0.5009
6104598090
0.2521
0.3339
6104610010
0.2384
0.3158
6104610020
0.2384
0.3158
6104610030
0.2384
0.3158
6104621010
0.7509
0.9947
6104621020
0.8343
1.1052
6104621030
0.8343
1.1052
6104622006
0.7151
0.9473
6104622011
0.8343
1.1052
6104622016
0.7151
0.9473
6104622021
0.8343
1.1052
6104622026
0.7151
0.9473
6104622028
0.8343
1.1052
6104622030
0.8343
1.1052
6104622050
0.8343
1.1052
6104622060
0.8343
1.1052
6104631020
0.2384
0.3158
6104631030
0.2384
0.3158
6104632006
0.8343
1.1052
6104632011
0.8343
1.1052
6104632016
0.7151
0.9473
6104632021
0.8343
1.1052
6104632026
0.3576
0.4737
6104632028
0.3576
0.4737
6104632030
0.3576
0.4737
6104632050
0.7151
0.9473
6104632060
0.3576
0.4737
6104691000
0.3655
0.4842
6104692030
0.3655
0.4842
6104692060
0.3655
0.4842
6104698010
0.5482
0.7262
6104698014
0.3655
0.4842
6104698020
0.2437
0.3228
6104698022
0.5482
0.7262
6104698026
0.3655
0.4842
6104698038
0.2437
0.3228
6104698040
0.2437
0.3228
6105100010
0.9332
1.2362
6105100020
0.9332
1.2362
6105100030
0.9332
1.2362
6105202010
0.2916
0.3863
6105202020
0.2916
0.3863
6105202030
0.2916
0.3863
6105908010
0.5249
0.6953
6105908030
0.3499
0.4635
6105908060
0.2333
0.3090
6106100010
0.9332
1.2362
6106100020
0.9332
1.2362
6106100030
0.9332
1.2362
6106202010
0.2916
0.3863
6106202020
0.4666
0.6181
6106202030
0.2916
0.3863
6106901500
0.0583
0.0772
6106902510
0.5249
0.6953
6106902530
0.3499
0.4635
6106902550
0.2916
0.3863
6106903010
0.5249
0.6953
6106903030
0.3499
0.4635
6106903040
0.2916
0.3863
6107110010
1.0727
1.4210
6107110020
1.0727
1.4210
6107120010
0.4767
0.6315
6107120020
0.4767
0.6315
6107191000
0.1192
0.1579
6107210010
0.8343
1.1052
6107210020
0.7151
0.9473
6107220010
0.3576
0.4737
6107220015
0.1192
0.1579
6107220025
0.2384
0.3158
6107299000
0.1788
0.2368
6107910030
1.1918
1.5787
6107910040
1.1918
1.5787
6107910090
0.9535
1.2631
6107991030
0.3576
0.4737
6107991040
0.3576
0.4737
6107991090
0.3576
0.4737
6107999000
0.1192
0.1579
6108199010
1.0611
1.4056
6108199030
0.2358
0.3124
6108210010
1.1790
1.5618
6108210020
1.1790
1.5618
6108299000
0.3537
0.4685
6108310010
1.0611
1.4056
6108310020
1.0611
1.4056
6108320010
0.2358
0.3124
6108320015
0.2358
0.3124
6108320025
0.2358
0.3124
6108398000
0.3537
0.4685
6108910005
1.1790
1.5618
6108910015
1.1790
1.5618
6108910025
1.1790
1.5618
6108910030
1.1790
1.5618
6108910040
1.1790
1.5618
6108920005
0.2358
0.3124
6108920015
0.2358
0.3124
6108920025
0.2358
0.3124
6108920030
0.2358
0.3124
6108920040
0.2358
0.3124
6108999000
0.3537
0.4685
6109100004
1.0022
1.3276
6109100007
1.0022
1.3276
6109100011
1.0022
1.3276
6109100012
1.0022
1.3276
6109100014
1.0022
1.3276
6109100018
1.0022
1.3276
6109100023
1.0022
1.3276
6109100027
1.0022
1.3276
6109100037
1.0022
1.3276
6109100040
1.0022
1.3276
6109100045
1.0022
1.3276
6109100060
1.0022
1.3276
6109100065
1.0022
1.3276
6109100070
1.0022
1.3276
6109901007
0.2948
0.3905
6109901009
0.2948
0.3905
6109901013
0.2948
0.3905
6109901025
0.2948
0.3905
6109901047
0.2948
0.3905
6109901049
0.2948
0.3905
6109901050
0.2948
0.3905
6109901060
0.2948
0.3905
6109901065
0.2948
0.3905
6109901070
0.2948
0.3905
6109901075
0.2948
0.3905
6109901090
0.2948
0.3905
6109908010
0.3499
0.4635
6109908030
0.2333
0.3090
6110201010
0.7476
0.9903
6110201020
0.7476
0.9903
6110201022
0.7476
0.9903
6110201024
0.7476
0.9903
6110201026
0.7476
0.9903
6110201029
0.7476
0.9903
6110201031
0.7476
0.9903
6110201033
0.7476
0.9903
6110202005
1.1214
1.4855
6110202010
1.1214
1.4855
6110202015
1.1214
1.4855
6110202020
1.1214
1.4855
6110202025
1.1214
1.4855
6110202030
1.1214
1.4855
6110202035
1.1214
1.4855
6110202041
1.0965
1.4525
6110202044
1.0965
1.4525
6110202046
1.0965
1.4525
6110202049
1.0965
1.4525
6110202067
1.0965
1.4525
6110202069
1.0965
1.4525
6110202077
1.0965
1.4525
6110202079
1.0965
1.4525
6110909010
0.5607
0.7427
6110909012
0.1246
0.1651
6110909014
0.3738
0.4952
6110909023
0.2492
0.3301
6110909026
0.5607
0.7427
6110909028
0.1869
0.2476
6110909030
0.3738
0.4952
6110909041
0.2492
0.3301
6110909044
0.5607
0.7427
6110909046
0.5607
0.7427
6110909052
0.3738
0.4952
6110909054
0.3738
0.4952
6110909064
0.2492
0.3301
6110909066
0.2492
0.3301
6110909067
0.5607
0.7427
6110909069
0.5607
0.7427
6110909071
0.5607
0.7427
6110909073
0.5607
0.7427
6110909079
0.3738
0.4952
6110909080
0.3738
0.4952
6110909081
0.3738
0.4952
6110909082
0.3738
0.4952
6110909088
0.2492
0.3301
6110909090
0.2492
0.3301
6111201000
1.1918
1.5787
6111202000
1.1918
1.5787
6111203000
0.9535
1.2631
6111204000
0.9535
1.2631
6111205000
0.9535
1.2631
6111206010
0.9535
1.2631
6111206020
0.9535
1.2631
6111206030
0.9535
1.2631
6111206050
0.9535
1.2631
6111206070
0.9535
1.2631
6111301000
0.2384
0.3158
6111302000
0.2384
0.3158
6111303000
0.2384
0.3158
6111304000
0.2384
0.3158
6111305010
0.2384
0.3158
6111305015
0.2384
0.3158
6111305020
0.2384
0.3158
6111305030
0.2384
0.3158
6111305050
0.2384
0.3158
6111305070
0.2384
0.3158
6111901000
0.2384
0.3158
6111902000
0.2384
0.3158
6111903000
0.2384
0.3158
6111904000
0.2384
0.3158
6111905010
0.2384
0.3158
6111905020
0.2384
0.3158
6111905030
0.2384
0.3158
6111905050
0.2384
0.3158
6111905070
0.2384
0.3158
6112110010
0.9535
1.2631
6112110020
0.9535
1.2631
6112110030
0.9535
1.2631
6112110040
0.9535
1.2631
6112110050
0.9535
1.2631
6112110060
0.9535
1.2631
6112120010
0.2384
0.3158
6112120020
0.2384
0.3158
6112120030
0.2384
0.3158
6112120040
0.2384
0.3158
6112120050
0.2384
0.3158
6112120060
0.2384
0.3158
6112191010
0.2492
0.3301
6112191020
0.2492
0.3301
6112191030
0.2492
0.3301
6112191040
0.2492
0.3301
6112191050
0.2492
0.3301
6112191060
0.2492
0.3301
6112201060
0.2492
0.3301
6112201070
0.2492
0.3301
6112201080
0.2492
0.3301
6112201090
0.2492
0.3301
6112202010
0.8722
1.1554
6112202020
0.3738
0.4952
6112202030
0.2492
0.3301
6112310010
0.1192
0.1579
6112310020
0.1192
0.1579
6112390010
1.0727
1.4210
6112410010
0.1192
0.1579
6112410020
0.1192
0.1579
6112410030
0.1192
0.1579
6112410040
0.1192
0.1579
6112490010
0.8939
1.1841
6113001005
0.1246
0.1651
6113001010
0.1246
0.1651
6113001012
0.1246
0.1651
6113009015
0.3489
0.4622
6113009020
0.3489
0.4622
6113009038
0.3489
0.4622
6113009042
0.3489
0.4622
6113009055
0.3489
0.4622
6113009060
0.3489
0.4622
6113009074
0.3489
0.4622
6113009082
0.3489
0.4622
6114200005
0.9747
1.2911
6114200010
0.9747
1.2911
6114200015
0.8528
1.1297
6114200020
0.8528
1.1297
6114200035
0.8528
1.1297
6114200040
0.8528
1.1297
6114200042
0.3655
0.4842
6114200044
0.8528
1.1297
6114200046
0.8528
1.1297
6114200048
0.8528
1.1297
6114200052
0.8528
1.1297
6114200055
0.8528
1.1297
6114200060
0.8528
1.1297
6114301010
0.2437
0.3228
6114301020
0.2437
0.3228
6114302060
0.1218
0.1613
6114303014
0.2437
0.3228
6114303020
0.2437
0.3228
6114303030
0.2437
0.3228
6114303042
0.2437
0.3228
6114303044
0.2437
0.3228
6114303052
0.2437
0.3228
6114303054
0.2437
0.3228
6114303060
0.2437
0.3228
6114303070
0.2437
0.3228
6114909045
0.5482
0.7262
6114909055
0.3655
0.4842
6114909070
0.3655
0.4842
6115100500
0.4386
0.5810
6115101510
1.0965
1.4525
6115103000
0.9868
1.3072
6115106000
0.1096
0.1452
6115298010
1.0965
1.4525
6115309030
0.7675
1.0167
6115956000
0.9868
1.3072
6115959000
0.9868
1.3072
6115966020
0.2193
0.2905
6115991420
0.2193
0.2905
6115991920
0.2193
0.2905
6115999000
0.1096
0.1452
6116101300
0.3463
0.4587
6116101720
0.8079
1.0702
6116104810
0.4444
0.5887
6116105510
0.6464
0.8563
6116107510
0.6464
0.8563
6116109500
0.1616
0.2141
6116920500
0.8079
1.0702
6116920800
0.8079
1.0702
6116926410
1.0388
1.3761
6116926420
1.0388
1.3761
6116926430
1.1542
1.5289
6116926440
1.0388
1.3761
6116927450
1.0388
1.3761
6116927460
1.1542
1.5289
6116927470
1.0388
1.3761
6116928800
1.0388
1.3761
6116929400
1.0388
1.3761
6116938800
0.1154
0.1529
6116939400
0.1154
0.1529
6116994800
0.1154
0.1529
6116995400
0.1154
0.1529
6116999510
0.4617
0.6116
6116999530
0.3463
0.4587
6117106010
0.9234
1.2232
6117106020
0.2308
0.3057
6117808500
0.9234
1.2232
6117808710
1.1542
1.5289
6117808770
0.1731
0.2293
6117809510
0.9234
1.2232
6117809540
0.3463
0.4587
6117809570
0.1731
0.2293
6117909003
1.1542
1.5289
6117909015
0.2308
0.3057
6117909020
1.1542
1.5289
6117909040
1.1542
1.5289
6117909060
1.1542
1.5289
6117909080
1.1542
1.5289
6201301200
0.8981
1.1897
6201302010
1.0602
1.4044
6201302020
1.0602
1.4044
6201302025
1.2473
1.6522
6201302035
1.2473
1.6522
6201302050
0.8108
1.0740
6201302060
0.8108
1.0740
6201303000
0.6486
0.8592
6201304000
0.8108
1.0740
6201305005
0.8108
1.0740
6201305010
0.8108
1.0740
6201305021
1.2473
1.6522
6201305031
1.2473
1.6522
6201305041
1.2473
1.6522
6201305051
0.8108
1.0740
6201305061
0.8108
1.0740
6201306000
0.6486
0.8592
6201307000
0.8108
1.0740
6201308005
0.8108
1.0740
6201308010
0.8108
1.0740
6201308021
1.2473
1.6522
6201308031
1.2473
1.6522
6201308041
1.2473
1.6522
6201308051
0.8108
1.0740
6201308061
0.8108
1.0740
6201402015
0.2495
0.3305
6201402020
0.2495
0.3305
6201402030
0.3118
0.4130
6201402040
0.3118
0.4130
6201404500
0.3118
0.4130
6201405011
0.3118
0.4130
6201405021
0.3118
0.4130
6201407000
0.3118
0.4130
6201407511
0.3118
0.4130
6201407521
0.3118
0.4130
6201902910
0.5613
0.7435
6201902930
0.3742
0.4957
6201902960
0.3742
0.4957
6201904910
0.5613
0.7435
6201904930
0.3742
0.4957
6201904960
0.3742
0.4957
6201906910
0.5613
0.7435
6201906930
0.3742
0.4957
6201906960
0.3742
0.4957
6202301200
0.8879
1.1762
6202302010
1.0482
1.3885
6202302020
1.0482
1.3885
6202302025
1.2332
1.6336
6202302035
1.2332
1.6336
6202302050
0.8016
1.0618
6202302060
0.8016
1.0618
6202303000
0.9865
1.3068
6202304000
0.9865
1.3068
6202305010
0.9865
1.3068
6202305020
0.9865
1.3068
6202305026
1.2332
1.6336
6202305031
1.2332
1.6336
6202305061
0.9865
1.3068
6202305071
0.9865
1.3068
6202306000
0.9865
1.3068
6202307000
0.9865
1.3068
6202308010
0.9865
1.3068
6202308020
0.9865
1.3068
6202308026
1.2332
1.6336
6202308031
1.2332
1.6336
6202308061
0.9865
1.3068
6202308071
0.9865
1.3068
6202402005
0.2524
0.3343
6202402010
0.2524
0.3343
6202402020
0.3155
0.4179
6202402030
0.3155
0.4179
6202402500
0.2960
0.3921
6202403510
0.2466
0.3267
6202403520
0.2466
0.3267
6202405011
0.2466
0.3267
6202405021
0.2466
0.3267
6202405500
0.2960
0.3921
6202406010
0.2466
0.3267
6202406020
0.2466
0.3267
6202407511
0.2466
0.3267
6202407521
0.2466
0.3267
6202902910
0.5678
0.7521
6202902930
0.3786
0.5015
6202902960
0.2524
0.3343
6202904911
0.5549
0.7351
6202904931
0.3700
0.4901
6202904961
0.2466
0.3267
6202906911
0.5549
0.7351
6202906931
0.3700
0.4901
6202906961
0.2466
0.3267
6203122010
0.1233
0.1633
6203122020
0.1233
0.1633
6203191010
0.9865
1.3068
6203191020
0.9865
1.3068
6203191030
0.9865
1.3068
6203199010
0.5549
0.7351
6203199020
0.5549
0.7351
6203199030
0.5549
0.7351
6203199050
0.37
0.4901
6203199080
0.2466
0.3267
6203221000
1.2332
1.6336
6203223010
0.9865
1.3068
6203223015
0.9865
1.3068
6203223020
0.9865
1.3068
6203223030
0.9865
1.3068
6203223050
0.9865
1.3068
6203223060
0.9865
1.3068
6203230050
0.3083
0.4084
6203230055
0.3083
0.4084
6203230060
0.3083
0.4084
6203230070
0.3083
0.4084
6203230080
0.3083
0.4084
6203230090
0.3083
0.4084
6203321000
0.6782
0.8984
6203322010
1.1715
1.5518
6203322020
1.1715
1.5518
6203322030
1.1715
1.5518
6203322040
1.1715
1.5518
6203322050
1.1715
1.5518
6203332010
0.1233
0.1633
6203332020
0.1233
0.1633
6203392010
0.1233
0.1633
6203392020
0.1233
0.1633
6203399010
0.5549
0.7351
6203399030
0.3700
0.4901
6203399060
0.2466
0.3267
6203420300
1.0616
1.4063
6203420505
0.7077
0.9375
6203420510
0.9436
1.2499
6203420525
0.9436
1.2499
6203420550
0.9436
1.2499
6203420590
0.9436
1.2499
6203420703
1.0616
1.4063
6203420706
1.1796
1.5626
6203420711
1.1796
1.5626
6203420716
0.9436
1.2499
6203420721
1.1796
1.5626
6203420726
1.1796
1.5626
6203420731
1.1796
1.5626
6203420736
1.1796
1.5626
6203420741
0.9436
1.2499
6203420746
0.9436
1.2499
6203420751
0.8752
1.1593
6203420756
0.8752
1.1593
6203420761
0.8752
1.1593
6203421700
1.0616
1.4063
6203422505
0.7077
0.9375
6203422510
0.9436
1.2499
6203422525
0.9436
1.2499
6203422550
0.9436
1.2499
6203422590
0.9436
1.2499
6203424503
1.0616
1.4063
6203424506
1.1796
1.5626
6203424511
1.1796
1.5626
6203424514
0.9436
1.2499
6203424518
0.9436
1.2499
6203424521
1.1796
1.5626
6203424526
1.1796
1.5626
6203424531
1.1796
1.5626
6203424536
1.1796
1.5626
6203424541
0.9436
1.2499
6203424546
0.9436
1.2499
6203424551
0.8752
1.1593
6203424556
0.8752
1.1593
6203424561
0.8752
1.1593
6203430100
0.1887
0.2500
6203430300
0.1180
0.1563
6203430505
0.1180
0.1563
6203430510
0.2359
0.3125
6203430525
0.2359
0.3125
6203430550
0.2359
0.3125
6203430590
0.2359
0.3125
6203431110
0.0590
0.0782
6203431190
0.0590
0.0782
6203431310
0.1167
0.1546
6203431315
0.1167
0.1546
6203431320
0.1167
0.1546
6203431330
0.1167
0.1546
6203431335
0.1167
0.1546
6203431340
0.1167
0.1546
6203434500
0.1887
0.2500
6203435500
0.1180
0.1563
6203436005
0.1180
0.1563
6203436010
0.2359
0.3125
6203436025
0.2359
0.3125
6203436050
0.2359
0.3125
6203436090
0.2359
0.3125
6203436500
0.4128
0.5468
6203437510
0.0590
0.0782
6203437590
0.0590
0.0782
6203439009
0.1167
0.1546
6203439011
0.1167
0.1546
6203439015
0.1167
0.1546
6203439020
0.1167
0.1546
6203439030
0.1167
0.1546
6203439035
0.1167
0.1546
6203439040
0.1167
0.1546
6203490105
0.1180
0.1563
6203490110
0.2359
0.3125
6203490125
0.2359
0.3125
6203490150
0.2359
0.3125
6203490190
0.2359
0.3125
6203490515
0.2359
0.3125
6203490520
0.2359
0.3125
6203490530
0.1180
0.1563
6203490545
0.1180
0.1563
6203490550
0.1180
0.1563
6203490560
0.1180
0.1563
6203490920
0.5308
0.7031
6203490930
0.3539
0.4688
6203490945
0.2359
0.3125
6203492505
0.1180
0.1563
6203492510
0.2359
0.3125
6203492525
0.2359
0.3125
6203492550
0.2359
0.3125
6203492590
0.2359
0.3125
6203493500
0.4128
0.5468
6203495015
0.2359
0.3125
6203495020
0.2359
0.3125
6203495030
0.1180
0.1563
6203495045
0.1180
0.1563
6203495050
0.1180
0.1563
6203495060
0.1180
0.1563
6203499020
0.5308
0.7031
6203499030
0.3539
0.4688
6203499045
0.2359
0.3125
6204110000
0.0617
0.0817
6204120010
0.9865
1.3068
6204120020
0.9865
1.3068
6204120030
0.9865
1.3068
6204120040
0.9865
1.3068
6204132010
0.1233
0.1633
6204132020
0.1233
0.1633
6204192000
0.1233
0.1633
6204198010
0.5549
0.7351
6204198020
0.5549
0.7351
6204198030
0.5549
0.7351
6204198040
0.5549
0.7351
6204198060
0.3083
0.4084
6204198090
0.2466
0.3267
6204221000
1.2332
1.6336
6204223010
0.9865
1.3068
6204223030
0.9865
1.3068
6204223040
0.9865
1.3068
6204223050
0.9865
1.3068
6204223060
0.9865
1.3068
6204223065
0.9865
1.3068
6204223070
0.9865
1.3068
6204230030
0.3083
0.4084
6204230035
0.3083
0.4084
6204230040
0.3083
0.4084
6204230045
0.3083
0.4084
6204230050
0.3083
0.4084
6204230055
0.3083
0.4084
6204230060
0.3083
0.4084
6204292015
0.3083
0.4084
6204292020
0.3083
0.4084
6204292040
0.3083
0.4084
6204292050
0.3083
0.4084
6204294010
0.5549
0.7351
6204294022
0.5549
0.7351
6204294034
0.5549
0.7351
6204294047
0.2466
0.3267
6204294070
0.5549
0.7351
6204294082
0.5549
0.7351
6204294092
0.2466
0.3267
6204321000
0.6782
0.8984
6204322010
1.1715
1.5518
6204322020
1.1715
1.5518
6204322030
0.9865
1.3068
6204322040
0.9865
1.3068
6204398010
0.5549
0.7351
6204398030
0.3083
0.4084
6204412010
0.0603
0.0799
6204412020
0.0603
0.0799
6204421000
1.2058
1.5973
6204422000
0.6632
0.8785
6204423010
1.2058
1.5973
6204423020
1.2058
1.5973
6204423030
0.9043
1.1979
6204423040
0.9043
1.1979
6204423050
0.9043
1.1979
6204423060
0.9043
1.1979
6204431000
0.4823
0.6389
6204432000
0.0603
0.0799
6204442000
0.4316
0.5717
6204495010
0.5549
0.7351
6204495030
0.2466
0.3267
6204510010
0.0631
0.0836
6204510020
0.0631
0.0836
6204521000
1.2618
1.6715
6204522010
1.1988
1.5880
6204522020
1.1988
1.5880
6204522030
1.1988
1.5880
6204522040
1.1988
1.5880
6204522070
1.0095
1.3372
6204522080
1.0095
1.3372
6204531000
0.4416
0.5850
6204532010
0.0631
0.0836
6204532020
0.0631
0.0836
6204533010
0.2524
0.3343
6204533020
0.2524
0.3343
6204591000
0.4416
0.5850
6204594010
0.5678
0.7521
6204594030
0.2524
0.3343
6204594060
0.2524
0.3343
6204610510
0.0590
0.0782
6204610520
0.0590
0.0782
6204611510
0.0590
0.0782
6204611520
0.0590
0.0782
6204611530
0.0590
0.0782
6204611540
0.1180
0.1563
6204616010
0.0590
0.0782
6204616020
0.0590
0.0782
6204618010
0.0590
0.0782
6204618020
0.0590
0.0782
6204618030
0.0590
0.0782
6204618040
0.1180
0.1563
6204620300
0.8681
1.1499
6204620505
0.7077
0.9375
6204620510
0.9436
1.2499
6204620525
0.9436
1.2499
6204620550
0.9436
1.2499
6204621503
1.0616
1.4063
6204621506
1.1796
1.5626
6204621511
1.1796
1.5626
6204621521
0.9436
1.2499
6204621526
1.1796
1.5626
6204621531
1.1796
1.5626
6204621536
1.1796
1.5626
6204621541
1.1796
1.5626
6204621546
0.9436
1.2499
6204621551
0.9436
1.2499
6204621556
0.9335
1.2366
6204621561
0.9335
1.2366
6204621566
0.9335
1.2366
6204625000
0.8681
1.1499
6204626005
0.7077
0.9375
6204626010
0.9436
1.2499
6204626025
0.9436
1.2499
6204626050
0.9436
1.2499
6204627000
1.1796
1.5626
6204628003
1.0616
1.4063
6204628006
1.1796
1.5626
6204628011
1.1796
1.5626
6204628014
0.9436
1.2499
6204628018
0.9436
1.2499
6204628026
1.1796
1.5626
6204628031
1.1796
1.5626
6204628036
1.1796
1.5626
6204628041
1.1796
1.5626
6204628046
0.9436
1.2499
6204628051
0.9436
1.2499
6204628056
0.9335
1.2366
6204628061
0.9335
1.2366
6204628066
0.9335
1.2366
6204630100
0.2019
0.2674
6204630200
0.1180
0.1563
6204630305
0.1180
0.1563
6204630310
0.2359
0.3125
6204630325
0.2359
0.3125
6204630350
0.2359
0.3125
6204630810
0.0590
0.0782
6204630820
0.0590
0.0782
6204630910
0.0603
0.0799
6204630990
0.0603
0.0799
6204631110
0.2412
0.3195
6204631125
0.2412
0.3195
6204631130
0.2412
0.3195
6204631132
0.2309
0.3059
6204631135
0.2309
0.3059
6204631140
0.2309
0.3059
6204635000
0.2019
0.2674
6204635500
0.1180
0.1563
6204636005
0.1180
0.1563
6204636010
0.2359
0.3125
6204636025
0.2359
0.3125
6204636050
0.2359
0.3125
6204636500
0.4718
0.6250
6204637010
0.0590
0.0782
6204637020
0.0590
0.0782
6204637510
0.0603
0.0799
6204637590
0.0603
0.0799
6204639009
0.2412
0.3195
6204639011
0.2412
0.3195
6204639025
0.2412
0.3195
6204639030
0.2412
0.3195
6204639032
0.2309
0.3059
6204639035
0.2309
0.3059
6204639040
0.2309
0.3059
6204690105
0.1180
0.1563
6204690110
0.2359
0.3125
6204690125
0.2359
0.3125
6204690150
0.2359
0.3125
6204690210
0.0590
0.0782
6204690220
0.0590
0.0782
6204690230
0.0590
0.0782
6204690310
0.2359
0.3125
6204690320
0.2359
0.3125
6204690330
0.2359
0.3125
6204690340
0.2309
0.3059
6204690350
0.2309
0.3059
6204690360
0.2309
0.3059
6204690510
0.5308
0.7031
6204690530
0.2359
0.3125
6204690570
0.3539
0.4688
6204690610
0.5308
0.7031
6204690630
0.2359
0.3125
6204690644
0.2359
0.3125
6204690646
0.2359
0.3125
6204690650
0.3539
0.4688
6204691505
0.1180
0.1563
6204691510
0.2359
0.3125
6204691525
0.2359
0.3125
6204691550
0.2359
0.3125
6204692210
0.0590
0.0782
6204692220
0.0590
0.0782
6204692230
0.0590
0.0782
6204692810
0.2359
0.3125
6204692820
0.2359
0.3125
6204692830
0.2359
0.3125
6204692840
0.2309
0.3059
6204692850
0.2309
0.3059
6204692860
0.2309
0.3059
6204696510
0.5308
0.7031
6204696530
0.2359
0.3125
6204696570
0.3539
0.4688
6204698010
0.5308
0.7031
6204698030
0.2359
0.3125
6204698044
0.2359
0.3125
6204698046
0.2359
0.3125
6204698050
0.3539
0.4688
6205201000
1.1796
1.5626
6205202003
0.9436
1.2499
6205202016
0.9436
1.2499
6205202021
0.9436
1.2499
6205202026
0.9436
1.2499
6205202031
0.9436
1.2499
6205202036
1.0616
1.4063
6205202041
1.0616
1.4063
6205202044
1.0616
1.4063
6205202047
0.9436
1.2499
6205202051
0.9436
1.2499
6205202056
0.9436
1.2499
6205202061
0.9436
1.2499
6205202063
0.9436
1.2499
6205202067
0.9436
1.2499
6205202071
0.9436
1.2499
6205202076
0.9436
1.2499
6205301000
0.4128
0.5468
6205302010
0.2949
0.3906
6205302020
0.2949
0.3906
6205302030
0.2949
0.3906
6205302040
0.2949
0.3906
6205302050
0.2949
0.3906
6205302055
0.2949
0.3906
6205302060
0.2949
0.3906
6205302071
0.2949
0.3906
6205302073
0.2949
0.3906
6205302075
0.2949
0.3906
6205302080
0.2949
0.3906
6205900710
0.1180
0.1563
6205900720
0.1180
0.1563
6205901000
0.2359
0.3125
6205903010
0.5308
0.7031
6205903030
0.2359
0.3125
6205903050
0.1769
0.2343
6205904010
0.5308
0.7031
6205904030
0.2359
0.3125
6205904040
0.2359
0.3125
6206100010
0.5308
0.7031
6206100030
0.2359
0.3125
6206100040
0.1180
0.1563
6206100050
0.2359
0.3125
6206203010
0.0590
0.0782
6206203020
0.0590
0.0782
6206301000
1.1796
1.5626
6206302000
0.6488
0.8594
6206303003
0.9436
1.2499
6206303011
0.9436
1.2499
6206303021
0.9436
1.2499
6206303031
0.9436
1.2499
6206303043
0.9436
1.2499
6206303045
0.9436
1.2499
6206303051
0.9436
1.2499
6206303061
0.9436
1.2499
6206401000
0.4128
0.5468
6206403010
0.2949
0.3906
6206403020
0.2949
0.3906
6206403025
0.2949
0.3906
6206403033
0.2949
0.3906
6206403035
0.2949
0.3906
6206403040
0.2949
0.3906
6206403050
0.2949
0.3906
6206900010
0.5308
0.7031
6206900030
0.2359
0.3125
6206900040
0.1769
0.2343
6207110000
1.0281
1.3619
6207199010
0.3427
0.4540
6207199030
0.4569
0.6052
6207210010
1.0502
1.3912
6207210020
1.0502
1.3912
6207210030
1.0502
1.3912
6207210040
1.0502
1.3912
6207220000
0.3501
0.4638
6207291000
0.1167
0.1546
6207299030
0.1167
0.1546
6207911000
1.0852
1.4375
6207913010
1.0852
1.4375
6207913020
1.0852
1.4375
6207997520
0.2412
0.3195
6207998510
0.2412
0.3195
6207998520
0.2412
0.3195
6208110000
0.2412
0.3195
6208192000
1.0852
1.4375
6208195000
0.1206
0.1598
6208199000
0.2412
0.3195
6208210010
1.0026
1.3281
6208210020
1.0026
1.3281
6208210030
1.0026
1.3281
6208220000
0.1180
0.1563
6208299030
0.2359
0.3125
6208911010
1.0852
1.4375
6208911020
1.0852
1.4375
6208913010
1.0852
1.4375
6208913020
1.0852
1.4375
6208920010
0.1206
0.1598
6208920020
0.1206
0.1598
6208920030
0.1206
0.1598
6208920040
0.1206
0.1598
6208992010
0.0603
0.0799
6208992020
0.0603
0.0799
6208995010
0.2412
0.3195
6208995020
0.2412
0.3195
6208998010
0.2412
0.3195
6208998020
0.2412
0.3195
6209201000
1.0967
1.4528
6209202000
1.0390
1.3763
6209203000
0.9236
1.2235
6209205030
0.9236
1.2235
6209205035
0.9236
1.2235
6209205045
0.9236
1.2235
6209205050
0.9236
1.2235
6209301000
0.2917
0.3864
6209302000
0.2917
0.3864
6209303010
0.2334
0.3092
6209303020
0.2334
0.3092
6209303030
0.2334
0.3092
6209303040
0.2334
0.3092
6209900500
0.1154
0.1529
6209901000
0.2917
0.3864
6209902000
0.2917
0.3864
6209903010
0.2917
0.3864
6209903015
0.2917
0.3864
6209903020
0.2917
0.3864
6209903030
0.2917
0.3864
6209903040
0.2917
0.3864
6210109010
0.2170
0.2875
6210109040
0.2170
0.2875
6210203000
0.0362
0.0480
6210205010
0.0844
0.1118
6210205020
0.4316
0.5717
6210205029
0.4316
0.5717
6210207000
0.1809
0.2396
6210209039
0.1110
0.1470
6210209049
0.1110
0.1470
6210303000
0.0362
0.0480
6210305010
0.0844
0.1118
6210305020
0.0863
0.1143
6210305029
0.0863
0.1143
6210307000
0.0362
0.0480
6210309020
0.4220
0.5590
6210309039
0.1480
0.1960
6210309049
0.1480
0.1960
6210401500
0.0370
0.0490
6210402531
0.0863
0.1143
6210402539
0.0863
0.1143
6210402540
0.4316
0.5717
6210402550
0.4316
0.5717
6210402800
0.1110
0.1470
6210402933
0.1110
0.1470
6210402945
0.1110
0.1470
6210402960
0.1110
0.1470
6210403500
0.0370
0.0490
6210405531
0.0863
0.1143
6210405539
0.0863
0.1143
6210405540
0.4316
0.5717
6210405550
0.4316
0.5717
6210407500
0.1110
0.1470
6210408033
0.1110
0.1470
6210408045
0.1110
0.1470
6210408060
0.1110
0.1470
6210500300
0.0370
0.0490
6210500531
0.0863
0.1143
6210500539
0.0863
0.1143
6210500540
0.0863
0.1143
6210500555
0.0863
0.1143
6210501200
0.4316
0.5717
6210502260
0.1480
0.1960
6210502270
0.1480
0.1960
6210502290
0.1480
0.1960
6210503500
0.0370
0.0490
6210505531
0.0863
0.1143
6210505539
0.0863
0.1143
6210505540
0.0863
0.1143
6210505555
0.0863
0.1143
6210507500
0.4316
0.5717
6210508060
0.1480
0.1960
6210508070
0.1480
0.1960
6210508090
0.1480
0.1960
6211111010
0.1206
0.1598
6211111020
0.1206
0.1598
6211118010
1.0852
1.4375
6211118020
1.0852
1.4375
6211118040
0.2412
0.3195
6211121010
0.0603
0.0799
6211121020
0.0603
0.0799
6211128010
1.0852
1.4375
6211128020
1.0852
1.4375
6211128030
0.6029
0.7986
6211200410
0.7717
1.0222
6211200420
0.0965
0.1278
6211200430
0.7717
1.0222
6211200440
0.0965
0.1278
6211200810
0.3858
0.5111
6211200820
0.3858
0.5111
6211201510
0.7615
1.0087
6211201515
0.2343
0.3104
6211201520
0.6443
0.8535
6211201525
0.2929
0.3880
6211201530
0.7615
1.0087
6211201535
0.3515
0.4656
6211201540
0.7615
1.0087
6211201545
0.2929
0.3880
6211201550
0.7615
1.0087
6211201555
0.4100
0.5431
6211201560
0.7615
1.0087
6211201565
0.2343
0.3104
6211202400
0.1233
0.1633
6211202810
0.8016
1.0618
6211202820
0.2466
0.3267
6211202830
0.3083
0.4084
6211203400
0.1233
0.1633
6211203810
0.8016
1.0618
6211203820
0.2466
0.3267
6211203830
0.3083
0.4084
6211204400
0.1233
0.1633
6211204815
0.8016
1.0618
6211204835
0.2466
0.3267
6211204860
0.3083
0.4084
6211205400
0.1233
0.1633
6211205810
0.8016
1.0618
6211205820
0.2466
0.3267
6211205830
0.3083
0.4084
6211206400
0.1233
0.1633
6211206810
0.8016
1.0618
6211206820
0.2466
0.3267
6211206830
0.3083
0.4084
6211207400
0.1233
0.1633
6211207810
0.9249
1.2252
6211207820
0.2466
0.3267
6211207830
0.3083
0.4084
6211325003
0.6412
0.8494
6211325003
0.6412
0.8494
6211325007
0.8016
1.0618
6211325007
0.8016
1.0618
6211325010
0.9865
1.3068
6211325015
0.9865
1.3068
6211325025
0.9865
1.3068
6211325030
0.9249
1.2252
6211325040
0.9249
1.2252
6211325050
0.9249
1.2252
6211325060
0.9249
1.2252
6211325070
0.9249
1.2252
6211325075
0.9249
1.2252
6211325081
0.9249
1.2252
6211329003
0.6412
0.8494
6211329007
0.8016
1.0618
6211329010
0.9865
1.3068
6211329015
0.9865
1.3068
6211329025
0.9865
1.3068
6211329030
0.9249
1.2252
6211329040
0.9249
1.2252
6211329050
0.9249
1.2252
6211329060
0.9249
1.2252
6211329070
0.9249
1.2252
6211329075
0.9249
1.2252
6211329081
0.9249
1.2252
6211335003
0.0987
0.1307
6211335007
0.1233
0.1633
6211335010
0.3083
0.4084
6211335015
0.3083
0.4084
6211335017
0.3083
0.4084
6211335025
0.3700
0.4901
6211335030
0.3700
0.4901
6211335035
0.3700
0.4901
6211335040
0.3700
0.4901
6211335054
0.3700
0.4901
6211335058
0.3700
0.4901
6211335061
0.3700
0.4901
6211339003
0.0987
0.1307
6211339007
0.1233
0.1633
6211339010
0.3083
0.4084
6211339015
0.3083
0.4084
6211339017
0.3083
0.4084
6211339025
0.3700
0.4901
6211339030
0.3700
0.4901
6211339035
0.3700
0.4901
6211339042
0.3700
0.4901
6211339044
0.3700
0.4901
6211339054
0.3700
0.4901
6211339058
0.3700
0.4901
6211339061
0.3700
0.4901
6211390310
0.1233
0.1633
6211390320
0.1233
0.1633
6211390330
0.1233
0.1633
6211390340
0.1233
0.1633
6211390345
0.1233
0.1633
6211390351
0.1233
0.1633
6211391510
0.2466
0.3267
6211391520
0.2466
0.3267
6211391530
0.2466
0.3267
6211391540
0.2466
0.3267
6211391550
0.2466
0.3267
6211391560
0.2466
0.3267
6211391570
0.2466
0.3267
6211391590
0.2466
0.3267
6211393010
0.1233
0.1633
6211393020
0.1233
0.1633
6211393030
0.1233
0.1633
6211393040
0.1233
0.1633
6211393045
0.1233
0.1633
6211393051
0.1233
0.1633
6211398010
0.2466
0.3267
6211398020
0.2466
0.3267
6211398030
0.2466
0.3267
6211398040
0.2466
0.3267
6211398050
0.2466
0.3267
6211398060
0.2466
0.3267
6211398070
0.2466
0.3267
6211398090
0.2466
0.3267
6211420503
0.6412
0.8494
6211420507
0.8016
1.0618
6211420510
0.9865
1.3068
6211420520
0.9865
1.3068
6211420525
1.1099
1.4702
6211420530
0.8632
1.1434
6211420540
0.9865
1.3068
6211420554
1.1099
1.4702
6211420556
1.1099
1.4702
6211420560
0.9865
1.3068
6211420570
1.1099
1.4702
6211420575
1.1099
1.4702
6211420581
1.1099
1.4702
6211421003
0.6412
0.8494
6211421007
0.8016
1.0618
6211421010
0.9865
1.3068
6211421020
0.9865
1.3068
6211421025
1.1099
1.4702
6211421030
0.8632
1.1434
6211421040
0.9865
1.3068
6211421054
1.1099
1.4702
6211421056
1.1099
1.4702
6211421060
0.9865
1.3068
6211421070
1.1099
1.4702
6211421075
1.1099
1.4702
6211421082
1.1099
1.4702
6211421088
1.1099
1.4702
6211421092
1.1099
1.4702
6211430503
0.0987
0.1307
6211430507
0.1233
0.1633
6211430510
0.2466
0.3267
6211430520
0.2466
0.3267
6211430530
0.2466
0.3267
6211430540
0.2466
0.3267
6211430550
0.2466
0.3267
6211430560
0.2466
0.3267
6211430564
0.3083
0.4084
6211430566
0.2466
0.3267
6211430574
0.3083
0.4084
6211430576
0.3700
0.4901
6211430578
0.3700
0.4901
6211430591
0.2466
0.3267
6211431003
0.0987
0.1307
6211431007
0.1233
0.1633
6211431010
0.2466
0.3267
6211431020
0.2466
0.3267
6211431030
0.2466
0.3267
6211431040
0.2466
0.3267
6211431050
0.2466
0.3267
6211431059
0.2466
0.3267
6211431062
0.2466
0.3267
6211431064
0.3083
0.4084
6211431066
0.2466
0.3267
6211431074
0.3083
0.4084
6211431076
0.3700
0.4901
6211431078
0.3700
0.4901
6211431082
0.2466
0.3267
6211431088
0.2466
0.3267
6211431092
0.2466
0.3267
6211491520
0.0617
0.0817
6211491530
0.1233
0.1634
6211491540
0.0617
0.0817
6211491550
0.0617
0.0817
6211491555
0.0617
0.0817
6211491561
0.0617
0.0817
6211492510
0.2466
0.3267
6211492520
0.2466
0.3267
6211492530
0.2466
0.3267
6211492540
0.2466
0.3267
6211492550
0.2466
0.3267
6211492560
0.2466
0.3267
6211492570
0.2466
0.3267
6211492580
0.2466
0.3267
6211492590
0.2466
0.3267
6211496020
0.0617
0.0817
6211496030
0.1233
0.1634
6211496040
0.0617
0.0817
6211496050
0.0617
0.0817
6211496055
0.0617
0.0817
6211498010
0.2466
0.3267
6211498020
0.2466
0.3267
6211498030
0.2466
0.3267
6211498040
0.2466
0.3267
6211498050
0.2466
0.3267
6211498060
0.2466
0.3267
6211498070
0.2466
0.3267
6211498080
0.2466
0.3267
6211498090
0.2466
0.3267
6212105010
0.9138
1.2105
6212105020
0.2285
0.3027
6212105030
0.2285
0.3027
6212109010
0.9138
1.2105
6212109020
0.2285
0.3027
6212109040
0.2285
0.3027
6212200010
0.6854
0.9079
6212200020
0.2856
0.3783
6212200030
0.1142
0.1513
6212300010
0.6854
0.9079
6212300020
0.2856
0.3783
6212300030
0.1142
0.1513
6212900010
0.1828
0.2421
6212900020
0.1828
0.2421
6212900030
0.1828
0.2421
6212900050
0.0914
0.1211
6212900090
0.4112
0.5447
6213201000
1.1187
1.4819
6213202000
1.0069
1.3338
6213900700
0.4475
0.5928
6213901000
0.4475
0.5928
6213902000
0.3356
0.4446
6214300000
0.1142
0.1513
6214400000
0.1142
0.1513
6214900010
0.8567
1.1348
6214900090
0.2285
0.3027
6215100025
0.1142
0.1513
6215200000
0.1142
0.1513
6215900015
1.0281
1.3619
6216000800
0.0685
0.0907
6216001300
0.3427
0.4540
6216001720
0.6397
0.8474
6216001730
0.1599
0.2118
6216001900
0.3427
0.4540
6216002110
0.5780
0.7657
6216002120
0.2477
0.3281
6216002410
0.6605
0.8749
6216002425
0.1651
0.2187
6216002600
0.1651
0.2187
6216002910
0.6605
0.8749
6216002925
0.1651
0.2187
6216003100
0.1651
0.2187
6216003300
0.5898
0.7813
6216003500
0.5898
0.7813
6216003800
1.1796
1.5626
6216004100
1.1796
1.5626
6217109510
0.9646
1.2778
6217109520
0.1809
0.2396
6217109530
0.2412
0.3195
6217909003
0.9646
1.2778
6217909005
0.1809
0.2396
6217909010
0.2412
0.3195
6217909025
0.9646
1.2778
6217909030
0.1809
0.2396
6217909035
0.2412
0.3195
6217909050
0.9646
1.2778
6217909055
0.1809
0.2396
6217909060
0.2412
0.3195
6217909075
0.9646
1.2778
6217909080
0.1809
0.2396
6217909085
0.2412
0.3195
6301300010
0.8305
1.1001
6301300020
0.8305
1.1001
6301900030
0.2215
0.2934
6302100005
1.1073
1.4668
6302100008
1.1073
1.4668
6302100015
1.1073
1.4668
6302213010
1.1073
1.4668
6302213020
1.1073
1.4668
6302213030
1.1073
1.4668
6302213040
1.1073
1.4668
6302213050
1.1073
1.4668
6302215010
0.7751
1.0267
6302215020
0.7751
1.0267
6302215030
0.7751
1.0267
6302215040
0.7751
1.0267
6302215050
0.7751
1.0267
6302217010
1.1073
1.4668
6302217020
1.1073
1.4668
6302217030
1.1073
1.4668
6302217040
1.1073
1.4668
6302217050
1.1073
1.4668
6302219010
0.7751
1.0267
6302219020
0.7751
1.0267
6302219030
0.7751
1.0267
6302219040
0.7751
1.0267
6302219050
0.7751
1.0267
6302221010
0.5537
0.7335
6302221020
0.3876
0.5134
6302221030
0.5537
0.7335
6302221040
0.3876
0.5134
6302221050
0.3876
0.5134
6302221060
0.3876
0.5134
6302222010
0.3876
0.5134
6302222020
0.3876
0.5134
6302222030
0.3876
0.5134
6302290020
0.2215
0.2934
6302313010
1.1073
1.4668
6302313020
1.1073
1.4668
6302313030
1.1073
1.4668
6302313040
1.1073
1.4668
6302313050
1.1073
1.4668
6302315010
0.7751
1.0267
6302315020
0.7751
1.0267
6302315030
0.7751
1.0267
6302315040
0.7751
1.0267
6302315050
0.7751
1.0267
6302317010
1.1073
1.4668
6302317020
1.1073
1.4668
6302317030
1.1073
1.4668
6302317040
1.1073
1.4668
6302317050
1.1073
1.4668
6302319010
0.7751
1.0267
6302319020
0.7751
1.0267
6302319030
0.7751
1.0267
6302319040
0.7751
1.0267
6302319050
0.7751
1.0267
6302321010
0.5537
0.7335
6302321020
0.3876
0.5134
6302321030
0.5537
0.7335
6302321040
0.3876
0.5134
6302321050
0.3876
0.5134
6302321060
0.3876
0.5134
6302322010
0.5537
0.7335
6302322020
0.3876
0.5134
6302322030
0.5537
0.7335
6302322040
0.3876
0.5134
6302322050
0.3876
0.5134
6302322060
0.3876
0.5134
6302390030
0.2215
0.2934
6302402010
0.9412
1.2468
6302511000
0.5537
0.7335
6302512000
0.8305
1.1001
6302513000
0.5537
0.7335
6302514000
0.7751
1.0267
6302593020
0.5537
0.7335
6302600010
1.1073
1.4668
6302600020
0.9966
1.3202
6302600030
0.9966
1.3202
6302910005
0.9966
1.3202
6302910015
1.1073
1.4668
6302910025
0.9966
1.3202
6302910035
0.9966
1.3202
6302910045
0.9966
1.3202
6302910050
0.9966
1.3202
6302910060
0.9966
1.3202
6302931000
0.4429
0.5867
6302932000
0.4429
0.5867
6302992000
0.2215
0.2934
6303191100
0.8859
1.1735
6303910010
0.6090
0.8067
6303910020
0.6090
0.8067
6303921000
0.2768
0.3667
6303922010
0.2768
0.3667
6303922030
0.2768
0.3667
6303922050
0.2768
0.3667
6303990010
0.2768
0.3667
6304111000
0.9966
1.3202
6304113000
0.1107
0.1466
6304190500
0.9966
1.3202
6304191000
1.1073
1.4668
6304191500
0.3876
0.5134
6304192000
0.3876
0.5134
6304193060
0.2215
0.2934
6304200020
0.8859
1.1735
6304200070
0.2215
0.2934
6304910120
0.8859
1.1735
6304910170
0.2215
0.2934
6304920000
0.8859
1.1735
6304996040
0.2215
0.2934
6505001515
1.1189
1.4822
6505001525
0.5594
0.7410
6505001540
1.1189
1.4822
6505002030
0.9412
1.2468
6505002060
0.9412
1.2468
6505002545
0.5537
0.7335
6507000000
0.3986
0.5280
9404401000
0.9966
1.3202
9404409005
0.6644
0.8801
9404409036
0.0997
0.1321
9404901030
0.2104
0.2787
9404901060
0.2104
0.2787
9404901090
0.2104
0.2787
9404908100
0.9966
1.3202
9404909605
0.6644
0.8801
9404909636
0.0997
0.1321
9619002100
0.8681
1.1499
9619002500
0.1085
0.1437
9619003100
0.9535
1.2631
9619003300
1.1545
1.5293
9619004100
0.2384
0.3158
9619004300
0.2384
0.3158
9619006100
0.8528
1.1297
9619006400
0.2437
0.3228
9619006800
0.3655
0.4842
9619007100
1.1099
1.4702
9619007400
0.2466
0.3267
9619007800
0.2466
0.3267
9619007900
0.2466
0.3267
(4) Any entry of cotton that qualifies for informal entry according to regulations issued by the Customs Service will not be subject to the assessment.
(5) Imported textile and apparel articles assembled of components formed
from cotton produced in the Unites States and identified by HTS numbers 9819.11.03, 9819.11.06, 9820.11.03, 9820.11.06, 9820.11.09, 9820.11.12, 9820.11.18, 9820.11.21, 9802.00.8015, 9802.00.9000, 9802.00.8044, or 9802.00.8046 shall not subject to assessment.
(6) Imported cotton and products may be exempted by the Cotton Board from assessment under this paragraph. Such imported cotton and products may include, but are not limited to cotton and the cotton content of products which is U.S. produced cotton, or cotton other than Upland cotton.
(i) A request for such exemption must be submitted to the Cotton Board by the importer, prior to the importation of the cotton product. The Cotton Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a numbered exemption certificate valid for 1 year from the date of issue. The exemption number should be entered by the importer on the Customs entry documentation in the appropriate location as determined by the U.S. Customs Service.
(ii) The request for exemption should include:
(A) the name, address, and importer identification number for the importer;
(B) the HTS classification of the imported product;
(C) weight of the product for which the exemption is sought;
(D) estimated date of entry;
(E) commercial invoices of other such documentation indicating the origin or production or type of the cotton fiber used to produce the imported product;
(F) manufacture's description of the imported product.
(7) The exemption number “999999999” shall be entered on the Customs entry summary document, in the appropriate location as determined by the U.S. Customs Service, by the importer when, based on the importer's own determination, the imported product is identified by a Harmonized Tariff Schedule classification number which is subject to assessment but the particular article contains no cotton.
(8) Articles imported into the United States temporarily and under bond which are classified by the Harmonized Tariff Schedule heading which begins with “9813” shall not be subject to assessment.
(9) Articles imported into the U.S. after being exported from the U.S. for alterations and which are classified by the Harmonized Tariff Schedule subheadings 9802.00.40 and 9802.00.50 shall not be subject to assessment.
[57 FR 29432, July 2, 1992]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 1205.510, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 1205.511
Payment and collection.
(a) The $1 per bale assessment shall be paid by:
(1) The producer of the cotton to the collecting handler designated in § 1205.512, and
(2) The importer of cotton to the Customs Service as provided in § 1205.514.
(b) The supplemental assessment shall be paid by:
(1) The producer of the cotton to the collecting handler designated in § 1205.513, and
(2) The importer of cotton to the Customs Service as described in § 1205.515.
(c) If more than one person subject to assessment shares in the proceeds received from a bale or bale equivalent, each such person is obligated to pay that portion of the assessment that is equivalent to that person's proportionate share of the proceeds.
(d) Failure of the handler to collect the assessments on each bale shall not relieve the handler of the handler's obligation to remit the assessments to the Cotton Board as required in §§ 1205.512, 1205.513 and 1205.516.
[57 FR 29190, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.512
Collecting handlers and time of collection of $1 per bale assessment.
Collecting handlers and the time of collecting the $1 per bale assessment shall be as follows:
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any person who purchases a bale of cotton from the producer of the cotton shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. The handler shall collect the assessment at the time the handler first makes any
payment or any credit to the producer's account for the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the assessment.
(b) Any cooperative marketing association or other person that accepts a bale of cotton from the producer of the cotton under an oral or written contract or agreement providing for the marketing of the cotton shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. Such association or person shall collect the assessment regardless of whether the cotton is marketed or tendered to CCC for price support loan. The handler shall collect the assessment at the time the handler first makes any cash advance, any payment, or any credit to the producer's account for the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the assessment.
(c) For bales of cotton tendered to CCC for Form A loan, except bales tendered pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The ASCS County Office shall be the collecting handler except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The ASCS County Office shall collect the assessment when it makes disbursement based on the Form A loan documents. The producer's copy of the Cotton Producer's Note (Form CCC Cotton A) shall show payment of the assessment and shall constitute the producer's receipt for payment of the assessment.
(2) Any person (other than an ASCS County Office) who advances to the producer the loan value of the cotton as shown on a Cotton Producer's Note (Form CCC Cotton A) shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. The handler shall collect the $1 per bale assessment at the time the handler makes any advance to the producer on the loan value of the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the assessment.
(d) Any person who purchases cotton in the cotton field where produced or who purchases seed cotton or unbaled lint cotton from the producer of the cotton shall be the collecting handler. The handler shall collect the assessment at the time such cotton is ginned and shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the assessment. When a bale is ginned that contains any such cotton purchased from more than one producer, the handler shall collect each producer's proportionate share of the assessment and shall give each producer a receipt indicating the producer's proportionate share of the assessment payment.
(e) Any person who purchases cotton from a producer whereby the producer agrees to deliver a certain quantity of cotton but retains the right to establish the price at some future date shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. The handler shall collect the $1 per bale assessment at the time final settlement is made on the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the $1 per bale assessment.
(f) Any person who consumes domestically or exports cotton of that person's own production shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. Such handler shall pay the assessment to the Cotton Board at the time the cotton is consumed or exported.
(g) Any person who obtains ownership of a bale of cotton from the producer of the cotton by transfer of any kind or by any means, under conditions other than those described in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) of this section shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. Such handler shall collect the assessment at the time such handler takes ownership of the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the assessment.
(h) In the event of a producer's death, bankruptcy, receivership, or incapacity to act, the representative of such producer, or the producer's estate, or the person acting on behalf of creditors, shall be considered the producer for the purposes of this section.
[42 FR 35974, July 31, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 10932, Mar. 19, 1985; 57 FR 29190, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.513
Collecting handlers and time of collection of the supplemental assessment.
Collecting handlers and the time of collecting the supplemental assessment shall be as follows:
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any person who purchases a bale of cotton from the producer of the cotton shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. The handler shall collect the supplemental assessment at the time the handler first makes any payment or any credit to the producer's account for the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the supplemental assessment.
(b) Any cooperative marketing association or other person that accepts a bale of cotton from the producer of the cotton under an oral or written contract or agreement providing for the marketing of the cotton shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. Such association or person shall collect the supplemental assessment regardless of whether the cotton is marketed or tendered to CCC for price support loan. The handler shall collect the supplemental assessment at the time the handler first makes any cash advance, any payment, or any credit to the producer's account for the cotton. Supplemental assessments due on any subsequent cash advances, payments, or credits to the producer's account shall be collected by the handler at the time final settlement is made on the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt each time a supplemental assessment is collected.
(c) For bales of cotton tendered to CCC for Form A loan, except bales tendered pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) The ASCS County Office shall be the collecting handler except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The ASCS County Office shall collect the supplemental assessment when it makes disbursement based on the Form A loan value of cotton. The producer's copy of the Cotton Producer's Note (Form CCC Cotton A) shall show payment of the supplemental assessment and shall constitute the producer's receipt for payment of the supplemental assessment.
(2) Any person (other than an ASCS County Office) who advances to the producer the loan value of the cotton as shown on a Cotton Producer's Note (Form CCC Cotton A) shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. The handler shall collect the supplemental assessment at the time the handler makes any advance to the producer on the loan value of the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the supplemental assessment.
(d) With respect to any Upland cotton on which the producer or a cooperative marketing association acting on behalf of a producer receives a loan deficiency payment, the ASCS County Office or the cooperative marketing association shall be the collecting handler of the supplemental assessment on the value of the cotton represented by the loan deficiency payment at the time such payment is made to the producer or the cooperative marketing association. A copy of a document reflecting this transaction issued by the ASCS County Office or cooperative marketing association shall show the amount collected as the supplemental assessment and shall constitute the producer's receipt for payment of the supplemental assessment.
(e) Any person who (1) purchases a producer's equity in cotton tendered to CCC for Form A loan or (2) purchases cotton that a producer has redeemed from the Form A loan, shall be the collecting handler for the portion of the total supplemental assessment not collected under paragraph (c) of this section. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of that portion of the supplemental assessment.
(f) Any person who purchases cotton in the cotton field where produced or who purchases seed cotton or unbaled lint cotton from the producer of the cotton shall be the collecting handler. The handler shall collect the supplemental assessment at the time such cotton is ginned and shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the supplemental assessment. When a bale is ginned and baled that contains any such cotton purchased from more than one producer, the handler shall collect each producer's proportionate share of the supplemental assessment and shall give each producer a receipt indicating the producer's proportionate share of the supplemental assessment payment.
(g) Any person who purchases cotton from a producer whereby the producer agrees to deliver a certain quantity of cotton but retains the right to establish the price at some future date shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. The handler shall collect the supplemental assessment at the time final settlement is made on the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the supplemental assessment.
(h) Any person who consumes domestically cotton of that person's own production shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. The handler shall pay the supplemental assessment at the time of consumption on the basis of a market value determined in consultation with the Cotton Board.
(i) Any person who exports cotton of that person's own production shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. Such handler shall pay the supplemental assessment on the basis of the current value of cotton as reflected on the export settlement document.
(j) Any person who obtains ownership of a bale of cotton from the producer of the cotton by transfer of any kind or by any means, under conditions other than those described in paragraph (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section shall be the collecting handler for such cotton. Such handler shall collect the supplemental assessment at the time the handler takes ownership of the cotton. The handler shall give the producer a receipt indicating payment of the supplemental assessment.
(k) In the event of a producer's death, bankruptcy, receivership, or incapacity to act, the representative of such producer or the producer's estate, or the person acting on behalf of creditors, shall be considered the producer for the purposes of this section.
[42 FR 35974, July 31, 1977, as amended at 50 FR 10932, Mar. 19, 1985; 51 FR 37705, Oct. 24, 1986; 57 FR 29190, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.514
Customs Service and the Collection of the $1 per bale assessment.
The Collection of the $1 per bale assessment by the Customs Service shall be as follows:
(a) The Customs Service will collect the assessment from the importer or from any person acting as principal, agent, broker or consignee for cotton or cotton-containing products produced outside the United States and imported into the United States. The Customs Service will collect the assessment on cotton and cotton-containing products identified by Harmonized Tariff Schedule heading numbers in § 1205.510(b)(2) at the time of importation and forward such assessment as per the agreement between the United States Customs Service and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(b) In the event of an importer's death, bankruptcy, receivership, or incapacity to act, the representative of such importer, or the importer's estate, or the person acting on behalf of creditors, shall be considered the importer for the purposes of this section.
[57 FR 29191, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.515
Customs Service and the collection of the supplemental assessment.
The collection of the supplemental assessment by the Customs Service shall be as follows:
(a) The Customs Service will collect the supplemental assessment from any person acting as principal, agent, broker or consignee for cotton or cotton-containing products produced outside the United States and imported into the United States. Customs Service will collect the assessment on all cotton and cotton-containing products identified by Harmonized Tariff Schedule heading numbers in § 1205.510(b)(2) at the time of importation and forward such assessment as per the agreement between the United States Customs Service and the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
(b) In the event of an importer's death, bankruptcy, receivership, or incapacity to act, the representative of such importer, or the importer's estate, or the person acting on behalf of creditors, shall be considered the importer for the purposes of this section.
[57 FR 29191, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.516
Reports and remittance to the Cotton Board.
(a)
Handler reports and remittances.
Each collecting handler shall transmit
assessments to the Cotton Board as follows:
(1)
Reporting periods.
Each calendar month shall be a reporting period and the period shall end on the close of business on the last day of the month.
(2)
Reports.
Each collecting handler shall make reports on forms made available or approved by the Cotton Board. Each report shall be mailed to the Cotton Board and postmarked within ten days after the close of the reporting period.
(i)
Collecting handler report.
Each collecting handler shall prepare a separate report form each reporting period for each gin from which such handler handles cotton on which the handler is required to collect the assessments during the reporting period. Each report shall be mailed in duplicate to the Cotton Board and shall contain the following information:
(A) Date of report;
(B) Reporting period covered by report;
(C) Gin code number;
(D) Name and address of handler;
(E) Listing of all producers from whom the handler was required to collect the assessments, their addresses, total number of bales, and total assessment collected and remitted for each producer;
(F) Date of last report remitting assessments to the Cotton Board.
(ii)
No cotton purchased report.
Each collecting handler shall submit a no cotton purchased report form for each reporting period in which no cotton was handled for which the handler is required to collect assessments during the reporting period. A collecting handler who handles cotton only during certain months shall file a final no cotton purchased report at the conclusion of such handlers marketing season. If a collecting handler handles cotton during any month following submission of the final report for the handlers marketing season, such handler shall send a collecting handler report and remittance to the Cotton Board by the 10th day of the month following the month in which cotton was handled. The no cotton purchased report shall be signed and dated by the handler of the handler's agent.
(3)
Remittances.
The collecting handler shall remit all assessments to the Cotton Board with the report required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. All remittances sent to the Cotton Board by collecting handlers shall be made by check, draft, or money order payable to the order of the “Cotton Board”. All remittances shall be received subject to collection and payment at par.
(4)
Interest and late payment charges.
(i) There shall be an interest charge, at rates prescribed by the Cotton Board with the approval of the Secretary, on any handler who is sent a second certified mail notice of past-due assessments from the Cotton Board in any one marketing year (August 1-July 31).
(ii) In addition to the interest charge specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, there shall be a late payment charge on any handler whose remittance is not received by the Cotton Board within 10 days after the close of the reporting period in which interest charges were first accrued. The late payment charge shall be 5 percent of the unpaid balance before interest charges have accrued.
(iii) The interest and late payment charges on the unremitted assessments for a particular reporting period will be applied from the first working day on or following the 20th day of the month in which the assessments were due.
(b)
Importer reports and remittance.
The United States Customs Service will transmit reports and assessments collected on imported cotton to the Agricultural Marketing Service according to the agreement between the Customs Service and the Agricultural Marketing Service. Upon the request of the Cotton Board, an importer shall file with the Board a report, for a period of time specified in the request, that includes the following information:
(1) The importer's name and address;
(2) The quantity of cotton and cotton products imported;
(3) The amount of the assessment paid on imported cotton and cotton products;
(4) The amount of imported cotton and cotton products on which the assessment was not paid to the Customs Service.
[57 FR 29190, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.517
Failure to report and remit.
(a) Any collecting handler who fails to submit reports and remittances according to reporting periods and time schedules required in § 1205.516 shall be subject to appropriate action by the Cotton Board which may include one or more of the following actions:
(1) Audits of the collecting handler's books and records to determine the amount owed the Cotton Board;
(2) Requirement that an escrow account for the deposit of assessments collected be established. Frequency and schedule of deposits and withdrawals from the escrow account shall be determined by the Cotton Board with the Approval of the Secretary;
(3) Referral to the Secretary for appropriate enforcement action;
(4) Publication of a collecting handler's name in accordance with the following provisions:
(i) The name of any collecting handler will be subject to publication if the collecting handler:
(A) is sent two certified mail notices of past due assessments and/or collecting handler reports from the Cotton Board in any one marketing year (August 1-July 31), or
(B) is required by the Cotton Board to establish an escrow account for depositing assessments, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and does not comply with the deposit procedures established by the Cotton Board with approval of the Secretary.
(ii) The name of any collecting handler who is subject to publication will be published by the Cotton Board with the approval of the Secretary in a monthly listing during the primary cotton marketing season (September through March) and a bi-monthly listing during the remainder of the year. The published listing will be distributed by the Cotton Board.
(iii) The Cotton Board, with approval of the Secretary, may notify individual producers that the assessments collected by such producer's collecting handler, whose name is subject to publication in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, have not been remitted to the Cotton Board as required.
(b) Any importer who fails to submit reports to the Cotton Board pursuant to request made according to § 1205.516 or assessments to the Customs Service, shall be subject to one or more of the following actions:
(1) Audits of the importer's books and records to determine the amount owed the Cotton Board.
(2) A deduction for the amount of any unpaid assessment by the Customs Service from the importers surety bond.
(3) Referral to the Secretary for appropriate enforcement action.
[57 FR 29191, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.518
Receipts for payment of assessments.
Each collecting handler who is required by § 1205.512 and § 1205.513 to give the producer a receipt showing payment of cotton research and promotion assessments shall provide the producer with an invoice or settlement sheet for the cotton. Such document shall serve as a receipt shall contain the following information:
(a) Name and address of collecting handler.
(b) Gin code number of gin at which cotton was ginned.
(c) Name and address of producer who paid assessment.
(d) Number of bales on which assessment was paid.
(e) Gross price per pound received by the producer.
(f) Total assessments paid by the producer.
(g) Date on which assessment was paid by producer.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0581-0115)
[42 FR 35974, July 13, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 8420, Mar. 7, 1984. Redesignated and amended at 51 FR 6099, Feb. 20, 1986. Further redesignated at 57 FR 29190, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.519
Organic exemption.
(a) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under the OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for an exemption under this section, an eligible cotton producer shall submit a request for exemption to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the crop year, as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces and/or imports organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) A producer approved for exemption under this section shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each handler to whom the producer sells cotton. The handler shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(f) An importer who imports products that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments on those products. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” cotton and cotton products on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of producers in paragraph (c) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer. The Board will also issue the importer an alphanumeric number valid for 1 year from the date of issue. This alphanumeric number should be entered by the importer on the Customs entry documentation. Any line item entry of “organic” or “100 percent organic” cotton and cotton products bearing this alphanumeric number assigned by the Board will not be subject to assessments. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(g) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
(h) An importer who is exempt from payment of assessments under paragraph (f) of this section shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by Customs on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” cotton and cotton products and may apply to the Secretary for a reimbursement. The importer would be required to submit satisfactory proof to the Secretary that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic products.
[70 FR 2754, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82023, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Reimbursements
§ 1205.520
Procedure for obtaining reimbursement.
Each importer against whose imports of cotton or cotton-containing products any assessments are made and collected may obtain a reimbursement on that portion of the assessment that was collected on cotton produced in the United States or cotton other than Upland cotton by following the procedures prescribed in this section.
(a)
Application form.
An importer shall obtain a reimbursement application form from the Cotton Board. Such form may be obtained by written request to the Cotton Board and the request shall bear the importer's signature or the importer's properly-witnessed mark.
(b)
Submission of reimbursement application to Cotton Board.
Any importer requesting a reimbursement shall mail the application on the prescribed form to the Cotton Board. The application shall be postmarked within 180 days from the date the assessments were paid on the cotton by such importer. The reimbursement application shall show:
(1) The importer's name, address, phone number and Customs Service identification number;
(2) Weight of the cotton in each HTS category for which the reimbursement is requested;
(3) Subtotal amounts to be reimbursed for each HTS number and grand total to be reimbursed;
(4) Date or inclusive dates on which the assessments were paid;
(5) The name of the port of entry; and
(6) Certification by the importer that the cotton was grown in the U.S. or is other than Upland cotton.
(c) Where more than one importer shared in the assessment payment on cotton, joint or separate reimbursement application forms may be filed. In any such case, the reimbursement application shall show the names, addresses and proportionate shares of assessments paid by all importers. The reimbursement application shall bear the signature of each importer seeking reimbursement.
(d)
Proof of payment of the assessment on U.S. produced or other than Upland cotton.
A copy of the Customs entry form and the commercial invoice filed with the Customs Service shall accompany the importer's reimbursement application. Within 60 days from the date the properly executed application for reimbursement is received by the Cotton Board, the Cotton Board shall make reimbursement to the importer. For joint applications, the reimbursement shall be made payable to all eligible importers signing the reimbursement application. Documentation submitted with reimbursement applications shall not be returned to the importer.
[57 FR 29192, July 1, 1992, as amended at 62 FR 22879, Apr. 28, 1997]

# Warehouse Receipts
§ 1205.525
Entry of gin code number.
The warehouse that first receives a bale for storage after ginning shall enter the gin code number of the gin at which the bale was ginned on the warehouse receipt issued for the bale.
[57 FR 29192, July 1, 1992]

# Reports and Records
§ 1205.530
Gin reports and reporting schedule.
(a)
Gin reports.
Each year each cotton gin in the United States shall submit reports to the Cotton Board on forms or certificates made available or approved by the Cotton Board as follows:
(1)
End-of-season report.
Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, each gin shall report to the Cotton Board an alphabetical listing of producer names, their addresses, and
the number of bales ginned for each such producer during its ginning season.
(2)
Certificate in Lieu of End-of-Season Report.
If a gin is the collecting handler on every bale ginned at such gin and collecting handler reports and remittances of assessments have been made in accordance with § 1205.516, a certification to that effect may be made to the Cotton Board in lieu of an end-of-season report.
(b)
Reporting schedule.
The schedule for submitting gin reports is as follows:
(1) Each gin that completes ginning operations prior to January 16 shall make a report to the Cotton Board within 10 days after completion of ginning.
(2) Each gin that operates on or after January 16 will make a report to the Cotton Board not later than January 25 covering bales ginned through January 15.
(3) Each gin that operates after January 15 shall make a supplemental report to the Cotton Board within 10 days after the close of ginning operations covering bales ginned after January 15.
[42 FR 35974, July 13, 1977, as amended at 57 FR 29192, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.531
Records.
Each handler or importer required to make reports pursuant to this subpart shall maintain such books and records as are necessary to verify the reports.
[57 FR 29192, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.532
Retention period for reports and records.
Each handler and importer required to make reports pursuant to this subpart shall retain for at least 2 years beyond the marketing year of their applicability:
(a) One copy of the report made to the Cotton Board; and
(b) Such books and records as are necessary to verify such reports.
[57 FR 29192, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.533
Availability of reports and records.
Each handler and importer required to make reports pursuant to this subpart shall make available for inspection by the Cotton Board, including its designated employees, and the Secretary any reports, books, or records required under this subpart.
[57 FR 29192, July 1, 1992]

# Confidential Information
§ 1205.540
Confidential books, records, and reports.
All information obtained from the books, records, and reports of handlers and importers shall be kept confidential in the manner and to the extent provided for in § 1205.340.
[57 FR 29192, July 1, 1992]
§ 1205.541
OMB control numbers.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96-511, is OMB number 0581-0093, except Board member nominee information sheets are assigned OMB number 0505-0001.
[57 FR 29192, July 1, 1992]
Subpart—Fiscal Period [Reserved]
Pt. 1206

# PART 1206—MANGO PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order Definitions
Sec.
1206.1
Act.
1206.2
Board.
1206.3
Conflict of interest.
1206.4
Customs.
1206.5
Department.
1206.6
First handler.
1206.7
Fiscal period.
1206.8
Foreign producer.
1206.9
Importer.
1206.10
Information.
1206.11
Mangos.
1206.12
Market or marketing.
1206.13
Order.
1206.14
Part.
1206.15
Person.
1206.16
Producer.
1206.17
Promotion.
1206.18
Research.
1206.19
[Reserved]
1206.20
Secretary.
1206.21
Suspend.
1206.22
Terminate.
1206.23
United States.
1206.24
[Reserved]

# National Mango Board
1206.30
Establishment and membership.
1206.31
Nominations and appointments.
1206.32
Term of office.
1206.33
Vacancies.
1206.34
Procedure.
1206.35
Compensation and reimbursement.
1206.36
Powers and duties.
1206.37
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses and Assessments
1206.40
Budget and expenses.
1206.41
Financial statements.
1206.42
Assessments.
1206.43
Exemptions.

# Promotion, Research, and Information
1206.50
Programs, plans, and projects.
1206.51
Independent evaluation.
1206.52
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1206.60
Reports.
1206.61
Books and records.
1206.62
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1206.70
Right of the Secretary.
1206.71
Referenda.
1206.72
Suspension and termination.
1206.73
Proceedings after termination.
1206.74
Effect of termination or amendment.
1206.75
Personal liability.
1206.76
Separability.
1206.77
Amendments.
1206.78
OMB control number.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
1206.100
General.
1206.101
Definitions.
1206.102
Voting.
1206.103
Instructions.
1206.104
Subagents.
1206.105
Ballots.
1206.106
Referendum report.
1206.107
Confidential information.
1206.108
OMB control number.

# Subpart C—Administrative Requirements
1206.200
Terms defined.
1206.201
Definitions.
1206.202
Exemption for organic mangos.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
68 FR 58554, Oct. 9, 2003, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order Definitions

# Source:
69 FR 59122, Oct. 4, 2004, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1206.1
Act.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425; Public Law 104-127; 110 Stat. 1029), or any amendments thereto.
§ 1206.2
Board.
Board
or National Mango Board means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1206.30, or such other name as recommended by the Board and approved by the Department.
[84 FR 5344, Feb. 21, 2019]
§ 1206.3
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a member or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
§ 1206.4
Customs.
Customs
means the Customs and Border Protection of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
§ 1206.5
Department.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1206.6
First handler.
First handler
means any person (excluding a common or contract carrier) receiving 500,000 or more pounds of mangos from producers in a calendar year and who as owner, agent, or otherwise ships or causes mangos to be shipped as specified in this Order. This definition includes those engaged in the business of buying, selling and/or offering for sale; receiving; packing; grading; marketing; or distributing
mangos in commercial quantities. The term first handler includes a producer who handles or markets mangos of the producer's own production.
[86 FR 11096, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.7
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means a calendar year from January 1 through December 31, or such other period as recommended by the Board and approved by the Department.
§ 1206.8
Foreign producer.
Foreign producer
means any person:
(a) Who is engaged in the production and sales of mangos outside of the United States who owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of the crop for sale in the U.S. market; or
(b) Who is engaged, outside of the United States, in the business of producing, or causing to be produced, mangos beyond the person's own family use and having value at first point of sale.
[86 FR 11096, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.9
Importer.
Importer
means any person importing 500,000 or more pounds of mangos into the United States in a calendar year as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who produces or handles mangos outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such mangos.
[86 FR 11096, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.10
Information.
Information
means information and programs that are designed to develop new markets, marketing strategies, increase market efficiency, and activities that are designed to enhance the image of mangos in the United States. These include:
(a) Consumer information, which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, nutritional attributes, and care of mangos; and
(b) Industry information, which means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the mango industry, and activities to enhance the image of the mango industry.
§ 1206.11
Mangos.
Mangos
means all fresh fruit of
Mangifera indica L.
of the family
Anacardiaceae.
[86 FR 11096, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.12
Market or marketing.
Marketing
means the sale or other disposition of mangos in the U.S. domestic market. To market means to sell or otherwise dispose of mangos in interstate or intrastate channels of commerce.
§ 1206.13
Order.
Order
means an order issued by the Department under section 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
§ 1206.14
Part.
Part
means part 1206 which includes the Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order.
§ 1206.15
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1206.16
Producer.
Producer
means any person who is engaged in the production and sale of mangos in the United States and who owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of, the crop or a person who is engaged in the business of producing, or causing to be produced, mangos beyond the person's own family use and having value at first point of sale.
§ 1206.17
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action taken to present a favorable image of mangos to the general public and the food industry for the purpose of improving the competitive position of mangos and stimulating the sale of mangos in the
United States. This includes paid advertising and public relations.
§ 1206.18
Research.
Research
means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, production, product development, or quality of mangos, including research relating to nutritional value, cost of production, new product development, varietal development, nutritional value and benefits, and marketing of mangos.
§ 1206.19
[Reserved]
§ 1206.20
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States.
§ 1206.21
Suspend.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, U.S.C., to temporarily prevent the operation of an order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1206.22
Terminate.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, U.S.C., to cancel permanently the operation of an order or part thereof beginning on a certain date specified in the rule.
§ 1206.23
United States.
United States or U.S.
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1206.24
[Reserved]

# National Mango Board
§ 1206.30
Establishment and membership.
(a)
Establishment of the National Mango Board.
There is hereby established a National Mango Board composed of eight importers; one first handler; two domestic producers; and seven foreign producers. First handler Board members must receive 500,000 pounds or more mangos annually from producers, and importer Board members must import 500,000 pounds or more mangos annually. The chairperson shall reside in the United States and the Board office shall also be located in the United States.
(b)
Importer districts.
Board seats for importers of mangos shall be allocated based on the volume of mangos imported into the Customs Districts identified by their name and Code Number as defined in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States. Two seats shall be allocated for District I, three seats for District II, two seats for District III, and one seat for District IV.
(1)
District I
includes the Customs Districts of Portland, ME (01), St. Albans, VT (02), Boston, MA (04), Providence, RI (05), Ogdensburg, NY (07), Buffalo, NY (09), New York City, NY (10), Philadelphia, PA (11), Baltimore, MD (13), Norfolk, VA (14), Charlotte, NC (15), Charleston, SC (16), Savannah, GA (17), Tampa, FL (18), San Juan, PR (49), Virgin Islands of the United States (51), Miami, FL (52) and Washington, DC (54).
(2)
District II
includes the Customs Districts of Mobile, AL (19), New Orleans, LA (20), Port Arthur, TX (21), Laredo, TX (23), Minneapolis, MN (35), Duluth, MN (36), Milwaukee, WI (37), Detroit, MI (38), Chicago, IL (39), Cleveland, OH (41), St. Louis, MO (45), Houston, TX (53), and Dallas-Fort Worth, TX (55).
(3)
District III
includes the Customs Districts of El Paso, TX (24), Nogales, AZ (26), Great Falls, MT (33), and Pembina, ND (34).
(4)
District IV
includes the Customs Districts of San Diego, CA (25), Los Angeles, CA (27), San Francisco, CA (28), Columbia-Snake, OR (29), Seattle, WA (30), Anchorage, AK (31), and Honolulu, HI (32).
(c)
Adjustment of membership.
At least once every five years, the Board will review the geographical distribution of production of mangos in the United States, the geographical distribution of the importation of mangos into the United States, the quantity of mangos produced in the United States, and the quantity of mangos imported into the United States. The review will be based on Board assessment records and statistics from the Department. If warranted, the Board will recommend to the Department that membership on
the Board be altered to reflect any changes in geographical distribution of domestic mango production and importation and the quantity of domestic production and imports. To ensure equitable representation, additional first handlers may be added to the Board to reflect increases in domestic production.
[69 FR 59122, Oct. 4, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 36283, June 22, 2011; 84 FR 5345, Feb. 21, 2019; 86 FR 11096, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.31
Nominations and appointments.
(a) Voting for first handler, importer, and domestic producer members will be made by mail ballot.
(b) There shall be two nominees for each position on the Board.
(c) Nominations for the initial Board will be handled by the Department. Subsequent nominations will be handled by the Board's staff.
(d) Nominees to fill the first handler member position on the Board shall be solicited from all known first handlers. The nominees shall be placed on a ballot which will be sent to all first handlers for a vote. The nominee receiving the highest number of votes and the nominee receiving the second highest number of votes shall be submitted to the Department as the first handlers' first and second choice nominees.
(e) Nominees to fill the mango importer positions on the Board shall be solicited from all known importers of mangos. The members from each district shall select the nominees for two positions on the Board. Two nominees shall be submitted for each position. The nominees shall be placed on a ballot which will be sent to mango importers in the districts for a vote. For each position, the nominee receiving the highest number of votes and the nominee receiving the second highest number of votes shall be submitted to the Department as the importers' first and second choice nominees.
(f) Nominees to fill the domestic producer member positions on the Board shall be solicited from all known domestic producers. The nominees shall be placed on a ballot which will be sent to all domestic producers for a vote. The nominee receiving the highest number of votes and the nominee receiving the second highest number of votes shall be submitted to the Department as the producers' first and second choice nominees.
(g) Nominees to fill the foreign producer member positions on the Board shall be solicited from organizations of foreign mango producers and from foreign mango producers. Organizations of foreign mango producers shall submit two nominees for each position, and foreign mango producers may submit their name or the names of other foreign mango producers directly to the Board. The nominees shall be representative of the major countries exporting mangos to the United States.
(h) From the nominations, the Secretary shall select the members of the Board.
[69 FR 59122, Oct. 4, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 36283, June 22, 2011; 78 FR 39566, July 2, 2013; 84 FR 5345, Feb. 21, 2019; 86 FR 11097, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.32
Term of office.
The term of office for first handler, importer, domestic producer, and foreign producer members of the Board will be three years. Members may serve a maximum of two consecutive three-year terms. Each term of office will end on December 31, with new terms of office beginning on January 1
[86 FR 11097, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.33
Vacancies.
(a) In the event that any member of the Board ceases to be a member of the category of members from which the member was appointed to the Board, such position shall automatically become vacant.
(b) If a member of the Board consistently refuses to perform the duties of a Board member, or if a member of the Board engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board may recommend to the Department that the member be removed from office. If the Department finds the recommendation of the Board shows adequate cause, the Department shall remove such member from office.
(c) Should any member position become vacant, successors for the unexpired term of the member shall be appointed in the manner specified in
§ 1206.31, except that nomination and replacement shall not be required if the unexpired term is less than six months.
§ 1206.34
Procedure.
(a) At a Board meeting, it will be considered a quorum when at least one more than half of the voting members are present.
(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Board will select a chairperson and vice chairperson who will conduct meetings throughout that period.
(c) All Board members will be notified at least 30 days in advance of all Board and committee meetings unless an emergency meeting is declared.
(d) Each voting member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Board members present.
(e) It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when at least one more than half of those assigned to the committee are present. Committees may consist of individuals other than Board members, and such individuals may vote in committee meetings. Committee members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board.
(f) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the members by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. In that event, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board. All telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.
(g) There shall be no voting by proxy.
(h) The chairperson shall be a voting member and shall reside in the U.S.
(i) The organization of the Board and the procedures for conducting meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Department.
[68 FR 58554, Oct. 9, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 5345, Feb. 21, 2019; 86 FR 11097, Feb. 24, 2021; 86 FR 33494, June 25, 2021]
§ 1206.35
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board, incurred by them in the performance of their duties as Board members.
§ 1206.36
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer the Order in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Department for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board, and such rules as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet, organize, and select from among the members of the Board a chairperson, other officers, committees, and subcommittees, as the Board determines appropriate;
(d) To employ persons, other than the members, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of such persons;
(e) To develop programs, plans, and projects, and enter into contracts or agreements, which must be approved by the Department before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, information, or promotion, and the payment of costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to this subpart. Each contract or agreement shall provide that: any person who enters into a contract or agreement with the Board shall develop and submit to the Board a proposed activity; keep accurate records of all of its transactions relating to the contract or agreement; account for funds received and expended in connection with the contract
or agreement; make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted under the contract or agreement; and, make such other reports available as the Board or the Department considers relevant. Furthermore, any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan, or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Department or the Board may require;
(3) The Department may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor.
(f) To prepare and submit for approval of the Department calendar year budgets in accordance with § 1206.40;
(g) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to the Department as the Department may prescribe; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(h) To cause its books to be audited by a competent auditor at the end of each calendar year and at such other times as the Department may request, and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Department;
(i) To give the Department the same notice of Board and committee meetings as is given to members in order that the Department's representative(s) may attend such meetings.
(j) To act as intermediary between the Department and any first handler or importer;
(k) To furnish to the Department any information or records that the Department may request;
(l) To receive, investigate, and report to the Department complaints of violations of the Order;
(m) To recommend to the Department such amendments to the Order as the Board considers appropriate; and
(n) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, evaluation, and industry information designed to strengthen the mango industry's position in the U.S. domestic market; maintain and expand existing markets and uses for mangos; and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the mango industry.
§ 1206.37
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Board from engaging in:
(a) Any action that is a conflict of interest; and
(b) Using funds collected by the Board under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, state, national, and foreign governments, other than recommending to the Department amendments to the Order.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1206.40
Budget and expenses.
(a) At least 60 days prior to the beginning of each calendar year, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Department a budget for the calendar year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart. Each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data or at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget);
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget).
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this subpart.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Department, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another. Shifts of funds which do not cause an increase in the Board's approved budget and which are consistent with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Department.
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reserve, as the Department finds reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) With approval of the Department, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first year of operation of the Board.
(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects. Voluntary contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor, and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
(g) The Board shall reimburse the Department for all expenses incurred by the Department in the implementation, administration, and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(h) The Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board in any calendar year an amount that exceeds 15 percent of the assessments and other income received by the Board for that calendar year. Reimbursements to the Department required under paragraph (g) of this section, are excluded from this limitation on spending.
(i) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established: Provided that the funds in the reserve do not exceed one fiscal period's budget. Subject to approval by the Department, such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this part.
§ 1206.41
Financial statements.
(a) As requested by the Department, the Board shall prepare and submit financial statements to the Department on a periodic basis. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, year-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Department within 30 days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Board shall submit annually to the Department an annual financial statement within 90 days after the end of the calendar year to which it applies.
§ 1206.42
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the Board's expenses shall be paid from assessments on first handlers and importers, donations from any person not subject to assessments under this Order, and other funds available to the Board and subject to the limitations contained therein.
(b)
Assessment rate.
The assessment rate on mangos shall be three quarters of a cent ($0.0075) per pound (or $0.0165 per kg). The assessment rates will be reviewed periodically and may be modified by the Board with the approval of the Department.
(c)
Domestic mangos.
First handlers of domestic mangos are required to pay assessments on all mangos handled for the U.S. market. This includes mangos of the first handler's own production.
(d)
Imported mangos.
Each importer of mangos shall pay an assessment to the
Board through Customs on mangos imported for marketing in the United States.
(1) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported mangos that are identified by the numbers in the 0804.50.4045, 0804.50.4055, 0804.50.6045, and 0804.50.6055 Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) of the United States and shall be the same or equivalent to the rate of mangos produced in the United States.
(2) In the event that any HTS number subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on the description of mangos, assessments will continue to be collected based on the new numbers.
(3) The assessments due on imported mangos shall be paid when they enter or are withdrawn for consumption in the United States.
(e) Each person responsible for remitting assessments under paragraph (c) of this section shall remit the amounts due to the Board's office on a monthly basis no later than the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the mangos were marketed, in such manner as prescribed by the Board.
(f) A late payment charge shall be imposed on any person failing to remit to the Board the total amount for which the person is liable by the payment due date established under this section. The amount of the late payment charge shall be prescribed by the Department.
(g) An additional charge shall be imposed on any person subject to a late payment charge in the form of interest on the outstanding portion of any amount for which the person is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed by the Department.
(h) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under federal debt collection procedures.
(i) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with the approval of the Department.
[68 FR 58554, Oct. 9, 2003, as amended at 77 FR 21846, Apr. 12, 2012; 84 FR 5345, Feb. 21, 2019; 86 FR 11097, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.43
Exemptions.
(a) Any first handler or importer of less than 500,000 pounds of mangos per calendar year may claim an exemption from the assessments required under § 1206.42. Mangos produced domestically and exported from the United States may annually claim an exemption from the assessments required under § 1206.42.
(b) A first handler or importer desiring an exemption shall apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. A first handler must certify that it will receive less than 500,000 pounds of domestic mangos during the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed. An importer must certify that it will import less than 500,000 pounds of mangos for the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed.
(c) Upon receipt of an application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board then will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to each person who is eligible to receive one. It is the responsibility of these persons to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(d) Importers who receive a certificate of exemption shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by Customs. These importers shall apply to the Board for reimbursement of any assessments paid. No interest will be paid on the assessments collected by Customs. Requests for reimbursement shall be submitted to the Board within 90 days of the last day of the calendar year the mangos were actually imported.
(e) Any person who desires an exemption from assessments for a subsequent calendar year shall reapply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption.
(f) The Board may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt mangos and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.
[68 FR 58554, Oct. 9, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 5345, Feb. 21, 2019; 86 FR 11097, Feb. 24, 2021; 86 FR 33494, June 25, 2021]

# Promotion, Research, and Information
§ 1206.50
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Department for approval any program, plan, or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans, or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, and information, including producer and consumer information, with respect to mangos; and
(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to: the use, nutritional value and benefits, sale, distribution, and marketing of mangos in the United States; the creation of new products thereof, to the end that the marketing and use of mangos in the United States may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable; and to advance the image, desirability, or quality of mangos in the United States.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Department. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, or information. If it is found by the Board that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan, or project.
(d) No program, plan, or project including advertising shall be false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity. Mangos of all origins shall be treated equally.
§ 1206.51
Independent evaluation.
The Board shall, not less often than every five years, authorize and fund, from funds otherwise available to the Board, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and other programs conducted by the Board pursuant to the Act. The Board shall submit to the Department, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this paragraph.
§ 1206.52
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations developed through the use of funds received by the Board under this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government, as represented by the Board, and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board; and may be licensed subject to approval by the Department Upon termination of this subpart, § 1206.73 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1206.60
Reports.
(a) Each first handler will be required to provide to the Board periodically such information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Department, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Number of pounds of domestic mangos handled;
(2) Number of pounds of domestic mangos on which an assessment was paid;
(3) Name and address of the producers from whom the first handler has received mangos;
(4) Date that assessment payments were made on each pound of domestic mangos handled;
(5) Number of pounds of domestic mangos exported;
(6) The first handler's tax identification number;
(b) Each importer may be required to provide to the Board periodically such
information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Department, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Number of pounds of mangos imported;
(2) Number of pounds of mangos on which an assessment was paid;
(3) Name, address, and tax identification number of the importer; and
(4) Date that assessment payments were made on each pound imported.
§ 1206.61
Books and records.
Each first handler and importer shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Department such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this part, any regulations issued under this part, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
§ 1206.62
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act and this part shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members, first handlers, or importers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this part, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this part violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1206.70
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1206.71
Referenda.
(a)
Initial Referendum.
The Order shall not become effective unless:
(1) The Department determines that the Order is consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of the Act; and
(2) The Order is approved by a majority of the first handlers and importers voting, who, during a representative period determined by the Department, have been engaged in the handling or importation of mangos.
(b)
Subsequent referenda.
Every five years, the Department shall hold a referendum to determine whether first handlers and importers of mangos favor the continuation of the Order. The Order shall continue if it is favored by a majority of the first handlers and importers voting who, during a representative period determined by the Department, have been engaged in the handling or importation of mangos. The Department will also conduct a referendum if 10 percent or more of all non-exempt, first handlers and importers of mangos request the Department to hold a referendum. In addition, the Department may hold a referendum at any time.
§ 1206.72
Suspension and termination.
(a) The Department shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof if the Department finds that the subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, or if the Department determines that this subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by
persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Act.
(b) The Department shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the marketing year whenever the Department determines that its suspension or termination is approved or favored by a majority of the first handlers and importers voting who, during a representative period determined by the Department, have been engaged in the handling or importation of mangos.
(c) If, as a result of a referendum the Department determines that this subpart is not approved, the Department shall:
(1) Not later than 180 days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, collection of assessments under this subpart; and
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an orderly manner.
§ 1206.73
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend not more than five of its members to the Department to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Department, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered, or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Department;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to the Order;
(3) From time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the trustees, to such person or persons as the Department may direct; and
(4) Upon request of the Department, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary and appropriate to vest in such persons title and right to all funds, property and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to the Order.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Department to be disposed of, to the extent practical, to one or more mango industry organizations in the interest of continuing mango promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1206.74
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Department, the termination or amendment of this part or any subpart thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this part; or
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this part; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Department, or of any other persons with respect to any such violation.
§ 1206.75
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1206.76
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1206.77
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time by the
Board or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Department.
§ 1206.78
OMB control number.
The control numbers assigned to the information collection requirements of this part by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, are OMB control number 0505-0001 and OMB control number 0581-0093.
[84 FR 5346, Feb. 21, 2019]

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
§ 1206.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible first handlers and importers of mangos favor the issuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1206.101
Definitions.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
(c)
Eligible first handler
means any person, (excluding a common or contract carrier), receiving 500,000 or more pounds of mangos from producers in a calendar year and who as owner, agent, or otherwise ships or causes mangos to be shipped as specified in this Order. This definition includes those engaged in the business of buying, selling and/or offering for sale; receiving; packing; grading; marketing; or distributing mangos in commercial quantities. The term first handler includes a producer who handles or markets mangos of the producer's own production.
(d)
Eligible importer
means any person importing 500,000 or more pounds of mangos into the United States in a calendar year as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who produces or handles mangos outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such mangos that are identified in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States by the numbers 0804.50.4045, 0804.50.4055, 0804.50.6045, and 0804.50.6055 during the representative period. Importation occurs when mangos originating outside of the United States are released from custody by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-produced mangos immediately upon release by the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of mangos from the U.S. Customs and Border Protection when such mangos are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States.
(e)
Mangos
means all fresh fruit of
Mangifera indica L.
of the family
Anacardiaceae.
(f)
Order
means the Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order.
(g)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a mango farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties.
(h)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Department to conduct the referendum.
(i)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Department.
(j)
United States
or
U.S.
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
[68 FR 58554, Oct. 9, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 5436, Feb. 21, 2019; 86 FR 11097, Feb. 24, 2021]
§ 1206.102
Voting.
(a) Each eligible first handler and eligible importer of mangos shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate first handler or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee or an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) All ballots are to be cast by mail, as instructed by the Department.
§ 1206.103
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast.
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter.
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible first handlers and importers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot.
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process.
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1206.104
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions of this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence or such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1206.105
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1206.106
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the
analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1206.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Order and the voter list shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1206.108
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, is OMB control number 0581-0093.
[86 FR 11098, Feb. 24, 2021

# Subpart C—Administrative Requirements

# Source:
70 FR 2754, Jan. 14, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1206.200
Terms defined.
Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, the definitions of terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as the definitions of such terms which appear in Subpart A—Mango Promotion, Research, and Information Order.
§ 1206.201
Definitions.
Organic Act
means section 2103 of the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6502).
§ 1206.202
Exemption for organic mangos.
(a) A first handler who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products handled by the first handler regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is handled by a person that also handles conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The first handler maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any first handler so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible first handler shall submit a request for exemption to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the fiscal period, as long as the first handler continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) A first handler request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant handles organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a first handler complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the first handler within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the
reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) An importer who imports products that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, shall be exempt from the payment of assessments on those products. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” mangos on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the fiscal period, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of first handlers in paragraph (c) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer within the applicable timeframe. If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(f) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the certificate of exemption.
(g) An importer who is exempt from payment of assessments under paragraph (e) of this section shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by the CBP on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” mangos and may apply to the Secretary for a reimbursement. The importer would be required to submit satisfactory proof to the Secretary that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic products.
[69 FR 59122, Oct. 4, 2004, as amended at 80 FR 82023, Dec. 31, 2015]
Pt. 1207

# PART 1207—POTATO RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN

# Subpart—Potato Research and Promotion Plan

# Definitions
Sec.
1207.301
Secretary.
1207.302
Act.
1207.303
Plan.
1207.304
Person.
1207.305
Producer.
1207.306
Potatoes.
1207.307
Handle.
1207.308
Handler.
1207.309
Board.
1207.310
Fiscal period and marketing year.
1207.311
Programs and projects.
1207.312
Importer.
1207.313
Customs Service.

# National Potato Promotion Board
1207.320
Establishment and membership.
1207.321
Term of office.
1207.322
Nominations and appointment.
1207.323
Acceptance.
1207.324
Vacancies.
1207.325
Procedure.
1207.326
Compensation and reimbursement.
1207.327
Powers.
1207.328
Duties.

# Research and Promotion
1207.335
Research and promotion.

# Expenses and Assessments
1207.341
Budget and expenses.
1207.342
Assessments.
1207.343
[Reserved]
1207.344
Operating reserve.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1207.350
Reports.
1207.351
Books and records.
1207.352
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1207.360
Influencing governmental action.
1207.361
Right of the Secretary.
1207.362
Suspension or termination.
1207.363
Proceedings after termination.
1207.364
Effect of termination or amendment.
1207.365
Personal liability.
1207.366
Separability.

# Subpart—Rules and Regulations

# Definitions
1207.500
Definitions.

# General
1207.501
[Reserved]
1207.502
Determination of membership.
1207.503
Nominations.
1207.504
Term of office.
1207.505
Procedure.
1207.506
Policy.
1207.507
Administrative Committee.
1207.508
USDA costs.

# Assessments
1207.510
Levy of assessments.
1207.511
Determination of assessable quantity.
1207.512
Designated handler.
1207.513
Payment of assessments.
1207.514
Exemption for organic potatoes.
1207.515
Safeguards.

# Records
1207.532
Retention period for records.
1207.533
Availability of records.
1207.534
OMB control number assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.

# Confidential Information
1207.540
Confidential books, records, and reports.
1207.545
Right of the Secretary.
1207.546
Personal liability.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2611-2627 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Subpart—Potato Research and Promotion Plan

# Source:
37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1207.301
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in his stead.
§ 1207.302
Act.
Act
means the Potato Research and Promotion Act,
Title III of Public Law 91-670, 91st Congress, approved January 11, 1971, 84 Stat. 2041,
as amended.
[56 FR 40229, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.303
Plan.
Plan
means this potato research and promotion plan issued by the Secretary pursuant to the act.
§ 1207.304
Person.
Person
means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or other entity.
§ 1207.305
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in the growing of 5 or more acres of potatoes who owns or shares the ownership and risk of loss of such potato crop.
§ 1207.306
Potatoes.
Potatoes
means any or all varieties of Irish potatoes grown by producers in the 50 states of the United States and grown in foreign countries and imported into the United States.
[56 FR 40229, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.307
Handle.
Handle
means to grade, pack, process, sell, transport, purchase, or in any other way to place potatoes or cause potatoes to be placed in the current of commerce. Such term shall not include the transportation or delivery of field-run potatoes by the producer thereof to a handler for grading, storage, or processing.
§ 1207.308
Handler.
Handler
means any person (except a common or contract carrier of potatoes owned by another person) who handles potatoes, including a producer who handles potatoes of his own production.
§ 1207.309
Board.
Board
means the National Potato Promotion Board, hereinafter established pursuant to § 1207.320.
§ 1207.310
Fiscal period and marketing year.
Fiscal period
and
marketing year
mean the 12-month period from July 1 through June 30 of the following year
or such other period which may be approved by the Secretary.
§ 1207.311
Programs and projects.
Programs
and
projects
mean those research, development, advertising or promotion programs or projects developed by the Board pursuant to § 1207.335.
§ 1207.312
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports tablestock, frozen or processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans, or seed potatoes into the United States.
[56 FR 40229, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.313
Customs Service.
Customs Service
means the United States Customs Service of the United States Department of the Treasury.
[56 FR 40229, Aug. 14, 1991]

# National Potato Promotion Board
§ 1207.320
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a National Potato Promotion Board, hereinafter called the “Board”, composed of producers, importers, and a public member appointed by the Secretary. Producer members shall be appointed from nominations submitted by producers in the various States or groups of States pursuant to § 1207.322. Importer members shall be appointed from nominations submitted by importers pursuant to § 1207.322. The public member shall be nominated by Board members in such manner as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary, and shall be appointed by the Secretary.
(b) Producer membership upon the Board shall be determined on the basis of the potato production reported in the latest Crop Production Annual Summary Report issued by the National Agricultural Statistics Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. If a State's potato production data is not provided by the National Agricultural Statistics Service, the Board may use an alternative data source that reliably reflects potato production in the United States. Unless the Secretary, upon recommendation of the Board, determines an alternate basis, for each 10 million hundredweight of such production, or major fraction thereof, produced within each State, such State shall be entitled to one member. However, each State shall initially be entitled to at least one member.
(c) The number of importer member positions on the Board shall be based on the hundredweights of potatoes, potato products equivalent to fresh potatoes, and seed potatoes imported into the United States but shall not exceed two importer members. Unless the Secretary, upon recommendation of the Board, determines an alternate basis, there shall be one importer member position for each 10 million hundredweight, or major fraction thereof, of potatoes, potato product equivalents, and seed potatoes imported into the United States.
(d) Any State in which the potato producers fail to respond to an officially called nomination meeting may be combined with an adjacent State for the purpose of representation on the Board, in which case the Board's producer member selected by the Secretary will represent both States, but such member's voting power under § 1207.325 shall not be increased.
(e) The Secretary, upon recommendation of the Board, may establish, through rule making procedure, districts or groups of States in order to change the representation requirements for membership on the Board. In such event the voting power of members under § 1207.325 would be based upon the total production within the new district or group of States.
(f) Should the Board fail to nominate a public member, the Secretary may appoint such member.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 49 FR 20806, May 17, 1984; 49 FR 31390, Aug. 7, 1984; 56 FR 40229, Aug. 14, 1991; 87 FR 22435, Apr. 15, 2022; 89 FR 863, Jan. 8, 2024]
§ 1207.321
Term of office.
(a) The term of office of Board members shall be 3 years, beginning March 1, or such other beginning date as may be approved pursuant to regulations.
(b) The terms of office of the Board's producer members shall be so determined that approximately one-third of
the terms will expire each year. Importer and public member terms shall run concurrently. All members serving on the Board on the effective date of this amendment to the Plan shall continue serving the term to which they were appointed.
(c) Board members shall serve during the term of office for which they are selected and have qualified, and until their successors are selected and have qualified.
(d) No member shall serve for more than two full successive terms of office.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 56 FR 40229, Aug. 14, 1991; 89 FR 863, Jan. 8, 2024]
§ 1207.322
Nominations and appointment.
The Secretary shall select the producer, importer, and public members of the Board from nominations which may be made in the following manner.
(a) A meeting or meetings of producers shall be held in each State to nominate producer members for the Board. For nominations to the initial Board the meetings shall be announced by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The Department may call upon other organizations to assist in conducting the meetings such as State and national organizations of potato producers. Such nomination meetings shall be held not later than 60 days after the issuance of this subpart. Any organization designated to hold such nomination meetings shall give adequate notice of such meetings to the potato producers affected; also to the Secretary so that a representative of the Secretary, if available, may conduct such meetings or act as secretary of such nomination meetings.
(b) After the establishment of the initial Board, the nominations for subsequent Board producer members shall be made by producers at meetings in the producing sections or States. The Board shall hold such meetings, or cause them to be held, in accordance with rules established pursuant to recommendation of the Board.
(c) Only producers may participate in designating producer nominees. Each producer is entitled to one vote only on behalf of himself, his partners, agents, subsidiaries, affiliates, and representatives for each position for which nominations are being held. If a producer is engaged in producing potatoes in more than one State, he shall elect the State in which he shall vote. In no event shall he vote in nominations in more than one meeting.
(d) The importer members shall be nominated by importers of potatoes, potato products and/or seed potatoes. The number of importer members on the Board shall be announced by the Secretary and shall not exceed two members. The Board may call upon organizations of potato, potato products and/or seed potato importers to assist in nominating importers for membership on the Board. If such organizations fail to submit nominees or are determined by the Board to not adequately represent importers, then the Board may conduct meetings of importers to nominate eligible importers for Board member positions. In determining if importer organizations adequately represent importers, the Board shall consider:
(1) How many importers belong to the association;
(2) What percentage of the total number of importers is represented by the association;
(3) Is the association representative of the potato, potato product, and seed potato import industry;
(4) Does the association speak for potato, potato product, and seed potato importers; and
(5) Other relevant information as may be warranted.
(e) The public member shall be nominated by the producer and importer members of the Board. The public member shall have no direct financial interest in the commercial production or marketing of potatoes except as a consumer and shall not be a director, stockholder, officer or employee of any firm so engaged. The Board shall prescribe such additional qualifications, administrative rules and procedures for selection and voting for each candidate as it deems necessary and the Secretary approves.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 49 FR 20806, May 17, 1984; 56 FR 40229, Aug. 14, 1991; 89 FR 863, Jan. 8, 2024]
§ 1207.323
Acceptance.
Each person selected by the Secretary as a member of the Board shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary promptly after being notified of such selection.
§ 1207.324
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy caused by the failure of any person selected as a member of the Board to qualify, or in the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member, a successor shall be nominated and selected in the manner specified in § 1207.322. In the event of failure to provide nominees for such vacancies, the Secretary may select other eligible persons.
§ 1207.325
Procedure.
(a) Each State (or district or group of States established pursuant to § 1207.320) which has a member on the Board shall be entitled to not less than one vote for any production up to 1 million hundredweight, plus one additional vote for each additional 1 million hundredweight of production, or major fraction thereof, as determined by the latest crop production annual summary report issued by the Crop Reporting Board, U.S. Department of Agriculture. The casting of the votes for each State shall be determined by the members of the Board from that State.
(b) A majority of the Board members shall constitute a quorum and any action of the Board shall require a majority of concurring votes of those present and voting. At assembled meetings all votes shall be cast in person or by duly authorized proxy.
(c) For routine and noncontroversial matters which do not require deliberation and the exchange of views, and for matters of an emergency nature when there is not enough time to call an assembled meeting, the Board may act upon a majority of concurring votes of its members cast by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. Any vote cast by telephone shall be confirmed promptly in writing.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 57 FR 40083, Sept. 2, 1992; 89 FR 863, Jan. 8, 2024]
§ 1207.326
Compensation and reimbursement.
Members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members of the Board.
§ 1207.327
Powers.
The Board shall have the following powers subject to § 1207.361:
(a) To administer the provisions of this plan in accordance with its terms and conditions;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and conditions of this plan;
(c) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this plan; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this plan.
§ 1207.328
Duties.
The Board shall, among other things, have the following duties:
(a) To meet and organize and to select from among its members a president and such other officers as may be necessary; to select committees and subcommittees of Board members to nominate the public member; to adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable; and it may establish advisory committees of persons other than Board members;
(b) To employ such persons as it may deem necessary and to determine the compensation and define the duties of each; and to protect the handling of Board funds through fidelity bonds;
(c) At the beginning of each fiscal period, to prepare and submit to the Secretary for his approval a budget on a fiscal period basis of the anticipated expenses in the administration of this plan including the probable costs of all programs or projects and to recommend a rate of assessment with respect thereto;
(d) To develop programs and projects and to enter into contracts or agreements for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, development, advertising or promotion, and the payment of the costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to this plan;
(e) To keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of the Board. Minutes of each Board meeting shall be promptly reported to the Secretary;
(f) To cause the books of the Board to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each fiscal period, and at such other time as the Board may deem necessary. The report of such audit shall show the receipt and expenditure of funds collected pursuant to this part. Two copies of each such report shall be furnished to the Secretary and a copy of each such report shall be made available at the principal office of the Board for inspection by producers, handlers, and importers;
(g) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board and its subcommittees as is given to its members;
(h) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, handler, or importer;
(i) To furnish the Secretary such information as he may request.
(j) To prepare and submit to the Secretary such reports from time to time as may be prescribed by the Secretary for appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of funds entrusted to the Board; and
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 49 FR 20806, May 17, 1984; 56 FR 40230, Aug. 14, 1991; 57 FR 40083, Sept. 2, 1992]

# Research and Promotion
§ 1207.335
Research and promotion.
The Board shall develop and submit to the Secretary for approval any programs or projects authorized in this section. Such programs or projects shall provide for:
(a) The establishment, issuance, effectuation and administration of appropriate programs or projects for the advertising and promotion of potatoes and potato products:
Provided, however,
That any such program or project shall be directed toward increasing the general demand for potatoes and potato products;
(b) Establishing and carrying on research and development projects and studies to the end that the marketing and utilization of potatoes may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more efficient:
Provided,
That quality control, grade standards and supply management programs shall not be conducted under, or as a part of, this plan; and
(c) The development and expansion of potato and potato product sales in foreign markets.
(d) No advertising or promotion program shall make any reference to private brand names or use false or unwarranted claims in behalf of potatoes or their products or false or unwarranted statements with respect to the attributes or use of any competing products.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1207.341
Budget and expenses.
(a) At the beginning of each fiscal period, or as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and recommend a budget on a fiscal period basis of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of this plan, including probable costs of research, development, advertising, and promotion. The Board shall also recommend a rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in § 1207.344.
(b) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses for research, development, advertising, or promotion of potatoes and potato products, such other expenses for the administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board, and any referendum and administrative costs incurred by the Department of Agriculture as are approved pursuant to § 1207.361.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 49 FR 20806, May 17, 1984]
§ 1207.342
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the Board's expenses shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon handlers and importers as designated in regulations recommended by the Board and issued by the Secretary. Such assessments shall be levied at a rate fixed by the Secretary which shall not exceed one-half of one per centum of the immediate past ten calendar years United
States average price received for potatoes by growers as reported by the Department of Agriculture and not more than one such assessment may be collected on any potatoes.
(b) Each designated handler, as specified in regulations, shall pay assessments to the Board on all potatoes handled by him, including potatoes he produced. Assessments shall be paid to the Board at such time and in such manner as the Board shall direct pursuant to regulations issued hereunder. The designated handler may collect the assessments from the producer, or deduct such assessments from the proceeds paid to the producer on whose potatoes the assessments are made, provided he furnishes the producer with evidence of such payment.
(c) The importer of imported potatoes, potato products, or seed potatoes shall pay the assessment to the Board at the time of entry, or withdrawal, for consumption of such potatoes and potato products into the United States.
(d) The assessment on imported tablestock potatoes and frozen or processed potato products for ultimate consumption by humans and on seed potatoes shall be established by the Board so that the effective assessment shall be equal to that on domestic production.
(e) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments in its behalf.
(f) The Board may exempt potatoes used for nonfood purposes, other than seed, from the provisions of this plan and shall establish adequate safeguards against improper use of such exemptions.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 49 FR 20806, May 17, 1984; 56 FR 40230, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.343
[Reserved]
§ 1207.344
Operating reserve.
The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in a reserve so established:
Provided,
That funds in the reserve shall not exceed approximately two fiscal periods' expenses. Such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this part.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1207.350
Reports.
(a) Each designated handler shall maintain a record with respect to each producer for whom he handled potatoes and for potatoes handled which he himself produced. He shall report to the Board at such times and in such manner as it may prescribe by regulations such information as may be necessary for the Board to perform its duties under this part. Such reports may include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1) Total quantity of potatoes handled for each producer and for himself, including those which are exempt under the plan;
(2) Total quantity of potatoes handled for each producer and for himself subject to the plan and assessments, and
(3) Name and address of each person from whom he collected an assessment, the amount collected from each person, and the date such collection was made.
(b) Each importer shall report to the Board at such times and in such manner as it may prescribe such information as may be necessary for the Board to perform its duties under this part.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 56 FR 40230, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.351
Books and records.
Each handler or importer subject to this part shall maintain and make available for inspection by authorized employees of the Board and the Secretary such books and records as are appropriate and necessary to carry out the provisions of this Plan and the regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall be maintained for at least 2 years beyond the marketing year of their applicability.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 56 FR 40230, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.352
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports required pursuant to this part shall be kept confidential by all employees of the Department of Agriculture and of the Board, and by
all contractors and agents retained by the Board, and only such information so furnished or acquired as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or upon the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this Plan. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of a number of handlers or importers subject to this Plan, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; or
(b) The publication by direction of the Secretary of the name of any person violating this Plan, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this Plan violated by such person.
[56 FR 40230, Aug. 14, 1991]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1207.360
Influencing governmental action.
No funds collected by the Board under this plan shall in any matter be used for the purpose of influencing governmental policy or action except in recommending to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.
§ 1207.361
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive action proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for his approval.
§ 1207.362
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary shall, whenever he finds that this plan or any provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the act, terminate or suspend the operation of this plan or such provision thereof.
(b) The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time, and shall hold a referendum on request of the Board or of 10 percent or more of the potato producers and importers to determine whether potato producers and importers favor termination or suspension of this plan. The Secretary shall suspend or terminate such plan at the end of the marketing year whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is favored by a majority of the potato producers and importers voting in such referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of potatoes or potato products, and who produced or imported more than 50 percent of the volume of the potatoes or potato products produced or imported by the producers and importers voting in the referendum.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 56 FR 40230, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.363
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this plan, the Board shall recommend not more than five of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall (1) continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary; (2) carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into by it pursuant to this plan; (3) account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to such person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and (4) upon the request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person or persons full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board of the trustees pursuant to this section.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same obligation imposed upon the Board and upon the trustee.
(d) A reasonable effort shall be made by the Board or its trustees to return to producers and importers any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation. If it is found impractical to return such remaining funds to producers and importers, such funds shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate.
[37 FR 5008, Mar. 9, 1972, as amended at 56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.364
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this plan or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not (a) affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this plan or any regulation issued thereunder, or (b) release or extinguish any violation of this plan or any regulation issued thereunder, or (c) affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary, or of any other person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1207.365
Personal liability.
No member of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever to any person for errors in judgments, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member except for acts of willful misconduct, gross negligence, or those which are criminal in nature.
§ 1207.366
Separability.
If any provision of this plan is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this plan or applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

# Subpart—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1207.500
Definitions.
(a) Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, definitions of terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as the definitions of such terms which appear in Subpart—Potato Research and Promotion Plan.
(b)
Processor. Processor
means any person who commercially processes potatoes into potato products, including, but not restricted to, frozen, dehydrated, or canned potato products, potato chips and shoestrings, and flour.
(c)
Imported frozen or processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans. Imported frozen or processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans
means products which are imported into the United States which the Secretary determines contain a substantial amount of potato.
[37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended at 56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991; 57 FR 40083, Sept. 2, 1992]

# General
§ 1207.501
[Reserved]
§ 1207.502
Determination of membership.
(a) Pursuant to § 1207.320 and the recommendation of the Board, annual producer memberships on the Board shall be determined on the basis of the average potato production of the 3 preceding years in each State as set forth in the Crop Production Annual Summary Reports issued by the National Agricultural Statistics Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture. If a State's potato production data is not provided by the National Agricultural Statistics Service, the Board may use an alternative data source that reliably reflects potato production in the United States.
(b) Pursuant to § 1207.320 and the recommendation of the Board, annual importer memberships on the Board shall be determined on the basis of the average potato, potato product, and seed potato importation of the 3 preceding years as determined by the Board's records.
[56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991, as amended at 87 FR 22435, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 1207.503
Nominations.
(a) Pursuant to § 1207.322 of the plan, the Board shall assist producers in producing sections or States each year to nominate producer members for the Board. Such nominations may be conducted at meetings or with ballots submitted by mail, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. One individual shall be nominated for each position to become vacant. A list of nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary for consideration by November 1 of each year.
(b) Pursuant to § 1207.322 of the plan, the Board shall assist importers each year to nominate importer members for the Board. Such nominations may be conducted at meetings or with ballots submitted by mail, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication.
(c) Nomination meetings or balloting by mail, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication shall be well publicized with notice given to producers, importers, and the Secretary at least 10 days prior to each meeting or distribution of ballots.
(d) The public member shall be nominated by the producer and importer members of the Board.
[37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended at 49 FR 2093, Jan. 18, 1984; 56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991; 62 FR 46179, Sept. 2, 1997; 89 FR 863, Jan. 8, 2024]
§ 1207.504
Term of office.
(a) The term of office of Board members shall be for three years and shall begin March 1 and end on the last day of February.
(b) Board members shall serve during the term of office for which they are selected and have qualified and until their successors are selected and have qualified.
[38 FR 7123, Mar. 16, 1973, as amended at 49 FR 2093, Jan. 18, 1984; 89 FR 863, Jan. 8, 2024]
§ 1207.505
Procedure.
(a) The procedure for conducting the Board's meetings shall be in accordance with the bylaws adopted by the Board on June 7, 1972, and approved by the Secretary and any subsequent amendments adopted by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
(b) Each importer member shall be entitled to not less than one vote. Importer members shall also be entitled to one additional vote for each 1 million hundredweight, or major fraction thereof, on a fresh-weight basis, of imported tablestock potatoes, potato products, or seed potatoes, as determined by data on imports provided by the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The casting of such votes shall be determined by the importer members.
[62 FR 46179, Sept. 2, 1997]
§ 1207.506
Policy.
(a) It shall be the policy of the Board to carry out an effective and continuous coordinated program of marketing research, development, advertising, and promotion in order to help maintain and expand existing domestic and foreign markets for potatoes and to develop new or improved markets.
(b) It shall be the objective of the Board to carry out programs and projects which will provide maximum benefit to the potato industry and no undue preference shall be given to any of the various industry segments.
§ 1207.507
Administrative Committee.
(a) The Board shall annually select from among its members an Administrative Committee composed of producer members as provided for in the Board's bylaws, one or more importer members, and the public member. Selection shall be made in such manner as the Board may prescribe: Except that such committee shall include the Chairperson and nine Vice-Chairpersons, one of whom shall also serve as the Secretary and Treasurer of the Board.
(b) The Administrative Committee shall act for the Board in implementing such marketing research, development, advertising, and/or promotion activities as directed by the Board, and shall, subject to such direction, be charged with developing and submitting to the Secretary for his approval specific programs or projects in the name of the Board. The Administrative Committee shall further act for the Board in authorizing contracts or agreements for the development and carrying out of such programs or projects and the payment of the costs
thereof with funds collected pursuant to § 1207.342 of the plan.
(1) The Administrative Committee also shall act for the Board in contracting with cooperating agencies for the collection of assessments pursuant to § 1207.513(d).
(2) [Reserved]
(c) The Board may assign such other administrative powers and duties to the Administrative Committee as it shall determine, and the Administrative Committee shall act on behalf of and in the name of the Board in all administrative matters.
[37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended by Amdt. 6, 42 FR 55879, Oct. 20, 1977; 44 FR 25621, May 2, 1979; 50 FR 25199, June 18, 1985; 56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991; 59 FR 44036, Aug. 26, 1994; 71 FR 76901, Dec. 22, 2006; 78 FR 52082, Aug. 22, 2013; 89 FR 863, Jan. 8, 2024]
§ 1207.508
USDA costs.
Pursuant to § 1207.341 of the Plan the Board shall pay those administrative costs incurred by the U.S. Department of Agriculture for the conduct of its duties under the Plan as are determined periodically by the Secretary. Payment shall be due promptly after billing for such costs.
[49 FR 26202, June 27, 1984]

# Assessments
§ 1207.510
Levy of assessments.
(a)
Domestic assessments.
(1) An assessment rate of 3 cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all potatoes produced within the 50 states of the United States.
(2) No assessment shall be levied on potatoes grown in the 50 States of the United States by producers of less than 5 acres of potatoes.
(b)
Assessments on imports.
(1) An Assessment rate of 3 cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all tablestock potatoes imported into the United States for ultimate consumption by humans and all seed potatoes imported into the United States. An assessment rate of 3 cents per hundredweight shall be levied on the fresh weight equivalents of imported frozen or processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans. The importer of imported tablestock potatoes, potato products, or seed potatoes shall pay the assessment to the Board through the U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the time of entry or withdrawal for consumption of such potatoes and potato products into the United States.
(2) The following conversion factors shall be used to determine the fresh weight equivalents of frozen and processed potato products:
Frozen potato products
.50
Canned potatoes
.636
Potato chips and shoestring potatoes
.245
Dehydrated potato products
.14
Potato starch
.1111
(3) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS) categories and assessment rates on imported tablestock potatoes and frozen or processed potatoes for ultimate consumption by humans and on imported seed potatoes are listed in the following table. In the event that any HTS number subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on the description of the potatoes, assessments will continue to be collected based on the new numbers.
Tablestock potatoes, frozen or processed potatoes, and seed potatoes
Assessment
Cents/cwt
Cents/kg
0701.10.0020
3.0
0.066
0701.10.0040
3.0
0.066
0701.90.1000
3.0
0.066
0701.90.5015
3.0
0.066
0701.90.5025
3.0
0.066
0701.90.5035
3.0
0.066
0701.90.5045
3.0
0.066
0701.90.5055
3.0
0.066
0701.90.5065
3.0
0.066
0710.10.0000
6.0
0.132
2004.10.4000
6.0
0.132
2004.10.8020
6.0
0.132
2004.10.8040
6.0
0.132
2005.20.0070
4.716
0.104
0712.90.3000
21.429
0.472
1105.10.0000
21.429
0.472
1105.20.0000
21.429
0.472
2005.20.0040
21.429
0.472
2005.20.0020
12.240
0.27
1108.13.0010
27.0
0.595
(4) No assessments shall be levied on otherwise assessable potatoes which are contained in imported products wherein potatoes are not a principal ingredient.
(c) Potatoes and potato products used for nonhuman food purposes, other than seed, are exempt from assessment but are subject to the disposition of exempted potatoes provisions of § 1207.515 of this subpart.
(d) No more than one such assessment shall be made on any potatoes or potato products.
[57 FR 40083, Sept. 2, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 3359, Jan. 8, 1993; 59 FR 44036, Aug. 26, 1994; 71 FR 11296, Mar. 7, 2006; 71 FR 50330, Aug. 25, 2006; 74 FR 63543, Dec. 4, 2009; 75 FR 14491, Mar. 26, 2010; 87 FR 22436, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 1207.511
Determination of assessable quantity.
The assessable quantity of potatoes in any lot shall be determined on the basis of utilization. Assessments shall be due on the entire lot handled for human consumption, seed, or unspecified purposes if there is no accounting made on the basis of the utilization of such lot. However, if the accounting identifies all or portions of such lot on the basis of utilization, assessments shall be due only on that portion utilized for human consumption and seed.
§ 1207.512
Designated handler.
The assessment on each lot of potatoes produced in the 50 States of the United States and handled shall be paid by the designated handler as hereafter set forth.
(a) Unless otherwise provided in paragraphs (a)(8), (b), and (c) of this section, the designated handler shall be the first handler of such potatoes. The first handler is the person who initially performs a handler function as heretofore defined. Such person may be a fresh shipper, processor, or other person who first places the potatoes in the channels of commerce. A producer who grades, packs, or otherwise performs handler functions thereby becomes a handler and as such assumes first handler responsibilities under this part. The following examples are provided to aid in identification of first handlers who are designated handlers:
(1) Producer delivers field-run potatoes of his own production to a handler for preparation for market. The handler in this instance is the designated handler, regardless of whether he subsequently handles such potatoes for his own account or for the account of the producer.
(2) Producer delivers field-run potatoes of his own production to a handler who takes title to such potatoes and places them in storage for subsequent handling. The handler who purchases such potatoes from the producer is the designated handler.
(3) Producer delivers field-run potatoes to a commercial storage facility for the purpose of holding such potatoes under his own account for later sale. There is no designated handler in this instance since such potatoes have not been handled as heretofore defined and no assessment is due. The designated handler of such potatoes would be identified on the basis of subsequent handling of such potatoes.
(4) Fresh shipper purchases a lot of potatoes from a producer, packs a portion of such potatoes for fresh market, and delivers the balance to a processor. The fresh shipper is the designated handler for all potatoes in the lot.
(5) Handler purchases potatoes from a producer's field or storage for the purpose of preparing such potatoes for market or for transporting such potatoes to storage for subsequent handling. The handler who purchases such potatoes from the producer is the designated handler.
(6) Producer packs and sells potatoes of his own production from the field, roadside stand, or storage to a consumer, itinerant trucker, or other buyer. In performing such handler functions the producer assumes the responsibility of designated handler.
(7) Processor utilizes potatoes of his own production in the manufacture of potato chips, frozen, dehydrated, or canned products for human consumption. In so handling potatoes, the processor assumes the responsibility of designated handler.
(8) Producer utilizes potatoes of his own production for seed in planting his subsequent crop. Such seed potatoes do not enter the current of commerce; there is no designated handler in this instance since the potatoes have not been handled as heretofore defined and no assessment is due. However, seed potatoes sold or shipped to other producers for planting or to other persons for subsequent disposition enter the current of commerce and are subject to assessment. The producer of seed potatoes shall be the designated handler of such potatoes shipped to other producers for planting and the assessment is due when he first sells or otherwise
handles such potatoes. The first person who acquires seed potatoes from the producer thereof for subsequent disposition other than planting by said person shall be the designated handler of such potatoes. However, the seed producer will be the designated handler responsible for filing reports and making payments, unless he can show that the first person who obtained the potatoes from him disposed of them other than by planting. To show this the seed producer must submit to the Potato Board the name and address of the first person who obtained the potatoes from him and an invoice of sale or settlement sheet on which it is indicated that such person will be the designated handler and therefore will be responsible for the payment of the assessments. Only by showing this is the seed producer no longer considered the designated handler and therefore not liable for the assessments.
(b) Any person who handles potatoes for a producer thereof under oral or written contract or agreement providing for the sale thereof shall be the designated handler for such potatoes, notwithstanding the fact that the producer may have graded, packed, or otherwise handled such potatoes and thereby became the first handler of such potatoes.

# Examples.
A cooperative marketing association, or other person, who makes an accounting to the producer, or pay the proceeds of the sale to the producer would be the designated handler responsible for the assessment.
(c) Any processor who purchases potatoes from the producer thereof shall be the designated handler even though the producer may have graded, packed, or otherwise handled such potatoes and thereby became the first handler of such potatoes.
[37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended by Amdt. 4, 40 FR 7893, Feb. 24, 1975; Amdt. 7, 43 FR 9133, Mar. 6, 1978; Amdt. 8, 43 FR 51001, Nov. 2, 1978; 56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.513
Payment of assessments.
(a)
Time of payment.
The assessment on domestically produced potatoes shall become due at the time a determination of assessable potatoes is made in the normal handling process, pursuant to § 1207.511. If no determination is made of the utilization of a lot, assessments shall be due on the entire lot when it enters the current of commerce. The assessment on imported potatoes, potato products, and seed potatoes shall become due at the time of entry, or withdrawal, for consumption into the United States.
(b)
Responsibility for payment.
(1) The designated handler is responsible for payment of the assessment on domestically produced potatoes. He may pay with no reimbursement from the producer. In the alternative, he may collect the assessment from the producer, or deduct such assessment from the proceeds paid to the producer on whose potatoes the assessment is made, provided he furnishes the producer with evidence of such payment. Any such collection or deduction of assessment shall be made not later than the time when the assessment becomes payable by the handler to the Board. Failure of the handler to collect or deduct such assessment does not relieve the handler of his obligation to remit the assessment to the Board.
(2) The Customs Service shall collect payment of assessment on imported potatoes, potato products, and seed potatoes from importers and forward such assessment per agreement between the Customs Service and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Importers shall be responsible for payment of assessment directly to the Board of any assessment due but not collected by the Customs Service at the time of entry, or withdrawal, for consumption into the United States. An importer may apply to the Board for reimbursement of assessments paid on exempted products.
(c)
Payment directly to the Board.
(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, each designated handler or importer shall remit assessments directly to the Board by check or electronic payment. Checks are to be made payable to the National Potato Promotion Board or the Board's official doing business as name. Payment is due not later than 10 days after the end of the month such assessment is due together with a report (preferably on Board forms) thereon.
(2) All designated handlers, including a designated handler whose own production is handled and assessments to
the Board paid by another designated handler, shall report to the Board:
(i) Date of report (which is also date of payment to the Board).
(ii) The name and address of the designated handler;
(iii) The period potatoes were handled;
(iv) The total quantity of potatoes determined to be assessable during the period potatoes were handled, pursuant to § 1207.511.
(3) Designated handlers who collect assessments from producers or withhold assessments from their accounts or pay the assessment themselves shall also include a list of all such producers whose potatoes were handled during the period, their addresses and the total assessable quantities handled for each such producer.
(i) In lieu of such a list, the designated handler may substitute authentic copies of settlement sheets given to each producer provided such settlement sheets contain all the information listed above.
(ii) The words “final report” shall be shown on the last report at the close of his marketing season or at the end of each fiscal period if such handler markets potatoes on a year-round basis.
(4) Prepayment of assessment: (i) In lieu of the monthly assessment and reporting requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Board may permit designated handlers to make advance payments of their total estimated assessments for the season to the Board prior to their actual determination of assessable potatoes. Such procedure may be permitted when it is considered by the designated handler to be the more practical method of payment.
(ii) Persons using such procedure shall provide a final annual accounting of actual handling and assessments.
(iii) Specific requirements, instructions, and forms for making such advance payments shall be provided by the Board upon request.
(d)
Payment through cooperating agency.
The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments in its behalf. In any State or area in which the Board has negotiated an agreement to collect assessments with an agency such as a State Potato Commission or a Potato Association approved by the Secretary, the designated handler shall pay the assessment to such agency in the time and manner, and with such identifying information as specified in such agreement. Such an agreement shall not provide any cooperating agency with authority to collect confidential information from handlers; to qualify, the cooperating agency must on its own accord have access to all information required by the Board for collection purposes. If the Board requires further evidence of payment than provided, it may acquire such evidence from individual designated handlers.
(1) All such agreements are subject to the requirement of § 1207.352
Confidential treatment,
of the plan, the provisions of section 310(c) of the Act, and all applicable rules and regulations and financial safeguards in effect under the Act and the plan; and all affected persons shall agree to, and conduct their operations and activities in accordance with, such requirements.
(2) [Reserved]
[37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended by Amdt. 6, 42 FR 55879, Oct. 20, 1977; 56 FR 40231, Aug. 14, 1991; 62 FR 46179, Sept. 2, 1997; 87 FR 22436, Apr. 15, 2022]
§ 1207.514
Exemption for organic potatoes.
(a) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522)(OFPA) and the NOP regulations
issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for exemption under this section, the producer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before July 1, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) The producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) A producer approved for exemption under this section shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each handler to whom the producer sells potatoes. The handler shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(f) An importer who imports products that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, shall be exempt from the payment of assessments on those products. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” potatoes, potato products, and seed potatoes on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before July 1, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of producers in paragraph (c) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer. If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(g) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
[70 FR 2755, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82024, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1207.515
Safeguards.
The Board may require reports by designated handlers and importers on the handling, importation, and disposition of exempted potatoes. Also, authorized employees of the Board or the Secretary, may inspect such books and
records as are appropriate and necessary to verify the reports on such disposition.
[37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended at 56 FR 40232, Aug. 14, 1991]

# Records
§ 1207.532
Retention period for records.
Each handler and importer required to make reports pursuant to this subpart shall maintain and retain such records for at least 2 years beyond the end of the marketing year of their applicability:
(a) One copy of each report made to the Board; and
(b) Such records as are necessary to verify such reports.
[37 FR 17379, Aug. 26, 1972, as amended at 56 FR 40232, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.533
Availability of records.
(a) Each handler and importer required to make reports pursuant to this subpart shall make available for inspection by authorized employees of the Board or the Secretary during regular business hours, such records as are appropriate and necessary to verify reports required under this subpart.
(b) Importers shall also maintain for 2 years records on the total quantities of potatoes imported and on the total quantities of potato products imported, and a record of each importation of potatoes, potato products, and seed potatoes including quantity, date, and port of entry, and shall make such records available for inspection by authorized employees of the Board or the Secretary during regular business hours.
[56 FR 40232, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.534
OMB control number assigned pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act.
The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB Control number 0581-0093.
[49 FR 23826, June 8, 1984]

# Confidential Information
§ 1207.540
Confidential books, records, and reports.
All information obtained from the books, records, and reports of handler and importers and all information with respect to refunds of assessments made to individual producers and importers shall be kept confidential in the manner and to the extent provided for in § 1207.352 of the Plan.
[56 FR 40232, Aug. 14, 1991]
§ 1207.545
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive action proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for his approval.
§ 1207.546
Personal liability.
No member of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, except for acts of willful misconduct, gross negligence, or those which are criminal in nature.
Pt. 1209

# PART 1209—MUSHROOM PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1209.1
Act.
1209.2
Commerce.
1209.3
Consumer information.
1209.4
Council.
1209.5
Department.
1209.6
First handler.
1209.7
Fiscal year.
1209.8
Importer.
1209.9
Industry information.
1209.10
Marketing.
1209.11
Mushrooms.
1209.12
On average.
1209.13
Part and subpart.
1209.14
Person.
1209.15
Producer.
1209.16
Programs, plans, and projects.
1209.17
Promotion.
1209.18
Region.
1209.19
Research.
1209.20
Secretary.
1209.21
State and United States.

# Mushroom Council
1209.30
Establishment and membership.
1209.31
Nominations.
1209.32
Acceptance.
1209.33
Appointment.
1209.34
Term of office.
1209.35
Vacancies.
1209.36
Procedure.
1209.37
Compensation and reimbursement.
1209.38
Powers.
1209.39
Duties.

# Promotion, Research, Consumer Information, and Industry Information
1209.40
Programs, plans, and projects.

# Expenses and Assessments
1209.50
Budget and expenses.
1209.51
Assessments.
1209.52
Exemption from assessment.
1209.53
Influencing governmental action.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1209.60
Reports.
1209.61
Books and records.
1209.62
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1209.70
Right of the Secretary.
1209.71
Suspension or termination.
1209.72
Proceedings after termination.
1209.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
1209.74
Personal liability.
1209.75
Patents, copyrights, inventions, publications, and product formulations.
1209.76
Amendments.
1209.77
Separability.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Definitions
1209.200
Terms defined.

# Nomination Procedures
1209.230
Reallocation of Council members.
1209.231
Nominations.
1209.233
Regional caucus chairpersons.
1209.235
Mail balloting.
1209.237
Appointment.

# General
1209.239
Financial statements.

# Assessments
1209.251
Payment of assessments.
1209.252
Exemptions and exemption procedures.

# Reports
1209.260
Reports.

# Miscellaneous
1209.280
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart C—Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection With the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order
1209.300
General.
1209.301
Definitions.
1209.302
Voting.
1209.303
Instructions.
1209.304
Subagents.
1209.305
Ballots.
1209.306
Referendum report.
1209.307
Confidential information.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6101-6112 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
57 FR 31951, July 20, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order

# Source:
58 FR 3449, Jan. 8, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1209.1
Act.
Act
means the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1990, subtitle B of title XIX of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, Pub. L. 101-624, 7 U.S.C. 6101-6112, and any amendments thereto.
§ 1209.2
Commerce.
Commerce
means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
§ 1209.3
Consumer information.
Consumer information
means information and programs that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of mushrooms.
§ 1209.4
Council.
Council
means the administrative body referred to as the Mushroom Council established under § 1209.30 of this subpart.
§ 1209.5
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1209.6
First handler.
First handler
means any person who receives or otherwise acquires mushrooms from a producer and prepares for marketing or markets such mushrooms, or who prepares for marketing or markets mushrooms of that person's own production.
§ 1209.7
Fiscal year.
Fiscal year
means the 12-month period from January 1 to December 31 each year, or such other period as recommended by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1209.8
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports, on average, over 500,000 pounds of mushrooms annually from outside the United States.
§ 1209.9
Industry information.
Industry information
means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets and marketing strategies, increased efficiency, and activities to enhance the image of the mushroom industry.
§ 1209.10
Marketing.
(a)
Marketing
means the sale or other disposition of mushrooms in any channel of commerce.
(b)
To market
means to sell or otherwise dispose of mushrooms in any channel of commerce.
§ 1209.11
Mushrooms.
Mushrooms
means all varieties of cultivated mushrooms grown within the United States and marketed for the fresh market, or imported into the United States and marketed for the fresh market, except such term shall not include mushrooms that are commercially marinated, canned, frozen, cooked, blanched, dried, packaged in brine, or otherwise processed in such manner as the Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may determine.
§ 1209.12
On average.
On average
means a rolling average of production or imports during the last two fiscal years, or such other period as may be determined by the Secretary.
§ 1209.13
Part and subpart.
Part
means this mushroom promotion and research order and all rules and regulations and supplemental orders issued thereunder, and the term
subpart
means the mushroom promotion and research order.
§ 1209.14
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1209.15
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in the production of mushrooms who owns or shares the ownership and risk of loss of such mushrooms and who produces, on average, over 500,000 pounds of mushrooms per year.
§ 1209.16
Programs, plans, and projects.
Programs, plans, and projects
means promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information plans, studies, projects, or programs conducted pursuant to this part.
§ 1209.17
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action determined by the Secretary to enhance the image or desirability of mushrooms, including paid advertising.
§ 1209.18
Region.
Region
means one of the described geographic subdivisions of the production areas described in § 1209.30 (b) or as later realigned or reapportioned pursuant thereto, or the import region described in § 1209.30(c).
§ 1209.19
Research.
Research
means any type of study to advance the image, desirability, safety, marketability, production, product development, quality, or nutritional value of mushrooms.
§ 1209.20
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1209.21
State and United States.
(a)
State
means any of the several States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(b)
United States
means collectively the several States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

# Mushroom Council
§ 1209.30
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a Mushroom Council of not less than four or more than nine members. The Council shall be composed of producers appointed by the Secretary under § 1209.33, except that, as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, importers shall be appointed by the Secretary to the Council under § 1209.33 once imports, on average, reach at least 50,000,000 pounds of mushrooms annually.
(b) For purposes of nominating and appointing producers to the Council, the United States shall be divided into three geographic regions and the number of Council members from each region shall be as follows:
(1)
Region 1:
All other States including the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico except for Pennsylvania and California—2 Members.
(2)
Region 2:
The State of Pennsylvania—4 Members.
(3)
Region 3:
The State of California—2 Members.
(c) Importers shall be represented by a single, separate region, referred to as Region 4, consisting of the United States when imports, on average, equal or exceed 50,000,000 pounds of mushrooms annually.
(d) At least every five years, and not more than every three years, the Council shall review changes in the geographic distribution of mushroom production volume throughout the United States and import volume, using the average annual mushroom production and imports over the preceding four years, and, based on such review, shall recommend to the Secretary reapportionment of the regions established in paragraph (b) of this section, or modification of the number of members from such regions, as determined under the rules established in paragraph (e), of this section or both, as necessary to best reflect the geographic distribution of mushroom production volume in the United States and representation of imports, if applicable.
(e) Subject to the nine-member maximum limitation, the following procedure will be used to determine the number of members for each region to serve on the Council under paragraph (d) of this section:
(1) Each region that produces, on average, at least 50,000,000 pounds of mushrooms annually shall be entitled to one representative on the Council.
(2) As provided in paragraph (c) of this section, importers shall be represented by a single, separate region, which shall be entitled to one representative, if such region imports, on average, at least 50,000,000 pounds of mushrooms annually.
(3) If the annual production of a region is greater than 110,000,000 pounds, but less than or equal to 180,000,000 pounds, the region shall be represented by 1 additional member.
(4) If the annual production of a region is greater than 180,000,000 pounds, but less than or equal to 260,000,000 pounds, the region shall be represented by 2 additional members.
(5) If the annual production of a region is greater than 260,000,000 pounds, the region shall be represented by 3 additional members.
(6) Should, in the aggregate, regions be entitled to levels of representation under paragraphs (e)(1), (2), (3), (4) and (5) of this section that would exceed the nine-member limit on the Council under the Act, the seat or seats assigned shall be assigned to that region or those regions with greater on-average production or import volume than the other regions otherwise eligible at that increment level.
(f) In determining the volume of mushrooms produced in the United States or imported into the United States for purposes of this section, the Council and the Secretary shall:
(1) Only consider mushrooms produced or imported by producers and importers, respectively, as those terms are defined in §§ 1209.8 and 1209.15; and
(2) Use the information received by the Council under § 1209.60, and data published by the Department.
(g) For purposes of the provisions of this section relating to the appointment of producers and importers to serve on the Council, the term
producer
or
importer
refers to any individual who is a producer or importer, respectively, or if the producer or importer is an entity other than an individual, an individual who is an officer or employee of such producer or importer.
[58 FR 3449, Jan. 8, 1993, as amended at 74 FR 50919, Oct. 2, 2009]
§ 1209.31
Nominations.
All nominations for appointments to the Council under § 1209.33 shall be made as follows:
(a) As soon as practicable after this subpart becomes effective, nominations for appointment to the initial Council shall be obtained from producers by the Secretary. In any subsequent year in which an appointment to the Council is to be made, nominations for positions whose terms will expire at the end of that year shall be obtained from producers, and as appropriate, importers, and certified by the Council and submitted to the Secretary by August 1 of such year, or such other date as approved by the Secretary.
(b) Nominations shall be made at regional caucuses of producers or importers, or by mail ballot as provided in paragraph (e), in accordance with procedures prescribed in this section.
(c) Except for initial Council members, whose nomination process will be initiated by the Secretary, the Council shall issue a call for nominations by February 1 of each year in which nominations for an appointment to the Council is to be made. The call shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
(1) A list by region of the vacancies for which nominees may be submitted and qualifications as to producers and importers.
(2) The date by which the names of nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary for consideration to be in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(3) A list of those States, by region, entitled to participate in the nomination process.
(4) The date, time, and location of any next scheduled meeting of the Council, and national and State producer or importer associations, if known, and of the regional caucuses, if any.
(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e), nominations for each position shall be made by regional caucus in the region entitled to nominate for such position. Notice of such caucus shall be publicized to all producers or importers within the region, and to the Secretary, at least 30 days prior to the caucus. The notice shall have attached to it the call for nominations from the Council and the Department's equal opportunity policy. Except with respect to nominations for the initial appointments to the Council, the responsibility for convening and publicizing the regional caucus shall be that of the Council.
(2) All producers or importers within the region may participate in the caucus. However, if a producer is engaged in the production of mushrooms in more than one region or is also an importer, such person's participation within a region shall be limited to one vote and shall only reflect the volume of such person's production or imports within the applicable region.
(3) The regional caucus shall conduct the selection process for the nominees in accordance with procedures to be adopted at the caucus subject to the following requirements:
(i) There shall be two individuals nominated for each open position.
(ii) Each nominee shall meet the qualifications set forth in the call.
(iii) If a producer nominee is engaged in the production of mushrooms in
more than one region or is also an importer, such individual shall participate within the region that such individual so elects in writing to the Council and such election shall remain controlling until revoked in writing to the Council.
(e) After the regional caucuses for the initial Council, the Council may conduct the selection of nominees by mail ballot in lieu of a regional caucus.
(f) When producers or importers are voting for nominees to the Council, whether through a regional caucus or a mail ballot, the following conditions shall apply:
(1) Voting for any open position shall be on the basis of:
(i) One vote per eligible voter; and
(ii) Volume of on-average production or imports of the eligible voter within that region.
(2) Whenever the producers or importers in a region are choosing nominees for one open position on the Council, the proposed nominee with the highest number of votes cast and the proposed nominee with the highest volume of production or importers voted shall be the nominees submitted to the Secretary. If a proposed nominee receives both the highest number of votes cast and the highest volume of production or imports voted, then the proposed nominee with the second highest number of votes cast shall be a nominee submitted to the Secretary along with such proposed nominee receiving both the highest number of votes cast and the highest volume of production or imports voted.
(3) Whenever the producers or importers in a region are choosing nominees for more than one open position on the Council at the same time, the number of the nominations submitted to the Secretary shall equal twice the number of such open positions, and for each open position shall consist of the proposed nominee with the highest number of votes cast and the proposed nominee with the highest volume of production or imports voted with respect to that position, subject to the rule set out in paragraph (f)(2). An individual shall only be nominated for one such open position.
(4) Voters shall certify on their ballots as to their on-average production or import volume within the region involved. Such certification may be subject to verification.
(g)(1) The Secretary may reject any nominee submitted. If there are insufficient nominees from which to appoint members to the Council as a result of the Secretary's rejecting such nominees, additional nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary under the procedures set out in this section.
(2) Whenever producers or importers in a region cannot agree on nominees for an open position on the Council under the preceding provisions of this section, or whenever they fail to nominate individuals for appointment to the Council, the Secretary may appoint members in such manner as the Secretary, by regulation, determines appropriate.
§ 1209.32
Acceptance.
Each individual nominated for membership on the Council shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary at the time of nomination.
§ 1209.33
Appointment.
From the nominations made pursuant to § 1209.31, the Secretary shall appoint the members of the Council on the basis of representation provided for in § 1209.30, except that no more than one member may be appointed to the Council from nominations submitted by any one producer or importer.
§ 1209.34
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Council shall serve for terms of three years, except that the members appointed to the initial Council shall serve, proportionately, for terms of one, two, and three years.
(b) Members of the initial Council shall be designated for, and shall serve, terms as follows: One producer member each from regions 1, 2 and 3 shall be appointed for an initial term of one year; one producer member each from regions 1, 2, and 3 shall be appointed for an initial term of two years; and one producer member each from regions 2, 3, and 4 shall be appointed for an initial term of three years. Because current imports of fresh mushrooms are less than 35,000,000 pounds, the minimum established for representation on the
Council, importers will not initially have a member appointed to the Council.
(c)(1) Except with respect to terms of office of the initial Council, the term of office for each member of the Council shall begin on January 1 or such other date that may be approved by the Secretary.
(2) The term of office for the initial Council shall begin immediately following appointment by the Secretary, except that time in the interim period from appointment until the following January 1, or such other date that is the generally applicable beginning date for terms under paragraph (c)(1) approved by the Secretary, shall not count toward the initial term of office.
(d) Council members shall serve during the term of office for which they are appointed and have qualified, and until their successors are appointed and have qualified.
(e)(1) No member shall serve more than two successive three-year terms, except as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii).
(2)(i) Those members serving initial terms of two or three years may serve one successive three-year term.
(ii) Those members serving initial terms of one year may serve two successive three-year terms.
§ 1209.35
Vacancies.
(a) To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Council, the Secretary may appoint a successor from the most recent nominations submitted for open positions on the Council assigned to the region that the vacant position represents, or the Secretary may obtain nominees to fill such vacancy in such manner as the Secretary, by regulation, deems appropriate. Each such successor appointment shall be for the remainder of the term vacated. A vacancy will not be required to be filled if the unexpired term is less than six months.
(b)(1) No successor appointed to a vacated term of office shall serve more than two successive three-year terms on the Council, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii).
(2)(i) Any successor serving longer than one year may serve one successive three-year term.
(ii) Any successor serving one year or less may serve two successive three-year terms.
(c) If a member of the Council consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Council, or if a member of the Council is known to be engaged in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Council may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office. If the Secretary finds the recommendation of the Council shows adequate cause, the Secretary shall remove such member from office. Further, without recommendation of the Council, a member may be removed by the Secretary upon showing of adequate cause, including the failure by a member to submit reports or remit assessments required under this part, if the Secretary determines that such member's continued service would be detrimental to the achievement of the purposes of the Act.
§ 1209.36
Procedure.
(a) At a properly convened meeting of the Council, a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.
(b) Each member of the Council will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Council, and the motion will carry if supported by a simple majority of those voting. At assembled meetings of the Council, all votes will be cast in person.
(c) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Council such action is considered necessary, the Council may take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members by mail, telephone, telegraph, or any other means of communication, but any such action shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In that event, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Council. All votes shall be recorded in Council minutes.
(d) Meetings of the Council may be conducted by electronic communications, provided that each member is
given prior notice of the meeting and has an opportunity to be present either physically or by electronic connection.
(e) The organization of the Council and the procedures for conducting meetings of the Council shall be in accordance with its bylaws,which shall be established by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1209.37
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Council shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for necessary and reasonable expenses, including a reasonable per diem allowance, as approved by the Council and the Secretary, incurred by such members in the performance of their responsibilities under this subpart.
§ 1209.38
Powers.
The Council shall have the following powers:
(a) To receive and evaluate or, on its own initiative, develop and budget for proposed programs, plans, or projects to promote the use of mushrooms, as well as proposed programs, plans, or projects for research, consumer information, or industry information, and to make recommendations to the Secretary regarding such proposals;
(b) To administer the provisions of this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(c) To appoint or employ such individuals as it may deem necessary, define the duties, and determine the compensation of such individuals;
(d) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(e) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary for action complaints of violations of the provisions of this subpart;
(f) To disseminate information to producers, importers, first handlers, or industry organizations through programs or by direct contact using the public postal system or other systems;
(g) To select committees and subcommittees of Council members, including an executive committee whose powers and membership shall be determined by the Council, subject to the approval of the Secretary, and to adopt such bylaws and other rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(h) To establish committees which may include individuals other than Council members, and pay the necessary and reasonable expenses and fees for the members of such committees;
(i) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart;
(j) With the approval of the Secretary, to enter into contracts or agreements with national, regional, or State mushroom producer organizations, or other organizations or entities, for the development and conduct of programs, plans, or projects authorized under § 1209.40 and with such producer organizations for other services necessary for the implementation of this subpart, and for the payment of the cost thereof with funds collected and received pursuant to this subpart. The Council shall not contract with any producer or importer for the purpose of mushroom promotion or research. The Council may lease physical facilities from a producer or importer for such promotion or research, if such an arrangement is determined to be cost effective by the Council and approved by the Secretary. Any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Council a program, plan, or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(2) Any such program, plan, or project shall become effective upon approval of the Secretary;
(3) The contracting or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all of its transactions and make periodic reports to the Council of activities conducted, submit accountings for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Council may require; and the Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Council contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Council shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor;
(k) With the approval of the Secretary, to invest, pending disbursement pursuant to a program, plan, or project, funds collected through assessments provided for in § 1209.51, and any other funds received by the Council in, and only in, obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, in general obligations of any State or any political subdivision thereof, in any interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit of a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, or in obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States;
(l) To develop and propose to the Secretary programs for good agricultural and good handling practices and related activities for mushrooms.
(m) Such other powers as may be approved by the Secretary; and
(n) To develop and propose to the Secretary voluntary quality and grade standards for mushrooms, if the Council determines that such quality and grade standards would benefit the promotion of mushrooms.
[58 FR 3449, Jan. 8, 1993, as amended at 74 FR 50920, Oct. 2, 2009]
§ 1209.39
Duties.
The Council shall have the following duties:
(a) To meet not less than annually, and to organize and select from among its members a chairperson and such other officers as may be necessary;
(b) To evaluate or develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval, promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information programs, plans, or projects;
(c) To prepare for each fiscal year, and submit to the Secretary for approval at least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a budget of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of this subpart, as provided in § 2109.50.
(d) To maintain such books and records, which shall be available to the Secretary for inspection and audit, and to prepare and submit such reports from time to time to the Secretary, as the Secretary may prescribe, and to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it;
(e) To prepare and make public, at least annually, a report of its activities carried out, and an accounting for funds received and expended;
(f) To cause its financial statements to be prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to be audited by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards at least once each fiscal year and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and submit a copy of each such audit to the Secretary;
(g) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Council as is given to members in order that the Secretary, or a representative of the Secretary, may attend such meetings;
(h) To submit to the Secretary such information as may be requested pursuant to this subpart;
(i) To keep minutes, books, and records that clearly reflect all the acts and transactions of the Council. Minutes of each Council meeting shall be promptly reported to the Secretary;
(j) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or importer;
(k) To follow the Department's equal opportunity/civil rights policies; and
(l) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information designed to strengthen the mushroom industry's position in the marketplace, maintain and expand existing markets and uses for mushrooms, develop new markets and uses for mushrooms, and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the mushroom industry.

# Promotion, Research, Consumer Information, and Industry Information
§ 1209.40
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Council shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan, or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans, or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information with respect to mushrooms; and
(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the sale, distribution, marketing, and use of mushrooms and mushroom products, and the creation of new products thereof, to the end that marketing and use of mushrooms may be encouraged, expanded, improved or made more acceptable. However, as prescribed by the Act, nothing in this subpart may be construed to authorize mandatory requirements for quality control, grade standards, supply management programs, or other programs that would control production or otherwise limit the right of individual producers to produce mushrooms.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Council shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) Each programs, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Council to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information. If it is found by the Council that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information, then the Council shall terminate such program, plan, or project.
(d) In carrying out any program, plan, or project, no reference to a brand name, trade name, or State or regional identification of any mushrooms or mushroom product shall be made. In addition, no program, plan, or project shall make use of unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value, or use of any competing product.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1209.50
Budget and expenses.
(a)(1) At least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Council shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart. Each such budget shall include:
(i) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(ii) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding year;
(iii) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(iv) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year.
Each budget shall include a rate of assessment for such fiscal year calculated, subject to § 1209.51(b), to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in paragraph (f). The Council may change such rate at any time, as provided in § 1209.51(b)(5).
(2)(i) Subject to paragraph (a)(2)(ii), any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting of funds from one program, plan, or project to another.
(ii) Shifts of funds which do not cause an increase in the Council's approved budget and which are consistent with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Secretary.
(b) The Council is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Council for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Council.
(c) The Council shall not use funds collected or received under this subpart to reimburse, defray, or make payment of expenditures incurred in developing, drafting, studying, lobbying on or promoting the legislation authorizing this subpart. Such prohibition includes reimbursement, defrayment, or payment to mushroom industry associations or organizations, producers or importers, lawyers, law firms, or consultants.
(d) The Council may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Council shall retain complete control of their use. The donor may recommend that the whole or a portion of the contribution be applied to an ongoing program, plan, or project.
(e) The Council shall reimburse the Secretary, from funds received by the Council, for administrative costs incurred by the Secretary in implementing and administering this subpart, except for the salaries of Department employees incurred in conducting referenda.
(f) The Council may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established, except that the funds in the reserve shall not exceed approximately one fiscal year's expenses. Such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this subpart.
(g) With the approval of the Secretary, the Council may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Council.
§ 1209.51
Assessments.
(a) Any first handler initially purchasing, or otherwise placing into the current of commerce, mushrooms produced in the United States shall, in the manner as prescribed by the Council and approved by the Secretary, collect an assessment based upon the number of pounds of mushrooms marketed in the United States for the account of the producer, and remit the assessment to the Council.
(b) The rate of assessment effective during any fiscal year shall be the rate specified in the budget for such fiscal year approved by the Secretary, except that:
(1) The rate of assessment during the first year this subpart is in effect shall be one-quarter of one cent per pound of mushrooms marketed, or the equivalent thereof.
(2) The rate of assessment during the second year this subpart is in effect shall not exceed one-third of one cent per pound of mushrooms marketed, or the equivalent thereof.
(3) The rate of assessment during the third year this subpart is in effect shall not exceed one-half of one cent per pound of mushrooms marketed, or the equivalent thereof.
(4) The rate of assessment during each of the fourth and following years this subpart is in effect shall not exceed one cent per pound of mushrooms marketed, or the equivalent thereof.
(5) The Council may change the rate of assessment for a fiscal year at any time with the approval of the Secretary as necessary to reflect changed circumstances, except that any such changed rate may not exceed the level of assessment specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (3), or (4), whichever is applicable.
(c) Any person marketing mushrooms of that person's own production to consumers in the United States, either directly or through retail or wholesale outlets, shall be considered a first handler and shall remit to the Council an assessment on such mushrooms at the rate per-pound then in effect, and in such form and manner prescribed by the Council.
(d) Only one assessment shall be paid on each unit of mushrooms marketed.
(e)(1) Each importer of mushrooms shall pay an assessment to the Council on mushrooms imported for marketing in the United States, through the U.S. Customs Service or in such other manner as may be established by rules and regulations approved by the Secretary.
(2) The per-pound assessment rate for imported mushrooms shall be the same as the rate provided for mushrooms produced in the United States.
(3) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported mushrooms that are identified by the numbers, 0709.51.01 and 0709.59 in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States or any other number used to identify fresh mushrooms.
(4) The assessments due on imported mushrooms shall be paid when the mushrooms are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States,
or at such other time as may be established by rules and regulations prescribed by the Council and approved by the Secretary and under such procedures as are provided in such rules and regulations.
(5) Only one assessment shall be paid on each unit of mushrooms imported.
(f) The collection of assessments under this section shall commence on all mushrooms marketed in or imported into the United States on or after the date established by the Secretary, and shall continue until terminated by the Secretary. If the Council is not constituted on the date the first assessments are to be collected, the Secretary shall have the authority to receive assessments on behalf of the Council and may hold such assessments until the Council is constituted, then remit such assessments to the Council.
(g)(1) Each person responsible for remitting assessments under paragraphs (a), (c), or (e) shall remit the amounts due from assessments to the Council on a monthly basis no later than the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the mushrooms were marketed, in such manner as prescribed by the Council.
(2)(i) A late payment charge shall be imposed on any person that fails to remit to the Council the total amount for which the person is liable on or before the payment due date established under this section. The amount of the late payment charge shall be prescribed in rules and regulations as approved by the Secretary.
(ii) An additional charge shall be imposed on any person subject to a late payment charge, in the form of interest on the outstanding portion of any amount for which the person is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed in rules and regulations as approved by the Secretary.
(3) Any assessment that is determined to be owing at a date later than the payment due established under this section, due to a person's failure to submit a report to the Council by the payment due date, shall be considered to have been payable on the payment due date. Under such a situation, paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section shall be applicable.
(h) The Council, with the approval of the Secretary, may enter into agreements authorizing other organizations to collect assessments in its behalf. Any such organization shall be required to maintain the confidentiality of such information as is required by the Council for collection purposes. Any reimbursement by the Council for such services shall be based on reasonable charges for services rendered.
(i) The Council is hereby authorized to accept advance payment of assessments for the fiscal year by any person, that shall be credited toward any amount for which such person may become liable. The Council shall not be obligated to pay interest on any advance payment.
[58 FR 3449, Jan. 8, 1993, as amended at 72 FR 41427, July 30, 2007]
§ 1209.52
Exemption from assessment.
(a) The following persons shall be exempt from assessments under this part:
(1) A person who produces or imports, on average, 500,000 pounds or less of mushrooms annually shall be exempt from assessments under this part.
(2) [Reserved]
(b) To claim such exemption, such persons shall apply to the Council, in the form and manner prescribed in the rules and regulations.
(c) Mushrooms produced in the United States that are exported are exempt from assessment and are subject to such safeguards as prescribed in rules and regulations to prevent improper use of this exemption.
(d) Domestic and imported mushrooms used for processing are exempt from assessment and are subject to such safeguards as prescribed in rules and regulations to prevent improper use of this exemption.
[58 FR 3449, Jan. 8, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 2756, Jan. 14, 2005; 80 FR 82025, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1209.53
Influencing governmental action.
No funds received by the Council under this subpart shall in any manner be used for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental policy or action, except to develop and recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart, and to submit to the
Secretary proposed voluntary grade and quality standards for mushrooms.

# Reports, Books and Records
§ 1209.60
Reports.
(a) Each producer marketing mushrooms of that person's own production directly to consumers, and each first handler responsible for the collection of assessments under § 1209.51(a) shall be required to report monthly to the Council, on a form provided by the Council, such information as may be required under this subpart or any rules and regulations issued thereunder. Such information shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) The first handler's name, address, and telephone number;
(2) Date of report, which is also the date of payment to the Council;
(3) Period covered by the report;
(4) The number of pounds of mushrooms purchased, initially transferred, or that in any other manner are subject to the collection of assessments, and a copy of a certificate of exemption, claiming exemption under § 1209.52 from those who claim such exemptions;
(5) The amount of assessments remitted; and
(6) The basis, if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than the number of pounds of mushrooms determined under paragraph (a)(4) multiplied by the applicable assessment rate.
(b) If determined necessary by the Council and approved by the Secretary, each importer shall file with the Council periodic reports, on a form provided by the Council, containing at least the following information:
(1) The importer's name, address, and telephone number;
(2) The quantity of mushrooms entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States during the period covered by the report; and
(3) The amount of assessments paid to the U.S. Customs Service at the time of such entry or withdrawal.
(c) The words
final report
shall be shown on the last report at the end of each fiscal year.
§ 1209.61
Books and records.
Each persons who is subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Council or the Secretary such books and records as are deemed necessary by the Council, with the approval of the Secretary, to carry out the provisions of this subpart and any rules and regulations issued hereunder, including such books and records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such books and records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the fiscal year of their applicability.
§ 1209.62
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart, and the rules and regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Council, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of the Department, and all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Council members, producers, importers, or first handlers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this subpart, together with a
statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1209.70
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Council shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1209.71
Suspension or termination.
(a) Whenever the Secretary finds that this subpart or any provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, the Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of this subpart or such provision thereof.
(b)(1) Five years after the date on which this subpart becomes effective, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among producers and importers to determine whether they favor continuation, termination, or suspension of this subpart.
(2) Effective beginning three years after the date on which this subpart becomes effective, the Secretary, on request of a representative group comprising 30 percent or more of the number of mushroom producers and importers, may conduct a referendum to determine whether producers and importers favor termination or suspension of this subpart.
(3) Whenever the Secretary determines that suspension or termination of this subpart is favored by a majority of the mushroom producers and importers voting in a referendum under paragraphs (b) (1) or (2) who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in producing and importing mushrooms and who, on average, annually produced and imported more than 50 percent of the volume of mushrooms produced and imported by all those producers and importers voting in the referendum, the Secretary shall:
(i) Suspend or terminate, as appropriate, collection of assessments within six months after making such determination; and
(ii) Suspend or terminate, as appropriate, all activities under this subpart in an orderly manner as soon as practicable.
(4) Referenda conducted under this subsection shall be conducted in such manner as the Secretary may prescribe.
§ 1209.72
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Council shall recommend not more than five of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Council. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all the funds and property owned, in the possession of, or under the control of the Council, including any claims unpaid or property not delivered, or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Council under any contract or agreement entered into by it under this subpart;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements, and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Council and of the trustees, to such persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Council or the trustees under this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered under this subpart shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Council and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be used, to the extent practicable, in the interest of continuing one or more of the promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information programs, plans, or projects authorized under this subpart.
§ 1209.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any rule and regulation issued under this subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to such provisions, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability that shall have arisen or may hereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any such rules or regulations;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any such rules or regulations; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, the Secretary, or any person with respect to any such violation.
§ 1209.74
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Council shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts of either commission or omission of such member or employee under this subpart, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1209.75
Patents, copyrights, inventions, publications, and product formulations.
Any patents, copyrights, inventions, publications, or product formulations developed through the use of funds received by the Council under this subpart shall be the property of the United States Government as represented by the Council and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sale, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, inventions, publications, or product formulations inure to the benefit of the Council and be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Council. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1209.72 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.
§ 1209.76
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the Council or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1209.77
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

# Subpart B—Administrative Requirements

# Source:
58 FR 8197, Feb. 11, 1993, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1209.200
Terms defined.
Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, the definitions of terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as the definitions in Subpart A—Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order of this part.

# Nomination Procedures
§ 1209.230
Reallocation of Council members.
Pursuant to § 1209.30, the number of members on the Council shall be as follows:
(a) Region 1: All other States including the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico except for Pennsylvania and California—3 Members.
(b) Region 2: The State of Pennsylvania—4 Members.
(c) Region 3: The State of California—1 Member.
(d) Region 4: Importers—1 Member.
[84 FR 17062, Apr. 24, 2019]
§ 1209.231
Nominations.
Nominations shall be made at regional caucuses of producers or importers, or by mail ballot in accordance with the procedures prescribed in § 1209.31 of this part. Proxy voting by producers and importers shall not be permitted at a regional caucus or in a mail ballot. Each regional caucus and
mail ballot shall be scheduled so as to ensure that the nominations for each position that will be open at the beginning of the following year are received by the Secretary by August 1, or such other date approved by the Secretary.
§ 1209.233
Regional caucus chairpersons.
(a) Regional caucus chairpersons shall be elected by a simple majority vote of eligible voters in attendance. Such elections shall be coordinated by the Council, except for the initial elections, which shall be coordinated by a representative of the Secretary.
(b) Regional caucus chairpersons will coordinate the entire nomination process. In conducting the nominations process, each regional caucus chairperson shall ensure that:
(1) Voting for producer nominees is limited to producers, and voting for importer nominees is limited to importers; and
(2) Producer candidates for nomination are producers, and importer candidates for nomination are importers.
(c) Within 14 days after completion of each regional caucus, each chairperson shall provide the Secretary with the following information:
(1) The identification of that region's two nominees for each open position on the Council; and
(2) A typed copy of the regional caucus's minutes.
(d) The chairperson of each regional caucus shall provide nominees with qualification statements and other specified information. Each nominee will be contacted by the chairperson and asked to forward such completed documentation to the Council within 14 days after completion of the regional caucus, except for the initial nominees, which shall be asked to forward such completed documentation to the Secretary.
(e) The tenure of the chairperson shall only be for the duration of the regional caucus and the preparation of required documentation.
§ 1209.235
Mail balloting.
(a) After the initial regional caucuses, the Council may conduct nominations of individuals as candidates for appointment to the Council by mail ballot in lieu of a regional caucus.
(b)(1) In the event of a mail ballot, all qualified individuals in a region interested in serving as a member on the Council or persons who are interested in nominating an individual to serve on the Council shall submit to the Council in writing such information as name, mailing address, number of pounds of mushrooms produced or imported, or such other information as may be required, in order to place such individual on the ballot.
(2) Notice of mail balloting to nominate candidates for a position on the Council shall be publicized by the Council to producers or importers in the region involved, and to the Secretary, at least 120 days before the region's nominee ballot is issued.
(3) In proposing nominees for inclusion on a mail ballot, proposed nominations must be received by the Council at least 30 days before the region's nominee ballot is issued.
(c) Once proposed nominations have been submitted from the applicable region, the Council shall cause each proposed nomination, if the individual qualifies, to be placed on the region's nominee ballot. The Council then shall mail a ballot to each known producer or importer within the region.
(d) Distribution of ballots shall be announced by press releases, furnishing pertinent information on balloting, issued by the Council through newspapers and other publications having general circulation among producers in the mushroom producing areas involved or among mushroom importers.
(e) Each producer or importer shall cast a ballot for each open position on the Council assigned to the region in accordance with the procedures prescribed in § 1209.31 of this part. The completed ballot must be returned to the Council or its designee within 30 days after the ballot is issued.
(f) Within 45 days after a mail ballot is issued, the Council shall validate the ballots cast, tabulate the votes, and provide the Secretary with the results of the vote and the identification of the region's two nominees for each open position on the Council.
(g) The Council shall provide nominees with qualification statements and
other specified information. Each nominee selected in the mail ballot will be contacted by the Council and asked to forward such completed documentation to the Council within 14 days of such notification.
§ 1209.237
Appointment.
If an employee, partner, officer, or shareholder of a producer or importer is a current member of the Council, no nominee who is also an employee, partner, officer, or shareholder of such producer or importer shall be appointed to the Council. A Council member shall be disqualified from serving on the Council if such individual ceases to be affiliated with a producer or importer within the region the Council member represents.

# General
§ 1209.239
Financial statements.
(a) As requested by the Secretary, the Council shall prepare and submit financial statements to the Secretary on a periodic basis. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, year-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Secretary within 30 days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Council shall submit annually to the Secretary an annual financial statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year to which it applies.

# Assessments
§ 1209.251
Payment of assessments.
(a) Each first handler responsible for collecting assessments on domestic mushrooms shall collect the amounts assessed and remit such amounts to the Council on a monthly basis not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the mushrooms were marketed to or through the first handler.
(b) Each producer responsible for paying any assessment amount on the producer's own mushrooms shall remit such amount to the Council on a monthly basis not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the mushrooms were marketed by the producer.
(c) Each importer shall be responsible for remittance to the Council of any assessment amount not collected by the U.S. Customs Service at the time of entry or withdrawal for consumption into the United States. Any such assessment amount shall be remitted to the Council on a monthly basis not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the month of entry or withdrawal for consumption into the United States. Any person who imports mushrooms, as principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee for any person who produces mushrooms outside the United States for marketing in the United States shall be considered an importer.
(d) Remittance shall be by check, draft, or money order payable to the Mushroom Council, and shall be accompanied by a report, on a form provided by the Council.
(e) A late payment charge shall be imposed on any first handler or importer who fails to make timely remittance to the Council of the total assessment amount for which the person is liable. Such late payment charge shall be imposed on any assessments not received by the last day of the month following the month in which the mushrooms involved were marketed or, in the case of imports, not collected by the U.S. Customs Service at the time of entry or withdrawal for consumption into the United States. This one-time late payment charge shall be 10 percent of the assessments due before interest charges have accrued. The late payment charge will not be applied to any late payments postmarked within 15 days after the end of the month such assessments are due.
(f) In addition to the late payment charge, interest shall be charged at a rate of one and one-half percent per month on the outstanding balance, including the late payment charge and any accrued interest, of any account that remains delinquent beyond the last day of the second month following the month the mushrooms involved
were marketed. However, first handlers paying their assessments, in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section, will not be subject to the one and one-half percent per month interest under this paragraph until the last day of the second month after such assessments are due under paragraph (h)(2) of this section. In the case of imports, such a rate of interest will be charged to any account that remains delinquent on any assessments not collected by the U.S. Customs Service at the time of entry or withdrawal for consumption into the United States. Such a rate of interest will continue to be charged monthly until the outstanding balance is paid to the Council.
(g) Any assessment determined by the Council at a date later than prescribed by this section, because of a person's failure to submit a report to the Council when due, shall be considered to have been payable by the date it would have been due if the report had been filed on time. A late payment charge and monthly interest charges on the outstanding balance shall be applicable to such unpaid assessment in accordance with paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(h) In lieu of the monthly assessment payment and reporting requirements of § 1209.260 of this subpart and § 1209.60 of this part, the Council may permit a first handler to make advance payment of the total estimated assessment amount due to the Council for the ensuing fiscal year, or portion thereof, prior to the actual determination of assessable mushrooms.
(1) Each person shall provide an initial report estimating assessable mushrooms. The Council may request additional information on such estimate.
(2) Each person shall provide a final report of actual marketings during the period involved and remit any unpaid assessments not later than the fifteenth day of the month following the end of the period covered.
(3) Any person whose prepayment exceeds the amount paid shall be reimbursed for the amount of overpayment. The Council shall not, in any case, be obligated to pay interest on any advance payment.
§ 1209.252
Exemptions and exemption procedures.
(a)
Types of exemptions and requirements.
(1) Any person who produces or imports, on average, 500,000 pounds or less of mushrooms annually and who desires to claim an exemption from assessments during a fiscal year shall apply to the Council, on a form provided by the Council, for a Certificate of Exemption. The producer or importer shall certify that the person's production or importation of mushrooms shall not exceed 500,000 pounds, on average, for the fiscal year for which the exemption is claimed. An average shall be calculated by averaging a person's estimated production or importation for the fiscal year for which an exemption is claimed with the person's production or importation in the preceding fiscal year.
(2) In addition to the exemption provided for in § 1209.52, a producer or importer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production or handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(i) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(ii) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer or importer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced or imported by a person that also produces or imports conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(iii) The producer or importer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522)(OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(iv) Any producer or importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(3) To apply for an exemption for organic mushrooms:
(i) An eligible mushroom producer shall submit a request for exemption to the Council on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(ii) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(A) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(B) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(C) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(D) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(E) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(F) Such other information as may be required by the Council, with the approval of the Secretary.
(iii) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Council will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Council will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(iv) An eligible mushroom importer shall submit a request for exemption from assessment on imported certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” mushrooms, or mushrooms certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of producers in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Council will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer. If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Council must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Council for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Council that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(v) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
(b) On receipt of an application, the Council shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Council then will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to each person that is eligible to receive one. Each person who is exempt from assessment must provide an exemption number to the first handler in order not to be subject to collection of an assessment on mushrooms. First handlers and importers, except as otherwise authorized by the Council, shall maintain records showing the exemptee's name and address along with the exemption number assigned by the Council. Importers who are exempt from assessment shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by the U.S. Customs Service and shall apply to the Council for reimbursement of such assessments paid.
(c) Any person who desires to renew the exemption from assessments for a subsequent fiscal year shall reapply to the Council, on a form provided by the Council, for a certificate of exemption.
(d) The Council may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Council reports
on the disposition of exempt mushrooms.
[58 FR 3449, Jan. 8, 1993, as amended at 70 FR 2756, Jan. 14, 2005; 80 FR 82026, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Reports
§ 1209.260
Reports.
Each first handler shall be required to report monthly to the Council such information as may be required under § 1209.60(a) of this part. In addition, each first handler shall be required to provide the tax identification number or social security number of each producer the first handler has dealt with during the time period covered by the report.
[58 FR 8197, Feb. 11, 1993, as amended at 60 FR 13614, Mar. 14, 1995]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1209.280
OMB control numbers.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501
et seq.
is OMB control number 0581-0093, except for the Council nominee background statement form which is assigned OMB control number 0505-0001.

# Subpart C—Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection With the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order

# Source:
62 FR 66975, Dec. 23, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1209.300
General.
A referendum to determine whether eligible producers and importers favor the amendment, continuation, suspension, or termination of the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with these procedures.
[74 FR 18464, Apr. 23, 2009]
§ 1209.301
Definitions.
Unless otherwise defined below, the definition of terms used in these procedures shall have the same meaning as the definitions in the Order.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Order
means the Mushroom Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order, including an amendment to the Order.
(c)
Referendum agent
or agent means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
(d)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary.
(e)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, mushroom production facilities and equipment as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property, and
(2) So-called “joint ventures”, wherein one or more parties to the agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed capital and others contributed labor, management, equipment, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties so that it results in the production or importation of fresh mushrooms and the authority to transfer title to the mushrooms so produced or imported.
(f)
Eligible producer
means any person or entity defined as a producer who produces, on average, over 500,000 pounds annually of fresh mushrooms during the representative period and who:
(1) Owns or shares in the ownership of mushroom production facilities and equipment resulting in the ownership of the mushrooms produced;
(2) Rents mushroom production facilities and equipment resulting in the ownership of all or a portion of the mushrooms produced;
(3) Owns mushroom production facilities and equipment but does not manage them and, as compensation, obtains the ownership of a portion of the mushrooms produced; or
(4) Is a party in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce mushrooms who share the risk of loss and receive a share of the mushrooms produced. No other acquisition of legal title to mushrooms shall be deemed to result in persons becoming eligible producers.
(g)
Eligible importer
means any person or entity defined as an importer who imports, on average, over 500,000 pounds annually of fresh mushrooms during the representative period. Importation occurs when commodities originating outside the United States are entered or withdrawn from the U.S. Customs Service for consumption in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-produced mushrooms immediately upon release by the U.S. Customs Service, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of mushrooms from the U.S. Customs Service when such mushrooms are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States.
§ 1209.302
Voting.
(a) Each person who is an eligible producer or importer, as defined in this subpart, at the time of the referendum and during the representative period, shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. However, each producer in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce mushrooms, in which more than one of the parties is a producer, shall be entitled to cast one ballot in the referendum covering only such producer's share of the ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate producer or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible producing or importing entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such producer or importer entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible producer or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible producing or importing entity, and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) Ballots are to be cast by mail or fax.
§ 1209.303
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner herein provided, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the time of commencement and termination of the period during which ballots may be cast.
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. Ballot material shall provide for recording essential information including that needed for ascertaining:
(1) Whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter;
(2) The total volume of mushrooms produced by the voting producer during the representative period; and
(3) The total volume of mushrooms imported by the voting importer during the representative period.
(c) Give reasonable advance public notice of the referendum:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible producers and importers, whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the Order. No person who claims to
be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot.
(e) Collect and safeguard ballots received by fax.
(f) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results.
(g) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(h) Prepare an announcement of the results for the public.
§ 1209.304
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals deemed necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions hereunder. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1209.305
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast; but, should they, or any of them, deem that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1209.306
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1209.307
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the identity or vote of any person covered under the Act shall be held confidential and shall not be disclosed.
Pt. 1210

# PART 1210—WATERMELON RESEARCH AND PROMOTION PLAN

# Subpart A—Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan

# Definitions
Sec.
1210.301
Secretary.
1210.302
Act.
1210.303
Plan.
1210.304
Board.
1210.305
Watermelon.
1210.306
Producer.
1210.307
Handle.
1210.308
Handler.
1210.309
Person.
1210.310
Fiscal period and marketing year.
1210.311
Programs and projects.
1210.312
Promotion.
1210.313
Research.
1210.314
Importer.
1210.315
United States.

# National Watermelon Promotion Board
1210.320
Establishment and membership.
1210.321
Nominations and selection.
1210.322
Term of office.
1210.323
Acceptance.
1210.324
Vacancies.
1210.325
Procedure.
1210.326
Compensation and reimbursement.
1210.327
Powers.
1210.328
Duties.

# Research and Promotion
1210.330
Policy and objective.
1210.331
Programs and projects.

# Expenses and Assessments
1210.340
Budget and expenses.
1210.341
Assessments.
1210.342
Exemption from assessment.
1210.343
[Reserved]
1210.344
Operating reserve.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1210.350
Reports.
1210.351
Books and records.
1210.352
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1210.360
Right of the Secretary.
1210.361
Personal liability.
1210.362
Influencing government action.
1210.363
Suspension or termination.
1210.364
Proceedings after termination.
1210.365
Effect of termination or amendment.
1210.366
Separability.
1210.367
Patents, copyrights, inventions, and publications.

# Subpart B—Nominating Procedures

# Producer and Handler Members
1210.400
Terms defined.
1210.401
District conventions.
1210.402
Voter and board member nominee eligibility.
1210.403
Voting procedures.

# Importer Members
1210.404
Importer member nomination and selection.

# Public Member
1210.405
Public member nominations and selection.

# Subpart C—Rules and Regulations

# Definitions
1210.500
Terms defined.

# General
1210.501
Realignment of districts.
1210.502
Board members.
1210.504
Contracts.
1210.505
Department of Agriculture costs.

# Assessments
1210.515
Levy of assessments.
1210.516
Exemption for organic watermelons.
1210.517
Determination of handler.
1210.518
Payment of assessments.
1210.519
Failure to report and remit.
1210.520
Refunds.
1210.521
Reports of disposition of exempted watermelons.

# Records
1210.530
Retention period for records.
1210.531
Availability of records.
1210.532
Confidential books, records, and reports.

# Miscellaneous
1210.540
OMB assigned numbers.

# Subpart D—Referendum Procedures
1210.600
General.
1210.601
Definitions.
1210.602
Voting.
1210.603
Instructions.
1210.604
Subagents.
1210.605
Ballots.
1210.606
Referendum report.
1210.607
Confidential information.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 4901-4916 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
53 FR 51091, Dec. 20, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan

# Source:
54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1210.301
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1210.302
Act.
Act
means the Watermelon Research and Promotion Act of 1985 (Title XVI, Subtitle C of Pub. L. 99-198, 99th Congress, effective January 1, 1986, 99 Stat. 1622), as amended.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10797, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.303
Plan.
Plan
means this watermelon research and promotion Plan issued by the Secretary pursuant to the Act.
§ 1210.304
Board.
Board
means the National Watermelon Promotion Board, hereinafter established pursuant to § 1210.320.
§ 1210.305
Watermelon.
Watermelon
means all varieties of the Family Curcubitaceae; Genus and Species; Citrullus Lanatus, popularly referred to as watermelon grown by producers in the United States or imported into the United States.
[60 FR 10797, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.306
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in the growing of 10 acres or more of watermelons including any person who owns or shares the ownership and risk of loss of such watermelon crop.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10797, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.307
Handle.
Handle
means to grade, pack, process, sell, transport, purchase, or in any
other way to place or cause watermelons to which one has title or possession to be placed in the current of commerce. Such term shall not include the transportation or delivery of field run watermelons by the producer thereof to a handler for grading, sizing or processing.
§ 1210.308
Handler.
Handler
means any person (except a common or contract carrier of watermelons owned by another person) who handles watermelons, including a producer who handles watermelons of the producer's own production. For the purposes of this subpart, the term “handler” means the “first” person who performs the handling functions.
§ 1210.309
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or other entity.
§ 1210.310
Fiscal period and marketing year.
Fiscal period
and
marketing year
mean the 12 month period from January 1 to December 31 or such other period which may be approved by the Secretary.
§ 1210.311
Programs and projects.
Programs
and
projects
mean those research, development, advertising, or promotion programs or projects developed by the Board pursuant to § 1210.331.
§ 1210.312
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action taken by the Board, pursuant to the Act, to present a favorable image for watermelons to the public with the express intent of improving the competitive position of watermelons in the marketplace and stimulating sales of watermelons, and shall include, but not be limited to, paid advertising.
§ 1210.313
Research.
Research
means any type of systematic study or investigation, and/or the evaluation of any study or investigation designed to advance the image, desirability, usage, marketability, production, or quality of watermelons.
§ 1210.314
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports watermelons into the United States as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee for any person who produces watermelons outside of the United States for sale in the United States.
[60 FR 10797, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.315
United States.
United States
means each of the several States and the District of Columbia.
[60 FR 10797, Feb. 28, 1995]

# National Watermelon Promotion Board
§ 1210.320
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a National Watermelon Promotion Board, hereinafter called the “Board.” The Board shall be composed of producers, handlers, importers, and one public representative appointed by the Secretary. An equal number of producer and handler representatives shall be nominated by producers and handlers pursuant to § 1210.321. The Board shall also include one or more representatives of importers, who shall be nominated in such manner as may be prescribed by the Secretary. The public representative shall be nominated by the Board members in such manner as may be prescribed by the Secretary. If producers, handlers, and importers fail to select nominees for appointment to the Board, the Secretary may appoint persons on the basis of representation as provided in § 1210.324. If the Board fails to adhere to procedures prescribed by the Secretary for nominating a public representative, the Secretary shall appoint such representative.
(b) Membership on the Board shall be determined on the basis of two handler and two producer representatives for each of seven districts in the contiguous States of the United States. Such districts as hereby established have approximately equal production volume according to the three-year average production as set forth in the USDA Crop Production Annual Summary Reports for 1979, 1980, and 1981. They are:
District #1
—South Florida including all areas south of State Highway 50.
District #2
—North Florida including all areas north of State Highway 50.
District #3
—The States of Alabama and Georgia.
District #4
—The States of South Carolina, North Carolina, Virginia, Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Michigan, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Vermont, New Hampshire, and Maine.
District #5
—The States of Mississippi, Kentucky, Tennessee, Louisiana, Arkansas, Missouri, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Wisconsin, Minnesota, North Dakota, South Dakota, Colorado, and New Mexico.
District #6
—The State of Texas.
District #7
—The States of Arizona, California, Nevada, Utah, Oregon, Idaho, Wyoming, Washington, and Montana.
(c) After two years, the Board shall review the districts to determine whether realignment of the districts is necessary and at least every five years thereafter the Board shall make such a review. In making such review, it shall give consideration to:
(1) The most recent three years USDA production reports or Board assessment reports if USDA production reports are unavailable;
(2) Shifts and trends in quantities of watermelon produced, and
(3) Other relevant factors.
As a result of this review, the Board may realign the districts subject to the approval of the Secretary. Any such realignment shall be recommended by the Board to the Secretary at least six months prior to the date of the call for nominations and shall become effective at least 30 days prior to such date.
(d) Importer representation on the Board shall be proportionate to the percentage of assessments paid by importers to the Board, except that at least one representative of importers shall serve on the Board.
(e) Not later than 5 years after the date that importers are subject to the Plan, and every 5 years thereafter, the Secretary shall evaluate the average annual percentage of assessments paid by importers during the 3-year period preceding the date of the evaluation and adjust, to the extent practicable, the number of importer representatives on the Board.
(f) The Board consists of 14 producers, 14 handlers, at least one importer, and one public member appointed by the Secretary.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10797, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.321
Nominations and selection.
The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board from nominations to be made in the following manner:
(a) There shall be two individuals nominated for each vacant position.
(b) The Board shall issue a call for nominations by February first of each year in which an election is to be held. The call shall include at a minimum, the following information:
(1) A list of the vacancies and qualifications as to producers and handlers by district and to importers nationally for which nominees may be submitted.
(2) The date by which the nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary for consideration to be in compliance with § 1210.323 of this subpart.
(3) A list of those States, by district, entitled to participate in the nomination process.
(4) The date, time, and location of any next scheduled meeting of the Board, national and State producer or handler associations, importers, and district conventions, if any.
(c) Nominations for producer and handler positions that will become vacant shall be made by district convention in the district entitled to nominate. Notice of such convention shall be publicized to all producers and handlers within such district, and the Secretary at least ten days prior to said event. The notice shall have attached to it the call for nominations from the Board. The responsibility for convening and publicizing the district convention shall be that of the then members of the Board from that district.
(d) Nominations for importer positions that become vacant may be made by mail ballot, nomination conventions, or by other means prescribed by the Secretary. The Board shall provide notice of such vacancies and the nomination process to all importers through press releases and any other available means as well as direct mailing to known importers. All importers may
participate in the nomination process. A person who both imports and handles watermelons may participate in the nomination process and serve on the Board as either an importer or handler, but not both.
(e) All producers and handlers within the district may participate in the convention:
Provided,
That a person that produces and handles watermelons may vote for handler members only if the producer purchased watermelons from other producers, in a combined total volume that is equal to 25 percent or more of the producer's own production; or the combined total volume of watermelon handled by the producer from the producer's own production and purchases from other producer's production is more than 50 percent of the producer's own production; and
provided further,
That if a producer or handler is engaged in the production or handling of watermelons in more than one State or district, the producer or handler shall participate within the State or district in which the producer or handler so elects in writing to the Board and such election shall remain controlling until revoked in writing to the Board.
(f) The district convention chairperson shall conduct the selection process for the nominees in accordance with procedures to be adopted at each such convention, subject to requirements set in § 1210.321(e).
(1) No State in a multi-State district shall have more than three producer and handler representatives concurrently on the Board.
(2) Each State represented at the district convention shall have one vote for each producer position and one vote for each handler position from the District on the Board, which vote shall be determined by the producers and handlers from that State by majority vote. Each State shall further have an additional vote for each five hundred thousand hundredweight volume as determined by the three year average annual crop production summary reports of the USDA, or if such reports are not published, then the three year average of the Board assessment reports;
Provided,
That for the first two calls for nominees, the USDA Crop Production Annual Summary Reports for 1979, 1980, and 1981 will be controlling as to any additional production volume votes.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10798, Feb. 28, 1995; 79 FR 17852, Mar. 31, 2014; 85 FR 56474, Sept. 14, 2020]
§ 1210.322
Term of office.
(a) The term of office of Board members shall be three years.
(b) Except in the case of mid-term vacancies, the term of office shall begin on January 1, or such other date as may be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
(c) Board members shall serve during the term of office for which they are selected and have qualified, and until their successors are selected and have qualified.
(d) No person shall serve more than two successive terms of office.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10798, Feb. 28, 1995; 60 FR 13515, Mar. 13, 1995]
§ 1210.323
Acceptance.
Each person nominated for membership on the Board shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary. Such written acceptance shall accompany the nominations list required by § 1210.321.
§ 1210.324
Vacancies.
(a) In the event any member of the Board ceases to be a member of the category of members from which the member was appointed to the Board, such position shall automatically become vacant.
(b) If a member of the Board consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Board, or if a member of the Board engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office. If the Secretary finds the recommendation of the Board shows adequate cause, the Secretary shall remove such member from office. Further, without recommendation of the Board, a member may be removed by the Secretary upon showing of adequate cause, if the Secretary determines that the person's continual services would be detrimental to the purposes of the Act.
(c) To fill any vacancy caused by the failure of any person selected as a member of the Board to qualify, or in the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member, a successor shall be nominated and selected in the manner specified in § 1210.321, except that said nomination and replacement shall not be required if the unexpired term of office is less than six months. In the event of failure to provide nominees for such vacancies, the Secretary may appoint other eligible persons.
§ 1210.325
Procedure.
(a) A simple majority of Board members shall constitute a quorum and any action of the Board shall require the concurring votes of a majority of those present and voting. At assembled meetings all votes shall be cast in person.
(b) For routine and noncontroversial matters which do not require deliberation and the exchange of views, and for matters of an emergency nature when there is not enough time to call an assembled meeting, the Board may act upon a majority of concurring votes of its members cast by mail, telegraph, telephone, or by other means of communication;
Provided,
That each member receives an accurate, full, and substantially identical explanation of each proposition. Telephone votes shall be promptly confirmed in writing. All votes shall be recorded in the Board minutes.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10798, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.326
Compensation and reimbursement.
Board members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as Board members.
§ 1210.327
Powers.
The Board shall have the following powers subject to § 1210.363:
(a) To administer the provisions of this Plan in accordance with its terms and conditions;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and conditions of this Plan;
(c) To require its employees to receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this Plan; and
(d) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this Plan.
§ 1210.328
Duties.
The Board shall, among other things, have the following duties:
(a) To meet, organize, and select from among its members a president and such other officers as may be necessary; to select committees and subcommittees of board members; to adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable; and it may establish working committees of persons other than Board members.
(b) To employ such persons as it may deem necessary and to determine the compensation and define the duties of each; and to protect the handling of Board funds through fidelity bonds;
(c) To prepare and submit for the Secretary's approval, prior to the beginning of each fiscal period, a recommended rate of assessment and a fiscal period budget of the anticipated expenses in the administration of this Plan, including the probable costs of all programs and projects;
(d) To develop programs and projects, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, and enter into contracts or agreements, with the approval of the Secretary, for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, development, advertising or promotion, and the payment of the costs thereof with funds received pursuant to this Plan;
(e) To keep minutes, books, and records which clearly reflect all of the acts and transactions of the Board. Minutes of each Board meeting shall be promptly reported to the Secretary;
(f) To prepare and submit to the Secretary such reports from time to time as may be prescribed for appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of funds entrusted to the Board;
(g) To cause the books of the Board to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each fiscal period, and at such other time as the Board may deem necessary. The report of such audit shall show the receipt
and expenditure of funds received pursuant to this part. Two copies of each such report shall be furnished to the Secretary and a copy of each such report shall be made available at the principal office of the Board for inspection by producers, handlers, and importers;
(h) To investigate violations of the Plan and report the results of such investigations to the Secretary for appropriate action to enforce the provisions of the Plan;
(i) To periodically prepare, make public, and make available to producers, handlers, and importers reports of its activities carried out.
(j) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board and its subcommittees as is given to its members;
(k) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, handler, or importer;
(l) To furnish the Secretary such information as the Secretary may request;
(m) To notify watermelon producers, handlers, and importers of all Board meetings through press releases or other means;
(n) To appoint and convene, from time to time, working committees drawn from producers, handlers, importers, and the public to assist in the development of research and promotion programs for watermelons; and
(o) To develop and recommend such rules and regulations to the Secretary for approval as may be necessary for the development and execution of programs or projects to effectuate the declared purpose of the Act.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10798, Feb. 28, 1995]

# Research and Promotion
§ 1210.330
Policy and objective.
It shall be the policy of the Board to carry out an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of research, development, advertising, and promotion in order to:
(a) Strengthen watermelons' competitive position in the marketplace,
(b) Maintain and expand existing domestic and foreign markets, and
(c) Develop new or improved markets.
It shall be the objective of the Board to carry out programs and projects which will provide maximum benefit to the watermelon industry.
§ 1210.331
Programs and projects.
The Board shall develop and submit to the Secretary for approval any programs or projects authorized in this section. Such programs or projects shall provide for:
(a) The establishment, issuance, effectuation and administration of appropriate programs or projects for advertising and other sales promotion of watermelons designed to strengthen the position of the watermelon industry in the marketplace and to maintain, develop, and expand markets for watermelon;
(b) Establishing and carrying out research and development projects and studies to the end that the acquisition of knowledge pertaining to watermelons or their consumption and use may be encouraged or expanded, or to the end that the marketing and use of watermelons may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more efficient:
Provided,
That quality control, grade standards, supply management programs or other programs that would otherwise limit the right of the individual watermelon producer to produce watermelons shall not be conducted under, or as a part of, this Plan;
(c) The development and expansion of watermelon sales in foreign markets;
(d) A prohibition on advertising or other promotion programs that make any reference to private brand names or use false or unwarranted claims on behalf of watermelons or false or unwarranted statements with respect to the attributes or use of any competing product;
(e) Periodic evaluation by the Board of each program or project authorized under this Plan to insure that each program or project contributes to an effective and coordinated program of research and promotion and submission of such evaluation to the Secretary. If the Board or the Secretary finds that a program or project does not further the purposes of the Act, then the Board or
the Secretary shall terminate such program or project; and
(f) The Board to enter into contracts or make agreements for the development and carrying out of research and promotion and pay for the costs of such contracts or agreements with funds collected pursuant to § 1210.341.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1210.340
Budget and expenses.
(a) Prior to the beginning of each fiscal period, or as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and recommend a budget on a fiscal period basis of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of this Plan, including probable costs of research, development, advertising, and promotion. The Board shall also recommend a rate of assessment calculated to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in § 1210.344.
(b) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses for research, development, advertising, or promotion of watermelons, such other expenses for the administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board as may be authorized by the Secretary, and any referendum and administrative costs incurred by the Department of Agriculture. The funds to cover such expenses shall be paid from assessments received pursuant to § 1210.341.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10798, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.341
Assessments.
(a) During the effective period of this subpart, assessments shall be levied on all watermelons produced and first handled in the United States and all watermelons imported into the United States for consumption as human food. No more than one assessment on a producer, handler, or importer shall be made on any lot of watermelons. The handler shall be assessed an equal amount on a per unit basis as the producer. If a person performs both producing and handling functions on any same lot of watermelons, both assessments shall be paid by such person. In the case of an importer, the assessment shall be equal to the combined rate for domestic producers and handlers and shall be paid by the importer at the time of entry of the watermelons into the United States.
(b) Assessment rates shall be fixed by the Secretary in accordance with section 1647(f) of the Act. No assessments shall be levied on watermelons grown by producers of less than 10 acres of watermelons.
(c) Each handler, as defined, is responsible for payment to the Board of both the producer's and the handler's assessment pursuant to regulations issued hereunder. The handler may collect producer assessments from the producer or deduct such assessments from the proceeds paid to the producer on whose watermelons the assessments are made. The handler shall maintain separate records for each producer's watermelons handled, including watermelons produced by said handler. In addition, the handler shall indicate the total quantity of watermelons handled by the handler, including those that are exempt under this Plan, and such other information as may be prescribed by the Board.
(d) Each importer shall be responsible for payment of the assessment to the Board on watermelons imported into the United States through the U.S. Customs Service or in such other manner as may be established by rules and regulations approved by the Secretary.
(e) Producer-handlers and handlers shall pay assessments to the Board at such time and in such manner as the Board, with the Secretary's approval, directs, pursuant to regulations issued under this part. Such regulations may provide for different handlers or classes of handlers and different handler payment and reporting schedules to recognize differences in marketing practices or procedures used in any State or production area.
(f) There shall be a late payment charge imposed on any handler or importer who fails to remit to the Board the total amount for which any such handler or importer is liable on or before the payment due date established by the Board under paragraph (e) of this section. The amount of the late payment charge shall be set by the
Board subject to approval by the Secretary.
(g) There shall also be imposed on any handler or importer subject to a late payment charge, an additional charge in the form of interest on the outstanding portion of any amount for which the handler or importer is liable. The rate of such interest shall be prescribed by the Board subject to approval by the Secretary.
(h) The Board is hereby authorized to accept advance payment of assessments by handlers and importers that shall be credited toward any amount for which the handlers and importers may become liable. The Board shall not be obligated to pay interest on any advance payment.
(i) The Board is hereby authorized to borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board.
(j) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments in its behalf with the approval of the Secretary. Any reimbursement by the Board for such services shall be based on reasonable charges for services rendered.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10798, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.342
Exemption from assessment.
(a) The Board may exempt watermelons used for nonfood purposes from the provisions of this Plan and shall establish adequate safeguards against improper use of such exemptions.
(b) Importers of less than 150,000 pounds of watermelons per year shall be entitled to apply for a refund that is equal to the rate of assessment paid by domestic producers.
(c) The Secretary may adjust the quantity of the weight exemption specified in paragraph (b) of this section on the recommendation of the Board after an opportunity for public notice and comment to reflect significant changes in the 5-year average yield per acre of watermelons produced in the United States.
(d) The Board shall have the authority to establish rules, with the approval of the Secretary, for certifying whether a person meets the definition of a producer under section 1210.306.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.343
[Reserved]
§ 1210.344
Operating reserve.
The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in a reserve so established;
Provided,
That funds in the reserve shall not exceed approximately two fiscal periods' expenses. Such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this subpart.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1210.350
Reports.
(a) Each handler shall maintain a record with respect to each producer for whom watermelons were handled and for watermelons produced and handled by the handler. Handlers shall report to the Board at such times and in such manner as the Board may prescribe by regulations whatever information as may be necessary in order for the Board to perform its duties. Such reports may include, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
(1) Total quantity of watermelons handled for each producer and by the handler, including those which are exempt under this Plan;
(2) Total quantity of watermelons handled for each producer and by the handler, on which the producer assessment was collected;
(3) Name and address of each person from whom an assessment was collected, the amount collected from each person, and the date such collection was made; and
(4) Name and address of each person claiming exemption from assessment and a copy of each such person's claim of exemption.
(b) Each importer of watermelons shall maintain a separate record that includes a record of:
(1) The total quantity of watermelons imported into the United States that are included under the terms of this Plan;
(2) The total quantity of watermelons that are exempt from the Plan; and
(3) Such other information as may be prescribed by the Board.
(c) Each importer shall report to the Board at such times and in such manner as it may prescribe such information as may be necessary for the Board to perform its duties under this part.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.351
Books and records.
Each handler and importer subject to this Plan shall maintain, and during normal business hours make available for inspection by employees of the Board or Secretary, such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this Plan and the regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any required reports. Such records shall be maintained for 2 years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.352
Confidential treatment.
(a) All information obtained from the books, records, or reports required to be maintained under §§ 1210.350 and 1210.351 shall be kept confidential and shall not be disclosed to the public by any person. Only such information as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed to the public and then only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this Plan: Except that nothing in this subpart shall be deemed to prohibit:
(1) The issuance of general statements based on the reports of a number of handlers or importers subject to this Plan if such statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; or
(2) The publication by direction of the Secretary of the name of any person violating this Plan together with a statement of the particular provisions of this Plan violated by such person.
(b) Any disclosure of confidential information by any employee of the Board, except as required by law, shall be considered willful misconduct.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1210.360
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1210.361
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1210.362
Influencing government action.
No funds received by the Board under this Plan shall in any manner be used for the purpose of influencing governmental policy or action, except for making recommendations to the Secretary as provided in this subpart.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.363
Suspension or termination.
(a) Whenever the Secretary finds that this Plan or any provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act, the Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of this Plan or such provision thereof.
(b) The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time and shall hold a referendum on request of the Board or at least 10 percent of the combined total of the watermelon producers, handlers, and importers to determine if watermelon producers, handlers, and importers favor termination or suspension of this Plan. The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this Plan at the end of the marketing year whenever the Secretary determines that the suspension or termination is favored by a majority of the watermelon producers,
handlers, and importers voting in such referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production, handling, or importing of watermelons and who produced, handled, or imported more than 50 percent of the combined total of the volume of watermelons produced, handled, or imported by those producers, handlers, and importers voting in the referendum. Any such referendum shall be conducted by mail ballot.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995; 79 FR 17852, Mar. 31, 2014]
§ 1210.364
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this Plan, the Board shall recommend not more than five of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all funds and property then in possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into by it pursuant to § 1210.328(d);
(3) From time-to-time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon the request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such person or persons full title and right to all the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to this section.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to this section shall be subject to the same obligation imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) A reasonable effort shall be made by the Board or its trustees to return to producers, handlers and importers any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation. If it is found impractical to return such remaining funds to producers, handlers and importers such funds shall be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary may determine to be appropriate.
[54 FR 24545, June 8, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.365
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this Plan or any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this Plan or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this Plan or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary, or of any other person with respect to any such violation.
§ 1210.366
Separability.
If any provision of this Plan is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this Plan or applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1210.367
Patents, copyrights, inventions, and publications.
Any patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, or publications developed through the use of funds collected under the provisions of this Plan shall be the property of the United States government as represented by the Board. Funds generated by such patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, or publications shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls
as other funds of the Board. Upon termination of this part, § 1210.364 shall apply to determine the disposition of all such property.

# Subpart B—Nominating Procedures

# Source:
54 FR 38205, Sept. 15, 1989, unless otherwise noted.

# Producer and Handler Members
§ 1210.400
Terms defined.
Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, definitions of terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as the definitions of such terms which appear in Subpart—Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan.
§ 1210.401
District conventions.
(a) Except for the initial district convention in each district, which will be called and opened by a representative of the Secretary, the Board shall call and open all district conventions.
(b) District conventions are to be held to nominate producers and handlers as candidates for membership on the National Watermelon Promotion Board. Each district, as defined in § 1210.501, is entitled to two producer and two handler members on the Board.
(c) There shall be two individuals nominated for each vacant position. In multi-State districts, no one State shall have nominees for more than three of the four district positions on the Board.
(d) All producers and handlers within each district may participate in that district's convention:
Provided,
That they meet the eligibility provisions set forth in § 1210.402 of this subpart.
(e) The convention chairperson shall be elected as provided in § 1210.403(b) of this subpart.
(f) The Board member nomination process shall be conducted by the chairperson in conformance with the provisions of § 1210.321 of the Plan and § 1210.403 of this subpart. At the conclusion of the district convention for the initial term of office, the chairperson will provide the Secretary with:
(1) The identification of that district's two nominees for each producer and handler position on the Board, and
(2) A typed copy of the district convention's minutes.
This information must be provided by the chairperson to the Board staff in a manner that will ensure receipt, at the address specified in the call for the district convention, within 14 calendar days of the district convention's completion, but not later than July 8 for appointments to become effective on the following January 1. The Board staff must forward such information to the Secretary, in a manner that will ensure receipt, within 21 calendar days of completion of the district convention, but not later than July 15 for appointments to become effective on the following January 1. Further, the chairperson will immediately arrange for completion of qualification statements and other specified information by each nominee, and each nominee shall qualify by forwarding such information to the Board's office within 14 calendar days of completion of the district convention, but not later than July 8 for appointments to become effective on the following January 1. The Board staff must forward the completed qualification statements and other specified information to the Secretary, in a manner that will ensure receipt within 21 calendar days of completion of the district convention, but not later than July 15 for appointments to become effective on the following January 1.
[54 FR 38205, Sept. 15, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 3355, Jan. 8, 1993; 59 FR 18948, Apr. 21, 1994; 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.402
Voter and board member nominee eligibility.
(a) All producers and handlers within a district may participate in their district convention for the purpose of nominating candidates for appointment to the Board:
Provided,
That a producer who both produces and handles watermelons may vote for handler member nominees and serve as a handler member nominee only if the producer purchased watermelons from other producers, in a combined total volume that is equal to 25 percent or more of the producer's own production
or the combined total volume of watermelons handled by the producer from the producer's own production and purchases from other producer's production is more than 50 percent of the producer's own production; and
Provided further,
That if a producer or handler is engaged in the production or handling of watermelons in more than one State or district, the producer or handler shall participate within the State or district in which the producer or handler so elects in writing to the Board and such election shall remain controlling until revoked in writing to the Board. For the purpose of participation in initial nominating conventions, such election shall be made in writing, at the address provided, to the Department official identified in the call for a district convention.
(b) Any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative or any other entity which is engaged in the production, first handling or importing of watermelons is considered a person and as such is entitled to only one vote, except that such person may cast proxy votes as provided in § 1210.403 and § 1210.404 of this subpart.
(c) All producers and handlers attending their district conventions may be candidates for one or more of the positions of State spokesperson, district convention chairperson, and producer or handler nominee.
[54 FR 38205, Sept. 15, 1989, as amended at 60 FR 10799, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.403
Voting procedures.
(a) Proxy voting by producers and handlers for producer and handler nominees shall be permitted at all district conventions:
Provided,
That producers may cast proxy votes for producers only, and handlers may cast proxy votes for handlers only. In non-multi-State districts, proxy voting shall be permitted for all producer and handler nominee balloting to determine the districts' nominees. In multi-State districts, proxy voting shall be permitted for all producers and handlers participating in a State's balloting to determine the State's nominees. No other proxy voting, such as for district convention chairperson, shall be allowed. Any person wanting to cast proxy votes must demonstrate authorization to do so. Authority to cast a proxy vote on behalf of another person shall be demonstrated through documentation containing:
(1) The proxy voter's name, address, and telephone number;
(2) Signature and date signed;
(3) A certification identifying the proxy voter as a producer or a handler; and
(4) A statement identifying the person being given authority by the proxy voter to cast the proxy vote.
All proxy documentation must be received by the Board at its headquarters address at least two weeks before the district convention is scheduled to convene. For the purpose of the initial district convention, all proxy documentation must be forwarded to the Department representative identified in the call for the district convention in a manner that will ensure receipt, at the address specified in the call, at least 72 hours before the district convention is scheduled to convene. The Board, or in the case of the initial conventions the Department representative identified in the call or other representative of the Department, may challenge any proxy vote and disqualify any challenged vote for cause. In the case of duplicate proxy authorizations by any person, only the first authorization, determined by date will be allowed. In the case of duplicate dates, the proxy which is received first will be allowed.
(b) In non-multi-State districts, convention chairpersons shall be elected by a majority vote of the eligible voters in attendance. In multi-State districts, the election shall be by majority vote of all States present with each State's vote(s) determined by a majority vote of the eligible voters of that State in attendance. Each such State is entitled to one vote, plus one additional vote for each 500,000 hundredweight volume of production in the State as determined by the three-year average annual crop production summary reports of the Department or, if such reports are not published, then the three-year average of the Board's assessment reports:
Provided,
That for the first two conventions, the Department's Crop Production Annual Summary Reports for 1979, 1980, and 1981
will be controlling as to any additional production volume votes.
(c) In multi-State districts, the convention chairperson will direct the eligible producer voters and handler voters from each State to caucus separately for the purpose of electing a State spokesperson for each group. Election of each State spokesperson shall be by simple majority of all individual voters in attendance. In lieu of written ballots, a State spokesperson may be elected by voice vote or a show of hands. The role of the State spokesperson is to coordinate State voting and to cast all State votes.
(d) Convention chairpersons will coordinate the entire producer and handler nomination process. In conducting the nomination process, each convention chairperson will ensure that:
(1) Voting for producer nominees is limited to producers, and voting for handler nominees is limited to handlers; and
(2) Producer candidates for nomination are producers, and handler candidates for nomination are handlers.
(e) Voting, for producer and handler nominees, in non-multi-State districts shall be on the basis of one vote per person, except that persons authorized to cast proxy votes shall be allowed to cast all proxy votes not disallowed by the Board or the Department. Election of nominees shall be on the basis of a simple majority of all eligible votes cast.
(f) Voting for producer and handler nominees in multi-State districts shall be on a State by State basis. Producers and handlers from each State shall caucus separately, at the district convention, for the purpose of determining which nominees shall receive their State's vote(s) for membership on the Board. Each State's vote(s) shall be based on a simple majority of all votes (including proxy votes) cast by producers or handlers voting in their State's caucus. Each State represented at a multi-State district convention shall have one vote for each producer position and one vote for each handler position from the district on the Board. Each State shall further have an additional vote toward each position for each 500,000 hundredweight volume of production in the State as determined by the three-year average annual crop production summary reports of the Department or, if such reports are not published, then the three-year average of the Board's assessment reports:
Provided,
That for the first two calls for nominees, the Department's Crop Production Annual Summary Reports for 1979, 1980, and 1981 will be controlling as to any additional production volume votes. Each State spokesperson will cast the State's vote(s) for each nominee position. Election of nominees shall be on the basis of a simple majority of all State votes cast.
(g) During the voting for convention chairperson, State spokesperson, and Board member nominee, should no candidate receive the required simple majority on the first ballot, the number of candidates may be reduced by dropping one or more of the lowest vote recipients from the list of candidates. The balloting will be repeated until the position is filled.
(h) Two nominees shall be elected for each of the producer and handler positions from each district on the Board. The two nominees for each position shall be elected simultaneously. The convention chairperson will open the floor to the nomination of candidates for possible election as a Board member nominee for each available position. Each position will be dealt with separately (
i.e.
, candidates for one position will be nominated and then elected before the convention moves on to the next available position). Each eligible voter may vote for two of the nominees on one ballot. The two nominees receiving the greatest number of votes and at least a simple majority of the votes cast will be elected as the district's Board member nominees for the position. No individual elected as a nominee for Board membership may be a candidate on subsequent Board member nominee ballots (
i.e.
, two different producer names and two different handler names must be submitted as nominees for each producer and handler position from each district to the Secretary of Agriculture). There shall be no designation of first and second choice nominees.
[54 FR 38205, Sept. 15, 1989, as amended at 58 FR 3355, Jan. 8, 1993; 85 FR 56474, Sept. 14, 2020]

# Importer Members
§ 1210.404
Importer member nomination and selection.
(a) The Board shall include one or more representatives of importers, who shall be appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted by watermelon importers. Importers' representation on the Board shall be proportionate to the percentage of assessments paid by importers to the Board, except that at least one representative of importers shall serve on the Board if importers are subject to the Plan. Nominations for importer positions that become vacant shall be made by importers at nomination conventions or by mail ballot.
(b) The initial nomination of importer members shall be made not later than 90 days after the Plan is amended.
(c) There shall be two individuals nominated for each vacant position. The importer receiving the highest number of votes for a vacancy shall be the first choice nominee, and the importer receiving the second highest number of votes shall be the second choice nominee submitted to the Secretary.
(d) Any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative or any other entity which is engaged in the production, first handling or importing of watermelons is considered a person and as such is entitled to only one vote, except that such person may cast proxy votes as provided in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(e)
Nomination Conventions.
If nominations are made by nomination conventions, the Board shall widely publicize such conventions and provide importers and the Secretary at least 10 days notice prior to each convention.
(1) Proxy voting by importers shall be permitted at all conventions. Any person wanting to cast proxy votes must demonstrate authorization to do so. Authority to cast a proxy vote on behalf of another person shall be demonstrated through documentation containing:
(i) The proxy voter's name, address, and telephone number;
(ii) Signature and date signed;
(iii) A certification identifying the proxy voter as an importer; and
(iv) A statement identifying the person being given authority by the proxy voter to cast the proxy vote.
(2) The Board shall provide to the Secretary a typed copy of each convention's minutes and shall arrange for completion of qualification statements and other specified information by each nominee and forward such to the Secretary within 14 calendar days of completion of a convention.
(f)
Mail balloting.
If nominations are conducted by mail ballot, the Board shall request importers to submit nominations of eligible importers. It is the importer's responsibility to prove the individual's eligibility. After the names of nominees are received, the Board shall print ballots and ask eligible importers to vote to nominate their candidates. After the vote is received, the Board shall tabulate the results and shall send to the Department the nominees in order of preference. The Board shall provide the Secretary with a report on the results, number of importers participating in the vote, and the volume of imports, and shall arrange for completion of qualification statements and other specified information by each nominee and forward such to the Secretary within 14 calendar days of receiving the ballots.
(g) A person who both imports and handles watermelons may participate in the nomination process and serve on the Board as either an importer or handler, but not both.
[60 FR 10800, Feb. 28, 1995, as amended at 79 FR 17852, Mar. 31, 2014]

# Public Member
§ 1210.405
Public member nominations and selection.
(a) The public member shall be nominated by the other members of the Board. The public member shall have no direct financial interest in the commercial production or marketing of watermelons except as a consumer and shall not be a director, stockholder, officer or employee of any firm so engaged. The Board shall nominate two individuals for the public member position. Voting for public member nominees shall require a quorum of the
Board and shall be on the basis of one vote per Board member. Election of nominees shall be on the basis of a simple majority of those present and voting. Such election shall be held prior to August 1, 1990, and every third August first thereafter. The Board may prescribe such additional qualifications, administrative rules and procedures for selection and voting for public member nominees as it deems necessary and the Secretary approves.
(b) Each person nominated for the position of public member on the Board shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary within 14 calendar days of completion of the Board meeting at which public member nominees were selected.
[55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990. Redesignated and amended at 60 FR 10800, Feb. 28, 1995]

# Subpart C—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1210.500
Terms defined.
Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, definitions of terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as the definitions of such terms which appear in subpart—Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan.

# General
§ 1210.501
Realignment of districts.
In accordance with § 1210.320(c) of the Plan, the districts shall be as follows:
(a)
District 1
—The State of Florida.
(b)
District 2
—The State of Georgia.
(c)
District 3
—The States of Alabama, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas.
(d)
District 4
—The States of Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Massachusetts, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Virginia, West Virginia, Wisconsin, and Washington, DC.
(g)
District 5
—The States of Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
[85 FR 56475, Sept. 14, 2020]
§ 1210.502
Board members.
The Board consists of 10 producers, 10 handlers, nine importers, and one public member appointed by the Secretary.
[85 FR 56475, Sept. 14, 2020]
§ 1210.504
Contracts.
The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may enter into contracts or make agreements with persons for the development and submission to it of programs or projects authorized by the Plan and for carrying out such programs or projects. Contractors shall agree to comply with the provisions of this part. Subcontractors who enter into contracts or agreements with a Board contractor and who receive or otherwise utilize funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the provisions of this part. All records of contractors and subcontractors applicable to contracts entered into by the Board are subject to audit by the Secretary.
§ 1210.505
Department of Agriculture costs.
Pursuant to § 1210.340, the Board shall reimburse the Department of Agriculture for referendum and administrative costs incurred by the Department with respect to the Plan. The Board shall pay those costs incurred by the Department for the conduct of Department duties under the Plan as determined periodically by the Secretary. The Department will bill the Board monthly and payment shall be due promptly after the billing of such costs. Funds to cover such expenses shall be paid from assessments collected pursuant to § 1210.341.
[55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 10800 Feb. 28, 1995]

# Assessments
§ 1210.515
Levy of assessments.
(a) An assessment of three cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all watermelons produced for ultimate
consumption as human food, and an assessment of three cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all watermelons first handled for ultimate consumption as human food. An assessment of six cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all watermelons imported into the United States for ultimate consumption as human food at the time of entry in the United States.
(b) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported watermelons that are identified by the numbers 0807.11.30 and 0807.11.40 in the Harmonized Tariff Scheudle of the United States of any other number used to identify fresh watermelons for consumption as human food. The U.S. Customs Service (USCS) will collect assessments on such watermelons at the time of entry and will forward such assessment as per the agreement between USCS and USDA. Any importer or agent who is exempt from payment of assessments may submit the Board adequate proof of the volume handled by such importer for the exemption to be granted.
(c) Watermelons used for non-human food purposes are exempt from assessment requirements but are subject to the safeguard provisions of § 1210.521.
[55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 10800, Feb. 28, 1995; 72 FR 41428, July 30, 2007; 72 FR 61051, Oct. 29, 2007]

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 104398, Dec. 23, 2024, § 1210.515 was amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b), effective Jan. 22, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 1210.515
Levy of assessments.
(a) An assessment of four and a half cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all watermelons produced for ultimate consumption as human food, and an assessment of four and a half cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all watermelons first handled for ultimate consumption as human food. An assessment of nine cents per hundredweight shall be levied on all watermelons imported into the United States for ultimate consumption as human food at the time of entry in the United States.
(b) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported watermelons that are identified by the numbers 0807.11.30 and 0807.11.40 in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States or any other number used to identify fresh watermelons for consumption as human food. The U.S. Customs Service and Border Protection (Customs) will collect assessments on such watermelons at the time of entry and will forward such assessment as per the agreement between Customs and USDA. Any importer or agent who is exempt from payment of assessments may submit to the Board adequate proof of the volume handled by such importer for the exemption to be granted.
§ 1210.516
Exemption for organic watermelons.
(a) A producer or handler who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production or handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer or handler regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced or handled by a person that also produces or handles conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer or handler maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522)(OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under the OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer or handler so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible producer or handler shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, for as long as the producer or handler continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) The request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces or handles organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a producer or handler complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer or handler within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) The producer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each handler to whom the producer sells watermelons. The handler shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(f) An importer who imports products that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments on those products. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” watermelons on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of producers in paragraph (c) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer. If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(g) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
[70 FR 2756, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82026, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1210.517
Determination of handler.
The producer and handler assessments on each lot of watermelons handled shall be paid by the handler. Unless otherwise provided in this section, the handler responsible for payment of assessments shall be the first handler of such watermelons. The first handler is the person who initially performs a handling function as heretofore defined. Such person may be a fresh shipper, processor, or other person who first places the watermelons in the current of commerce.
(a) The following examples are provided to aid in the identification of first handlers:
(1) Producer grades, packs, and sells watermelons of own production to a handler. In this instance, it is the handler, not the producer, who places the watermelons in the current of commerce. The handler is responsible for payment of the assessments.
(2) Producer packs and sells watermelons of that producer's own production from the field, roadside stand, or storage to a consumer, trucker, retail or wholesales outlet, or other buyer who is not a handler of watermelons. The producer places the watermelons
in the current of commerce and is the first handler.
(3) Producer purchases watermelons from another producer. The producer purchasing the watermelons is the first handler.
(4) Producer delivers field-run watermelons of own production to a handler for preparation for market and entry into the current of commerce. The handler, in this instance, is the first handler, regardless of whether the handler subsequently handles such watermelons for the account of the handler or for the account of the producer.
(5) Producer delivers field-run watermelons of own production to a handler for preparation for market and return to the producer for sale. The producer in this instance, is the first handler, except when the producer subsequently sells such watermelons to a handler.
(6) Producer delivers watermelons of own production to a handler who takes title to such watermelons. The handler who purchases such watermelons from the producer is the first handler.
(7) Producer supplies watermelons to a cooperative marketing association which sells or markets the watermelons and makes an accounting to the producer, or pays the proceeds of the sale to the producer. In this instance, the cooperative marketing association becomes the first handler upon physical delivery to such cooperative.
(8) Handler purchases watermelons from a producer's field for the purpose of preparing such watermelons for market or for transporting such watermelons to storage for subsequent handling. The handler who purchases such watermelons from the producer is the first handler.
(9) Broker/Commission House receives watermelons from a producer and sells such watermelons in the Broker's/Commission House's name. In this instance, the Broker/Commission House is the first handler, regardless of whether the Broker/ Commission House took title to such watermelons.
(10) Broker/Commission House, without taking title or possession of watermelons, sells such watermelons in the name of the producer. In this instance, the producer is the first handler.
(11) Processor utilizes watermelons of own production in the manufacture of rind pickles, frozen, dehydrated, extracted, or canned products for human consumption. In so handling watermelons the processor is the first handler.
(12) Processor purchases watermelons from the producer thereof. In this instance, the processor is the first handler even though the producer may have graded, packed, or otherwise handled such watermelons.
(b) In the event of a handler's death, bankruptcy, receivership, or incapacity to act, the representative of the handler or the handler's estate shall be considered the handler of the watermelons for the purpose of this subpart.
[55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990, as amended at 58 FR 3356, Jan. 8, 1993]
§ 1210.518
Payment of assessments.
(a)
Time of payment.
The assessment on domestically produced watermelons shall become due at the time the first handler handles the watermelons for non-exempt purposes. The assessment on imported watermelons shall become due at the time of entry, or withdrawal, into the United States.
(b)
Responsibility for payment.
(1) The first handler is responsible for payment of both the producer's and the handler's assessment. The handler may collect the producer's assessment from the producer or deduct such producer's assessment from the proceeds paid to the producer on whose watermelons the producer assessment is made. Any such collection or deduction of producer assessment shall be made not later than the time when the first handler handles the watermelons.
(2) The U.S. Customs Service shall collect assessments on imported watermelons from importers and forward such assessments under an agreement between the U.S. Customs Service and the U.S. Department of Agriculture. Importers shall be responsible for payment of assessments directly to the Board of any assessments due but not collected by the U.S. Customs Service at the time of entry, or withdrawal, on watermelons imported into the United States for human consumption.
(c)
Payment direct to the Board.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b) and
(e) of this section, each handler and importer shall remit the required producer and handler assessments, pursuant to § 1210.341 of the Plan, directly to the Board not later than 30 days after the end of the month such assessments are due. Remittance shall be by check, draft, or money order payable to the National Watermelon Promotion Board, or NWPB, and shall be accompanied by a report, preferably on Board forms, pursuant to § 1210.350. To avoid late payment charges, the assessments must be mailed to the Board and postmarked within 30 days after the end of the month such assessments are due.
(2) Pursuant to § 1210.350 of the Plan, each handler shall file with the Board a report for each month that assessable watermelons were handled. All handler reports shall contain at least the following information:
(i) The handler's name, address, and telephone number;
(ii) Date of report (which is also the date of payment to the Board);
(iii) Period covered by the report;
(iv) Total quantity of watermelons handled during the reporting period;
(v) Date of last report remitting assessments to the Board; and
(vi) Listing of all persons for whom the handler handled watermelons, their addresses, hundredweight handled, and total assessments remitted for each producer. In lieu of such a list, the handler may substitute copies of settlement sheets given to each person or computer generated reports, provided such settlement sheets or computer reports contain all the information listed above.
(vii) Name, address, and hundredweight handled for each person claiming exemption for assessment.
(viii) If the handler handled watermelons for persons engaged in the growing of less than 10 acres of watermelons, the report shall indicate the name and address of such person and the quantity of watermelons handled for such person.
(3) The words “final report” shall be shown on the last report at the close of the handler's marketing season or at the end of each fiscal period if such handler markets assessable watermelons on a year-round basis.
(4)
Prepayment of assessments.
(i) In lieu of the monthly assessment and reporting requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, the Board may permit handlers to make an advance payment of their total estimated assessments for the crop year to the Board prior to their actual determination of assessable watermelons. The Board shall not be obligated to pay interest on any advance payment.
(ii) Handlers using such procedures shall provide a final annual report of actual handling and remit any unpaid assessments not later than 30 days after the end of the last month of the designated handler's marketing season or at the end of each fiscal period if such handler markets assessable watermelons on a year-round basis.
(iii) Handlers using such procedures shall, after filing a final annual report, receive a reimbursement of any overpayment of assessments.
(iv) Handlers using such procedures shall, at the request of the Board to verify a producer's refund claim, provide the Board with a handling report on any and all producers for whom the handler has provided handling services but has not yet filed a handling report with the Board.
(v) Specific requirements, instructions, and forms for making such advance payments shall be provided by the Board on request.
(d)
Late payment charges and interest.
(1) A late payment charge shall be imposed on any handler and importer who fails to make timely remittance to the Board of the total producer and handler and importer assessments for which any such handler and importer is liable. Such late payment shall be imposed on any assessments not received before the fortieth day after the end of the month such assessments are due. This one-time late payment charge shall be 10 percent of the assessments due before interest charges have accrued. The late payment charge will not be applied to any late payments postmarked within 30 days after the end of the month such assessments are due.
(2) In addition to the late payment charge, one and one-half percent per month interest on the outstanding balance, including the late payment
charge and any accrued interest, will be added to any accounts for which payment has not been received by the last day of the second month following the month of handling;
Provided,
that, handlers paying their assessments in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(ii), will not be subject to the one and one-half percent per month interest under this paragraph until the last day of the second month after such assessments are due under paragraph (c)(4)(ii). Such interest will continue monthly until the outstanding balance is paid to the Board.
(e)
Payment through cooperating agency.
The Board may enter into agreements, subject to approval of the Secretary, authorizing other organizations, such as a regional watermelon association or State watermelon board, to collect assessments in its behalf. In any State or area in which the Board has entered into such an agreement, the designated handler shall pay the assessment to such agency in the time and manner, and with such identifying information as specified in such agreement. Such an agreement shall not provide any cooperating agency with authority to collect confidential information from handlers or producers. To qualify, the cooperating agency must on its own accord have access to all information required by the Board for collection purposes. If the Board requires further evidence of payment than provided by the cooperating agency, it may acquire such evidence from individual handlers. All such agreements are subject to the requirements of the Act, Plan, and all applicable rules and regulations under the Act and the Plan.
[55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990; 55 FR 20443, May 17, 1990, as amended at 56 FR 15808, Apr. 18, 1991; 60 FR 10801, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.519
Failure to report and remit.
Any handler and importer who fails to submit reports and remittances according to the provisions of § 1210.518 shall be subject to appropriate action by the Board which may include one or more of the following actions:
(a) Audit of the handler's and importer's books and records to determine the amount owed the Board.
(b) Establishment of an escrow account for the deposit of assessments collected. Frequency and schedule of deposits and withdrawals from the escrow account shall be determined by the Board with the approval of the Secretary.
(c) Referral to the Secretary for appropriate enforcement action.
[55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 10801, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.520
Refunds.
Each importer of less than 150,000 pounds of watermelons during any calendar year shall be entitled to apply for a refund of the assessments paid in an amount equal to the amount paid by domestic producers.
(a)
Application form.
The Board shall make available to all importers a refund application form.
(b)
Submission of refund application to the Board.
The refund application form shall be submitted to the Board within 90 days of the last day of the year the watermelons were actually imported. The refund application form shall contain the following information:
(1) Importer's name and address;
(2) Number of hundredweight of watermelon on which refund is requested;
(3) Total amount to be refunded;
(4) Proof of payment as described below; and
(5) Importer's signature.
(c)
Proof of payment of assessment.
Evidence of payment of assessments satisfactory to the Board shall accompany the importer's refund application. An importer must submit a copy of the importer's report or a cancelled check. Evidence submitted with a refund application shall not be returned to the applicant.
(d)
Payment of refund.
Immediately after receiving the properly executed application for refund, the Board shall make remittance to the applicant.
[60 FR 10801, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.521
Reports of disposition of exempted watermelons.
The Board may require reports by handlers or importers on the handling/importing and disposition of exempted watermelons and/or on the handling of watermelons for persons engaged in
growing less than 10 acres of watermelons or in the case of importers, the importing of less than 150,000 pounds per year. Authorized employees of the Board or the Secretary may inspect such books and records as are appropriate and necessary to verify the reports on such disposition.
[60 FR 10801, Feb. 28, 1995]

# Records
§ 1210.530
Retention period for records.
Each handler and importer required to make reports pursuant to this subpart shall maintain and retain for at least 2 years beyond the marketing year of their applicability:
(a) One copy of each report made to the Board; and
(b) Such records as are necessary to verify such reports.
[55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 10801, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.531
Availability of records.
Each handler and importer required to make reports pursuant to this subpart shall make available for inspection and copying by authorized employees of the Board or the Secretary during regular business hours, such records as are appropriate and necessary to verify reports required under this subpart.
[55 FR 13256, Apr. 10, 1990, as amended at 60 FR 10801, Feb. 28, 1995]
§ 1210.532
Confidential books, records, and reports.
All information obtained from the books, records, and reports of handlers and importers and all information with respect to refunds of assessments made to importers shall be kept confidential in the manner and to the extent provided for in § 1210.352.
[60 FR 10801, Feb. 28, 1995]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1210.540
OMB assigned numbers.
The information collection and recordkeeping requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB Control Number 0581-0093, except that Board member nominee background information sheets are assigned OMB Control Number 0505-0001.
[58 FR 3356, Jan. 8, 1993]

# Subpart D—Referendum Procedures

# Source:
66 FR 56388, Nov. 7, 2001; 67 FR 17907, Apr. 12, 2002, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1210.600
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible producers, handlers, and importers favor the continuation, suspension, termination, or amendment of the Watermelon Research and Promotion Plan shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1210.601
Definitions.
Unless otherwise defined in this section, the definition of terms used in these procedures shall have the same meaning as the definitions in the Plan.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
(c)
Eligible handler
means any person (except a common contract carrier of watermelons owned by another person) who handles watermelons, including a producer who handles watermelons of the producer's own production, subject to the provisions of § 1210.602(a) of this chapter, who handles watermelons as a person performing a handling function and either:
(1) Takes title or possession of watermelons from a producer and directs the grading, packing, transporting, and selling of the watermelons in the current of commerce;
(2) Purchases watermelons from producers;
(3) Purchases watermelons from handlers;
(4) Purchases watermelons from importers; or
(5) Arranges the sale or transfer of watermelons from one party to another and takes title or possession of the watermelons:
Provided,
That harvest crews and common carriers who collect and transport watermelons from the field to a handler are not handlers and that retailers, wholesale retailers, foodservice distributors, and foodservice operators are not handlers.
(d)
Eligible importer
means any person who imports 150,000 pounds or more watermelons annually into the United States as principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee for any person who produces watermelons outside the United States for sale in the United States. An importer who imports less than 150,000 pounds of watermelons annually and did not apply for and receive reimbursement of assessments is also an eligible importer.
(e)
Eligible producer
means any person who is engaged in the growing of 10 or more acres of watermelons, including any person who owns or shares the ownership and risk of loss of such watermelon crop. A person who shares the ownership and risk of loss includes a person who:
(1) Owns and farms land, resulting in ownership, by said producer, of the watermelons produced thereon;
(2) Rents and farms land, resulting in ownership, by said producer, of all or a portion of the watermelons produced thereon; or
(3) Owns land which said producer does not farm and, as rental for such land, obtains the ownership of a portion of the watermelons produced thereon. Ownership of, or leasehold interest in land, and the acquisition, in any manner other than set forth in this subpart, of legal title to the watermelons grown on said land, shall not be deemed to result in such owners or lessees becoming producers. Persons who produce watermelons for non-food uses are not producers for the purposes of this subpart.
(f)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term partnership includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, land as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property, and
(2) So-called
joint ventures
wherein one or more parties to the agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, equipment, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties, so that it results in the production, handling, or importation of watermelons for market and the authority to transfer title to the watermelons so produced, handled, or imported.
(g)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
(h)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary pursuant to the Act.
§ 1210.602
Voting.
(a) Each person who is an eligible producer, handler, or importer as defined in this subpart, at the time of the referendum and who also was a producer, handler, or importer during the representative period, shall be entitled to one vote in the referendum:
Provided,
That each producer in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce watermelons in which more than one of the parties is a producer, shall be entitled to one vote in the referendum covering only that producer's share of the ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of a corporate producer, handler, or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of a producing, handling, or importing entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that the individual is an officer, employee of the producer, handler, or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of a producing, handling, or importing entity and that the individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c)
Casting of ballots.
All ballots are to be cast as instructed by the Secretary.
[66 FR 56388, Nov. 7, 2001, as amended at 79 FR 17852, Mar. 31, 2014]
§ 1210.603
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this section, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions in this section, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast.
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter.
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the voting period, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as said agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible producers; importers; and in the case of an order assessing handlers, handlers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent; the instructions on voting; a ballot; and a summary of the terms and conditions to be voted upon. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot. However, such persons may be required to submit evidence of their eligibility.
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process.
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1210.604
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions hereunder. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1210.605
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be questioned for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was questioned, by whom questioned, why the ballot was questioned, the results of any investigation made with respect to the questionable ballot, and the disposition of the questionable ballot. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1210.606
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1210.607
Confidential information.
All ballots cast and their contents and all other information or reports furnished to, compiled by, or in possession of, the referendum agent or subagents that reveal, or tend to reveal, the identity or vote of any producer, handler, or importer of watermelons shall be held strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
Pt. 1212

# PART 1212—HONEY PACKERS AND IMPORTERS RESEARCH, PROMOTION, CONSUMER EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Honey Packers and Importers Research, Promotion, Consumer Education, and Industry Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1212.1
Act.
1212.2
Board.
1212.3
Conflict of interest.
1212.4
Department.
1212.5
Exporter.
1212.6
First handler.
1212.7
Fiscal period for marketing year.
1212.8
Handle.
1212.9
Honey.
1212.10
Honey products.
1212.11
Importer.
1212.12
[Reserved]
1212.13
Information.
1212.14
Market or marketing.
1212.15
Order.
1212.16
Part and subpart.
1212.17
Person.
1212.18
Plans and programs.
1212.19
Producer.
1212.20
Promotion.
1212.21
Qualified national organization representing handler interests.
1212.22
Qualified national organization representing importer interests.
1212.23
Qualified national organization representing producer interests.
1212.24
Qualified national organization representing cooperative interests.
1212.25
Referendum.
1212.26
Research.
1212.27
Secretary.
1212.28
Suspend.
1212.29
State.
1212.30
Terminate.
1212.31
United States.
1212.32
United States Customs Service.

# National Honey Board
1212.40
Establishment and membership.
1212.41
Term of office.
1212.42
Nominations and appointments.
1212.43
Removal and vacancies.
1212.44
Procedure.
1212.45
Reimbursement and attendance.
1212.46
Powers.
1212.47
Duties.
1212.48
Reapportionment of Board membership.

# Expenses and Assessments
1212.50
Budget and expenses.
1212.51
Financial statements.
1212.52
Assessments.
1212.53
Exemption from assessment.
1212.54
Operating reserve.
1212.55
Prohibition on use of funds.

# Promotion, Research, and Information
1212.60
Programs, plans, and projects.
1212.61
Independent evaluation.
1212.62
Patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, and publications.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1212.70
Reports.
1217.71
Book and records.
1212.72
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1212.80
Right of the Secretary.
1212.81
Referenda.
1212.82
Suspension or termination.
1212.83
Proceedings after termination.
1212.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
1212.85
Personal liability.
1212.86
Separability.
1212.87
Amendments.
1212.88
OMB Control Numbers.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
1212.100
General.
1212.101
Definitions.
1212.102
Voting.
1212.103
Instructions.
1212.104
Subagents.
1212.105
Ballots.
1212.106
Referendum report.
1212.107
Confidential information.
1212.108
OMB control number.

# Subpart C—Past Due Assessments
1212.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425; 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
73 FR 11472, Mar. 3, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Honey Packers and Importers Research, Promotion, Consumer Education, and Industry Information Order

# Source:
73 FR 29397, May 21, 2008, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1212.1
Act.
“Act” means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act
of 1996, (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425), and any amendments to that Act.
§ 1212.2
Board.
“Board” or “National Honey Board” means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1212.40, or such other name as recommended by the Board and approved by the Department.
[84 FR 1345, Feb. 4, 2019]
§ 1212.3
Conflict of interest.
“Conflict of interest” means a situation in which a member or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
§ 1212.4
Department.
“Department” means the United States Department of Agriculture, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1212.5
Exporter.
“Exporter” means any person who exports honey or honey products from the United States.
§ 1212.6
First handler.
“First handler” means the first person who buys or takes possession of honey or honey products from a producer for marketing. If a producer markets honey or honey products directly to consumers, that producer shall be considered to be the first handler with respect to the honey produced by the producer.
§ 1212.7
Fiscal period.
“Fiscal period” means a calendar year from January 1 through December 31, or such other period as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1212.8
Handle.
“Handle” means to process, package, sell, transport, purchase or in any other way place honey or honey products, or causes them to be placed, in commerce. This term includes selling unprocessed honey that will be consumed without further processing or packaging. This term does not include the transportation of unprocessed honey by the producer to a handler or transportation by a commercial carrier of honey, whether processed or unprocessed for the account of the first handler or producer.
§ 1212.9
Honey.
“Honey” means the nectar and saccharine exudations of plants that are gathered, modified, and stored in the comb by honeybees, including comb honey.
§ 1212.10
Honey products.
“Honey products” mean products where honey is a principal ingredient. For purposes of this subpart, a product shall be considered to have honey as a principal ingredient if the product contains at least 50% honey by weight.
§ 1212.11
Importer.
“Importer” means any person who imports for sale honey or honey products into the United States as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who produces honey or honey products outside the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed in the import records as the importer of record for such honey or honey products.
§ 1212.12
[Reserved]
§ 1212.13
Information.
“Information” means activities or programs designed to develop new and existing markets, new and existing marketing strategies and increased efficiency and activities to enhance the image of honey and honey products. These include:
(a) Consumer education, which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, nutritional attributes, and care of honey and honey products; and
(b) Industry information, which means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or
increased efficiency for the honey industry, and activities to enhance the image of the honey industry.
§ 1212.14
Market or marketing.
(a) “Marketing” means the sale or other disposition of honey or honey products in any channel of commerce.
(b) “Market” means to sell or otherwise dispose of honey or honey products in interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
§ 1212.15
Order.
“Order” means the Honey Packers and Importers Research, Promotion, Consumer Education and Industry Information Order.
§ 1212.16
Part and subpart.
“Part” means the Honey Packers and Importers Research, Promotion, Consumer Education, and Industry Information Order (Order) and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order shall be a “subpart” of such part.
§ 1212.17
Person.
“Person” means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1212.18
Plans and programs.
“Plans and programs” mean those research, promotion and information programs, plans, or projects established pursuant to this Order.
§ 1212.19
Producer.
“Producer” means any person who is engaged in the production and sale of honey in any State and who owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of the production of honey or a person who is engaged in the business of producing, or causing to be produced, honey beyond personal use and having value at first point of sale.
§ 1212.20
Promotion.
“Promotion” means any action, including paid advertising and public relations that presents a favorable image for honey or honey products to the public and food industry with the intent of improving the perception and competitive position of honey and stimulating sales of honey or honey products.
§ 1212.21
Qualified national organization representing first handler interests.
“Qualified national organization representing first handler interests” means an organization that the Secretary certifies as being eligible to nominate first handler and alternate first handler members of the Board under § 1212.42.
§ 1212.22
Qualified national organization representing importer interests.
“Qualified national organization representing importer interests” means an organization that the Secretary certifies as being eligible to nominate importer and alternate importer members of the Board under § 1212.42.
[84 FR 1345, Feb. 4, 2019]
§ 1212.23
Qualified national organization representing producer interests.
“Qualified national organization representing producer interests” means an organization that the Secretary certifies as being eligible to nominate producer and alternate producer members of the Board under § 1212.42.
§ 1212.24
Qualified national organization representing cooperative interests.
“Qualified national organization representing cooperative interests” means an organization that the Secretary certifies as being eligible to nominate cooperative and alternate cooperative members of the Board under § 1212.42.
§ 1212.25
Referendum.
“Referendum” means a referendum to be conducted by the Secretary pursuant to the Act whereby first handlers and importers shall be given the opportunity to vote to determine whether the implementation of or continuance of this part is favored by a majority of eligible persons voting in the referendum and a majority of volume voted in the referendum.
§ 1212.26
Research.
“Research” means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, production, product development, or quality of honey and honey products, including research relating to nutritional value, cost of production, new product development, testing the effectiveness of market development and promotion efforts. Such term shall also include studies on bees to advance the cost effectiveness, competitiveness, efficiency, pest and disease control, and other management aspects of beekeeping, honey production, and honey bees.
§ 1212.27
Secretary.
“Secretary” means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority the Secretary delegated the authority to act on his or her behalf.
§ 1212.28
Suspend.
“Suspend” means to issue a rule under 5 U.S.C. 553 to temporarily prevent the operation of an order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1212.29
State.
“State” means any of the fifty States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1212.30
Terminate.
“Terminate” means to issue a rule under 5 U.S.C. 553 to cancel permanently the operation of an order or part thereof beginning on a date certain specified in the rule.
§ 1212.31
United States.
“United States” means collectively the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1212.32
United States Customs Service.
“United States Customs Service” or “Customs” means the United States Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the Department of Homeland Security.

# National Honey Board
§ 1212.40
Establishment and membership.
The National Honey Board is established to administer the terms and provisions of this part. The Board shall have ten members, composed of three first handler representatives, three importer representatives, three producer representatives, and one marketing cooperative representative. In addition, each producer representative must produce a minimum of 50,000 pounds of honey in the United States annually based on the best three-year average of the most recent five calendar years, as certified by producers. The Secretary will appoint members to the Board from nominees submitted in accordance with § 1212.42. The Secretary shall also appoint an alternate for each member.
[84 FR 1345, Feb. 4, 2019]
§ 1212.41
Term of office.
Each Board member and alternate will serve a three-year term or until the Secretary selects his or her successor. No member or alternate may serve more than two consecutive terms. Each term of office will end on December 31, with new terms of office beginning on January 1.
[84 FR 1345, Feb. 4, 2019]
§ 1212.42
Nominations and appointments.
All nominations to the Board will be made as follows:
(a) All qualified national organizations representing first handler interests will have the opportunity to participate in a nomination caucus and will, to the extent practical, submit as a group a single slate of nominations to the Secretary for the first handler positions and the alternate positions
on the Board. If the Secretary determines that there are no qualified national organizations representing first handler interests, individual first handlers who have paid assessments to the Board in the most recent fiscal period may submit nominations. For the initial Board, persons that meet the definition of first handlers as defined in this subpart will certify their qualification and upon certification, if qualified, may submit nominations.
(b) All qualified national organizations representing importer interests will have the opportunity to participate in a nomination caucus and will, to the extent practical, submit as a group a single slate of nominations to the Secretary for importer positions and the importer alternate positions on the Board. If the Secretary determines that there are no qualified national organizations representing importer interests, individual importers who have paid assessments to the Board in the most recent fiscal period may submit nominations.
(c) All qualified national organizations representing producer interests will have the opportunity to participate in a nomination caucus and will, to the extent practical, submit as a group a single slate of nominations to the Secretary for the producer positions and the producer alternate positions on the Board. If the Secretary determines that there are no qualified national organizations representing producer interests, individual producers may submit nominations to the Secretary. For the initial Board, persons that meet the definition of producer as defined in this subpart will certify such qualification and upon certification, if qualified, may submit nominations.
(d) For the purposes of this subpart, a national honey-marketing cooperative means any entity that is organized under the Capper-Volstead Act (7 U.S.C. 291) or state law as a cooperative and markets honey or honey products in at least 20 states. All national honey-marketing cooperatives that are first handlers will have the opportunity to participate in a nomination caucus and will, to the extent practical, submit as a group a single slate of nominations to the Secretary of persons who serve as an officer, director, or employee of a national honey marketing cooperative for the cooperative position and the alternate position on the Board.
(e) Eligible organizations, cooperatives, producers, first handlers or importers must submit nominations to the Secretary six months before the new Board term begins. At least two nominees for each position to be filled must be submitted.
(f) Qualified national organization representing first handler interests. To be certified by the Secretary as a qualified national organization representing first handler interests, an organization must meet the following criteria, as evidenced by a report submitted by the organization to the Secretary:
(1) The organization's voting membership must be comprised primarily of first handlers of honey or honey products;
(2) The organization must represent a substantial number of first handlers who market a substantial volume of honey or honey products in at least 20 states;
(3) The organization has a history of stability and permanency and has been in existence for more than one year;
(4) The organization must have as a primary purpose promoting honey first handlers' economic welfare;
(5) The organization must derive a portion of its operating funds from first handlers; and
(6) The organization must demonstrate it is willing and able to further the Act's purposes.
(g) Qualified national organization representing importer interests. To be certified as a qualified national organization representing importer interests, an organization must meet the following criteria, as evidenced by a report submitted by the organization to the Secretary:
(1) The organization's importer membership must represent at least a majority of the volume of honey or honey products imported into the United States;
(2) The organization has a history of stability and permanency and has been in existence for more than one year;
(3) The organization must have as a primary purpose promoting honey importers' economic welfare;
(4) The organization must derive a portion of its operating funds from importers; and
(5) The organization must demonstrate it is willing and able to further the Act's purposes.
(h) Qualified national organization representing producer interests. To be certified by the Secretary as a qualified national organization representing producer interests, an organization must meet the following criteria, as evidenced by a report submitted by the organization to the Secretary:
(1) The organization's membership must be comprised primarily of honey producers;
(2) The organization must represent a substantial number of producers who produce a substantial volume of honey in at least 20 states;
(3) The organization has a history of stability and permanency and has been in existence for more than one year;
(4) The organization must have as one of its primary purposes promoting honey producers' economic welfare;
(5) The organization must derive a portion of its operating funds from producers; and
(6) The organization must demonstrate it is willing and able to further the Act's purposes.
(i) To be certified by the Secretary as a qualified national organization representing first handler, producer or importer interests, an organization must agree to:
(1) Take reasonable steps to publicize to non-members the availability of open Board first handler, producer or importer positions; and
(2) Consider nominating a non-member first handler, producer or importer, if he or she expresses an interest in serving on the Board.
(j) National honey-marketing cooperative. The Secretary can certify that an entity qualifies as a national honey-marketing cooperative, as defined in § 1212.42(d). Such an entity shall not be eligible for certification as a qualified national organization representing producer interests.
[73 FR 29397, May 21, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 1345, Feb. 4, 2019]
§ 1212.43
Removal and vacancies.
(a) In the event that any member or alternate of the Board ceases to be a member of the category of members from which the member was appointed to the Board, such position shall become vacant.
(b) The Board may recommend to the Secretary that a member be removed from office if the member consistently refuses to perform his or her duties or engages in dishonest acts or willful misconduct. The Secretary may remove the member if he or she finds that the Board's recommendation shows adequate cause.
(c) A vacancy for any reason will be filled as follows:
(1) If a member position becomes vacant, the alternate for that position will serve the remainder of the member's term. In accordance with § 1212.42, the Secretary will request nominations for a replacement alternate and will appoint a nominee to serve the remainder of the term. The Secretary does not have to appoint a replacement if the unexpired term is less than six months.
(2) If both a member position and an alternate position become vacant, in accordance with § 1212.42, the Secretary will request nominations for replacements and appoint a member and alternate to serve the remainder of the term. The Secretary does not have to appoint a new member or alternate if the unexpired term for the position is less than six months.
(3) No successor appointed to a vacated term of office shall serve more than two successive three-year terms on the Board.
§ 1212.44
Procedure.
(a) A majority of the Board members will constitute a quorum so long as at least one of the members present is an importer member and one of the members present is a first handler member. An alternate will be counted for the purpose of determining a quorum only if a member from his or her membership class is absent or disqualified from participating. Any Board action will require the concurring votes of a majority of those present and voting; with the exception of the two-thirds vote requirement in § 1212.52(f). All votes at meetings will be cast in person. The
Board must give timely notice of all Board and committee meetings to members and alternates.
(b) The Board may take action by any means of communication when, in the opinion of the Board chairperson, an emergency requires that action must be taken before a meeting can be called. Any action taken under this procedure is valid only if:
(1) All members and the Secretary are notified and the members are provided the opportunity to vote;
(2) Each proposition is explained accurately, fully, and substantially identically to each member;
(3) With the exception of the two-thirds vote requirement in § 1212.52(f), a majority of the members vote in favor of the action; and
(4) All votes are promptly confirmed in writing and recorded in the Board minutes.
§ 1212.45
Reimbursement and attendance.
Board members and alternates, when acting as members, will serve without compensation but will be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board, that they incur when performing Board business. The Board may request that alternates attend any meeting even if their respective members are expected to attend or actually attend the meeting.
§ 1212.46
Powers.
The Board shall have the following powers subject to § 1212.80:
(a) Administer this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions of the Act;
(b) Require its employees to receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of this part;
(c) Recommend adjustments to the assessments as provided in this part;
(d) Recommend to the Secretary amendments to this part;
(e) Establish, issue, and administer appropriate programs and enter into contracts or agreements with the approval of the Secretary for promotion, research, and information programs and plans including consumer and industry information, and advertising designed to strengthen the honey industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain, develop, and expand domestic and foreign markets for honey and honey products; and
(f) Invest assessments collected and other funds received pursuant to the Order and use earnings from invested assessments to pay for activities carried out pursuant to the Order.
§ 1212.47
Duties.
The Board shall have, among other things, the following duties:
(a) To meet and organize, and to select from among its members a chairperson and such other officers as may be necessary; to select committees and subcommittees from its membership and other industry representatives; and to develop and recommend such rules, regulations, and by-laws to the Secretary for approval to conduct its business as it may deem advisable;
(b) To employ or contract with such persons as it may deem necessary and to determine the compensation and define the duties of each; and to protect the handling of Board funds through fidelity bonds;
(c) To prepare and submit to the Secretary for approval 60 days in advance of the beginning of a fiscal period, a budget of anticipated expenses in the administration of this part including the probable costs of all programs and plans and to recommend a rate of assessment with respect thereto.
(d) To investigate violations of this part and report the results of such investigations to the Secretary for appropriate action to enforce the provisions of this part.
(e) To establish, issue, and administer appropriate programs and enter into contracts or agreements with the approval of the Secretary for promotion, research, and information including consumer and industry information, and advertising designed to strengthen the honey industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain, develop, and expand domestic and foreign markets for honey and honey products.
(f) To maintain minutes, books, and records and prepare and submit to the Secretary such reports from time to time as may be required for appropriate accounting with respect to the
receipt and disbursement of funds entrusted to it.
(g) To periodically prepare and make public and to make available to first handlers, producers, and importers reports of its activities and, at least once each fiscal period, to make public an accounting of funds received and expended.
(h) To cause its books to be audited by a certified public accountant at the end of each fiscal period and to submit a copy of each audit to the Secretary.
(i) To submit to the Secretary such information pertaining to this part or subpart as he or she may request.
(j) To give the Secretary the same notice of Board meetings and committee meetings that is given to members in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting to the Secretary.
(k) To notify first handlers, importers, and producers of all Board meetings through press releases or other means.
(l) To appoint and convene, from time to time, working committees or subcommittees that may include first handlers, importers, exporters, producers, members of the wholesale or retail outlets for honey, or other members of the honey industry and the public to assist in the development of research, promotion, advertising, and information programs for honey and honey products.
(m) To develop and recommend such rules and regulations to the Secretary for approval as may be necessary for the development and execution of plans or activities to effectuate the declared purpose of the Act.
(n) To provide any patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, or publications developed through the use of funds collected under the provisions of this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government, as represented by the Board, and shall along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board; and may be licensed subject to approval by the Department.
§ 1212.48
Reapportionment of Board membership.
At least once in each 5-year period, but not more frequently than once in each 3-year period, the Board shall:
(a) Review, based on a three-year average, the geographical distribution in the United States of the production of honey and the quantity or value of the honey and honey products imported into the United States; and
(b) If warranted, recommend to the Secretary the reapportionment of the Board membership to reflect changes in the geographical distribution of the production of honey and the quantity or value of the honey and honey products imported into the United States.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1212.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) At least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal period, and as may be necessary thereafter; the Board shall prepare and submit to the Department a budget for the fiscal period covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart. The budget shall allocate five percent (5%) of the Board's anticipated revenue from assessments each fiscal period for production research and research relating to the production of honey.
Each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data or at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget);
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget).
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this subpart.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Department, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another. Shifts of funds which do not cause an increase in the Board's approved budget and which are consistent with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Department.
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reserve, as the Department finds reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) With approval of the Department, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first year of operation of the Board.
(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects. Voluntary contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor, and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
(g) The Board shall reimburse the Department for all expenses incurred by the Department in the implementation, administration, enforcement and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(h) The Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board in any calendar year an amount that exceeds 15 percent of the assessments and other income received by the Board for that calendar year. Reimbursements to the Department required under paragraph (g) of this section, are excluded from this limitation on spending.
(i) The Board may also receive funds provided through the Department's Foreign Agricultural Service or from other sources, with the approval of the Secretary, for authorized activities.
§ 1212.51
Financial statements.
(a) The Board shall prepare and submit financial statements to the Department on a periodic basis. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, year-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Department within 30 days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Board shall submit annually to the Department an annual financial statement within 90 days after the end of the calendar year to which it applies.
§ 1212.52
Assessments.
(a) The Board will cover its expenses by levying in a manner prescribed by the Secretary an assessment on first handlers and importers. For the period January 1 through December 31, 2015, the assessment rate shall be $0.0125 per pound of assessable honey and honey products. On and after January 1, 2016, the assessment rate shall be $0.015 per pound of assessable honey and honey products.
(b) Each first handler shall pay the assessment to the Board on all domestically produced honey or honey products the first handler handles. A producer shall pay the Board the assessment on all honey or honey products for which the producer is the first handler.
(c) Each first handler responsible for remitting assessments shall remit the amounts due to the Board's office on a monthly basis no later than the fifteenth day of the month following the month in which the honey or honey products were marketed.
(d) Each importer shall pay an assessment to the Board on all honey or honey products the importer imports into the United States. An importer shall pay the assessment to the Board through the United States Customs and Border Protection (Customs) when
the honey or honey products being assessed enters the United States. If Customs does not collect an assessment from an importer, the importer is responsible for paying the assessment to the Board.
(e) The import assessment recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary shall be uniformly applied to imported honey or honey products that are identified as HTS heading numbers 0409.00.00 and 2106.90.9988 by the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States or any other numbers used to identify honey or honey products.
(f) The Board may recommend to the Secretary an increase or decrease in the assessment as it deems appropriate by at least a two-thirds vote of members present at a meeting of the Board. The Board may not recommend an increase in the assessment of more than $0.02 per pound of honey or honey products and may not increase the assessment by more than $0.0025 in any single fiscal year.
(g) In situations of late payment:
(1) The Board shall impose a late payment charge on any first handler or importer who fails to remit to the Board the total amount for which the first handler or importer is liable on or before the payment due date the Board recommends. The amount of the late payment charge shall be prescribed by the Department.
(2) The Board shall require any first handler or importer subject to a late payment charge to pay interest on the unpaid assessments for which the first handler or importer is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed by the Department.
(3) First handlers or importers who fail to remit total assessments in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under federal debt collection procedures.
(h) Advance payment. The Board may accept advance payment of assessments from first handlers or importers that will be credited toward any amount for which the first handlers or importers may become liable. The Board does not have to pay interest on any advance payment.
(i) If the Board is not in place by the date the first assessments are to be collected, the Secretary shall have the authority to receive assessments and invest them on behalf of the Board, and shall pay such assessments and any interest earned to the Board when it is formed.
[73 FR 11472, Mar. 3, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 22365, Apr. 22, 2015]
§ 1212.53
Exemption from assessment.
(a) A first handler who handles less than 250,000 pounds of honey or honey products per calendar year or an importer who imports less than 250,000 pounds of honey or honey products per calendar year is exempt from paying assessments.
(b) A first handler or importer desiring an exemption shall apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. A first handler shall certify that the first handler will handle less than 250,000 of honey and honey products for the calendar year for which the exemption is claimed. An importer shall certify that the importer will import less than 250,000 pounds of honey and honey products during the calendar year for which the exemption is claimed.
(c) A first handler or importer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP), or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a first handler or importer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is handled or imported by a person that also handles or imports conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The first handler or importer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic
Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any first handler or importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(5) Persons eligible for an organic assessment exemption as provided this section may apply for such an exemption by submitting a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, as long as the first handler or importer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(i) A first handler or importer request for exemption shall include the following:
(A) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(B) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(C) Certification that the applicant handles or imports organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(D) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(E) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(F) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(ii) Upon receipt of an application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the first handler or importer within 30 calendar days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe. It is the responsibility of the first handler or importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(d) Upon receipt of an application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to each person who is eligible to receive one. The exemption is effective when approved by the Board. It is the responsibility of these persons to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(e) Exempt importers shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by Customs.
(1) Importers exempt under paragraph (a) of this section must apply to the Board for reimbursement of any assessment paid. No interest will be paid on the assessment collected by Customs. Requests for reimbursement must be submitted to the Board within 90 days of the last day of the calendar year the honey or honey products were imported.
(2) If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product under paragraph (b) of this section that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product.
(f) If a person has been exempt from paying assessments for any calendar year under this section and no longer meets the requirements for an exemption, the person shall file a report with the Board in the form and manner prescribed by the Board and begin to pay the assessment on all honey or honey products handled or imported.
(g) Any person who desires an exemption from assessments for a subsequent calendar year shall reapply to the Board for a certificate of exemption.
(h) The Board may recommend to the Secretary that honey and honey products exported from the United States be exempt from this subpart and recommend procedures for refunding assessments paid on exported honey and
honey products and any necessary safeguards to prevent improper use of this exemption.
[73 FR 11472, Mar. 3, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 22366, Apr. 22, 2015; 80 FR 82027, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1212.54
Operating reserve.
The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established: Provided that the funds in the reserve do not exceed one fiscal period's budget. Subject to approval by the Department, such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this part.
§ 1212.55
Prohibition on use of funds.
(a) The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Board from engaging in:
(1) Any action that is a conflict of interest;
(2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, using funds collected by the Board under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, state, national, and foreign governments, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to the Order.
(3) A program, plan or project conducted pursuant to this subpart that includes false or misleading claims on behalf of honey or honey products.
(4) Any advertising, including promotion, research and information activities authorized that may be false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity.
(b) The prohibition in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not apply:
(1) To the development and recommendation of amendments to this subpart; or
(2) To the communication to appropriate government officials, in response to a request made by the officials, of information relating to the conduct, implementation, or results of promotion, research, consumer information, education, industry information, or producer information activities authorized under this subpart.

# Promotion, Research, and Information
§ 1212.60
Programs, plans and projects.
(a) Scope of activities. The Board must develop and submit to the Secretary for approval plans and programs authorized by this section. The plans and programs may provide for:
(1) Establishing, issuing, and administering appropriate programs for promotion, research, and information including consumer and industry information, and advertising designed to strengthen the honey industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain, develop, and expand domestic and foreign markets for honey and honey products;
(2) Establishing and conducting research and development activities to encourage and expand the acquisition of knowledge about honey and honey products, their consumption and use, or to encourage, expand or improve the quality, marketing, and utilization of honey and honey products;
(3) Conducting activities that may lead to developing new markets or marketing strategies for honey and honey products;
(4) Conducting activities related to production issues or bee research activities; and
(5) Conducting activities designed to make the honey industry more efficient, to improve the quality of honey or to enhance the image of honey and honey products and the honey industry.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Department. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) The Board must periodically evaluate each plan and program authorized under this part to ensure that it contributes to an effective and coordinated program of research, promotion and information. The Board must submit the evaluations to the Secretary. If the Board and the Secretary find that a plan or program does not further the purposes of the Act, then such plan or program should be terminated.
§ 1212.61
Independent evaluation.
The Board must authorize and fund not less than once every five years an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of this subpart and the plans and programs conducted by the Board under the Act. The Board must submit this independent evaluation to the Secretary and make the results available to the public.
§ 1212.62
Patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, and publications.
Except for a reasonable royalty paid by the Board to the inventor of a patented invention, any patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, or publications developed through the use of funds collected under the provisions of this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government, as represented by the Board, and shall along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board; and may be licensed subject to approval by the Department. Upon termination of this Order, § 1212.83 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1212.70
Reports.
(a) Each first handler or importer subject to this part must report to the Board, at the time and in the manner it prescribes, and subject to the approval of the Secretary, the information the Board deems necessary to perform its duties.
(b) First handlers must report:
(1) The total quantity of honey and honey products acquired during the reporting period;
(2) The total quantity of honey and honey products handled during the period;
(3) The quantity of honey processed for sale from the first handler's own production;
(4) The quantity of honey and honey products purchased from a first handler or importer responsible for paying the assessment due pursuant to this Order;
(5) The date that assessment payments were made on honey and honey products handled; and
(6) The first handler's tax identification number.
(c) Unless provided by Customs, importers must report:
(1) The total quantity of honey and honey products imported during the reporting period;
(2) A record of each lot of honey or honey products imported during such period, including the quantity, date, country of origin, and port of entry; and
(3) The importer of record's tax identification number.
(d) The Board may request any other information from first handlers and importers that it deems necessary to perform its duties under this subpart, subject to the approval of the Secretary.
(e) The Board, with the Secretary's approval, may request that persons claiming an exemption from assessments under § 1212.52(b) or (d) must provide it with any information it deems necessary about the exemption, including, without limitation, the disposition of exempted honey or honey products.
§ 1212.71
Book and records.
Each first handler and importer, including those who are exempt under this subpart, must maintain any books and records necessary to carry out the provisions of this part, and any regulations issued under this part, including the books and records necessary to verify any required reports. Books and records must be made available during normal business hours for inspection by the Board's or Secretary's employees or agents. A first handler or importer must maintain the books and records for three years beyond the fiscal period to which they apply.
[80 FR 22366, Apr. 22, 2015]
§ 1212.72
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act and this part shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees
and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members, first handlers, or importers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected thereof, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this part, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this part violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1212.80
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs or projects, contracts, rules or regulations, reports, or other actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1212.81
Referenda.
(a) After the initial referendum, the Secretary shall conduct subsequent referenda;
(1) Every seven years, to determine whether first handlers and importers of honey or honey products favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of the Order. The Order shall continue if it is favored by a majority of first handlers and importers voting in the referendum and a majority of volume voting in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the handling or importation of honey or honey products;
(2) At the request of the Board established in this Order;
(3) At the request of ten (10) percent or more of the number of persons eligible to vote under the Order; or
(4) Whenever the Department deems that a referendum is necessary.
(b)
Approval of order.
Approval in a referendum shall be established by a majority of eligible persons voting in the referendum and a majority of volume voting in the referendum who are first handlers or importers during the representative period by those voting as established by the Secretary.
(c)
Manner of conducting referenda.
A referendum conducted under this section shall be conducted in the manner determined by the Secretary to be appropriate.
§ 1212.82
Suspension or termination.
The Secretary shall suspend or terminate the operation of this part or subpart or any provision thereof, if the Secretary finds that this part or subpart or the provision obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the declared policy of the Act.
§ 1212.83
Proceedings after termination.
(a) If this subpart terminates, the Board shall recommend to the Secretary up to five of its members to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the Board's affairs. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, will become trustees of any funds and property the Board possesses or controls at that time and any existing claims it has, including, without limitation, claims for any unpaid or undelivered funds or property.
(b) The trustees will:
(1) Serve until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the Board's obligations under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to the Order;
(3) Account from time to time for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all the Board's and trustees' books and
records to any person the Secretary directs; and
(4) Execute at the Secretary's direction any assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in any person full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims owned by the Board or the trustees under this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order will be subject to the same obligations imposed upon Board and the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Department to be disposed of, to the extent practical, to one or more honey industry organizations in the interest of continuing honey promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1212.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, terminating or amending this subpart or any regulation issued under it will not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability that arose or may arise in connection with any provision of this part;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this part; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States or any person with respect to any violation.
§ 1212.85
Personal liability.
No member, alternate member, or employee of the Board may be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as a member, alternate member, or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1212.86
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability of it to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability of it to other persons or circumstances will not be affected.
§ 1212.87
Amendments.
Amendments to this Order may be proposed from time to time by the Board or any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Department.
§ 1212.88
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements in this part by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, is OMB control number 0505-0001, and OMB control number 0581-[NEW, to be assigned by OMB].

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
§ 1212.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible first handlers and importers of honey and honey products favor the issuance, continuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Honey Packers and Importers Research, Promotion, Consumer Education, and Industry Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1212.101
Definitions.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to re-delegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
(c)
Eligible first handler
means any person (excluding a common or contract carrier) who handled 250,000 or more pounds of domestic honey and honey products during the representative period, who first buys or takes possession of honey or honey products from a producer for marketing. If a producer markets the honey directly to
consumers, the producer shall be considered the first handler with respect to the honey produced by the producer.
(d)
Eligible importer
means any person who imports 250,000 or more pounds of honey and honey products into the United States as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who produces or handles honey or honey products outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such honey or honey products that are identified in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States by the numbers 0409.00.00 and 2106.90.9988, during the representative period. Importation occurs when honey or honey products originating outside of the United States are released from custody by the United States Customs and Border Protection, referred to as the U.S. Customs Service, and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign produced honey or honey products immediately upon release by the U.S. Customs Service, as well as any persons who acts on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of honey or honey products from the U.S. Customs Service when such honey or honey products are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States.
(e)
Handle
means to process, package, sell, transport, purchase or in any other way place honey or honey products, or cause them to be placed, in commerce. This term includes selling unprocessed honey that will be consumed without further processing or packaging. This term does not include the transportation of unprocessed honey by the producer to a handler or transportation by a commercial carrier of honey, whether processed or unprocessed for the account of the first handler or producer.
(f)
Honey
means the nectar and saccharine exudations of plants that are gathered, modified, and stored in the comb by honeybees, including comb honey.
(g)
Honey products
mean products where honey is a principal ingredient. For purposes of this subpart, a product shall be considered to have honey as a principal ingredient, if the product contains at least 50 percent honey by weight.
(h)
Order
means the Honey Packers and Importers Research, Promotion, Consumer Education and Industry Information Order.
(i)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, honey bee colonies or beekeeping equipment as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, equipment, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties, so that it results in the production, handling, or importation of honey or honey products for market and the authority to transfer title to the honey or honey products so produced, handled or imported.
(j)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Department to conduct the referendum.
(k)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Department.
(l)
United States or U.S.
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1212.102
Voting.
(a) Each eligible first handler and eligible importer of honey or honey products shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate first handler or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee or an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executive, or
trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) All ballots are to be cast by mail, as instructed by the Department.
§ 1212.103
Instructions.
(a)
Referenda.
The Order shall not become effective unless the Department determines that the Order is consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of the Act; and for initial and subsequent referenda the Order is favored by a majority of eligible persons voting in the referendum and a majority of volume voting in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Department, have been engaged in the handling or importation of honey or honey products and are subject to assessments under this Order and excluding those exempt from assessment under the Order.
(b) The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(1) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast.
(2) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter.
(3) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(i) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(ii) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(4) Mail to eligible first handlers and importers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot.
(5) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process.
(6) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(7) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1212.104
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions of this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1212.105
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1212.106
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1212.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Order and the voter list shall be
strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1212.108
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 is OMB control number 0505-0001, OMB control number 0581-0217, and OMB control number 0581-[NEW, to be assigned by OMB].

# Subpart C—Past Due Assessments

# Source:
83 FR 11139, Mar. 14, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1212.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.
(a) A late payment charge will be imposed on any first handler or importer who fails to make timely remittance to the Board of the total assessments for which they are liable. The late payment will be imposed on any assessments not received within 30 calendar days of the date when assessments are due. This one-time late payment charge will be 10 percent of the assessments due before interest charges have accrued.
(b) In addition to the late payment charge,
2/3
of 1 percent per month (or an annual rate of 8 percent) interest on the outstanding balance, including any late payment and accrued interest, will be added to any accounts for which payment has not been received within 30 calendar days of the date when assessments are due. Interest will continue to accrue monthly until the outstanding balance is paid to the Board.
Pt. 1214

# PART 1214—CHRISTMAS TREE PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Christmas Tree Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1214.1
Act.
1214.2
Board.
1214.3
Christmas tree.
1214.4
Conflict of interest.
1214.5
Crop year.
1214.6
Customs or CBP.
1214.7
Department.
1214.8
Fiscal period
1214.9
Importer.
1214.10
Information.
1214.11
Marketing.
1214.12
Order.
1214.13
Part and subpart.
1214.14
Person.
1214.15
Programs, plans, and projects.
1214.16
Produce.
1214.17
Producer.
1214.18
Promotion.
1214.19
Research.
1214.20
Secretary.
1214.21
State.
1214.22
Suspend.
1214.23
Terminate.
1214.24
United States.

# Christmas Tree Promotion Board
1214.40
Establishment and membership.
1214.41
Nominations and appointments.
1214.42
Term of office.
1214.43
Vacancies.
1214.44
Procedure.
1214.45
Compensation and reimbursement.
1214.46
Powers and duties.
1214.47
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses and Assessments
1214.50
Budget and expenses.
1214.51
Financial statements.
1214.52
Assessments.
1214.53
Exemption from and refunds of assessments.
1214.54
Refund escrow accounts.

# Promotion, Research and Information
1214.60
Programs, plans, and projects.
1214.61
Independent evaluation.
1214.62
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1214.70
Reports.
1214.71
Books and records.
1214.72
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1214.80
Right of the Secretary.
1214.81
Referenda.
1214.82
Suspension and termination.
1214.83
Proceedings after termination.
1214.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
1214.85
Personal liability.
1214.86
Separability.
1214.87
Amendments.
1214.88
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
1214.100
General.
1214.101
Definitions.
1214.102
Voting.
1214.103
Instructions.
1214.104
Subagents.
1214.105
Ballots.
1214.106
Referendum report.
1214.107
Confidential information.
1214.108
OMB control number.

# Subpart C—Provisions Implementing the Christmas Tree Promotion, Research, and Information Order
1214.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425; 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
76 FR 69103, Nov. 8, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Christmas Tree Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
§ 1214.1
Act.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425), and any amendments thereto.
§ 1214.2
Board.
Board
or the Christmas Tree Promotion Board means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1214.40.
§ 1214.3
Christmas tree.
Christmas tree
means any tree of the coniferous species, that is severed or cut from its roots and marketed as a Christmas tree for holiday use.
§ 1214.4
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a member or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
§ 1214.5
Crop year.
Crop year
means the period August 1 through July 31 or such other period approved by the Secretary.
[81 FR 38897, June 15, 2016]
§ 1214.6
Customs or CBP.
Customs or CBP
means the United States Customs and Border Protection or U.S. Customs Service, an agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
§ 1214.7
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1214.8
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means the period August 1 through July 31 or such other period approved by the Secretary.
[81 FR 38897, June 15, 2016]
§ 1214.9
Importer.
Importer
means any person importing Christmas trees into the United States in a fiscal period as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who domestically produces Christmas trees outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed in the import records as the importer of record for such Christmas trees.
§ 1214.10
Information.
Information
means information, program, and activities that are designed to increase efficiency in processing, enhance the development of new markets and marketing strategies, increase market efficiency, and enhance the image of Christmas trees and the Christmas tree industry in the United States.
§ 1214.11
Marketing.
Marketing
means to sell or otherwise dispose of Christmas trees in interstate, foreign or intrastate commerce.
§ 1214.12
Order.
Order
means an order issued by the Secretary under section 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
§ 1214.13
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Christmas Tree Promotion, Research, and Information
Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order shall be a subpart of such part.
§ 1214.14
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1214.15
Programs, plans and projects.
Programs, plans and projects
mean those research, promotion and information programs, plans, or projects established pursuant to this Order.
§ 1214.16
Produce.
Produce
means to engage in the cutting and selling of Christmas trees for the holiday market.
§ 1214.17
Producer.
Producer
means any person who is engaged in the production of Christmas trees in the United States, and who owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of the production of Christmas trees or a person who is engaged in the business of producing, or causing to be domestically produced, Christmas trees beyond personal use and having value at first point of sale.
§ 1214.18
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action, including paid advertising and public relations that presents a favorable image of Christmas trees to the general public with the intent of improving the perception and competitive position of Christmas trees and stimulating sales of Christmas trees.
§ 1214.19
Research.
Research
means any type of test, systematic study, study, investigation, analysis and/or evaluation designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, quality, product development, or production of Christmas trees, including but not limited to research related to cost of production, market development, testing the effectiveness of market development and promotional efforts, new species of Christmas trees and environmental issues relating to the Christmas tree industry.
§ 1214.20
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated, or to whom authority may be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1214.21
State.
State
means any of the several 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1214.22
Suspend.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5 U.S.C. to temporarily prevent the operation of an order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1214.23
Terminate.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5 U.S.C. to cancel permanently the operation of an order or part thereof beginning on a certain date specified in the rule.
§ 1214.24
United States.
United States
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.

# Christmas Tree Promotion Board
§ 1214.40
Establishment and membership.
(a)
Establishment of the Christmas Tree Promotion Board.
There is hereby established a Christmas Tree Promotion Board, composed of no more than twelve (12) members as follows:
(1) Producer members from each of the following regions:
(i) Five producer members from Region #1—Western Region (states from the Pacific Ocean east to the Rocky Mountains): Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, Wyoming and all U.S. Territories located in the Pacific Ocean.
(ii) Two producer members from Region #2—Central Region (states east of the Rocky Mountains to the Great Lakes): Arkansas, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, and Wisconsin.
(iii) Four producer members from Region #3—Eastern Region (states east of the Great Lakes): Alabama, Connecticut, Delaware, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, New York, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, New Hampshire, New Jersey, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia, Vermont, Washington, DC, West Virginia, and all U.S. Territories located in the Atlantic Ocean and Caribbean Sea, including but not limited to Puerto Rico.
(2) One Importer member.
(b)
Adjustment of membership.
At least once every five years upon implementation of the Order, but not more frequently than once every three years, the Board will review the geographic distribution of United States production of Christmas trees and the quantity and source of Christmas tree imports. The review will be conducted through State crop production figures and Board assessment records, including the amount of assessments collected from importers, or other government data. If warranted, the Board will recommend to the Secretary that membership on the Board be altered to reflect any changes in geographic distribution of domestic Christmas tree production and the quantity of imports.
Provided,
that there shall be at least one importer member on the Board. Such adjustments shall not increase the total number of Board members. The adjustments to the Board membership would be submitted to the Secretary by Board recommendation and be implemented by the Secretary through rulemaking.
§ 1214.41
Nominations and appointments.
(a) Voting for producer members will be made by mail ballot, electronic mail, in person, or by facsimile.
(b) Nominations for the initial Board will be conducted by the Department. Subsequent nominations will be conducted by the Board.
(c) The Board shall outreach to all segments of the Christmas tree industry and solicit nominations as described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. Nominees must domestically produce or import more than 500 Christmas trees during the most recent fiscal period.
(d) Nomination of producer members will be conducted by the Board. The Board staff will seek nominations for each vacant producer seat from each region from producers who have paid their assessments to the Board in the most recent fiscal period. Producers who produce Christmas trees in more than one region may seek nomination only in the region in which they produce the majority of their Christmas trees. For selection to the initial Board, the Secretary will notify producers to request nominations to the Board. Subsequent nominations will be submitted to the Board office and placed on a ballot that will be sent to producers in each region for a vote. Producers who produce Christmas trees in more than one region may only vote in the region in which they produce the majority of their Christmas trees. The nominee receiving the highest number of votes and the nominee receiving the second highest number of votes shall be submitted to the Department as the producers' first and second choice nominees. The Board shall submit nominations to the Secretary not less than 90 days prior to the expiration of the term of office.
(e) Nominations for the importer member(s) will be conducted by the Board. The Board will solicit importer nominations from those importers who have paid their assessments to the Board in the most recent fiscal period. For selection to the initial Board, the Secretary will notify importers to request nominations to the Board. Subsequent nominations will be submitted to the Board office and placed on a ballot that will be sent to importers for a vote. The Board shall submit those nominations to the Secretary not less than 90 days prior to the expiration of the term of office. Two nominees for
each importer position will be submitted to the Secretary for consideration.
(f) From the nominations, the Secretary shall select the members of the Board for each position on the Board. Members will serve until their successors have been appointed by the Secretary.
§ 1214.42
Term of office.
Board members will serve for a term of three years and be able to serve a maximum of two consecutive three-year terms. When the Board is first established, the members will be assigned initial terms of two, three, and four years. Initial terms will be staggered to assure continuity of the Board. The term of office will begin on January 1 and conclude on December 31. Members serving the initial term of two and four years will be eligible to serve a second term of three-years. Thereafter, each of the positions will carry a full three-year term. Board members shall serve during the term of office for which they have been appointed and qualified, and until their successors are appointed and have qualified.
§ 1214.43
Vacancies.
(a) In the event that any member of the Board ceases to be a member of the category of membership from which the member was appointed to the Board, such position shall automatically become vacant.
(b) If a member of the Board consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Board, or if a member of the Board engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office. If the Secretary finds the recommendation of the Board shows adequate cause, the Secretary may remove such member from office. Further, without recommendation of the Board, a member may be removed by the Secretary upon showing of adequate cause, including the failure by a member to submit reports or remit assessments required under this part, if the Secretary determines that such member's continued service would be detrimental to the achievement of the purposes of the Act.
(c) Should any member position become vacant, successors for the unexpired terms of such member shall be appointed in the manner specified in § 1214.41. A vacancy will not be required to be filled if the unexpired term is less than six months.
§ 1214.44
Procedure.
(a) At a Board meeting, it will be considered a quorum when a majority of the Board members is present.
(b) All Board members will receive a minimum of 14 days advance notice of all Board and committee meetings, except when emergency circumstances exist and meetings need to be held prior to the advance notice.
(c) Each member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board. For any action of the Board to pass, at least a majority of the Board members present must vote in support of such action.
(d) The Board may appoint committees as necessary. It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when at least a majority of those appointed to the committee are present. Committees may consist of persons other than Board members, and such persons may vote in committee meetings as the Board shall determine. These committee members shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board.
(e) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting, and when, in the opinion of the Board's chairperson, such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. Any action taken under this procedure is valid only if:
(1) All members and the Secretary are notified and the members are provided the opportunity to vote;
(2) A majority of the members vote in favor of the action; and
(3) All votes are promptly confirmed in writing and recorded in the Board minutes.
(f) There shall be no voting by proxy.
(g) The chairperson shall be a voting member.
§ 1214.45
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board, incurred by them in the performance of their duties as Board members.
§ 1214.46
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer the Order in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board, and such rules as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet, organize, and select from among the members of the Board a chairperson, other officers, committees, and subcommittees, as the Board determines to be appropriate, provided that the committee and subcommittee members may also include individuals other than Board members;
(d) To notify producers and importers of all Board meetings through press releases or other means;
(e) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board and committees as is given to members, including committee members if committee members are not members of the Board, in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting of the Board and all committees to the Secretary;
(f) To appoint and convene, from time to time, committees that may include importers, exporters, producers or other members of the Christmas tree industry and public to assist in the development of research, promotion, advertising, and information programs for Christmas trees;
(g) To employ persons, other than members, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of such persons;
(h) To act as an intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or importer;
(i) To furnish to the Secretary any information or records that the Secretary may request;
(j) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the Order;
(k) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to the Secretary as the Secretary may require and to make the records available to the Secretary for inspection and audit; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(l) To recommend to the Secretary such amendments to the Order as the Board considers appropriate;
(m) To develop and carry out generic promotion, research, and information activities relating to Christmas trees;
(n) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, evaluation, and information designed to strengthen the Christmas tree industry's position in the marketplace; maintain and expand existing markets for Christmas trees; and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the Christmas tree industry;
(o) To develop programs, plans, and projects, and enter into contracts or agreements, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, information, or promotion, and the payment of costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to this subpart. Each contract or agreement shall provide that any person who enters into a contract or agreement with the Board shall develop and submit to the Board a proposed activity; keep accurate records of all of its transactions relating to the contract or agreement; account for funds received and expended in connection with the contract or agreement; make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted under the contract or agreement; and make
such other reports available as the Board or the Secretary considers necessary. Any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan, or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor;
(p) To prepare and submit for approval of the Secretary, within 60 days after assessments are due to the Board, rates of assessment and a fiscal period budget of the anticipated expenses to be incurred in the administration of the Order, in accordance with § 1214.50;
(q) To borrow funds necessary for the startup expenses of the order;
(r) To invest assessments collected under this part in accordance with § 1214.50;
(s) To pay the cost of the activities with assessments collected under § 1214.52;
(t) To recommend adjustments to the assessments as provided in § 1214.52;
(u) To periodically prepare, make public and to make available to producers and importers, reports of its activities and, at least once each fiscal period, to make public an accounting of funds received and expended; and
(v) To cause its books to be audited by an independent certified public accountant at the end of each fiscal period and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary.
§ 1214.47
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Board from engaging in:
(a) Any action that would be a conflict of interest;
(b) Using funds collected by the Board under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, state, national, and foreign governments or any subdivision thereof, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to the Order; and
(c) No program, plan, or project including advertising shall be false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity. Christmas trees of all origins shall be treated equally.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1214.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) Within 60 days after assessments are due to the Board, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal period covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this part. Each budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data or at least one preceding year, except for the initial budget;
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year, except for the initial budget.
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this part.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another.
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a
reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this part. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) With approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any such funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended for startup costs and are limited to the first year of operation of the Board.
(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects approved by the Secretary. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
(g) In accordance with § 1214.54, the Board shall deposit funds in a refund escrow account and shall not use such funds for expenses, except as provided for in that section.
(h) The Board may also receive funds provided through the Department's Foreign Agricultural Service or from other sources, with the approval of the Secretary, for authorized activities.
(i) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, enforcement, and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(j) For fiscal years beginning 3 or more years after the date of the establishment of the Board, the Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board in a fiscal year an amount that exceeds 10 percent of the assessment and other income received by the Board. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (i) of this section are excluded from this limitation on spending.
(k) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established:
Provided:
That, the funds in the reserve do not exceed one fiscal period's budget of expenses. Subject to approval by the Secretary, such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this part.
(l) Pending disbursement of assessments and all other revenue under a budget approved by the Secretary, the Board may invest assessments and all other revenues collected under this section in:
(1) Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;
(2) General obligations of any State or any political subdivision of a State;
(3) Interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve System; or
(4) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal interest by the United States.
§ 1214.51
Financial statements.
(a) The Board shall prepare and submit quarterly financial statements to the Secretary, or at any other time requested by the Secretary. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, year-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Secretary within 45 days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Board shall submit annually to the Secretary an annual financial statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal period to which it applies.
§ 1214.52
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the Board's expenses shall be paid from assessments on producers, importers, and donations from any person including those not subject to assessments under this Order, and other funds available to the Board including those collected pursuant to § 1214.62 and subject to the limitations contained therein.
(b) The payment of assessments on domestic Christmas trees that are cut and sold will be the responsibility of the producer who produces the Christmas trees or causes the trees to be cut.
(c) Each importer of Christmas trees shall pay the assessment to the Board on Christmas trees imported for marketing in the United States, through Customs. If Customs does not collect an assessment from an importer, the importer will be responsible for paying the assessment directly to the Board 30 calendar days after importation.
(1) The assessment rate for imported Christmas trees shall be the same or equivalent to the rate for Christmas trees domestically produced in the United States.
(2) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported Christmas trees that are identified by the numbers 0604.91.00.20, 0604.91.00.40, and 0604.91.00.60 in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States or any other numbers used to identify Christmas trees in that schedule.
(3) The assessments due on imported Christmas trees shall be paid when they enter into the United States.
(d) Such assessments shall be levied at an initial rate of 15 cents per Christmas tree domestically produced or imported into the United States. The assessment rate will be reviewed by the Board, after the initial referendum is conducted pursuant to this subpart. The assessment rate may be increased or decreased no more than 2 cents per Christmas tree during the fiscal period. Any change in the assessment rate shall be subject to rulemaking by the Department. The assessment rate shall not exceed 20 cents per Christmas tree, nor shall it be less than 10 cents per Christmas tree, unless a majority of producers and importers approve such other levels of assessment through a referendum conducted pursuant to this subpart.
(e) All assessment payments and reports will be submitted to the office of the Board. All assessment payments are to be received no later than February 15 of the crop year in which they are produced or imported. A late payment charge, may be imposed on any producer or importer who fails to remit to the Board, the total amount for which any such producer or importer is liable on or before the due date established by the Board. In addition to the late payment charge, an interest charge may be imposed on the outstanding amount for which the producer or importer is liable. The rate for late payment and interest charges shall be specified by the Secretary through rulemaking.
(f) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under federal debt collection procedures.
(g) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 1214.53
Exemption from and refunds of assessments.
(a)
Producers that domestically produce and importers that import less than 500 Christmas trees.
(1) Any producer who domestically produces less than 500 Christmas trees who desires to claim an exemption from assessments as provided in § 1214.52 shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. Such producer shall certify that he/she will domestically produce less than 500 trees for the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed. It is the responsibility of the producer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(2) Any importer who imports less than 500 trees in a fiscal period who desires to claim an exemption from assessments as provided in § 1214.52 shall file an application on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. Such importer shall certify that the importer's total imports of Christmas trees are fewer than 500 trees for the fiscal period for which the exemption is claimed. It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(3) On receipt of an exemption application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the producer or importer which is eligible to receive one.
(4) The Board, with the Secretary's approval, may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt Christmas trees and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.
(5) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the certificate of exemption.
(6) Producers and importers who received an exemption certificate from the Board but domestically produced or imported more than 500 Christmas trees during the fiscal period shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to § 1214.70.
(7) Producers and importers who did not apply to the Board for an exemption and domestically produced or imported less than 500 Christmas trees during the fiscal period shall receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year. Board staff shall determine the assessments paid and refund the amount due to the producers and importers accordingly.
(8) The Board may develop additional procedures as it deems necessary for accurately accounting for this exemption. Such procedures shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
(b)
Assessment refunds to importers.
(1) Importers who are exempt from assessment shall be eligible for a refund of assessments collected by Customs during the applicable fiscal period. No interest will be paid on assessments collected by Customs. The Board shall refund such importers their assessments as collected by Customs no later than 60 calendar days after receipt by the Board.
(c)
Organic.
(1) A producer who domestically produces Christmas trees under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(i) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(ii) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(iii) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(iv) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(2) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible producer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before the start of the fiscal period, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(3) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(i) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(ii) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(iii) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(iv) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent;
(v) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(vi) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(4) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(5) An importer who imports Christmas trees that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as
“organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” Christmas trees on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the fiscal period, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of a producer in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer within the applicable timeframe. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(6) If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product under paragraph (c)(5) of this section that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product.
(7) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
[76 FR 69103, Nov. 8, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 82028, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1214.54
Refund escrow accounts.
(a) The Board shall establish an interest bearing escrow account with a financial institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve System and will deposit into such account an amount equal to 10 percent of the assessments collected during the period beginning on the effective date of the Order and ending on the date the Secretary announces the results of the required referendum.
(b) If the Order is not approved by the required referendum, the Board shall promptly pay refunds of assessments to all producers and importers that have paid assessments during the period beginning on the effective date of the Order and ending on the date the Secretary announces the results of the required referendum in the manner specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c) If the amount deposited in the escrow account is less than the amount of all refunds that producers and importers subject to the Order have a right to receive, the Board shall prorate the amount deposited in such account among all producers and importers who desire a refund of assessments paid no later than 90 days after the required referendum results are announced by the Secretary.
(d) Any producer or importer requesting a refund shall submit an application on the prescribed form to the Board within 30 days after the announcement of the referendum results of their request for a refund of the assessments that they paid. The producers and importer requesting a refund shall also submit documentation to substantiate that assessments were paid. Any such demand shall be made by such producer or importer in accordance with the provisions of this subpart and in a manner consistent with regulations recommended by the Board and prescribed by the Secretary.
(e) If the Order is approved by the required referendum conducted under § 1214.71 then:
(1) The escrow account shall be closed; and,
(2) The funds shall be available to the Board for disbursement under § 1214.50.

# Promotion, Research and Information
§ 1214.60
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative, develop and submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan, or project authorized under this subpart. Such
programs, plans, or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, and information, including producer and consumer industry information, with respect to Christmas trees;
(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the image, desirability, use, marketability, quality, product development or production of Christmas trees, to the end that the marketing and use of Christmas trees may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable and to advance the image, desirability, or quality of Christmas trees.
(b) A program, plan, or project may not be implemented prior to approval of the program, plan, or project by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, or information. If it is found by the Board that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan, or project.
§ 1214.61
Independent evaluation.
The Board shall, not less often than once every five years, authorize and fund, from funds otherwise available to the Board, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and programs conducted by the Board pursuant to the Act. The Board shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this paragraph.
§ 1214.62
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations developed through the use of funds received by the Board under this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government as represented by the Board and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board, shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board, and may be licensed subject to approval by the Secretary. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1214.83 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1214.70
Reports.
(a) Each producer and importer subject to this subpart shall be required to provide to the Board periodically such information as required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Number of trees produced or total imports;
(2) Number of Christmas trees on which an assessment was paid;
(3) Name and address of producer or importer; and
(4) Date assessment was paid on each Christmas tree produced or imported.
(b) All reports required under § 1214.70 are due to the Board by February 15 of the crop year.
(c) This report shall accompany the payment of the collected assessments.
§ 1214.71
Books and records.
Each producer and importer subject to this subpart, including those who are exempt under this subpart, shall maintain any books and records necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart and the regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such books and records must be made available during normal business hours for inspection by the Board's or Secretary's employees or agents. Such records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
§ 1214.72
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart, and the regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members, producers, or importers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1214.80
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, rules or regulations, contracts, reports, or other substantive actions proposed or prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1214.81
Referenda.
(a)
Required referendum.
For the purpose of ascertaining whether the persons subject to this Order favor the amendment, continuation, suspension, amendment, or termination of this Order, the Secretary shall conduct a referendum among persons subject to assessments under § 1214.52 who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have engaged in the production or importation of Christmas trees:
(1) The first referendum shall be conducted not later than 3 years after assessments first begin under the Order;
(2) The order will be approved in a referendum if:
(i) A majority of producers and importers vote for approval in the referendum.
(b)
Subsequent referenda.
The Secretary shall conduct subsequent referenda:
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether producers and importers favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of the Order;
(2) Every seven years the Secretary shall hold a referendum to determine whether producers and importers of Christmas trees favor the continuation of the Order. The Order shall continue if it is favored by a majority of producers and importers voting for approval in the referendum who have been engaged in the production or importation of Christmas trees;
(3) At the request of the Board established in this Order;
(4) At the request of 10 percent or more of the number of persons eligible to vote in a referendum as set forth under the Order; or
(5) At any time as determined by the Secretary.
§ 1214.82
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof, if the Secretary finds that the subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purpose of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that this subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Act.
(b) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the fiscal period whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is favored by a majority of producers and importers voting in a referenda who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary,
have been engaged in the production or importation of Christmas trees.
(c) If, as a result of a referendum the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Not later than one hundred and eighty (180) days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, collection of assessments under this subpart; and
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an orderly manner.
§ 1214.83
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend not more than three of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered, or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to the Order;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the trustees, to such person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary and appropriate to vest in such persons title and right to all funds, property and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to the Order.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practical, to one or more Christmas tree organizations in the United States in the interest of continuing Christmas tree promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1214.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder.
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder.
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary or of any other persons, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1214.85
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1214.86
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1214.87
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time by the Board or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1214.88
OMB control numbers.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, is OMB control number 0505-0001, and OMB control number 0581-0267 and 0581-0268.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures

# Source:
76 FR 69113, Nov. 8, 2011, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1214.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible domestic producers and importers of Christmas trees favor the continuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Christmas Tree Promotion, Research, and Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1214.101
Definitions.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to delegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Customs
means the United States Customs and Border Protection or U.S. Customs Service, an agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
(c)
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
(d)
Eligible domestic producer
means any person who domestically produces more than 500 Christmas trees annually in the United States, and who:
(1) Owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of the production of Christmas trees;
(2) Rents Christmas tree production land, facilities and/or equipment resulting in the ownership of all or a portion of the Christmas trees domestically produced;
(3) Owns Christmas tree production facilities and equipment but does not manage them and, as compensation, obtains the ownership of a portion of the Christmas trees domestically produced; or
(4) Is a party in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to domestically produce Christmas trees who share the risk of loss and receive a share of the Christmas trees domestically produced. No other acquisition of legal title to Christmas trees shall be deemed to result in persons becoming eligible domestic producers.
(e)
Eligible importer
means any person importing more than 500 Christmas trees annually into the United States as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who domestically produces or handles Christmas trees outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such Christmas trees that are identified in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States by the numbers 0604.91.00.20, 0604.91.00.40, and 0604.91.00.60 during the representative period. Importation occurs when Christmas trees originating outside of the United States are released from custody by Customs and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-produced Christmas trees immediately upon release by Customs, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of Christmas trees from Customs when such Christmas trees are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States.
(f)
Christmas tree
means any tree of the coniferous species, that is severed or cut from its roots and marketed as a Christmas tree for holiday use.
(g)
Order
means the Christmas Tree Promotion, Research, and Information Order.
(h)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose
of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a Christmas tree farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties.
(i)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Department to conduct the referendum.
(j)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Department.
(j)
United States
or
U.S.
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1214.102
Voting.
(a) Each eligible domestic producer and eligible importer of Christmas trees shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. However, each domestic producer in a landlord/tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to domestically produce Christmas trees, in which more than one of the parties is a domestic producer or importer, shall be entitled to cast one ballot in the referendum covering only such domestic producer or importer's share of the ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate domestic producer or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee or an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) All ballots are to be cast by mail as instructed by the Department.
(d) Eligible domestic producers or eligible importers may be asked to provide proof of sales or acreage as proof of eligibility to vote in any referendum.
§ 1214.103
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions of this subpart, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast.
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter.
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible domestic producers and importers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot.
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process.
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1214.104
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions of this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1214.105
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1214.106
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1214.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Order and the voter list shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1214.108
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 is OMB control number 0581-0267.

# Subpart C—Provisions Implementing the Christmas Tree Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Source:
81 FR 38897, June, 15, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1214.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.
(a) A late payment charge shall be imposed on any producer or importer who fails to make timely remittance to the Board of the total assessments for which such producer or importer is liable. The late payment charge will be imposed on any assessments not received within 30 calendar days of the date they are due. This one-time late payment charge shall be $250 and will be increased to $500 after 90 days of delinquency.
(b) In addition to the late payment charge, 1.5 percent per month interest on the outstanding balance, including any late payment charge and accrued interest, will be added to any accounts for which payment has not been received by the Board within 30 calendar days after the date the assessments are due. Such interest will continue to accrue monthly until the outstanding balance is paid to the Board.
Pt. 1215

# PART 1215—POPCORN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1215.1
Act.
1215.2
Board.
1215.3
Board member.
1215.4
Commerce.
1215.5
Consumer information.
1215.6
Department.
1215.7
Fiscal year.
1215.8
Industry information.
1215.9
Marketing.
1215.10
Part and subpart.
1215.11
Person.
1215.12
Popcorn.
1215.13
Process.
1215.14
Processor.
1215.15
Programs, plans, and projects.
1215.16
Promotion.
1215.17
Research.
1215.18
Secretary.
1215.19
State.
1215.20
United States.

# Popcorn Board
1215.21
Establishment and membership.
1215.22
Nominations and appointment.
1215.23
Acceptance.
1215.24
Term of office.
1215.25
Vacancies.
1215.26
Removal.
1215.27
Procedure.
1215.28
Compensation and reimbursement.
1215.29
Powers.
1215.30
Duties.

# Promotion, Research, Consumer Information, and Industry Information
1215.40
Programs, plans, and projects.
1215.41
Contracts.

# Expenses and Assessments
1215.50
Budget and expenses.
1215.51
Assessments.
1215.52
Exemption from assessment.
1215.53
Influencing governmental action.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1215.60
Reports.
1215.61
Books and records.
1215.62
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1215.70
Right of the Secretary.
1215.71
Suspension or termination.
1215.72
Proceedings after termination.
1215.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
1215.74
Personal liability.
1215.75
Patents, copyrights, inventions, publications, and product formulations.
1215.76
Amendments.
1215.77
Separability.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations

# Definitions
1215.100
Terms defined.

# Exemption Procedures
1215.300
Exemption procedures.

# Miscellaneous
1215.400
OMB control numbers.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7481-7491 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
62 FR 39389, July 22, 1997, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order

# Definitions
§ 1215.1
Act.
Act
means the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act of 1995, Subtitle E of Title V of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-127, 7 U.S.C. 7481-7491, and any amendments thereto.
§ 1215.2
Board.
Board
means the Popcorn Board established under section 575(b) of the Act.
§ 1215.3
Board member.
Board member
means an officer or employee of a processor appointed by the Secretary to serve on the Popcorn Board as a representative of that processor.
§ 1215.4
Commerce.
Commerce
means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
§ 1215.5
Consumer information.
Consumer information
means information and programs that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchasing, preparing, and use of popcorn.
§ 1215.6
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1215.7
Fiscal year.
Fiscal year
means the 12-month period from January 1 through December 31 each year, or such other period as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1215.8
Industry information.
Industry information
means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the popcorn industry, or activities to enhance the image of the popcorn industry.
§ 1215.9
Marketing.
Marketing
means the sale or other disposition of unpopped popcorn for human consumption in a channel of commerce but shall not include sales or disposition to or between processors.
§ 1215.10
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order and all rules and regulations and supplemental orders issued thereunder, and the term
subpart
means the Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order.
§ 1215.11
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1215.12
Popcorn.
Popcorn
means unpopped popcorn (Zea Mays L) that is commercially grown, processed in the United States by shelling, cleaning, or drying, and introduced into a channel of commerce.
§ 1215.13
Process.
Process
means to shell, clean, dry, and prepare popcorn for the market, but does not include packaging popcorn for the market without also engaging in another activity described in this paragraph.
§ 1215.14
Processor.
Processor
means a person engaged in the preparation of unpopped popcorn for the market who owns or who shares the ownership and risk of loss of such popcorn and who processes and distributes over 4 million pounds of popcorn in the market per year.
§ 1215.15
Programs, plans, and projects.
Programs, plans, and projects
means promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information plans, studies, projects, or programs conducted pursuant to this part.
§ 1215.16
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action, including paid advertising, to enhance the image or desirability of popcorn.
§ 1215.17
Research.
Research
means any type of study to advance the image, desirability, marketability, production, product development, quality, or nutritional value of popcorn.
§ 1215.18
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1215.19
State.
State
means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
§ 1215.20
United States.
United States
means all of the States.

# Popcorn Board
§ 1215.21
Establishment and membership.
(a) There is hereby established a Popcorn Board of five members. The number of members on the board may be changed by rulemaking:
Provided,
that the Board consist of not fewer than four members and not more than nine members. The Board shall be composed of popcorn processors appointed by the Secretary under § 1215.24.
(b) For purposes of nominating and appointing processors to the Board, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, take into account the geographic distribution of popcorn production.
(c) No more than one officer or employee of a processor may serve as a Board member at the same time.
[62 FR 39389, July 22, 1997, as amended at 75 FR 67610, Nov. 3, 2010]
§ 1215.22
Nominations and appointment.
(a) All nominations for appointments to the Board established under § 1215.21 shall be made as follows:
(1) As soon as practicable after the effective date of this subpart, nominations for appointment to the initial
Board shall be obtained from processors by the Secretary. In any subsequent year in which an appointment to the Board is to be made, nominations for positions for which the term will expire at the end of that year shall be obtained from processors at least six months prior to the expiration of terms.
(2) Except for initial Board members, whose nomination process will be initiated by the Secretary, the Board shall issue a call for nominations in each year for which an appointment to the Board is to be made. The call shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) A list of the vacancies for which nominees may be submitted and qualifications for nomination; and
(ii) The date by which the names of nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary for consideration to be in compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.
(3)(i) Nominations for each position shall be made by processors. Notice shall be publicized to all processors.
(ii) All processors may participate in submitting nominations.
(4) Two nominees must be submitted for each vacancy. If processors fail to nominate a sufficient number of nominees, additional nominees shall be obtained in a manner prescribed by the Secretary.
(b) The Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board from nominations made in accordance with paragraph (a).
(1) The Secretary may reject any nominee submitted. If there is an insufficient number of nominees from whom to appoint members to the Board as a result of the Secretary's rejecting such nominees, additional nominees shall be submitted to the Secretary in a manner prescribed by the Secretary.
(2) Whenever processors cannot agree on nominees for a position on the Board under the preceding provisions of this section, or whenever they fail to nominate individuals for appointment to the Board, the Secretary may appoint members in such a manner as the Secretary determines appropriate.
(3) If a processor nominates more than one officer or employee, only one may be appointed to the Board by the Secretary.
§ 1215.23
Acceptance.
Each individual nominated for membership of the Board shall qualify by filing a written acceptance with the Secretary at the time of nomination.
§ 1215.24
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Board shall serve for terms of three years, except that members appointed to the initial Board shall serve, to the extent practicable, proportionately for terms of two, three, and four years.
(b)(1) Except with respect to terms of office of the initial Board, the term of office for each Board member shall begin on the date the member is seated at the Board's annual meeting or such other date that may be approved by the Secretary.
(2) The term of office for the initial Board member shall begin immediately following the appointment by the Secretary.
(c) Board members shall serve during the term of office for which they are appointed and have qualified, and until their successors are appointed and have qualified.
(d) No Board member may serve more than two consecutive three-year terms, except as provided in § 1215.25(d). Initial members serving two- or four-year terms may serve one successive three-year term.
§ 1215.25
Vacancies.
(a) To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Board, the Secretary may appoint a successor from the most recent nominations submitted for positions on the Board or the Secretary may obtain nominees to fill such vacancy in such a manner as the Secretary deems appropriate.
(b) Each such successor appointment shall be for the remainder of the term vacated.
(c) A vacancy will not be required to be filled if the unexpired term is less than six months.
(d) If an unexpired term is less than 1.5 years, serving the term shall not
prevent the appointee from serving two successive three-year terms.
(e) A Board member shall be disqualified from serving on the Board if such individual ceases to be affiliated with the processor the member represents.
§ 1215.26
Removal.
If a member of the Board consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Board, or if a member of the Board is known to be engaged in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office. Further, without recommendation of the Board, a member may be removed by the Secretary upon showing of adequate cause, including the failure by a member to submit reports or remit assessments required under this part, if the Secretary determines that such member's continued service will be detrimental to the achievement of the purposes of the Act.
§ 1215.27
Procedure.
(a) At a properly convened meeting of the Board, a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.
(b) Each member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board, and the motion will carry if supported by a simple majority of those voting. At assembled meetings of the Board, all votes will be cast in person.
(c) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action upon the concurring votes by a majority of its members by mail, telephone, facsimile, or any other means of communication. If appropriate, any such action shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In that event, all members must be given prior notice and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board. All votes shall be recorded in Board minutes.
(d) Meetings of the Board may be conducted by electronic communications, provided that each member is given prior notice of the meeting and has the opportunity to be present either physically or by electronic connection.
(e) The organization of the Board and the procedures for conducting meetings of the Board shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1215.28
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by such members in the performance of their responsibilities under this subpart.
§ 1215.29
Powers.
The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) To administer the Order in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(b) To make rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and provisions of the Order;
(c) To select committees and subcommittees of Board members, including an executive committee, and to adopt such bylaws and other rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(d) To appoint or employ such individuals as it may deem necessary, define the duties, and determine the compensation of such individuals;
(e) To disseminate information to processors or industry organizations through programs or by direct contact using the public postal system or other systems;
(f) To propose, receive, evaluate and approve budgets, plans and projects of popcorn promotion, research, consumer information and industry information, as well as to contract with the approval of the Secretary with appropriate persons to implement plans and projects;
(g) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary for action any complaints of violations of the Order;
(h) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to the order;
(i) To accept or receive voluntary contributions;
(j) To invest, pending disbursement pursuant to a program, plan or project,
funds collected through assessments authorized under this Act provided for in § 1215.51, and any other funds received by the Board in, and only in, obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, in general obligations of any State or any political subdivision thereof, in any interest bearing account or certificate of deposit or a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, or in obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States;
(k) With the approval of the Secretary, to enter into contracts or agreements with national, regional, or State popcorn processor organizations, or other organizations or entities, for the development and conduct of programs, plans or projects authorized under § 1215.40 and for the payment of the cost of such programs with assessments received pursuant to this subpart; and
(l) Such other powers as may be approved by the Secretary.
§ 1215.30
Duties.
The Board shall have the following duties:
(a) To meet not less than annually, and to organize and select from among its members a chairperson and such other officers as may be necessary;
(b) To evaluate or develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval, promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information programs, plans or projects;
(c) To prepare for each fiscal year, and submit to the Secretary for approval at least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, a budget of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of this subpart, as provided in § 1215.50;
(d) To maintain such books and records, which shall be available to the Secretary for inspection and audit, and to prepare and submit such reports from time to time to the Secretary, as the Secretary may prescribe, and to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it;
(e) To prepare and make public, at least annually, a report of its activities carried out, and an accounting for funds received and expended;
(f) To cause its financial statements to be prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and to be audited by an independent certified public accountant in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards at least once each fiscal year and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and submit a copy of each such audit to the Secretary;
(g) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board as is given to members in order that the Secretary, or a representative of the Secretary, may attend such meetings;
(h) To submit to the Secretary such information as may be requested pursuant to this subpart;
(i) To keep minutes, books and records that clearly reflect all the acts and transactions of the Board. Minutes of each Board meeting shall be promptly reported to the Secretary;
(j) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any processor;
(k) To investigate violations of the Act, order, and regulations issued under the order, conduct audits, and report the results of such investigations and audits to the Secretary for appropriate action to enforce the provisions of the Act, order, and regulations; and
(l) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information designed to strengthen the popcorn industry's position in the marketplace, maintain and expand existing markets and uses for popcorn, develop new markets and uses for popcorn, and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the popcorn industry.

# Promotion, Research, Consumer Information, and Industry Information
§ 1215.40
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information with respect to popcorn; and
(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the sale, distribution, marketing, and use of popcorn, and the creation of new uses thereof, to the end that the marketing and use of popcorn may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board may take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information. If it is found by the Board that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan, or project.
(d) In carrying out any program, plan, or project, no reference to a brand name, trade name, or State or regional identification of any popcorn will be made. In addition, no program, plan, or project shall make use of unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value, or use of any competing product.
§ 1215.41
Contracts.
The Board shall not contract with any processor for the purpose of promotion or research. The Board may lease physical facilities from a processor for such promotion or research, if such an arrangement is determined to be cost effective by the Board and approved by the Secretary. Any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(a) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(b) Any such program, plan, or project shall become effective upon approval by the Secretary;
(c) The contracting or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all of its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accountings for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require; and the Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(d) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1215.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) At least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart.
(b) Each budget shall include:
(1) A rate of assessment for such fiscal year calculated, subject to § 1215.51(b), to provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in paragraph (g) of this section;
(2) A statement of the objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(3) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding year;
(4) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(5) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year.
(c) In budgeting plans and projects of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information, the Board shall expend assessment and contribution funds on:
(1) Plans and projects for popcorn marketed in the United States or Canada in proportion to the amount of assessments projected to be collected on domestically marketed popcorn (including Canada); and
(2) Plans and projects for exported popcorn in proportion to the amount of assessments projected to be collected on exported popcorn (excluding Canada).
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such reasonable expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects approved by the Secretary. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use. The Board may also receive funds provided through the Foreign Agricultural Service of the United States Department of Agriculture for foreign marketing activities.
(f) As stated in section 75(f)(4)(A)(ii) of the Act, the Board shall reimburse the Secretary, from funds received by the Board, for costs incurred by the Secretary in implementing and administering this subpart:
Provided,
That the costs incurred by the Secretary to be reimbursed by the Board, excluding legal costs to defend and enforce the order, shall not exceed 15 percent of the projected annual revenues of the Board.
(g) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established, except that the funds in this reserve shall not exceed approximately one fiscal year's expenses. Such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this subpart.
(h) With the approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board during its first year of operation only.
§ 1215.51
Assessments.
(a) Any processor marketing popcorn in the United States or for export shall pay an assessment on such popcorn at the time of introduction to market at a rate as established in § 1215.51(c) and shall remit such assessment to the Board in such form and manner as prescribed by the Board.
(b) Any person marketing popcorn of that person's own production to consumers in the United States either directly or through retail or wholesale outlets, shall remit to the Board an assessment on such popcorn at the rate set forth in paragraph § 1215.51(c), and in such form and manner as prescribed by the Board.
(c) Except as otherwise provided, the rate of assessment shall be 5 cents per hundredweight of popcorn. The rate of assessment may be raised or lowered as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary, but shall not exceed 8 cents per hundredweight in any fiscal year.
(d) The collection of assessments under this section shall commence on all popcorn processed in the United States on or after the date established by the Secretary, and shall continue until terminated by the Secretary. If the Board is not constituted on the date the first assessments are to be collected, the Secretary shall have the authority to receive assessments on behalf of the Board and may hold such assessments until the Board is constituted, then remit such assessments to the Board.
(e) Each person responsible for remitting assessments under paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall remit the amounts due from assessments to the Board on a quarterly basis no later than the last day of the month following the last month in the previous quarter in which the popcorn was marketed, in such manner as prescribed by the Board.
(f) The Board shall impose a late payment charge on any person who fails to remit to the Board the total amount
for which the person is liable on or before the payment due date established under this section. The amount of the late payment charge shall be prescribed in rules and regulations as approved by the Secretary.
(g) The Board shall impose an additional charge on any person subject to a late payment charge, in the form of interest on the outstanding portion of any amount for which the person is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed in rules and regulations as approved by the Secretary.
(h) In addition, persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to penalties and actions under federal debt collection procedures as set forth in 7 CFR 3.1 through 3.36.
(i) Any assessment that is determined to be owing at a date later than the payment due established under this section, due to a person's failure to submit a report to the Board by the payment due date, shall be considered to have been payable on the payment due date. Under such a situation, paragraphs (f), (g), and (h) of this section shall be applicable.
(j) The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may enter into agreements authorizing other organizations or entities to collect assessments on its behalf. Any such organization or entity shall be required to maintain the confidentiality of such information as is required by the Board for collection purposes. Any reimbursement by the Board for such services shall be based on reasonable charges for services rendered.
(k) The Board is hereby authorized to accept advance payment of assessments for the fiscal year by any person, that shall be credited toward any amount for which such person may become liable. The Board shall not be obligated to pay interest on any advance payment.
§ 1215.52
Exemption from assessment.
(a) Persons that process and distribute 4 million pounds or less of popcorn annually, based on the previous year, shall be exempted from assessment.
(b) Persons that operate under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a processor regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is processed by a person that also processes conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The processor maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any processor so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
[70 FR 2757, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82028, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1215.53
Influencing governmental action.
No funds received by the Board under this subpart shall in any manner be used for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental policy or action, except to develop and recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1215.60
Reports.
(a) Each processor marketing popcorn directly to consumers, and each processor responsible for the remittance of assessments under § 1215.51, shall be required to report quarterly to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, such information as may be required under this subpart or any rule and regulations issued thereunder. Such information shall be subject to § 1215.62 and include, but not be limited to, the following:
(1) The processor's name, address, telephone number, and Social Security Number or Employer Identification Number;
(2) The date of report, which is also the date of payment to the Board;
(3) The period covered by the report;
(4) The number of pounds of popcorn marketed or in any other manner are subject to the collection of assessments;
(5) The amount of assessments remitted;
(6) The basis, if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than the number of pounds of popcorn divided by 100 and multiplied by the applicable assessment rate; and
(7) The amount of assessments remitted on exports (not including Canada).
(b) The words “final report” shall be shown on the last report at the end of each fiscal year.
§ 1215.61
Books and records.
Each person who is subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Board or the Secretary such books and records as are deemed necessary by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, to carry out the provisions of this subpart and any rules and regulations issued hereunder, including such books and records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such books and records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the fiscal year of their applicability.
§ 1215.62
Confidential treatment.
(a) All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart, and the rule and regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees, agents, and former employees and agents of the Board; all officers, employees, agents, and former officers, employees, and agents of the Department; and all officers, employees, agents, and former officers, employees, and agents of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members or processors. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to administer effectively the provisions of this part shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a suit or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this part.
(b) No information obtained under the authority of this part may be made available to any agency or officer of the Federal Government for any purpose other than the implementation of the Act and any investigatory or enforcement action necessary for the implementation of the Act.
(c) Nothing in paragraph (a) of this section may be deemed to prohibit:
(1) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this part or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person;
(2) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has violated this part, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this part violated by such person.
(d) Any person who knowingly violated the provisions of this section, on conviction, shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000 or to imprisonment for not more than 1 year, or both, or if the person is an officer, employee, or agent of the Board or the Department, that person shall be removed from office or terminated from employment as applicable.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1215.70
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, contracts, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1215.71
Suspension or termination.
(a) Whenever the Secretary finds that this subpart or any provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate
the declared policy of the Act, the Secretary shall terminate or suspend the operation of this subpart or such provision thereof.
(b) The Secretary may conduct additional referenda to determine whether processors favor termination or suspension of this subpart three years after the effective date, on the request of a representative group comprising 30 percent or more of the number of processors who have been engaged in processing during a representative period as determined by the Secretary.
(c) Whenever the Secretary determines that suspension or termination of this subpart is favored by two-thirds or more of the popcorn processors voting in a referendum under paragraph (b) of this section who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the processing, the Secretary shall:
(1) Suspend or terminate, as appropriate, collection of assessments within six months after making such determination; and
(2) Suspend or terminate, as appropriate, all activities under this subpart in an orderly manner as soon as practicable.
(d) Referenda conducted under this subsection shall be conducted in such manner as the Secretary may prescribe.
§ 1215.72
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend not more than five of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all the funds and property owned, in the possession of, or under the control of the Board, including any claims unpaid or property not delivered, or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contract or agreement entered into by it under this subpart;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements, and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to such persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such other persons full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees under this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered under this subpart shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be used, to the extent practicable, in the interest of continuing one or more of the promotion, research, consumer information or industry information programs, plans, or projects authorized under this subpart.
§ 1215.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any rule and regulation issued under this subpart, or the issuance of any amendment to such provisions, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability that shall have arisen or may hereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any such rules or regulations;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any such rules or regulations; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, the Secretary, or any person with respect to any such violation.
§ 1215.74
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts of either commission or omission of such member or employee under this subpart, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1215.75
Patents, copyrights, inventions, publications, and product formulations.
Any patents, copyrights, inventions, publications, or product formulations developed through the use of funds received by the Board under this subpart shall be the property of the United States Government as represented by the Board and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sale, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, inventions, publications, or product formulations inure to the benefit of the Board and be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1215.72 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.
§ 1215.76
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the Board or by any interested persons affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1215.77
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid, or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations

# Definitions
§ 1215.100
Terms defined.
Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, the definitions of terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as the definitions in Subpart A—Popcorn Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Order of this part.

# Exemption Procedures
§ 1215.300
Exemption procedures.
(a) Any processor who markets 4 million pounds or less of popcorn annually and who desires to claim an exemption from assessments during a fiscal year as provided in § 1214.52 of this part shall apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption. Such processor shall certify that the processor's marketing of popcorn during the previous fiscal year was 4 million pounds or less.
(b) Persons eligible for an organic assessment exemption as provided in § 1215.52(b) may apply for such an exemption by submitting a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, as long as the processor continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) A processor request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant processes organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) Upon receipt of an application, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the processor within 30 calendar days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) Any person who desires to renew the exemption from assessments for a subsequent fiscal year shall reapply to the Board by January 1 of that year.
(f) The exemption will apply at the first reporting period following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
(g) The Board may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt popcorn.
[62 FR 39389, July 22, 1997, as amended at 70 FR 2757, Jan. 14, 2005; 80 FR 82028, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1215.400
OMB control numbers.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, is OMB control number 0581-0093, except for the Promotion Board nominee background statement form which is assigned OMB control number 0505-0001.
Pt. 1216

# PART 1216—PEANUT PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1216.1
Act.
1216.2-1216.3
[Reserved]
1216.4
Board.
1216.5
Conflict of interest.
1216.6
[Reserved]
1216.7
Department.
1216.8
Farm Service Agency.
1216.9
Farmers stock peanuts.
1216.10
First handler.
1216.11
Fiscal year.
1216.12
Handle.
1216.13
Information.
1216.14
Market.
1216.15
Minor peanut-producing states.
1216.16
Order.
1216.17
Part and subpart.
1216.18
Peanuts.
1216.19
Peanut producer organization.
1216.20
Person.
1216.21
Primary peanut-producing states.
1216.22
Producer.
1216.23
Promotion.
1216.24
[Reserved]
1216.25
Research.
1216.26
Secretary.
1216.27
Suspend.
1216.28
State.
1216.29
Terminate.
1216.30
United States.

# National Peanut Board
1216.40
Establishment and membership.
1216.41
Nominations.
1216.42
Selection.
1216.43
Term of office.
1216.44
Vacancies.
1216.45
Alternate members.
1216.46
Procedure.
1216.47
Compensation and reimbursement.
1216.48
Powers and duties.
1216.49
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses and Assessments
1216.50
Budget and expenses.
1216.51
Assessments.
1216.52
Programs, plans, and projects.
1216.53
Independent evaluation.
1216.54
Operating reserve.
1216.55
Investment of funds.
1216.56
Exemption for organic peanuts.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1216.60
Reports.
1216.61
Books and records.
1216.62
Confidential treatment.

# Certification of Peanut Producer Organizations
1216.70
Certification.

# Miscellaneous
1216.80
Right of the Secretary.
1216.81
Implementation of the Order.
1216.82
Suspension and termination.
1216.83
Proceedings after termination.
1216.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
1216.85
Personal liability.
1216.86
Separability.
1216.87
Amendments.
1216.88
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.

# Subpart B—Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection With the Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order
1216.100
General.
1216.101
Definitions.
1216.102
Voting.
1216.103
Instructions.
1216.104
Subagents.
1216.105
Ballots.
1216.106
Referendum report.
1216.107
Confidential information.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
64 FR 20105, Apr. 23, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Source:
64 FR 41256, July 29, 1999, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1216.1
Act.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7401-7425; Public Law 104-127, 110 Stat. 1029), or any amendments thereto.
§§ 1216.2-1216.3
[Reserved]
§ 1216.4
Board.
Board
means the administrative body referred to as the National Peanut Board established pursuant to § 1216.40.
§ 1216.5
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a member or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
§ 1216.6
[Reserved]
§ 1216.7
Department.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
§ 1216.8
Farm Service Agency.
Farm Service Agency or FSA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture's Farm Service Agency.
§ 1216.9
Farmers stock peanuts.
Farmers stock peanuts
means picked or threshed peanuts produced in the United States which have not been changed (except for removal of foreign material, loose shelled kernels and excess moisture) from the condition in which picked or threshed peanuts are customarily marketed by producers, plus any loose shelled kernels that are removed from farmers stock peanuts before such farmers stock peanuts are marketed.
§ 1216.10
First handler.
First handler
means any person who handles peanuts in a capacity other than that of a custom cleaner or dryer, an assembler, a warehouseman, or other intermediary between the producer and the person handling.
§ 1216.11
Fiscal year.
Fiscal year
means the 12-month period beginning with November 1 of any year and ending with October 31 of the following year, or such other period as determined by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
[83 FR 27686, June 14, 2018]
§ 1216.12
Handle.
Handle
means to engage in the receiving or acquiring, cleaning and shelling, cleaning in-shell, or crushing of peanuts and in the shipment (except as a common or contract carrier of peanuts owned by another) or sale of cleaned in-shell or shelled peanuts, or other activity causing peanuts to enter the current of commerce:
Provided,
that this term does not include sales or deliveries of peanuts by a producer to a handler or to an intermediary person engaged in delivering peanuts to handler(s) and:
Provided further,
that this term does not include sales or deliveries of peanuts by such intermediary person(s) to a handler.
§ 1216.13
Information.
Information
means information and programs that are designed to increase efficiency in processing and to develop new markets, marketing strategies, increased market efficiency, and activities that are designed to enhance the image of peanuts on a national or international basis. These include:
(a)
Consumer information,
which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, nutritional attributes, and care of peanuts; and
(b)
Producer information,
which means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the peanut industry, and activities to enhance the image of the peanut industry.
§ 1216.14
Market.
Market
means to sell or otherwise dispose of peanuts into interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce by buying, marketing, distributing, or otherwise placing peanuts into commerce.
§ 1216.15
Minor peanut-producing states.
Minor peanut-producing states
means all peanut-producing states with the exception of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia.
[86 FR 72151, Dec. 21, 2021]
§ 1216.16
Order.
Order
means an Order issued by the Secretary under section 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
§ 1216.17
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental Orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order shall be a “subpart” of such part.
§ 1216.18
Peanuts.
Peanuts
means the seeds of the legume
arachis hypogaea
and includes both in-shell and shelled peanuts other than those marketed by the producer in green form for consumption as boiled peanuts.
§ 1216.19
Peanut producer organization.
Peanut producer organization
means a state-legislated peanut promotion, research, and education commission or organization. For states without a state-legislated peanut promotion, research, and education commission or organization, “peanut producer organization” means any organization which has the primary purpose of representing peanut producers and has peanut producers as members.
§ 1216.20
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1216.21
Primary peanut-producing states.
Primary peanut-producing states
means Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Texas, and Virginia, provided that these states maintain a 3-year average production of at least 20,000 tons of peanuts.
[86 FR 72151, Dec. 21, 2021]
§ 1216.22
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in the production and sale of peanuts and who owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of the crop. This does not include quota holders who do not share in the risk of loss of the crop.
§ 1216.23
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action taken by the Board under this Order, including paid advertising, to present a favorable image of peanuts to the public to improve the competitive position of peanuts in the marketplace, including domestic and international markets, and to stimulate sales of peanuts.
§ 1216.24
[Reserved]
§ 1216.25
Research.
Research
means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, production, product development, or quality of peanuts, including research relating to nutritional value and cost of production.
§ 1216.26
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1216.27
Suspend.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, United States
Code, to temporarily prevent the operation of an Order, or part thereof, during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1216.28
State.
State
means any of the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any territory or possession of the United States.
§ 1216.29
Terminate.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, to cancel permanently the operation of an Order, or part thereof, beginning on a date certain specified in the rule.
§ 1216.30
United States.
United States
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.

# National Peanut Board
§ 1216.40
Establishment and membership.
(a)
Establishment of a National Peanut Board.
There is hereby established a National Peanut Board, hereinafter called the Board, comprised of no more than 12 peanut producers and alternates, appointed by the Secretary from nominations as follows:
(1)
Eleven members and alternates.
One member and one alternate shall be appointed from each primary peanut-producing state, who are producers and whose nominations have been submitted by certified peanut producer organizations within a primary peanut-producing state.
(2) The minor peanut-producing states shall collectively have one at-large member and one alternate, who are producers, to be appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted by certified peanut producer organizations within minor peanut-producing states or from other certified farm organizations that include peanut producers as part of their membership.
(b)
Adjustment of membership.
At least once in each five-year period, but not more frequently than once in each three-year period, the Board, or a person or agency designated by the Board, shall review the geographical distribution of peanuts in the United States and make recommendation(s) to the Secretary to continue without change, or whether changes should be made in the number of representatives on the Board to reflect changes in the geographical distribution of the production of peanuts.
[64 FR 41256, July 29, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 14921, Mar. 20, 2008; 79 FR 15639, Mar. 21, 2014; 85 FR 16231, Mar. 23, 2020; 86 FR 72151, Dec. 15, 2021]
§ 1216.41
Nominations.
(a) All nominations authorized under § 1216.40 shall be made within such a period of time as the Secretary shall prescribe. Eligible peanut producer organizations within each state as certified pursuant to § 1216.70 shall nominate two qualified persons for each member and each alternate member. The nominees shall be elected at an open meeting among peanut producers eligible to serve on the Board. Any certified peanut producer organization representing a minor peanut-producing state may nominate two eligible persons for each member and two eligible persons for each alternate member.
(b) As soon as practicable after this subpart becomes effective, the Secretary shall obtain nominations for appointment to the initial promotion Board from certified nominating organizations. In any subsequent year in which an appointment to the Board is to be made, nominations for positions whose terms will expire shall be obtained from certified nominating organizations by the Board's staff and submitted to the Secretary by May 1 of such year, or other such date as approved by the Secretary.
(c) Except for initial Board members, whose nomination process will be initiated by the Secretary, the Board shall issue the call for nominations by March 1 of each year.
(d) The nomination meeting shall be announced 30 days in advance:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of
publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as deemed advisable.
(e) At nominations meetings, Department personnel will be present to oversee and to verify eligibility and count ballots.
§ 1216.42
Selection.
From the nominations, the Secretary shall select the members of the Board and alternates for each primary peanut-producing state. The Secretary shall select one member and one alternate from all nominations submitted by certified peanut producer organizations representing minor peanut-producing states.
§ 1216.43
Term of office.
All members and alternates of the Board shall each serve for terms of three years, except that the members and alternates appointed to the initial Board shall serve proportionately for two-, three-, and four-year terms, with the length of the terms determined at random. No member or alternate may serve more than two consecutive three-year terms. An alternate, after serving two consecutive three-year terms, may serve as a member for an additional two consecutive three-year terms. A member, after serving two consecutive three-year terms, may serve as an alternate for an additional two consecutive three-year terms. Each member and alternate shall continue to serve until a successor is selected and has qualified.
(a) Those members serving initial terms of two or four years may serve one successive three-year term.
(b) Any successor serving one year or less may serve two consecutive three-year terms.
§ 1216.44
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy resulting from the failure to qualify of any person selected as a member or as an alternate member of the Board, or in the event of death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member or alternate member of the Board, a successor for the unexpired term of such member or alternate member of the Board shall be nominated and selected in the manner specified in § 1216.40.
§ 1216.45
Alternate members.
An alternate member of the Board, during the absence of the member for the primary peanut-producing state or at-large member for whom the person is the alternate, shall act in the place and stead of such member and perform such duties as assigned. In the event of death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member, the alternate for that state or at-large member shall act for the member until a successor for such member is selected and qualified. In the event that both a producer member of the Board and the alternate are unable to attend a meeting, the Board may not designate any other alternate to serve in such member's or alternate's place and stead for such a meeting.
§ 1216.46
Procedure.
(a) A majority of the members of the Board, including alternate members acting for members, shall constitute a quorum.
(b) At assembled meetings, all votes shall be cast in person. Board actions shall be weighted by value of production as determined by a primary peanut-producing state's three-year running average of total gross farm income derived from all peanut sales. The at-large Board member's vote shall be weighted by the collective value of production from all minor peanut-producing states' three-year running average of total gross farm income derived from all peanut sales. Any Board action shall require the concurring votes of members or alternates from states representing more than 50 percent of total U.S. gross farm income derived from all peanut sales, plus an additional two votes from any other Board members, provided a minimum of five votes concur.
(c) For routine and noncontroversial matters which do not require deliberation and the exchange of views, and in matters of an emergency nature when there is not time to call an assembled meeting of the Board, the Board may also take action as prescribed in this section by mail, facsimile, telephone,
or any telecommunication method appropriate for the conduct of business, but any such action shall be confirmed in writing within 30 days.
(d) There shall be no voting by proxy.
(e) The chairperson shall be a voting member.
§ 1216.47
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board, and alternates when acting as members, shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board, incurred by them in the performance of their duties as Board members.
§ 1216.48
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer the Order in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board, and such rules as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet, organize, and select from among the members of the Board a chairperson, other officers, committees, and subcommittees, as the Board determines to be appropriate;
(d) To employ persons, other than the members, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of such persons;
(e) To develop programs and projects, and enter into contracts or agreements, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, information, or promotion, and the payment of costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to this subpart. Each contract or agreement shall provide that any person who enters into a contract or agreement with the Board shall develop and submit to the Board a proposed activity; keep accurate records of all of its transactions relating to the contract or agreement; account for funds received and expended in connection with the contract or agreement; make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted under the contract or agreement; and make such other reports available as the Board or the Secretary considers relevant. Any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan, or project together with a budget or budgets that show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor;
(f) To prepare and submit for approval of the Secretary fiscal year budgets in accordance with § 1216.50;
(g) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to the Secretary as the Secretary may prescribe; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(h) To cause its books to be audited by a competent auditor at the end of each fiscal year and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary;
(i) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board as is given to members in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting of the Board to the Secretary;
(j) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer or first handler;
(k) To furnish to the Secretary any information or records that the Secretary may request;
(l) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the Order;
(m) To recommend to the Secretary such amendments to the Order as the Board considers appropriate; and
(n) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, evaluation, and industry information designed to strengthen the peanut industry's position in the marketplace; maintain and expand existing markets and uses for peanuts; and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the peanut industry.
§ 1216.49
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Board from engaging in:
(a) Any action that would be a conflict of interest;
(b) Using funds collected by the Board under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, including local, state, national, and international, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to the Order; and
(c) Any advertising, including promotion, research, and information activities authorized to be carried out under the Order, that is false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1216.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) At least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart. Each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget);
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget).
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this subpart.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another. Shifts of funds which do not cause an increase in the Board's approved budget and which are consistent with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Secretary.
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) With approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first year of operation of the Board.
(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
(g) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, and supervision of the
Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(h) The Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Board in any fiscal year an amount that exceeds 10 percent of the assessments and other income received by the Board for that fiscal year. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (g) of this section are excluded from this limitation on spending.
(i) The Board shall allocate, to the extent practicable, no less than 80 percent of the assessments collected on all peanuts available for any fiscal year on national and regional promotion, research, and information activities. The Board shall allocate, to the extent practcable, no more than 20 percent of assessments collected on all peanuts available for any fiscal year for use in state or regional research programs. Specific percentages and amounts shall be determined annually by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(j) Certified peanut producer organizations may submit requests for funding for research and/or generic promotion projects. Amounts approved for each state shall not exceed the pro rata Share of funds available for that State as determined by the Board and approved by the Secretary. Amounts allocated by the Board for state research or promotion activities will be based on requests submitted to the Board when it is determined that they meet the goals and objectives stated in the Order.
(k) Assessments collected, less pro rata administrative expenses, from the gross sales of contract export additional peanuts shall be allocated by the Board for the promotion and related research of export peanuts.
(l) The Board shall determine annually how total funds shall be allocated pursuant to paragraphs (i), (j), and (k) of this section, with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 1216.51
Assessments.
(a) The funds necessary to pay for programs and other costs authorized by this part shall be acquired by the levying of assessments upon producers in a manner prescribed by the Secretary.
(b) Each first handler, at such times and in such manner as prescribed by the Secretary, shall collect from each producer or first purchaser/handler and pay assessments to the Board on all peanuts handled, including peanuts produced by the first handler, no later than 60 days after the last day of the month in which the peanuts were marketed.
(c) Such assessments shall be levied on all farmers stock peanuts sold at a rate of $3.55 per ton for Segregation 1 peanuts and $1.25 per ton for Segregation 2 peanuts and 3 peanuts, as those terms are defined in §§ 996.13(b)-(d) of this title.
(d) For peanuts placed under a marketing assistance loan with the Department's Commodity Credit Corporation, the Commodity Credit Corporation, or any entity determined by the Commodity Credit Corporation shall deduct and remit to the Board, from the proceeds of the loan paid to the producer, the assessment per ton as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, no more than 60 days after the last day of the month in which the peanuts were placed under a marketing assistance loan.
(e) All assessments collected under this section are to be used for expenses and expenditures pursuant to this Order and for the establishment of an operating reserve as prescribed in the Order.
(f) The Board shall impose a late payment charge on any person who fails to remit to the Board the total amount for which the person is liable on or before the payment due date established under this section. The late payment charge will be in the form of interest on the outstanding portion of any amount for which the person is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary.
(g) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under federal debt collection procedures.
(h) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with the approval of the Secretary.
(i) The assessment rate may not be increased unless the new rate is approved by a referendum among eligible producers.
[70 FR 55226, Sept. 21, 2005, as amended at 83 FR 27686, June 14, 2018]
§ 1216.52
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan, or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans, or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, and information, including producer and consumer information, with respect to peanuts; and
(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the use, nutritional value, sale, distribution, and marketing of peanuts and peanut products, and the creation of new products thereof, to the end that marketing and use of peanuts may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable and to advance the image, desirability, or quality of peanuts.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Board to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, or consumer information. If it is found by the Board that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or consumer information, then the Board shall terminate such program, plan, or project.
(d) No program, plan, or project shall make any false claims on behalf of peanuts or use unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value, or use of any competing product. Peanuts of all domestic origins shall be treated equally.
§ 1216.53
Independent evaluation.
The Board shall, not less often than every five years, authorize and fund, from funds otherwise available to the Board, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and other programs conducted by the Board pursuant to the Act. The Board shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this section.
§ 1216.54
Operating reserve.
The Board shall establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal years excess funds in a reserve so established;
Provided,
that funds in the reserve shall not exceed any fiscal year's anticipated expenses.
§ 1216.55
Investment of funds.
The Board may invest, pending disbursement, funds it receives under this subpart, only in obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States; general obligations of any state or any political subdivision of a state; interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve system; or obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
§ 1216.56
Exemption for organic peanuts.
(a) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OPFA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) In order to apply for this exemption, an eligible peanut producer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before August 1, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid organic certificate issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) The producer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each handler to whom the producer sells peanuts. The handler shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(f) The exemption will apply at the first reporting period following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
[70 FR 2757, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82029, Dec. 31 2015]

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1216.60
Reports.
(a) Each producer and first handler subject to this part shall be required to report to the employees of the Board, at such times and in such manner as it may prescribe, such information as may be necessary for the Board to perform its duties. Such reports shall include, but shall not be limited to the following:
(1) Number of pounds of peanuts produced or handled;
(2) Price paid to producers (entry in value of segment section on the FSA 1007 form); and
(3) Total assessments collected.
(b) First Handlers shall submit monthly reports to the Board. These reports shall accompany the payment of the collected assessments and shall be due 60 days after the last day of the month in which the peanuts were marketed.
§ 1216.61
Books and records.
Each first handler and producer subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Secretary and employees and agents of the Board such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart and the regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall include but are not limited to the following: copies of FSA 1007 forms, the names and address of producers, and the date the assessments were collected. Such records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the marketing year of their applicability.
§ 1216.62
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart, and the regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential
by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members, producers, importers, exporters, or handlers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.

# Certification of Peanut Producer Organizations
§ 1216.70
Certification.
(a) Organizations receiving certification from the Secretary will be entitled to submit nominations for Board membership to the Secretary for appointment and to submit requests for funding to the Board.
(b) For major peanut-producing states, state-legislated peanut promotion, research, and information organizations may request certification, provided the state-legislated promotion program submits a factual report that shall contain information deemed relevant and specified by the Secretary for the making of such determination pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) If a state-legislated peanut promotion, research and information organization in a major peanut-producing state does not elect to seek certification from the Secretary within a specified time period as determined by the Secretary, or does not meet eligibility requirements as specified by the Secretary, then any peanut producer organization whose primary purpose is to represent peanut producers within a primary peanut-producing state, or any other organization which has peanut producers as part of its membership, may request certification. Certification shall be based, in addition to other available information, upon a factual report submitted by the organization that shall contain information deemed relevant and specified by the Secretary for the making of such determination pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.
(d) For minor peanut-producing states, any organization that has peanut producers as part of its membership may request certification.
(e) The information required for certification by the Secretary may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) The geographic distribution within the state covered by the organization's active membership;
(2) The nature and size of the organization's active membership in the state, proportion of the organization's active membership accounted for by producers, a map showing the peanut-producing counties in the state in which the organization has members, the volume of peanuts produced in each county, the number of peanut producers in each county, and the size of the organization's active peanut producer membership in each county;
(3) The extent to which the peanut producer membership of such organization is represented in setting the organization's policies;
(4) Evidence of stability and permanency of the organization;
(5) Sources from which the organization's operating funds are derived;
(6) Functions of the organization;
(7) The organization's ability and willingness to further the aims and objectives of the Act and Order; and,
(8) Demonstrated experience administering generic state promotion and research programs.
(f) The Secretary's determination as to eligibility or certification of an organization shall be final.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1216.80
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1216.81
Implementation of the Order.
The Order shall not become effective unless:
(a) The Secretary determines that the Order is consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of the Act; and
(b) The Order is approved by a simple majority of the peanut producers as defined in § 1216.21 voting in a referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production of peanuts.
§ 1216.82
Suspension and termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart or a provision thereof if the Secretary finds that this subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that this subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Act.
(b) Every five years, the Secretary shall hold a referendum to determine whether peanut producers favor the continuation of the Order. The Secretary will also conduct a referendum if 10 percent or more of all eligible peanut producers request the Secretary to hold a referendum. In addition, the Secretary may hold a referendum at any time.
(c) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the marketing year whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is approved or favored by a simple majority of the producers voting in a referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production of peanuts.
(d) If, as a result of the referendum conducted under paragraph (b) of this section, the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Not later than 180 days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, collection of assessments under this subpart; and
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an Orderly manner.
§ 1216.83
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend not more than three of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered, or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to the Order;
(3) From time to time, account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and the trustees, to such person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary and appropriate to vest in such persons title and right to all funds, property and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to the Order.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practical, to the peanut producer organizations, certified pursuant to § 1216.70, in the interest of continuing peanut promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1216.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary or of any other persons, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1216.85
Personal liability.
No member or alternate member of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or alternate, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1216.86
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1216.87
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the Board or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1216.88
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations developed through the use of funds received by the Board under this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government as represented by the Board and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board; and may be licensed subject to approval by the Secretary. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1216.82 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.

# Subpart B—Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection With the Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order
§ 1216.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible peanut producers favor the issuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of a Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1216.101
Definitions.
The following definitions apply to this subpart:
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Order
means the Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order.
(c)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
(d)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary.
(e)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a peanut farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties.
(f)
Eligible producer
means any person who is engaged in the production and sale of peanuts in the United States and who:
(1) Owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of, the crop. This does not include quota holders who do not share in the risk of loss of the crop;
(2) Rents peanut production facilities and equipment resulting in the ownership of all or a portion of the peanuts produced;
(3) Owns peanut production facilities and equipment but does not manage them and, as compensation, obtains the ownership of a portion of the peanuts produced; or
(4) Is a party in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce peanuts who share the risk of loss and receive a share of the peanuts produced. No other acquisition of legal title to peanuts shall be deemed to result in persons becoming eligible producers.
§ 1216.102
Voting.
(a) Each person who is an eligible producer, as defined in this subpart, at the time of the referendum and during the representative period, shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. However, each producer in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce peanuts, in which more than one of the parties is a producer, shall be entitled to cast one ballot in the referendum covering only such producer's share of the ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate producer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee or an eligible producing entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such producer. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible producer, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of an eligible producing entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) All ballots are to be cast by mail or by facsimile, as instructed by the Secretary.
§ 1216.103
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast.
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter.
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible producers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on
voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the Peanut Promotion, Research, and Information Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot.
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process.
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1216.104
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions under this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1216.105
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefor, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1216.106
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1216.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Act and the voting list shall be held confidential and shall not be disclosed.
Pt. 1217

# PART 1217—SOFTWOOD LUMBER RESEARCH, PROMOTION, CONSUMER EDUCATION AND INDUSTRY INFORMATION ORDER

# Subpart A—Softwood Lumber Research, Promotion, Consumer Education and Industry Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1217.1
Act.
1217.2
Blue Ribbon Commission or BRC.
1217.3
Board or Softwood Lumber Board.
1217.4
Board foot.
1217.5
Conflict of interest.
1217.6
Customs or CBP.
1217.7
Department or USDA.
1217.8
Domestic manufacturer.
1217.9
Export.
1217.10
Fiscal period or year.
1217.11
Importer.
1217.12
Information.
1217.13
Manufacture.
1217.14
Manufacturer for the U.S. market.
1217.15
Marketing.
1217.16
Nominal size.
1217.17
Order.
1217.18
Part and subpart.
1217.19
Person.
1217.20
Planing.
1217.21
Programs, plans and projects.
1217.22
Promotion.
1217.23
Research.
1217.24
Secretary.
1217.25
Softwood.
1217.26
Softwood lumber.
1217.27
State.
1217.28
Suspend.
1217.29
Terminate.
1217.30
United States.

# Softwood Lumber Board
1217.40
Establishment and membership.
1217.41
Nominations and appointments.
1217.42
Term of office.
1217.43
Removal and vacancies.
1217.44
Procedure.
1217.45
Reimbursement and attendance.
1217.46
Reimbursement and attendance.
1217.47
Powers and duties.
1217.48
xxx

# Expenses and Assessments
1217.50
Budget and expenses.
1217.51
Financial statements.
1217.52
Assessments.
1217.53
Exemption from assessment.

# Promotion, Research and Information
1217.60
Programs, plans and projects.
1217.61
Independent evaluation.
1217.62
Patents, copyrights, inventions, product formulations, and publications.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1217.70
Reports.
1217.71
Books and records.
1217.72
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1217.80
Right of the Secretary.
1217.81
Referenda.
1217.82
Suspension or termination.
1217.83
Proceedings after termination.
1217.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
1217.85
Personal liability.
1217.86
Separability.
1217.87
Amendments.
1217.88
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
1217.100
General.
1217.101
Definitions.
1217.102
Voting.
1217.103
Instructions.
1217.104
Subagents.
1217.105
Ballots.
1217.106
Referendum report.
1217.107
Confidential information.
1217.108
OMB Control number.

# Subpart C—Rules and Regulations
1217.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425; 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
76 FR 22755, Apr. 22, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Softwood Lumber Research, Promotion, Consumer Education, and Industry Information Order

# Source:
76 FR 46193, Aug. 2, 2011, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1217.1
Act.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7411-7425), and any amendments thereto.
§ 1217.2
Blue Ribbon Commission or BRC.
Blue Ribbon Commission
or
BRC
means the 21-member committee representing businesses that manufacture softwood lumber in the United States or import softwood lumber to the United States formed to pursue an industry research, promotion, and information program.
§ 1217.3
Board or Softwood Lumber Board.
Board
or
Softwood Lumber Board
means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1217.40, or such other name as recommended by the Board and approved by the Department.
§ 1217.4
Board foot.
Board foot
or
BF
means a unit of measurement of softwood lumber represented by a board 12-inches long, 12-inches wide, and 1-inch thick or its cubic equivalent. A board foot calculation for softwood lumber 1 inch or more in thickness is based on its nominal thickness and width and the actual length. Softwood lumber with a nominal thickness of less than 1 inch is calculated as 1 inch.
§ 1217.5
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a member, alternate, or employee of the Board has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
[89 FR 58250, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.6
Customs or CBP.
Customs or CBP
means Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
§ 1217.7
Department or USDA.
Department or USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1217.8
Domestic manufacturer.
Domestic manufacturer
means any person who is a first handler and is engaged in the manufacturing, sale and shipment of softwood lumber in the United States during a fiscal period
and who owns, or shares in the ownership and risk of loss of manufacturing of softwood lumber or a person who is engaged in the business of manufacturing, or causes to be manufactured, sold and shipped such softwood lumber in the United States beyond personal use. This term does not include any person who re-manufactures softwood lumber that has already been subject to assessment under this Order.
§ 1217.9
Export.
Export
means to manufacture and ship softwood lumber from within the United States to locations outside of the United States.
§ 1217.10
Fiscal period or year.
Fiscal period or year
means a calendar year from January 1 through December 31, or such other period as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1217.11
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports softwood lumber from outside the United States for sale in the United States as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who manufactures softwood lumber outside the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed in the import records as the importer of record for such softwood lumber.
§ 1217.12
Information.
Information
means activities or programs designed to disseminate the results of research, new and existing marketing programs, new and existing marketing strategies, new and existing uses and applications, and to enhance the image of softwood lumber and the forests from which it comes. These include:
(a) Consumer education, which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding softwood lumber; and
(b) Industry information, which means information and programs that would enhance the image of the softwood lumber industry.
§ 1217.13
Manufacture.
Manufacture
means the process of transforming softwood logs into softwood lumber.
§ 1217.14
Manufacturer for the U.S. market.
Manufacturer for the U.S. market
means domestic manufacturers and importers of softwood lumber as defined in this Order.
§ 1217.15
Marketing.
Marketing
means the sale or other disposition of softwood lumber in interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
§ 1217.16
Nominal size.
Nominal size
means the size by which softwood lumber is known and sold in the marketplace that differs from actual size and is based on the thickness and width of a board when it is first cut from a log, or rough cut, prior to drying and planing.
§ 1217.17
Order.
Order
means an order issued by the Secretary under section 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
§ 1217.18
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Softwood Lumber Research, Promotion, Consumer Education, and Industry Information Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order shall be a
subpart
of such part.
§ 1217.19
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, company, corporation, association, affiliate, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1217.20
Planing.
Planing
means the act of smoothing the surface of a board to make the wood a uniform size.
§ 1217.21
Programs, plans, and projects.
Programs, plans and projects
mean those research, promotion and information programs, plans, or projects established pursuant to this Order.
§ 1217.22
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action taken, including paid advertising, public relations and other communications, and promoting the results of research, that presents a favorable image of softwood lumber to the public and to any and all consumers and those who influence consumption of softwood lumber with the intent of improving the perception, markets and competitive position of softwood lumber and stimulating sales of softwood lumber.
§ 1217.23
Research.
Research
means any activity that advances the position of softwood lumber in the marketplace that includes any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, sales, product development, or quality of softwood lumber; new applications; improving softwood lumber's position in building and fire codes; softwood lumber product testing and safety; and evaluating the effectiveness of market development and promotion efforts including life cycle studies, forestry, sustainable forest management, environmental preferrability, competitiveness, efficiency, pest and disease control, water quality and other management aspects of forestry and the forests from which softwood lumber originates.
§ 1217.24
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1217.25
Softwood.
Softwood
means one of the botanical groups of trees that have needle-like or scale-like leaves, or conifers.
§ 1217.26
Softwood lumber.
Softwood lumber
means and includes softwood lumber and products manufactured from softwood as described in section 804(a) of Title VIII of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202-1683g), and as assessed under § 1217.52.
§ 1217.27
State.
State
means any of the several 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1217.28
Suspend.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5 U.S.C. to temporarily prevent the operation of an order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1217.29
Terminate.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5 U.S.C. to cancel permanently the operation of an order or part thereof beginning on a date certain specified in the rule.
§ 1217.30
United States.
United States
means collectively the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and the territories and possessions of the United States.

# Softwood Lumber Board
§ 1217.40
Establishment and membership.
(a)
Establishment of the Board.
There is hereby established a Softwood Lumber Board to administer the terms and provisions of the Order and promote the use of softwood lumber. The Board shall be composed of manufacturers for the U.S. market who manufacture and domestically ship or import 15 million board feet or more of softwood lumber in the United States during a fiscal period. Seats on the Board shall be apportioned based on the volume of softwood lumber production that is manufactured and shipped within the United States by domestic manufacturers and the volume of softwood lumber imported into the United States. Seats on the Board shall also be apportioned based on size of operation within each
geographic region, as specified in paragraphs (b)(l) and (2) of this section. For purposes of this section, “large” means manufacturers for the U.S. market who account for the top two-thirds of the total annual volume of assessable softwood lumber and “small” means those who account for the remaining one-third of the total annual volume of assessable softwood lumber. If there are no eligible nominees for a large or small seat within a region, that seat may be filled by a nominee representing an eligible manufacturer for the U.S. market of any size. Should the size of a manufacturer for the U.S. market change during a member's or alternate's term of office, that member or alternate may serve for the remainder of the term.
(b)
Composition of the Board.
The Board shall be composed of 15 members and four alternates, as follows:
(1)
Domestic manufacturers.
Domestic manufacturers must reside in the United States. Ten members and two alternates shall represent domestic manufacturers who reside in the following three regions:
(i) Five members and one alternate shall represent manufacturers of softwood lumber in the U.S. South Region, which consists of the states of Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia. Of these five members, two members must represent large, two members must represent small, and one member may represent domestic manufacturers of any size. The region's alternate may represent domestic manufacturers of any size;
(ii) Four members and one alternate shall represent manufacturers of softwood lumber in the U.S. West Region, which consists of the states of Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming. Of these four members, two members must represent large, one member must represent small, and one member may represent domestic manufacturers of any size. The region's alternate may represent domestic manufacturers of any size; and
(iii) One member shall represent manufacturers of softwood lumber in the Northeast and Lake States Region, which consists of the states of Connecticut, Delaware, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, Wisconsin and all other parts of the United States not listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section. This member may represent domestic manufacturers of any size.
(2)
Importers.
Four members and one alternate shall represent importers. Of these four members, two members must represent large, one member must represent small, and one member may represent importers of any size. The alternate may represent importers of any size from any region. At least three of the members must import softwood lumber from the following regions:
(i) Two members must import softwood lumber from the Canadian West Region, which consists of the provinces of British Columbia and Alberta; and
(ii) One member must import softwood lumber from the Canadian East Region, which consists of the Canadian territories and all other Canadian provinces not listed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section that import softwood lumber into the United States.
(3)
Public Member.
One member and one alternate of the Board shall represent the public. The public member and alternate may not be manufacturers for the U.S. market as defined in section 1217.14.
(c)
Periodic review.
In each five-year period, but not more frequently than once in each three-year period, the Board shall:
(1) Review, based on a three-year average, the geographical distribution of the volume of softwood lumber production that is manufactured and shipped within the United States by domestic manufacturers and the volume of softwood lumber imported into the United States; and
(2) Review, based on a three-year average, the distribution of the size of operations within each region; and
(3) If warranted, recommend to the Secretary the reapportionment of the Board membership to reflect changes in the geographical distribution of the volume of softwood lumber production that is manufactured and shipped within the United States by domestic manufacturers and the volume of softwood lumber imported into the United States. The distribution of volumes between regions and the distribution of the size of operations within regions shall also be considered. The number of Board members may also be changed. Any changes in Board composition shall be implemented by the Secretary through rulemaking.
[84 FR 50299, Sept. 25, 2019]
[76 FR 46193, Aug. 2, 2011, as amended at 85 FR 45059, July 27, 2020; 89 FR 58250, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.41
Nominations and appointments.
Nominations shall be conducted as follows:
(a) The Board shall conduct outreach to all segments of the softwood lumber industry. Softwood lumber domestic manufacturers and importers may submit nominations to the Board. Nominees must domestically manufacture and/or import 15 million board feet or more of softwood lumber per fiscal year;
(b) Domestic manufacturers, importer, and public member nominees, for both member and alternate positions, may provide the Board a short background statement outlining their qualifications to serve on the Board;
(c) Domestic manufacturer, importer, public member and all alternate nominees may seek nomination to the Board for all open or vacant seats for which the nominees are eligible;
(d) The Board will evaluate all eligible nominees and submit the name of one nominee for each open seat and the name of one additional nominee for each open seat to the Secretary. Other qualified persons interested in serving in the open seats but not recommended by the Board will be designated by the Board as additional nominees for consideration by the Secretary;
(e) Nominations for the public member shall be made by the Board. The Board shall submit the names of at least two nominees for the public member seat and at least two nominees for the public member alternate seat to the Secretary.
(f) The Board must submit nominations to the Secretary at least six months before the new Board term begins. From the nominations submitted by the Board, the Secretary shall select the members of the Board;
(g) No two members or alternates shall be employed by a single corporation, company, partnership, or any other legal entity. This includes subsidiaries and affiliates thereof; and
(h) The Board may recommend to the Secretary modifications to its nomination procedures as it deems appropriate. Any such modifications shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
[84 FR 50299, Sept. 25, 2019, as amended at 89 FR 58251, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.42
Term of office.
(a) Board members and alternates will serve a three-year term or until the Secretary selects his or her successor. Each term of office shall begin on January 1 and end on December 31. No member or alternate may serve more than two consecutive terms, excluding any term of office less than three years. A Board member may serve as an alternate during the years he or she is ineligible to serve in a member position.
(b) For the initial Board alternates, their terms shall be staggered for two, three, and four years. Determination of which alternates shall serve a term of two, three, or four years shall be recommended to the Secretary by the Board.
[89 FR 58251, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.43
Removal and vacancies.
(a) In the event that any member or alternate of the Board ceases to work for or be affiliated with the domestic manufacturer or importer, or ceases to do business in the group or region from which the member or alternate was appointed to the Board, such position shall automatically become vacant.
(b) The Board may recommend to the Secretary that a member or alternate be removed from office if the member or alternate consistently refuses to perform his or her duties or engages in dishonest acts or willful misconduct. The Secretary may remove the member or alternate if he or she finds that the Board's recommendation shows adequate cause. Further, without recommendation of the Board, a member or alternate may be removed by the Secretary upon showing of adequate cause, including the failure by a member or alternate to submit reports or remit assessments required under this part, if the Secretary determines that such member's or alternate's continued service would be detrimental to the achievement of the purposes of the Act.
(c) If a position becomes vacant, nominations to fill the vacancy may be conducted using the nominations process set forth in § 1217.41 or the Board may nominate eligible persons. A vacancy will not be required to be filled if the unexpired term is less than 6 months.
[89 FR 58251, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.44
Alternates.
An alternate member of the Board, during the absence of a member from the same group (domestic manufacturer, importer, or public member) and region (as applicable) may serve in the place and stead of such member and perform such duties as assigned. In the event that both a member of the Board and the alternate are unable to attend a meeting, the Board may not designate any other alternate from a different group or region to serve in such member's or alternate's place and stead for the meeting.
[89 FR 58251, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.45
Procedure.
(a) A majority of Board members (exclusive of vacant seats) will constitute a quorum so long as at least two of the members present are importer members and five of the members present are domestic manufacturers. An alternate will be counted for the purpose of determining a quorum only if a member from his or her group and region is absent or disqualified from participating. If participation by telephone or other means is permitted, members participating by such means shall count as present in determining quorum or other voting requirements set forth in this section.
(b) All votes at meetings of the Board, executive committee, and other committees will be cast in person or by electronic voting or other means as the Board and Secretary deem appropriate to allow members participating by telephone or other electronic means to cast votes. Voting by proxy will not be allowed.
(c) Each member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board and the motion will carry if supported by a majority of Board members (exclusive of vacant seats), except for recommendations to change the assessment rate or to adopt a budget, both of which require affirmation by at least a majority of Board members plus two (exclusive of vacant seats).
(d) The Board must give its members, alternates, and the Secretary timely notice of all Board, executive committee, and other committee meetings.
(e) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting, and when, in the opinion of the Board's chairperson, such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication. Any action taken under this procedure is valid only if:
(1) All members, alternates, and the Secretary are notified.
(2) Members and alternates acting in a member's stead are provided the opportunity to vote. A majority of Board members or alternates acting in the member's stead (exclusive of vacant seats) vote in favor of the action (unless a vote of a majority of Board members plus two (exclusive of vacant seats) is required under the Order); and
(3) All votes are promptly confirmed in writing and recorded in the Board minutes.
[89 FR 58251, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.46
Reimbursement and attendance.
Board members and alternates will serve without compensation, but will
be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Board, which they incur when performing Board business.
[89 FR 58251, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.47
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer this Order in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board and such rules, regulations as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet, organize, and select from among its members a chairperson and, such other officers as may be necessary;
(d) To create an executive committee of five members of the Board comprised of the chairperson and four other members elected by the Board. The duties of the executive committee shall be specified in bylaws that are recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary;
(e) To create other committees or subcommittees, which may include individuals other than Board members, as the Board deems necessary from its membership and other representatives it deems appropriate;
(f) To employ or contract with such persons, other than the members or alternates, as it may deem necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties, and to determine the compensation and define the duties of each;
(g) To notify manufacturers for the U.S. market of all Board meetings through press releases or other means and to give the Secretary the same notice of Board meetings, executive committee, and subcommittee meetings that is given to members and alternates in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting to the Secretary;
(h) To develop and administer programs, plans, and projects and enter into contracts or agreements, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for promotion, research, and information, including consumer and industry information, research and advertising designed to strengthen the softwood lumber industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain, develop, and expand markets for softwood lumber. The payment of costs for such activities shall be with funds collected pursuant to the Order, including funds collected pursuant to § 1217.50(f). Each contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan, or project together with a budget that specifies the cost to be incurred to carry out the activity;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all of its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or Board may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Board contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Board shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor.
(i) To prepare and submit to the Secretary for approval 60 calendar days in advance of the beginning of a fiscal period, rates of assessment and a budget of the anticipated expenses to be incurred in the administration of the Order, including the probable cost of each promotion, research, and information activity proposed to be developed or carried out by the Board;
(j) To borrow funds necessary for startup expenses of the Order;
(k) To invest assessments collected and other funds received pursuant to the Order and use earnings from invested assessments to pay for activities carried out pursuant to the Order;
(l) To recommend changes to the assessment rates as provided in this part;
(m) To cause its books to be audited by a certified public accountant at the end of each fiscal period and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a report of each audit directly to the Secretary;
(n) To periodically prepare and make public and to make available to manufacturers for the U.S. market reports of its activities and, at least once each fiscal period, to make public an accounting of funds received and expended;
(o) To maintain minutes, books, and records and prepare and submit to the Secretary such reports from time to time as may be required for appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of funds entrusted to it, and to submit to the Secretary such information pertaining to this part or subpart as he or she may request;
(p) To act as an intermediary between the Secretary and any manufacturer for the U.S. market;
(q) To receive, investigate and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the Order; and
(r) To develop and recommend such rules and regulations to the Secretary for approval as may be necessary for the development and execution of plans or activities to effectuate the purposes of the Act.
[89 FR 58252, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.48
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Board from engaging in:
(a) Any action that would be a conflict of interest;
(b) Using funds collected by the Board under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, state, national, and foreign governments or subdivision thereof, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to the Order; and
(c) No program, plan or project including advertising shall be false or misleading or disparaging to another agricultural commodity. Softwood lumber of all geographic origins shall be treated equally.
[89 FR 58282, July 18, 2024]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1217.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) At least 60 calendar days prior to the beginning of each fiscal period, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Board shall prepare and submit to the Department a budget for the fiscal period covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this part. The budget for research, promotion or information may not be implemented prior to approval by the Secretary. Each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data for at least one preceding fiscal year, except for the initial budget;
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least one preceding fiscal year, except for the initial budget.
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this Order.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Department, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another.
(d) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reserve, as the Secretary finds reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board.
(e) With approval of the Department, the Board may borrow money for the payment of startup expenses subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first year of operation by the Board.
(f) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, and is encouraged to seek other appropriate funding sources to carry out activities authorized by the Order. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrances by the donor and the Board shall retain complete control of their use. The Board may receive funds from outside sources (
i.e.,
Federal or State grants, Foreign Agricultural Service funds), with approval of the Secretary, for specific authorized projects.
(g) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, enforcement and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(h) For fiscal years beginning two years after the date the of the first Board meeting, the Board may not expend for administration, maintenance, and the functioning of the Board an amount that is greater than 8 percent of the assessment and other income received by and available to the Board for the fiscal year. For purposes of this limitation, reimbursements to the Secretary shall not be considered administrative costs.
(i) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established:
Provided,
That, the funds in the reserve do not exceed one fiscal period's budget of expenses. Subject to approval by the Secretary, such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this subpart.
(j) Pending disbursement of assessments and all other revenue under a budget approved by the Secretary, the Board may invest assessments and all other revenues collected under this part in:
(1) Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;
(2) General obligations of any State or any political subdivision of a State;
(3) Interest bearing accounts or certificates of deposit of financial institutions that are members of the Federal Reserve System;
(4) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal interest by the United States; or
(5) Other investments as authorized by the Secretary.
§ 1217.51
Financial statements.
(a) The Board shall prepare and submit financial statements to the Department on a quarterly basis, or at any other time as requested by the Secretary. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, year-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Department within 30 calendar days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Board shall submit to the Department an annual financial statement within 90 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year to which it applies.
§ 1217.52
Assessments.
(a) The Board's programs and expenses shall be paid by assessments on manufacturers for the U.S. market, other income of the Board, and other funds available to the Board.
(b) Subject to the exemptions specified in § 1217.53, each manufacturer for the U.S. market shall pay an assessment to the Board at the rate of $0.41 per thousand board feet of softwood lumber, except that no person shall pay an assessment on the first 15 million board feet of softwood lumber otherwise subject to assessment in a fiscal year. Domestic manufacturers shall pay assessments based on the volume of softwood lumber shipped within the United States and importers shall pay assessments based on the volume of softwood lumber imported to the United States.
(c) At least 24 months after the Order becomes effective and periodically thereafter, the Board shall review and may recommend to the Secretary, upon an affirmative vote by at least a majority of Board members plus two (exclusive of vacant seats), a change in the assessment rate. In no event may the rate be less than $0.35 per thousand board feet nor more than $0.50 per thousand board feet. A change in the
assessment rate is subject to rulemaking by the Secretary.
(d) Domestic manufacturers shall remit to the Board the amount due no later than the 30th calendar day of the month following the end of the quarter in which the softwood lumber was shipped.
(e) Domestic product that cannot be categorized in the Harmomized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) numbers listed in paragraph (h) of this section if it were an import is not covered under this Order.
(f) Softwood lumber originating in the United States that is exported to another country and shipped back to the United States is covered under this Order, provided that it can be categorized in the HTSUS numbers listed in paragraph (h) of this section.
(g) Each importer of softwood lumber shall pay through Customs to the Board an assessment on softwood lumber imported into the United States as described in section 804(a) of Title VIII of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1202-1683g), provided that it can be categorized in the HTSUS numbers listed in paragraph (h) of this section.
(h) The HTSUS categories and assessment rates on imported softwood lumber are listed in the following table. The assessment rates are computed using the following conversion factors: One cubic meter (m3) equals 0.423776001 thousand board feet, and one square meter (m2) equals 0.010763104 thousand board feet. Accordingly, the assessment rate per cubic meter and square meter is as follows.
Table 1 to Paragraph (
h
)
Softwood lumber
(by HTSUS number)
Assessment
$/cubic meter
Assessment
$/square meter
4407.11.00
0.1737
0.004412
4407.12.00
0.1737
0.004412
4407.13.00
0.1737
0.004412
4407.14.00
0.1737
0.004412
4407.19.00
0.1737
0.004412
4409.10.05
0.1737
0.004412
4409.10.10
0.1737
0.004412
4409.10.20
0.1737
0.004412
4409.10.90
0.1737
0.004412
4418.99.10
0.1737
0.004412
(i) In the event that any HTSUS number subject to assessment is changed and such change is merely a replacement of a previous number and has no impact on the description of the softwood lumber involved, assessments will continue to be collected based on the new number.
(j) If Customs does not collect an assessment from an importer, the importer is responsible for paying the assessment directly to the Board no later than the 30th calendar day of the month following the end of the quarter in which the softwood lumber was imported.
(k) Articles brought into the United States temporarily and for which an exemption is claimed under subchapter XIII of chapter 98 of the HTSUS are not covered under this Order. If assessments are collected by Customs for these products, the importer may apply to the Board for a refund of assessments.
(l) When a domestic manufacturer or importer fails to pay the assessment within 60 calendar days of the date it is due, the Board may impose a late payment charge and interest. The late payment charge and rate of interest shall be prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary. All late assessments shall be subject to the specified late payment charge and interest. Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under Federal debt collection procedures.
(m) The Board may accept advance payment of assessments from any manufacturer for the U.S. market that will be credited toward any amount for which that person may become liable. The Board may not pay interest on any advance payment.
(n) If the Board is not in place by the date the first assessments are to be collected, the Secretary shall receive assessments and shall pay such assessments and any interest earned to the Board when it is formed.
[76 FR 46193, Aug. 2, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 50300, Sept. 25, 2019; 86 FR 11390, Feb. 25, 2021; 89 FR 58252, July 18, 2024]
§ 1217.53
Exemption from assessment.
(a)
Manufacturers for the U.S. market who domestically ship and/or import less than 15 million board feet annually.
(1) Domestic manufacturers who ship less than 15 million board feet of softwood lumber within the United States in a
fiscal year are exempt from paying assessments. Such manufacturers must apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption prior to the start of the fiscal year. This is an annual exemption and domestic manufacturers must reapply each year. Such manufacturers shall certify that they will ship less than 15 million board feet of softwood lumber during the fiscal year for which the exemption is claimed. Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Board shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Board may request past shipment data to support the exemption request. The Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the eligible domestic manufacturer. It is the responsibility of the domestic manufacturer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption.
(2) Importers who import into the United States less than 15 million board feet of softwood lumber in a fiscal year are exempt from paying assessments. Such importers must apply to the Board, on a form provided by the Board, for a certificate of exemption prior to the start of the fiscal year. This is an annual exemption and importers must reapply each year. Such importers shall certify that they will import less than 15 million board feet of softwood lumber during the fiscal year for which the exemption is claimed. Upon receipt of an application for exemption, the Board shall determine whether an exemption is granted. The Board may request past import data to support the exemption request. The Board will then issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to the eligible importer. It is the responsibility of the importer to retain a copy of the certificate of exemption. The importer may be requested to submit a copy of the certificate to Customs. If Customs collects the assessment, the Board shall refund such importers their assessments no later than 60 calendar days after receipt of such assessments by the Board. No interest shall be paid on the assessments collected by Customs.
(3) Domestic manufacturers who did not apply to the Board for an exemption and shipped less than 15 million board feet of softwood lumber within the United States during the fiscal year shall receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year. Board staff shall determine the assessments paid and refund the amount due to the domestic manufacturer accordingly.
(4) Importers who did not apply to the Board for an exemption and imported less than 15 million board feet of softwood lumber during the fiscal year shall receive a refund from the Board for the applicable assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year.
(5) If an entity is both a domestic manufacturer and an importer, the sum of such entity's domestic shipments and imports during a fiscal year shall count towards the 15 million board feet exemption.
(6) Domestic manufacturers and importers who received an exemption certificate from the Board but domestically shipped or imported 15 million board feet or more of softwood lumber during the fiscal year shall pay the Board the applicable assessments owed on the domestic shipments or imports over the 15 million board foot-exemption threshold within 30 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year and submit any necessary reports to the Board pursuant to § 1217.70.
(7) The Board may develop additional procedures to administer this exemption as appropriate. Such procedures shall be implemented through rulemaking by the Secretary.
(b)
Manufacturers for the U.S. market who domestically ship and/or import 15 million board feet or more annually.
(1) Domestic manufacturers who domestically ship 15 million board feet or more per fiscal year shall not pay assessments on their first 15 million board feet of softwood lumber shipped during the applicable fiscal year.
(2) Importers who import 15 million board feet or more per fiscal year shall be exempt from paying assessments on their first 15 million board feet of softwood lumber imported during the applicable fiscal year. Such importers shall receive a refund from the Board
for the applicable assessments collected by Customs. The Board shall refund such importers their assessments no later than 60 calendar days after receipt by the Board.
(c)
Export.
Shipments of softwood lumber by domestic manufacturers to locations outside of the United States are exempt from assessment. The Board shall establish procedures for approval by the Secretary for refunding assessments that may be paid on such shipments and establish any necessary safeguards as deemed appropriate. Safeguard procedures shall be implemented by the Secretary through rulemaking. The Board may also recommend to the Secretary that such shipments be assessed if it deems appropriate. Such action shall be implemented by the Secretary through rulemaking.
(d)
Organic.
(1) A domestic manufacturer of softwood lumber products who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic handling system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(i) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(ii) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a manufacturer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is manufactured by a person that also manufactures conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(iii) The manufacturer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(iv) Any manufacturer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(2) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible manufacturer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before the start of the fiscal year, for as long as the manufacturer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(3) A manufacturer request for exemption shall include the following:
(i) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(ii) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(iii) Certification that the applicant manufactures organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(iv) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(v) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(vi) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(4) If a manufacturer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the manufacturer within 30 calendar days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(5) An importer who imports softwood lumber that is eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” softwood lumber on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before the beginning of the fiscal year, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include
the same information required of a manufacturer in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer within the applicable timeframe. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(6) If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product under paragraph (d)(5) of this section that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product.
(7) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of a Certificate of Exemption.
[76 FR 46193, Aug. 2, 2011, as amended at 80 FR 82029, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Promotion, Research, and Information
§ 1217.60
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Board shall develop and submit to the Secretary for approval programs, plans and projects authorized by this subpart. Such programs, plans and projects shall provide for promotion, research, education and other activities including consumer and industry information and advertising designed to:
(1) Maintain, develop, expand and grow markets for softwood lumber;
(2) Enhance and strengthen the image, reputation and public acceptance of softwood lumber and the forests from which it comes;
(3) Develop new markets and marketing strategies for softwood lumber;
(4) Expand the knowledge and understanding of the strength, safety and technical applications and encourage innovation in the use of softwood lumber;
(5) Transfer and disseminate the knowledge and understanding of the strength, safety, environmental and sustainable benefits and technical applications of softwood lumber; and
(6) Develop, expand and grow existing and new opportunities and applications for softwood lumber.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Board shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) The Board must evaluate each program, plan and project authorized under this subpart to ensure that it contributes to an effective and coordinated program of research, promotion and information. The Board must submit the evaluations to the Secretary. If the Board finds that a program, plan or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or information, then the Board shall terminate such plan or program.
§ 1217.61
Independent evaluation.
At least once every five years, the Board shall authorize and fund from funds otherwise available to the Board, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and the programs conducted by the Board pursuant to the Act. The Board shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this paragraph.
§ 1217.62
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, product formulations, and publications.
Any patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, product formulations, and publications developed through the use of funds received by the Board under this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government, as represented by the Board, and shall along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of
the Board, shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board, and may be licensed subject to approval by the Secretary. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1217.83 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1217.70
Reports.
(a) Each manufacturer for the U.S. market will be required to provide periodically to the Board such information as the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may require. Such information may include, but not be limited to:
(1) For domestic manufacturers:
(i) The name, address and telephone number of the domestic manufacturer;
(ii) The board feet of softwood lumber shipped within the United States;
(iii) The board feet of softwood lumber for which assessments were paid; and
(iv) The board feet of softwood lumber that was exported.
(2) For importers:
(i) The name, address and telephone number of the importer;
(ii) The board feet of softwood lumber imported;
(iii) The board feet of softwood lumber for which assessments were paid; and
(iv) The country of export.
(b) For domestic manufacturers, such information shall accompany the collected payment of assessments on a quarterly basis specified in § 1217.52. For importers who pay their assessments directly to the Board, such information shall accompany the payment of collected assessments within 30 calendar days after the end of the quarter in which the softwood lumber was imported.
[76 FR 46193, Aug. 2, 2011, as amended at 78 FR 77334, Dec. 23, 2013]
§ 1217.71
Books and records.
Each manufacturer for the U.S. market, including those exempt under § 1217.53, shall maintain any books and records necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart and regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any required reports. Domestic manufacturers who only export softwood lumber shall also retain such books and records. Such books and records must be made available during normal business hours for inspection by the Board's or Secretary's employees or agents. A manufacturer for the U.S. market must maintain the books and records for two years beyond the fiscal period to which they apply.
§ 1217.72
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart and the regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Board members or other manufacturers for the U.S. market. Only those persons having a specific need for such information solely to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or at the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this part, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this part violated by such person.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1217.80
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs or projects, contracts, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1217.81
Referenda.
(a)
Initial referendum.
The Order shall not become effective unless the Order is approved by a majority of domestic manufacturers and importers voting in the referendum who also represent a majority of the volume of softwood lumber represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the domestic manufacturing or importation of softwood lumber. A single entity who domestically manufactures and imports softwood lumber may cast one vote in the referendum.
(b)
Subsequent referenda.
The Secretary shall conduct subsequent referenda:
(1) For the purpose of ascertaining whether manufacturers for the U.S. market favor the continuation, suspension, or termination of the Order;
(2) No later than seven years after the Order becomes effective and every seven years thereafter, to determine whether softwood lumber manufacturers for the U.S. market favor the continuation of the Order. The Order shall continue if it is favored by a majority of domestic manufacturers and importers voting in the referendum who also represent a majority of the volume of softwood lumber represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the domestic manufacturing or importation of softwood lumber;
(3) At the request of the Board established in this Order;
(4) At the request of 10 percent or more of the number of persons eligible to vote in a referendum as set forth under the Order; or
(5) At any time as determined by the Secretary.
[76 FR 22755, Apr. 22, 2011, as amended at 81 FR 59427, Aug. 30, 2016; 84 FR 50300, Sept. 25, 2019]
§ 1217.82
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof, if the Secretary finds that this part or subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that this subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Act.
(b) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the fiscal period whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is favored by a majority of domestic manufacturers and importers voting in the referendum who also represent a majority of the volume represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the domestic manufacturing or importation of softwood lumber.
(c) If, as a result of a referendum the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Not later than one hundred and eighty (180) calendar days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, the collection of assessments under this subpart.
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an orderly manner.
§ 1217.83
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend to the Secretary up to nine of its members, representing all regions specified in § 1217.40(b), three of whom shall be importers and six of whom shall be domestic manufacturers, to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the Board's affairs. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Board, including
claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered, or any other existing claim at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to the Order;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and trustees, to such person or person as the Secretary directs; and
(4) Upon request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to the Order.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practical, to one or more softwood lumber industry organizations in the United States whose mission is generic softwood lumber promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1217.84
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary or of any other persons, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1217.85
Personal liability.
No member or employee of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1217.86
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability of it to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1217.87
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time by the Board or any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1217.88
OMB Control numbers.
The control numbers assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, are OMB control number 0505-0001 (Board nominee background statement) and OMB control number 0581-0093.
[84 FR 50300, Sept. 25, 2019]

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
§ 1217.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible domestic manufacturers and importers favor the issuance, continuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Softwood Lumber Research, Promotion, Consumer Education, and Industry Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1217.101
Definitions.
For the purposes of this subpart:
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to delegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Customs or CPB
means Customs and Border Protection, an agency of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
(c)
Department
or
USDA
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
(d)
Eligible domestic manufacturer
means any person who manufactured and shipped 15 million board feet or more of softwood lumber in the United States during the representative period.
(e)
Eligible importer
means any person who imported 15 million board feet or more of softwood lumber into the United States during the representative period as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who manufactured softwood lumber outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed as the importer of record for such softwood lumber. Importation occurs when softwood lumber manufactured outside of the United States is released from custody by Customs and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-manufactured softwood lumber immediately upon release by Customs, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of softwood lumber from Customs when such softwood lumber is entered or withdrawn for use in the United States.
(f)
Manufacture
means the process of transforming softwood logs into softwood lumber.
(g)
Order
means the Softwood Lumber Research, Promotion, Consumer Education and Industry Information Order.
(h)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a softwood lumber manufacturing entity as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land, facilities, capital, labor, management, equipment, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties, so that it results in the domestic manufacturing or importation of softwood lumber and the authority to transfer title to the softwood lumber so manufactured or imported.
(i)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
(j)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Department.
(k)
Softwood
means one of the botanical groups of trees that have needle-like or scale-like leaves, the conifers.
(l)
Softwood lumber
means and includes softwood lumber and products manufactured from softwood as described in section 804(a) within Title VIII (Softwood Lumber Act of 2008 or SLA of 2008) of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1202-1677g), as amended by section 3301 of the Food, Conservation and Energy Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 110-246, enacted June 18, 2008) and categorized in the following Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) numbers—4407.11.00, 4407.12.00, 4407.19.05, 4407.19.06, 4407.19.10, 4409.10.05, 4409.10.10, 4409.10.20, 4409.10.90, and 4418.99.10. Domestic product that cannot be categorized in the referenced HTSUS numbers if it were an import is not covered under the Order. Further, softwood lumber originating in the United States that is exported to another country and shipped back to the United States is also covered under the Order, provided it can be categorized in the referenced HTSUS numbers. Additionally, articles brought into the United States temporarily and for which an
exemption is claimed under subchapter XIII of chapter 98 of the HTSUS are exempted from the SLA of 2008 and are not covered under the Order.
(m)
United States
means collectively the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
[76 FR 46193, Aug. 2, 2011, as amended at 84 FR 50300, Sept. 25, 2019]
§ 1217.102
Voting.
(a) Each eligible domestic manufacturer and importer of softwood lumber shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. However, each domestic manufacturer in a landlord/tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to manufacture softwood lumber, in which more than one of the parties is a domestic manufacturer or importer, shall be entitled to cast one ballot in the referendum covering only such domestic manufacturer or importer's share of ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate domestic manufacturer or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee of an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) A single entity who domestically manufactures and imports softwood lumber may cast one vote in the referendum.
(d) All ballots are to be cast by mail or other means, as instructed by the Department.
§ 1217.103
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner provided in this subpart, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, consistent with the provisions of this subpart, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast;
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter;
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By using available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible domestic manufacturers and importers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot;
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process;
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum; and
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1217.104
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions of this subpart. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1217.105
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a
ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1217.106
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1217.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Order and the voter list shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1217.108
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 4 U.S.C. is OMB control number 0581-0093.
[84 FR 50300, Sept. 25, 2019]

# Subpart C—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
79 FR 64299, October 29, 2014, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1217.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.
(a) A late payment charge shall be imposed on any domestic manufacturer or importer who fails to make timely remittance to the Board of the total assessments for which they are liable. The late payment will be imposed on any assessments not received within 60 calendar days of the date they are due. This one-time late payment charge shall be 10 percent of the assessments due before interest charges have accrued.
(b) In addition to the late payment charge, 1
1/2
percent per month interest on the outstanding balance, including any late payment and accrued interest, will be added to any accounts for which payment has not been received by the Board within 60 calendar days after the day assessments are due. Interest will continue to accrue monthly until the outstanding balance is paid to the Board.
Pt. 1218

# PART 1218—BLUEBERRY PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1218.1
Act.
1218.2
Blueberries.
1218.3
Conflict of interest.
1218.4
Crop year.
1218.5
Department.
1218.6
Exporter.
1218.7
First handler.
1218.8
Fiscal period.
1218.9
Importer.
1218.10
Information.
1218.11
Market or marketing.
1218.12
Order.
1218.13
Part and subpart.
1218.14
Person.
1218.15
Processed blueberries.
1218.16
Producer.
1218.17
Promotion.
1218.18
Research.
1218.19
Secretary.
1218.20
Suspend.
1218.21
Terminate.
1218.22
United States.
1218.23
U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council.

# U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council
1218.40
Establishment and membership.
1218.41
Nominations and appointments.
1218.42
Term of office.
1218.43
Vacancies.
1218.44
Alternate members.
1218.45
Procedure.
1218.46
Compensation and reimbursement.
1218.47
Powers and duties.
1218.48
Prohibited activities.

# Expenses and Assessments
1218.50
Budget and expenses.
1218.51
Financial statements.
1218.52
Assessments.
1218.53
Exemption procedures.
1218.54
Programs, plans, and projects.
1218.55
Independent evaluation.
1218.56
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1218.60
Reports.
1218.61
Books and records.
1218.62
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1218.70
Right of the Secretary.
1218.71
Referenda.
1218.72
Suspension and termination.
1218.73
Proceedings after termination.
1218.74
Effect of termination or amendment.
1218.75
Personal liability.
1218.76
Separability.
1218.77
Amendments.
1218.78
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart B—Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection with the Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order
1218.100
General.
1218.101
Definitions.
1218.102
Voting.
1218.103
Instructions.
1218.104
Subagents.
1218.105
Ballots.
1218.106
Referendum report.
1218.107
Confidential information.

# Subpart C—Provisions for Implementing the Blueberry Promotion, Research and Information Order
1218.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7411-7425 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
65 FR 7654, Feb. 15, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 1218 appear at 66 FR 37118, 37119, July 17, 2001, and 71 FR 77245, Dec. 26, 2006.

# Subpart A—Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Source:
65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1218.1
Act.
Act
means the Commodity Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 1996 (7 U.S.C. 7401-7425; Pub. L. 104-127; 110 Stat. 1029), or any amendments thereto.
§ 1218.2
Blueberries.
Blueberries
means cultivated blueberries grown in or imported into the United States of the genus Vaccinium
Corymbosum
and
Ashei,
including the northern highbush, southern highbush, rabbit eye varieties, and any hybrid, and excluding the lowbush (native) blueberry Vaccinium
Angustifolium.
§ 1218.3
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a member or employee of the U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Council for anything of economic value.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37118, July 17, 2001; 71 FR 44554, Aug. 7, 2006]
§ 1218.4
Crop year.
Crop year
means the 12-month period from November 1 through October 31 of the following year or such other period approved by the Secretary.
§ 1218.5
Department.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
§ 1218.6
Exporter.
Exporter
means a person involved in exporting blueberries from another country to the United States.
§ 1218.7
First handler.
First handler
means any person, (excluding a common or contract carrier), receiving blueberries from producers and who as owner, agent, or otherwise ships or causes blueberries to be shipped as specified in the Order. This definition includes those engaged in the business of buying, selling and/or offering for sale; receiving; packing; grading; marketing; or distributing blueberries in commercial quantities. This definition includes a retailer, except a retailer who purchases or acquires from, or handles on behalf of any producer, blueberries. The term first handler includes a producer who handles or markets blueberries of the producer's own production.
§ 1218.8
Fiscal period.
Fiscal period
means a calendar year from January 1 through December 31, or such other period as approved by the Secretary.
§ 1218.9
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports fresh or processed blueberries into the United States as a principal or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person who produces or handles fresh or processed blueberries outside of the United States for sale in the United States, and who is listed in the import records as the importer of record for such blueberries.
§ 1218.10
Information.
Information
means information and programs that are designed to increase efficiency in processing and to develop new markets, marketing strategies, increase market efficiency, and activities that are designed to enhance the image of blueberries on a national or international basis. These include:
(a)
Consumer information,
which means any action taken to provide information to, and broaden the understanding of, the general public regarding the consumption, use, nutritional attributes, and care of blueberries; and
(b)
Industry information,
which means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the blueberry industry, and activities to enhance the image of the blueberry industry.
§ 1218.11
Market or marketing.
(a)
Marketing
means the sale or other disposition of blueberries in any channel of commerce.
(b) To
market
means to sell or otherwise dispose of blueberries in interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
§ 1218.12
Order.
Order
means an order issued by the Secretary under section 514 of the Act that provides for a program of generic promotion, research, and information regarding agricultural commodities authorized under the Act.
§ 1218.13
Part and subpart.
The Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order comprise this part. The Order is this subpart.
[86 FR 72782, Dec.23, 2021]
§ 1218.14
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1218.15
Processed blueberries.
Processed blueberries
means blueberries which have been frozen, dried, pureed, or made into juice.
§ 1218.16
Producer.
Producer
means any person who grows blueberries in the United States for sale in commerce, or a person who is engaged in the business of producing, or causing to be produced for any market, blueberries beyond the person's own family use and having value at first point of sale.
§ 1218.17
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action taken to present a favorable image of blueberries to the general public and the food industry for the purpose of improving the competitive position of blueberries both in the United States and abroad and stimulating the sale of blueberries. This includes paid advertising and public relations.
§ 1218.18
Research.
Research
means any type of test, study, or analysis designed to advance the image, desirability, use, marketability, production, product development, or quality of blueberries, including research relating to nutritional value, cost of production, new product development, varietal development, nutritional value, health research, and marketing of blueberries.
§ 1218.19
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States, or any officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been
delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1218.20
Suspend.
Suspend
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, U.S.C., to temporarily prevent the operation of an order or part thereof during a particular period of time specified in the rule.
§ 1218.21
Terminate.
Terminate
means to issue a rule under section 553 of title 5, U.S.C., to cancel permanently the operation of an order or part thereof beginning on a date certain specified in the rule.
§ 1218.22
United States.
United States
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1218.23
U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council.
U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council
or the
Council
means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1218.40.
[71 FR 44554, Aug. 7, 2006]

# U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council
§ 1218.40
Establishment and membership.
(a)
Establishment of the U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council.
There is hereby established a U.S. Highbush Blueberry Council, hereinafter called the Council, shall be comprised of no more than 20 members and alternates for the 2022 Council, and comprised of no more than 21 members and alternates for the 2023 Council and each subsequent Council, appointed by the Secretary from nominations as follows:
(1) The 2022 Council shall be comprised of:
(i) One producer member and alternate from each of the following regions:
(A) Region #1 Western Region (all states from the Pacific east to the Rockies): Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
(B) Region #2 Midwest Region (all states east of the Rockies to the Great Lakes and south to the Kansas/Missouri/Kentucky state line): Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.
(C) Region #3 Northeast Region (all states east of the Great Lakes and North of the North Carolina/Tennessee state line): Connecticut, Delaware, New York, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia, Vermont, Washington, DC, and West Virginia.
(D) Region #4 Southern Region (all states south of the Virginia/Kentucky/Missouri/Kansas state line and east of the Rockies): Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas.
(ii) One producer member and alternate from each of the top eight blueberry producing states, based on the average of the total tons produced over the previous three years. Average tonnage will be based upon production and assessment figures generated by the Council.
(iii) Four importers and alternates.
(iv) Two exporters and alternates will be filled by foreign blueberry producers currently shipping blueberries into the United States from the two largest foreign blueberry production areas, respectively, based on a three-year average.
(v) One first handler member and alternate shall be filled by a United States based independent or cooperative organization which is a producer/shipper of domestic blueberries.
(vi) One public member and alternate. The public member and alternate public member may not be a blueberry producer, handler, importer, exporter, or have a financial interest in the production, sales, marketing or distribution of blueberries.
(2) The 2023 and subsequent Council shall be composed of:
(i) One producer member and alternate from each of the following regions:
(A) Region #1 Western Region (all states from the Pacific east to the Rockies): Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming.
(B) Region #2 Midwest Region (all states east of the Rockies to the Great Lakes and south to the Kansas/Missouri/Kentucky state line): Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Kentucky, Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri, Nebraska, North Dakota, Ohio, South Dakota, and Wisconsin.
(C) Region #3 Northeast Region (all states east of the Great Lakes and North of the North Carolina/Tennessee state line): Connecticut, Delaware, New York, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia, Vermont, Washington, DC, and West Virginia.
(D) Region #4 Southern Region (all states south of the Virginia/Kentucky/Missouri/Kansas state line and east of the Rockies): Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Puerto Rico, South Carolina, Tennessee, and Texas.
(ii) One producer member and alternate from each of the top eight blueberry producing states, based on the average of the total tons produced over the previous three years. Average tonnage will be based upon production and assessment figures generated by the Council.
(iii) Four importers and alternates.
(iv) Four exporters and alternates will be filled by foreign blueberry producers currently shipping blueberries into the United States from the four largest foreign blueberry production areas, respectively, based on a three-year average.
(v) One public member and alternate. The public member and alternate public member may not be a blueberry producer, handler, importer, exporter, or have a financial interest in the production, sales, marketing or distribution of blueberries.
(b)
Adjustment of membership.
At least once every five years, the Council will review the geographical distribution of United States production of blueberries and the quantity of imports. The review will be conducted through an audit of state crop production figures and Council assessment records. If warranted, the Council will recommend to the Secretary that the membership on the Council be altered to reflect any changes in the geographical distribution of domestic blueberry production and the quantity of imports. If the level of imports increases, importer members and alternates may be added to the Council.
(c)
Council's ability to serve the diversity of the industry.
When making recommendations for appointments, the industry should take into account the diversity of the population served and the knowledge, skills, and abilities of the members to serve a diverse population, size of the operations, methods of production and distribution, and other distinguishing factors to ensure that the recommendations of the Council take into account the diverse interest of persons responsible for paying assessments, and others in the marketing chain, if appropriate.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001; 71 FR 44554, Aug. 7, 2006; 75 FR 31282, June 3, 2010; 80 FR 53262, Sept. 3, 2015; 86 FR 72782, Dec. 23, 2021]
§ 1218.41
Nominations and appointments.
(a)
State representatives.
(1) When a state has a state blueberry commission or marketing order in place, the state commission or committee will nominate members to serve on the Council. At least two nominees shall be recommended to the Secretary for each member and each alternate position. Other eligible persons interested in serving in the respective state positions but not nominated by their State marketing order or commission will be designated by the State organization and/or Council as additional nominees for consideration by the Secretary.
(2) Nomination and election of state representatives where no commission or order is in place will be handled by the Council staff. The Council staff will seek nominations for members and alternates from the specific states. Nominations will be returned to the Council office and placed on a ballot which will then be sent to producers in the state for a vote. The final nominee
for member will have received the highest number of votes cast. The person with the second highest number of votes cast will be the final nominee for alternate. The persons with the third and fourth highest number of votes cast will be designated as additional nominees for consideration by the Secretary.
(b)
Regional representatives.
Nomination and election of regional representatives will be handled by the Council staff. The Council staff will seek nominations for members and alternates from the specific regions. Nominations will be returned to the Council office and placed on a ballot which will then be sent to producers in the region for a vote. The final nominee for member will have received the highest number of votes cast. The person with the second highest number of votes cast will be the final nominee for alternate. The persons with the third and fourth highest number of votes cast will be designated by the Council as additional nominees for consideration by the Secretary.
(c)
Importer, exporter, and public members.
Nominations for the importer, exporter, and public member positions will be made by the Council. Two nominees for each member and each alternate position will be recommended to the Secretary for consideration. Other qualified persons interested in serving in these positions but not recommended by the Council will be designated by the Council as additional nominees for consideration by the Secretary.
(d)
Producers and importers.
Producer and importer nominees must be in compliance with the Order's provisions regarding payment of assessments and filing of reports. Further, producers and importers must produce or import, respectively, 2,000 pounds or more of highbush blueberries annually.
(e) From the nominations, the Secretary shall select the members and alternate members of the Council.
80 FR 53262, Sept. 3, 2015, as amended at 86 FR 72783, Dec. 23, 2021]
§ 1218.42
Term of office.
Council members and alternates will serve for a term of three years and be able to serve a maximum of two consecutive terms. A Council member may serve as an alternate during the years the member is ineligible for a member position. When the Council is first established, the state representatives, first handler member, and their respective alternates will be assigned initial terms of three years. Regional representatives, the importer member, the exporter member, public member, and their alternates will serve an initial term of two years. Thereafter, each of these positions will carry a full three-year term. Council nominations and appointments will take place in two out of every three years. Each term of office will end on December 31, with new terms of office beginning on January 1. Council members and alternates shall serve during the term of office for which they have been appointed and qualified, and until their successors are appointed.
[86 FR 72783, Dec. 23, 2021]
§ 1218.43
Vacancies.
(a) In the event that any member of the Council ceases to be a member of the category of members from which the member was appointed to the Council, such position shall automatically become vacant.
(b) If a member of the Council consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Council, or if a member of the Council engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Council may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office. If the Secretary finds the recommendation of the Council shows adequate cause, the Secretary shall remove such member from office.
(c) Should any member position become vacant, the alternate of that member shall automatically assume the position of said member. Should the positions of both a member and such member's alternate become vacant, successors for the unexpired terms of such member and alternate shall be appointed in the manner specified in § 1218.40 and § 1218.41, except that said nomination and replacement shall not be required if said unexpired terms are less than six months.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.44
Alternate members.
An alternate member of the Council, during the absence of the member for whom the person is the alternate, shall act in the place and stead of such member and perform such duties as assigned. In the event of death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member, the alternate for that member shall automatically assume the position of said member. In the event that both a producer member of the Council and the alternate are unable to attend a meeting, the Council may not designate any other alternate to serve in such member's or alternate's place and stead for such a meeting.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.45
Procedure.
(a) At a Council meeting, it will be considered a quorum when a minimum of 11 members, or their alternates serving in their absence, are present.
(b) At the start of each fiscal period, the Council will select a chairperson and vice chairperson who will conduct meetings throughout that period.
(c) All Council members and alternates will receive a minimum of 10 days advance notice of all Council and committee meetings.
(d) Each member of the Council will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Council, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Council members present.
(e) It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when at least one more than half of those assigned to the committee are present. Alternates may also be assigned to committees as necessary. Committees may also consist of individuals other than Council members and such individuals may vote in committee meetings. These committee members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Council.
(f) All votes at meetings of the Council and committees may be cast in person or by electronic voting or other means as the Council and Secretary deem appropriate to allow members participating by telephone or other electronic means to cast votes.
(g) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Council such action is considered necessary, the Council may take action if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the members by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or any other means of communication, and all telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In that event, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Council. All votes shall be recorded in Council minutes.
(h) There shall be no voting by proxy.
(i) The chairperson shall be a voting member.
(j) The organization of the Council and the procedures for the conducting of meetings of the Council shall be in accordance with its bylaws, which shall be established by the Council and approved by the Secretary.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001; 75 FR 31282, June 3, 2010; 80 FR 53262, Sept. 3, 2015]
§ 1218.46
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Council, and alternates when acting as members, shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable travel expenses, as approved by the Council, incurred by them in the performance of their duties as Council members.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.47
Powers and duties.
The Council shall have the following powers and duties:
(a) To administer the Order in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Council, and such rules as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet, organize, and select from among the members of the Council a chairperson, other officers, committees, and subcommittees, as the Council determines to be appropriate;
(d) To employ persons, other than the members, as the Council considers necessary to assist the Council in carrying out its duties and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of such persons;
(e) To develop programs and projects, and enter into contracts or agreements, which must be approved by the Secretary before becoming effective, for the development and carrying out of programs or projects of research, information, or promotion, and the payment of costs thereof with funds collected pursuant to this subpart. Each contract or agreement shall provide that any person who enters into a contract or agreement with the Council shall develop and submit to the Council a proposed activity; keep accurate records of all of its transactions relating to the contract or agreement; account for funds received and expended in connection with the contract or agreement; make periodic reports to the Council of activities conducted under the contract or agreement; and make such other reports available as the Council or the Secretary considers relevant. Any contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Council a program, plan, or project together with a budget or budgets that shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such program, plan, or project;
(2) The contractor or agreeing party shall keep accurate records of all its transactions and make periodic reports to the Council of activities conducted, submit accounting for funds received and expended, and make such other reports as the Secretary or the Council may require;
(3) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically; and
(4) Any subcontractor who enters into a contract with a Council contractor and who receives or otherwise uses funds allocated by the Council shall be subject to the same provisions as the contractor.
(f) To prepare and submit for approval of the Secretary fiscal year budgets in accordance with § 1218.50;
(g) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to the Secretary as the Secretary may prescribe; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Council;
(h) To cause its books to be audited by a competent auditor at the end of each fiscal year and at such other times as the Secretary may request, and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary;
(i) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Council as is given to members in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend such meetings, and to keep and report minutes of each meeting of the Council to the Secretary;
(j) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, first handler, importer, or exporter;
(k) To furnish to the Secretary any information or records that the Secretary may request;
(l) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the Order;
(m) To recommend to the Secretary such amendments to the Order as the Council considers appropriate; and
(n) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, evaluation, and industry information designed to strengthen the blueberry industry's position in the marketplace; maintain and expand existing markets and uses for blueberries; and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the blueberry industry.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.48
Prohibited activities.
The Council may not engage in, and shall prohibit the employees and agents of the Council from engaging in:
(a) Any action that would be a conflict of interest; and
(b) Using funds collected by the Council under the Order to undertake any action for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, state, national, and foreign governments, other than recommending to the Secretary amendments to the Order.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1218.50
Budget and expenses.
(a) At least 60 days prior to the beginning of each fiscal year, and as may be necessary thereafter, the Council shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a budget for the fiscal year covering its anticipated expenses and disbursements in administering this subpart. Each such budget shall include:
(1) A statement of objectives and strategy for each program, plan, or project;
(2) A summary of anticipated revenue, with comparative data or at least one preceding year (except for the initial budget);
(3) A summary of proposed expenditures for each program, plan, or project; and
(4) Staff and administrative expense breakdowns, with comparative data for at least on preceding year (except for the initial budget).
(b) Each budget shall provide adequate funds to defray its proposed expenditures and to provide for a reserve as set forth in this subpart.
(c) Subject to this section, any amendment or addition to an approved budget must be approved by the Secretary, including shifting funds from one program, plan, or project to another. Shifts of funds which do not cause an increase in the Council's approved budget and which are consistent with governing bylaws need not have prior approval by the Secretary.
(d) The Council is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Council for its maintenance and functioning, and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Council.
(e) With approval of the Secretary, the Council may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Council. Any funds borrowed by the Council shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first year of operation of the Council.
(f) The Council may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects. Such contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor and the Council shall retain complete control of their use.
(g) The Council may also receive funds provided through the Department's Foreign Agricultural Service or from other sources, with the approval of the Secretary, for authorized activities.
(h) The Council shall reimburse the Secretary for all expenses incurred by the Secretary in the implementation, administration, and supervision of the Order, including all referendum costs in connection with the Order.
(i) The Council may not expend for administration, maintenance, and functioning of the Council in any fiscal year an amount that exceeds 15 percent of the assessments and other income received by the Council for that fiscal year. Reimbursements to the Secretary required under paragraph (h) are excluded from this limitation on spending.
(j) The Council may establish an operating monetary reserve and may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods excess funds in any reserve so established:
Provided
that the funds in the reserve do not exceed one fiscal period's budget. Subject to approval by the Secretary, such reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this part.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.51
Financial statements.
(a) As requested by the Secretary, the Council shall prepare and submit financial statements to the Secretary
on a periodic basis. Each such financial statement shall include, but not be limited to, a balance sheet, income statement, and expense budget. The expense budget shall show expenditures during the time period covered by the report, year-to-date expenditures, and the unexpended budget.
(b) Each financial statement shall be submitted to the Secretary within 30 days after the end of the time period to which it applies.
(c) The Council shall submit annually to the Secretary an annual financial statement within 90 days after the end of the fiscal year to which it applies.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.52
Assessments.
(a) The funds to cover the Council's expenses shall be paid from assessments on producers and importers, donations from any person not subject to assessments under this Order, and other funds available to the Board including those collected pursuant to § 1218.56 and subject to the limitations contained therein.
(b) The collection of assessments on domestic blueberries will be the responsibility of the first handler receiving the blueberries. In the case of the producer acting as its own first handler, the producer will be required to collect and remit its individual assessments.
(c) Such assessments shall be levied at a rate of $18 per ton (or $0.01984 per kg) on all blueberries. The assessment rate will be reviewed, and may be modified with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) Each importer of fresh and processed blueberries shall pay an assessment to the Council on blueberries imported for marketing in the United States, through the U.S. Customs Service.
(1) The assessment rate for imported fresh and processed blueberries shall be the same or equivalent to the rate for fresh blueberries produced in the United States.
(2) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported fresh and frozen blueberries that are identified by the numbers 0810.40.0029 and 0811.90.2028, respectively, in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States or any other numbers used to identify fresh and frozen blueberries. Assessments on other types of imported processed blueberries, such as dried blueberries, puree, and juice, may be added at the recommendation of the Council with the approval of the Secretary.
(3) The assessments due on imported fresh and processed blueberries shall be paid when they enter or are withdrawn for consumption in the United States.
(e) All assessment payments and reports will be submitted to the office of the Council. All final payments for a crop year are to be received no later than November 30 of that year. A late payment charge shall be imposed on any handler who fails to remit to the Council, the total amount for which any such handler is liable on or before the due date established by the Council. In addition to the late payment charge, an interest charge shall be imposed on the outstanding amount for which the handler is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed in regulations issued by the Secretary.
(f) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under federal debt collection procedures.
(g) The Council may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with the approval of the Secretary.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001; 78 FR 59779, Sept. 30, 2013]
§ 1218.53
Exemption procedures.
(a) Any producer who produces less than 2,000 pounds of blueberries annually shall be exempt from the payment of assessments. Such producer may apply to the Council—on a form provided by the Council—for a certificate of exemption. Such producer shall certify that the producer's production of blueberries shall be less than 2,000 pounds for the fiscal year for which the exemption is claimed.
(b) Any importer who imports less than 2,000 pounds of fresh and frozen blueberries annually shall be exempt from the payment of assessments. Such importer may apply to the Council—on a form provided by the Council—for a
certificate of exemption. Such importer shall certify that the importer's importation of fresh and frozen blueberries shall not exceed 2,000 pounds for the fiscal year for which the exemption is claimed.
(c) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(d) To apply for exemption under this section, a producer shall submit a request to the Council on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(e) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Council, with the approval of the Secretary.
(f) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Council will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Council will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(g) An importer who imports products that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments on those products. Such importer may submit documentation to the Council and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” blueberries on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of producers in paragraph (e) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Council will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer. If Customs and Border Protection (Customs) collects the assessment on exempt product that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Council must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Council for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Council that the importer paid
the assessment on exempt organic product. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(h) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
(i) On receipt of an application, the Council shall determine whether an exemption may be granted. The Council then will issue, if deemed appropriate, a certificate of exemption to each person who is eligible to receive one. Each producer who is exempt from assessment must provide an exemption number to the first handler in order to be exempt from the collection of an assessment on blueberries. First handlers and importers, except as otherwise authorized by the Council, shall maintain records showing the exemptee's name and address along with the exemption number assigned by the Council.
(j) Importers who are exempt from payment of assessments shall be eligible for reimbursement of assessments collected by Customs and may apply to the Council for a reimbursement of such assessments paid. No interest will be paid on assessments collected by Customs. Requests for reimbursement shall be submitted to the Council within 90 days of the last day of the year the blueberries were actually imported.
(k) Any person who desires an exemption from assessments for a subsequent fiscal year shall reapply to the Council, on a form provided by the Council, for a certificate of exemption.
(l) The Council may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Council reports on the disposition of exempt blueberries and, in the case of importers, proof of payment of assessments.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001; 70 FR 2758, Jan. 14, 2005; 80 FR 82030, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1218.54
Programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Council shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan, or project authorized under this subpart. Such programs, plans, or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate programs for promotion, research, and information, including producer and consumer information, with respect to fresh and processed blueberries; and
(2) The establishment and conduct of research with respect to the use, nutritional value, sale, distribution, and marketing of fresh and processed blueberries, and the creation of new products thereof, to the end that the marketing and use of blueberries may be encouraged, expanded, improved, or made more acceptable and to advance the image, desirability, or quality of fresh and processed blueberries.
(b) No program, plan, or project shall be implemented prior to its approval by the Secretary. Once a program, plan, or project is so approved, the Council shall take appropriate steps to implement it.
(c) Each program, plan, or project implemented under this subpart shall be reviewed or evaluated periodically by the Council to ensure that it contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, or information. If it is found by the Council that any such program, plan, or project does not contribute to an effective program of promotion, research, or information, then the Council shall terminate such program, plan, or project.
(d) No program, plan, or project including advertising shall be false or misleading or disparaging another agricultural commodity. Blueberries of all origins shall be treated equally.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.55
Independent evaluation.
The Council shall, not less often than every five years, authorize and fund, from funds otherwise available to the Council, an independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Order and other programs conducted by the Council pursuant to the Act. The Council shall submit to the Secretary, and make available to the public, the results of
each periodic independent evaluation conducted under this paragraph.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.56
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations.
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, and product formulations developed through the use of funds received by the Council under this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government as represented by the Council and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sales, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Council; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Council; and may be licensed subject to approval by the Secretary. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1218.73 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1218.60
Reports.
(a) Each first handler subject to this subpart may be required to provide to the Council periodically such information as may be required by the Council, with the approval of the Secretary, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Number of pounds handled;
(2) Number of pounds on which an assessment was collected;
(3) Name and address of person from whom the first handler has collected the assessments on each pound handled; and
(4) Date collection was made on each pound handled. All reports are due to the Council 30 days after the end of the crop year.
(b) Each producer and importer subject to this subpart may be required to provide to the Council periodically such information as may be required by the Council, with the approval of the Secretary, which may include but not be limited to the following:
(1) Number of pounds produced;
(2) Number of pounds on which an assessment was paid;
(3) Name and address of the producer;
(4) Date collection was made on each pound produced. All reports are due to the Council 30 days after the end of the crop year.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.61
Books and records.
Each first handler, producer, and importer subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Secretary such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart and the regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall be retained for at least 2 years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
§ 1218.62
Confidential treatment.
All information obtained from books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart, and the regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential by all persons, including all employees and former employees of the Council, all officers and employees and former officers and employees of contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Such information shall not be available to Council members, producers, importers, exporters, or first handlers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed by them, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or on the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit:
(a) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the
number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected therefrom, which statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; and
(b) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]

# Miscellaneous
§ 1218.70
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, or projects, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Council shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.71
Referenda.
(a)
Initial referendum.
The Order shall not become effective unless:
(1) The Secretary determines that the Order is consistent with and will effectuate the purposes of the Act; and
(2) The Order is approved by a majority of producers and importers voting for approval who also represent a majority of the volume of blueberries represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of blueberries.
(b)
Subsequent referenda.
Every five years, the Secretary shall hold a referendum to determine whether blueberry producers and importers favor the continuation of the Order. The Order shall continue if it is favored by a majority of producers and importers voting for approval who also represent a majority of the volume of blueberries represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of blueberries. The Secretary will also conduct a referendum if 10 percent or more of all eligible blueberry producers and importers request the Secretary to hold a referendum. In addition, the Secretary may hold a referendum at any time.
§ 1218.72
Suspension and termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof if the Secretary finds that the subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that this subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Act.
(b) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the marketing year whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is approved or favored by a majority of producers and importers voting for approval who also represent a majority of the volume of blueberries represented in the referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of blueberries.
(c) If, as a result of a referendum the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Not later than 180 days after making the determination, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, collection of assessments under this subpart; and
(2) As soon as practical, suspend or terminate, as the case may be, activities under this subpart in an orderly manner.
§ 1218.73
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Council shall recommend not more than three of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Council. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property then in the possession or under control of the Council, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered, or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Council under any contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to the Order;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Council and the trustees, to such person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon request of the Secretary execute such assignments or other instruments necessary and appropriate to vest in such persons title and right to all funds, property and claims vested in the Council or the trustees pursuant to the Order.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Council and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be disposed of, to the extent practical, to the blueberry producer organizations in the interest of continuing blueberry promotion, research, and information programs.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.74
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any regulation issued pursuant thereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary or of any other persons, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1218.75
Personal liability.
No member, alternate member, or employee of the Council shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of commission or omission, as such member, alternate, or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.76
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1218.77
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed from time to time by the Council or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
[65 FR 43963, July 17, 2000, as amended at 66 FR 37119, July 17, 2001]
§ 1218.78
OMB control numbers.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, is OMB control number 0581-0093, except for the Council nominee background statement form which is assigned OMB control number 0505-001.

# Subpart B—Procedure for the Conduct of Referenda in Connection with the Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order
§ 1218.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible blueberry producers and importers favor the issuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1218.101
Definitions.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Blueberries
means cultivated blueberries grown in or imported into the United States of the genus Vaccinium
Corymbosum
and
Ashei,
including the northern highbush, southern highbush, rabbit eye varieties, and any hybrid, and excluding the lowbush (native) blueberry Vaccinium
Angustifolium.
(c)
Eligible importer
means any person who imported 2,000 pounds or more of fresh or processed blueberries, that are identified by the numbers 0810.40.0028 and 0811.90.2028, respectively, in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States or any other numbers used to identify fresh and frozen blueberries. Importation occurs when commodities originating outside the United States are entered or withdrawn from the U.S. Customs Service for consumption in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-produced blueberries immediately upon release by the U.S. Customs Service, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of blueberries from the U.S. Customs Service when such blueberries are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States.
(d)
Eligible producer
means any person who produced 2,000 pounds or more of blueberries in the United States during the representative period who:
(1) Owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of, the crop;
(2) Rents blueberry production facilities and equipment resulting in the ownership of all or a portion of the blueberries produced;
(3) Owns blueberry production facilities and equipment but does not manage them and, as compensation, obtains the ownership of a portion of the blueberries produced; or
(4) Is a party in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce blueberries who share the risk of loss and receive a share of the blueberries produced. No other acquisition of legal title to blueberries shall be deemed to result in persons becoming eligible producers.
(e)
Order
means the Blueberry Promotion, Research, and Information Order.
(f)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a blueberry farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties.
(g)
Processed blueberries
means blueberries which have been frozen, dried, pureed, or made into juice.
(h)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Secretary to conduct the referendum.
(i)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary.
(j)
United States
means collectively the 50 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the territories and possessions of the United States.
§ 1218.102
Voting.
(a) Each person who is an eligible producer or an eligible importer, as defined in this subpart, at the time of the referendum and during the representative period, shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. However, each producer in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce blueberries, in which more than one of the parties is a producer, shall be entitled to cast one ballot in the referendum covering only such producer's share of the ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate producer or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee or an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) All ballots are to be cast by mail or by facsimile, as instructed by the Secretary.
§ 1218.103
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner herein provided, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast.
(b) Provide ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter.
(c) Give reasonable public notice of the referendum:
(1) By utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio; and
(2) By such other means as the agent may deem advisable.
(d) Mail to eligible producers and importers whose names and addresses are known to the referendum agent, the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Order. No person who claims to be eligible to vote shall be refused a ballot.
(e) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process.
(f) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(g) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1218.104
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions hereunder. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1218.105
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1218.106
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1218.107
Confidential information.
The ballots and other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the vote of any person covered under the Act and the voting list shall be held confidential and shall not be disclosed.

# Subpart C—Provisions for Implementing the Blueberry Promotion, Research and Information Order

# Source:
80 FR 53262, Sept. 3, 2015, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1218.520
Late payment and interest charges for past due assessments.
(a) A late payment charge will be imposed on any handler who fails to make timely remittance to the Council of the total assessments for which they are liable. The late payment will be imposed on any assessments not received within 30 calendar days of the date when assessments are due. This one-time late payment charge will be 5 percent of the assessments due before interest charges have accrued.
(b) In addition to the late payment charge, 1 percent per month interest on the outstanding balance, including any late payment and accrued interest, will be added to any accounts for which payment has not been received within 30 calendar days of the date when assessments are due. Interest will continue to accrue monthly until the outstanding balance is paid to the Council.
Pt. 1219

# PART 1219—HASS AVOCADO PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1219.1
Act.
1219.2
Association.
1219.3
Conflict of interest.
1219.4
Consumer information.
1219.5
Crop year.
1219.6
Customs.
1219.7
Department.
1219.8
Exempt handler.
1219.9
First handler.
1219.10
Fiscal period or marketing year.
1219.11
Handle.
1219.12
Hass avocado.
1219.13
Hass Avocado Board.
1219.14
Importer.
1219.15
Industry information.
1219.16
Marketing.
1219.17
Order.
1219.18
Part and subpart.
1219.19
Person.
1219.20
Producer.
1219.21
Programs, plans, and projects.
1219.22
Promotion.
1219.23
Research.
1219.24
Secretary.
1219.25
State.
1219.26
United States.

# The Hass Avocado Board
1219.30
Establishment and membership.
1219.31
Initial nomination and appointment of producer members and alternates.
1219.32
Initial nomination and appointment of importer members and alternates.
1219.33
Subsequent nomination and appointment of Board members and alternates.
1219.34
Failure to nominate.
1219.35
Term of office.
1219.36
Vacancies.
1219.37
Alternate members.
1219.38
Powers and duties.
1219.39
Board procedure.
1219.40
Committee procedure.
1219.41
Compensation and expenses.
1219.42
Prohibited activities.

# Budgets, Expenses, and Assessments
1219.50
Budgets, programs, plans, and projects.
1219.51
Contracts and agreements.
1219.52
Control of administrative costs.
1219.53
Budget and expenses.
1219.54
Assessments.
1219.55
Exemption from assessment.
1219.56
Adjustment of accounts.
1219.57
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, publications, and product formulations.
1219.58
Importer associations.

# Books, Records, and Reports
1219.60
Reports.
1219.61
Books and records.
1219.62
Books and records of the Board.
1219.63
Confidential treatment.
1219.64
List of importers.
1219.65
List of producers.

# Miscellaneous
1219.70
Right of the Secretary.
1219.71
Suspension or termination.
1210.72
Proceedings after termination.
1219.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
1219.74
Personal liability.
1219.75
Separability.
1219.76
Amendments.
1219.77
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
1219.100
General.
1219.101
Definitions.
1219.102
Registration.
1219.103
Voting.
1219.104
Instructions.
1219.105
Subagents.
1219.106
Ballots.
1219.107
Referendum report.
1219.108
Confidential information.
1219.109
OMB control number.

# Subpart C—Rules and Regulations
1219.200
Terms defined.
1219.201
Definitions.
1219.202
Exemption for organic Hass avocados.
1219.203
Reapportionment of membership.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7801-7813 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Source:
67 FR 7264, Feb. 19, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Order

# Source:
67 FR 56897, Sept. 6, 2002, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1219.1
Act.
Act
means the Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Act of 2000, Public Law 106-387, 7 U.S.C. 7801-7813, and any amendments thereto.
§ 1219.2
Association.
Association
means an avocado organization established by State statute in a State with the majority of Hass avocado production in the United States.
§ 1219.3
Conflict of interest.
Conflict of interest
means a situation in which a Board member or employee has a direct or indirect financial interest in a person who performs a service for, or enters into a contract with, the Board for anything of economic value.
§ 1219.4
Consumer information.
Consumer information
means any action or program that disseminates or otherwise provides information to consumers and other persons, on the use, nutritional attributes, and other information that will assist consumers and other persons in the United States in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of Hass avocados.
§ 1219.5
Crop year.
Crop year
means the period from November 1 of one year through October 31 of the following year, or such other one-year period recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1219.6
Customs.
Customs
means the United States Customs Service.
§ 1219.7
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1219.8
Exempt handler.
Exempt handler
means a person who would otherwise be considered a first handler, except that all Hass avocados purchased by the person have already been subject to assessments under the Order. A person who handles both Hass avocados that have already been subject to assessments under the Order and Hass avocados that have not been subject to assessments under the Order is a first handler.
§ 1219.9
First handler.
First handler
means a person operating in the Hass avocado marketing system that sells domestic or imported Hass avocados for consumption in the United States and who is responsible for remitting assessments to the Board. For the purposes of the Order, the term means the first person who handles Hass avocados for sale (except a common or contract carrier of Hass avocados owned by another person), including a producer who handles Hass avocados for sale of the producer's own production.
§ 1219.10
Fiscal period or marketing year.
Fiscal period
or
marketing year
means the period beginning on November 1 of any year and extending through the last day of October of the following year, or such other consecutive 12-month period as shall be recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary.
§ 1219.11
Handle.
Handle
means to pack, process, transport, purchase, or in any other way to place or cause Hass avocados to which one has title or possession to be placed in the current of commerce. Such term shall not include the transportation or
delivery of Hass avocados by the producer thereof to a handler.
§ 1219.12
Hass avocado.
Hass avocado
means the fruit grown in or imported into the United States of the species
Persea americana
Mill., or other type of avocados that, in the determination of the Board, with approval of the Secretary, is so similar to the Hass variety avocado as to be indistinguishable to consumers in fresh form. The term shall include all fruit in fresh, frozen, or any other processed form.
§ 1219.13
Hass Avocado Board.
Hass Avocado Board
or
the Board
means the administrative body established pursuant to § 1219.40.
§ 1219.14
Importer.
Importer
means any person who imports Hass avocados into the United States. The term includes a person who holds title to Hass avocados produced outside of the United States immediately upon release by Customs, as well as any person who acts on behalf of others, as an agent, broker, or consignee, to secure the release of Hass avocados from Customs and the introduction of the released Hass avocados into the current of commerce and who is listed in the import records of Customs as the importer of record for such Hass avocados.
§ 1219.15
Industry information.
Industry information
means information, programs, and activities that are designed to increase efficiency in processing, enhance the development of new markets and marketing strategies, increase marketing efficiency, and enhance the image of Hass avocados and the Hass avocado industry in the United States.
§ 1219.16
Marketing.
Marketing
means any activity related to the sale or other disposition of Hass avocados in any channel of commerce.
§ 1219.17
Order.
Order
means this subpart.
§ 1219.18
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Order and all rules, regulations, and supplemental orders issued pursuant to the Act and the Order. The Order itself shall be a
subpart
of such part.
§ 1219.19
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, firm, partnership, corporation, joint stock company, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1219.20
Producer.
Producer
means any person who is engaged in the business of producing Hass avocados in the United States for commercial use, who owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss, of such Hass avocados.
§ 1219.21
Programs, plans, and projects.
Programs, plans, and projects
means those research, promotion, and information programs, plans, studies, or projects established pursuant to § 1219.50.
§ 1219.22
Promotion.
Promotion
means any action to advance the image, desirability, or marketability of Hass avocados in the United States, including paid advertising, sales promotion, and publicity. Promotion activities are designed to improve the competitive position and stimulate sales of Hass avocados in the domestic marketplace.
§ 1219.23
Research.
Research
means any type of test, study, or analysis relating to market research, market development, and market efforts, or relating to the use, quality, or nutritional value of Hass avocados, other related food science research, or research designed to advance the knowledge, image, desirability, usage, or marketability of Hass avocados in the United States.
§ 1219.24
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any
other officer or employee of the Department to whom authority has heretofore been delegated, or to whom authority may hereafter be delegated, to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1219.25
State.
State
means any of the several 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
§ 1219.26
United States.
United States
means collectively the several 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.

# The Hass Avocado Board
§ 1219.30
Establishment and membership.
(a) A Hass Avocado Board, called the Board elsewhere in this part, is hereby established to administer the terms and provisions of this subpart. The Board shall consist of 12 members nominated by the Hass avocado industry and appointed by the Secretary as provided in this subpart, each of whom shall have an alternate nominated and appointed in the same manner as members of the Board are nominated and appointed. Board members and alternates shall be domiciled in the United States.
(b) The membership of the Board shall be divided as follows:
(1) Seven members and their alternates shall be producers of Hass avocados that are subject to assessments under this subpart;
(2) Two members and their alternates shall be importers of Hass avocados that are subject to assessments under this subpart; and
(3) Three members shall be producers of Hass avocados that are subject to assessments under this subpart or importers of Hass avocados that are subject to assessments under this subpart. Producers and importers shall be allocated to these positions so as to assure as nearly as possible that the composition of the 12-member Board reflects the proportion of domestic production and imports supplying the United States market. Such proportion shall be based on the Secretary's determination of the average volume of domestic production and the average volume of imports into the United States market over the previous three years, based on all information available to the Secretary.
(c) Three years after the assessment of funds commences pursuant to this subpart, and at the end of each three-year period thereafter, the Board shall review the production of domestic Hass avocados in the United States and the volume of imported Hass avocados on the basis of the amount of assessments collected from producers and importers over the immediately preceding three-year period and, if warranted, recommend to the Secretary the reapportionment of the positions authorized in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to reflect changes in the proportion of domestic Hass avocado production to the volume of imported Hass avocados, to the extent possible in the Act. Any adjustment under this paragraph shall be subject to the review and approval of the Secretary.
(d) For purposes of this section,
importer
means a person who is involved in, as a substantial activity, the importation of Hass avocados for sale or marketing in the United States (either directly or as an agent, broker, or consignee of any person that produces Hass avocados outside of the United States for sale in the United States), who is subject to assessments under the Order, and who is listed by Customs as the importer of record for such Hass avocados. A substantial activity means that the volume of a person's Hass avocado imports must exceed the volume of the person's production or handling of domestic Hass avocados.
§ 1219.31
Initial nomination and appointment of producer members and alternates.
(a) The Association will nominate producer members and alternates to serve on the Board in accordance with the following procedures.
(1) The Association shall establish a list of producers in the United States who are eligible to serve on the Board and notify all producers that they may nominate persons to serve as members and alternates on the Board.
(2) After names are received from the producers, the Association shall prepare a ballot with the names of all persons nominated and mail it to all producers to allow them the opportunity to vote for the persons who will represent their interests on the Board.
(3) After tabulating the vote, the Association shall announce the results and submit two names for each producer member and two names for each alternate producer member to the Secretary from the persons receiving the highest number of votes.
(b) The Secretary shall select the producer members and alternates of the Board from the names submitted by the Association. Following the selection of the producer members, the Secretary shall select the alternate producer members. In selecting the alternate members, the Secretary shall consider the names submitted by the Association for each alternate member position along with the individuals whose names were submitted by the Association for each Board member position but were not selected for that position.
§ 1219.32
Initial nomination and appointment of importer members and alternates.
(a) The Department will conduct the nomination process for the initial importer members and alternates on the Board in accordance with the following procedures.
(1) The Department shall notify all known importers and importer organizations that they may nominate persons to serve as importer members and alternates on the Board.
(2) After names are received from the importers and importer organizations, the Department shall prepare a ballot with the names of all persons nominated and mail it to all known importers to allow them the opportunity to vote for the persons who will represent their interests on the Board.
(3) After tabulating the vote, the Department shall announce the results and submit two names for each importer member and two names for each alternate importer member to the Secretary from the persons receiving the highest number of votes.
(b) The Secretary shall select the importer members and alternates of the Board from the nominees elected by importers. Following the selection of the importer members, the Secretary shall select the alternate importer members. In selecting the alternate members, the Secretary shall consider the names for each alternate member position along with the individuals who were elected by importers for each Board member position but were not selected for that position.
§ 1219.33
Subsequent nomination and appointment of Board members and alternates.
The Board's staff shall announce at least 150 days in advance of the expiration of members' and alternates' terms that such terms are expiring and shall solicit nominations in accordance with procedures recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary. Nominations for such positions should be submitted to the Secretary no less than 90 days prior to the expiration of the terms.
§ 1219.34
Failure to nominate.
In any case in which producers or importers fail to nominate individuals for appointment to the Board, the Secretary may appoint individuals to fill vacancies from the appropriate segments of the industry.
§ 1219.35
Term of office.
The members and alternate members of the Board shall serve for terms of three years, except the members of the initial Board shall serve terms as follows: Four members and four alternates shall serve for two-year terms; four members and four alternates shall serve for three-year terms; and four members and four alternates shall
serve for four-year terms. No member shall serve more than two consecutive three-year terms. Members and alternates serving initial two-year or four-year terms may serve for one additional three-year term. A Board member may serve as an alternate during the years the member is ineligible for a member position. Each term of office will end on October 31, with new terms of office beginning on November 1.
§ 1219.36
Vacancies.
(a) In the event any member or alternate of the Board ceases to be a member of the category of members from which the member was appointed to the Board, such member or alternate shall be disqualified from serving on the Board and the position shall automatically become vacant.
(b) If a member of the Board consistently refuses to perform the duties of a member of the Board, or if a member of the Board engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Board may recommend to the Secretary that the member be removed from office. If the Secretary finds that the recommendation of the Board shows adequate cause, the member shall be removed from office.
(c) Should any Board member position become vacant in the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification, the alternate of that member shall automatically assume the position of said member. The alternate shall serve until the end of the member's normal term. If there is no alternate member to assume the position of member, the successor member and alternate shall be nominated and selected in the manner specified in §§ 1219.31, 1219.32, or 1219.33.
(d) Should any alternate member become vacant in the event of death, removal, resignation, or disqualification, the Board may nominate persons to serve for the unexpired term of such alternate member. The nomination shall be conducted at a regularly scheduled Board meeting as soon as practicable after the vacancy occurs. The Board may solicit the names of nominees from producers and importers prior to the meeting and from the floor of the meeting. All nominees must meet the qualifications for nomination. The Board shall submit two nominees for each vacancy to the Secretary. A vacancy will not be required to be filled if the unexpired term is less than six months.
§ 1219.37
Alternate members.
An alternate member of the Board, during the absence of the member for whom the person is the alternate, shall act in the place and stead of such member and perform such duties as assigned. In the event of the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member, the alternate for that member shall automatically assume the position of said member. In the event that both a member of the Board and the alternate are unable to attend a meeting, the Board may not designate any other alternate to serve in such member's or alternate's place and stead for the meeting.
§ 1219.38
Powers and duties.
The Board shall have the following powers and duties in addition to the responsibilities and authorities specified in other sections of this subpart:
(a) To administer the Order in accordance with its terms and conditions and to collect assessments;
(b) To develop and recommend to the Secretary for approval such bylaws as may be necessary for the functioning of the Board and such rules as may be necessary to administer the Order, including activities authorized to be carried out under the Order;
(c) To meet, organize, and select from among the members of the Board a chairperson, other officers, committees, and subcommittees, at the start of each fiscal period, and at such other times as the Board determines to be appropriate;
(d) To recommend to the Secretary rules and regulations to effectuate the terms and conditions of this subpart;
(e) To employ such persons, other than the members, as the Board considers necessary to assist the Board in carrying out its duties and to determine the compensation and specify the duties of such persons;
(f) To appoint from its members an executive committee and to delegate to the committee authority to administer
the terms and provisions of this subpart under the direction of the Board and within the policies determined by the Board and approved by the Secretary;
(g) To develop budgets for the implementation of this subpart and submit the budgets to the Secretary for approval and to propose and develop (or receive and evaluate), approve, and submit to the Secretary for approval programs, plans, and projects for Hass avocado promotion, industry information, consumer information, or related research;
(h) To develop and implement after the approval by the Secretary programs, plans, and projects for Hass avocado promotion, industry information, consumer information, or related research, to contract or enter into agreements with appropriate persons to implement the programs, plans, and projects, and to pay the costs of the implementation of contracts and agreements with funds collected under this subpart.
(i) To maintain such records and books and prepare and submit such reports and records from time to time to the Secretary as the Secretary may prescribe; to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it; and to keep records that accurately reflect the actions and transactions of the Board;
(j) To work to achieve an effective, continuous, and coordinated program of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information designed to strengthen the Hass avocado industry's position in the domestic marketplace; to maintain and expand existing domestic markets and uses for Hass avocados; to create new domestic markets; and to carry out programs, plans, and projects designed to provide maximum benefits to the Hass avocado industry;
(k) To evaluate on-going and completed programs, plans, and projects for Hass avocado promotion, industry information, consumer information, or related research and to comply with the independent evaluation provisions of the Federal Agricultural Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 [7 U.S.C. 7401
et seq.
];
(l) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the Order;
(m) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this Order;
(n) To invest, pending disbursement under a program, plan, or project, funds collected through assessments authorized under this Act only in:
(1) Obligations of the United States or any agency of the United States;
(2) General obligations of any State or any political subdivision of a State;
(3) Any interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit of a bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System; or
(4) Obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States, except that income from any such invested funds may be used only for a purpose for which the invested funds may be used;
(o) To borrow funds necessary for the startup expenses of the Order;
(p) To cause the books of the Board to be audited by a qualified independent auditor at the end of each fiscal period and to submit a report of the audit directly to the Secretary;
(q) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings and teleconferences of the Board and its committees as is given to members in order that the Secretary's representative(s) may attend or participate in the meetings;
(r) To act as intermediary between the Secretary and any producer, first handler, or importer;
(s) To periodically prepare and make public reports of its activities carried out, and at least once each fiscal period, to make public an accounting of funds received and expended; and
(t) To notify Hass avocado producers, first handlers, and importers of all Board meetings through news releases or other means.
§ 1219.39
Board procedure.
(a) At a properly convened meeting of the Board, seven (7) members, including alternates acting in place of members of the Board, shall constitute a quorum:
Provided,
that such alternates shall serve only when the member is absent from a meeting. Any action of the Board shall require the concurring votes of a majority of those present
and voting. At assembled meetings, all votes shall be cast in person.
(b) In lieu of voting at a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the members by mail, telephone, electronic mail, facsimile, or other means of communication. Such alternative means for the Board taking action may be undertaken for various reasons. These reasons include the need to address matters of an emergency nature when there is not enough time to call an assembled meeting of the Board. All telephone votes shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In that event, all members must be notified and provided an opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Board. All votes shall be recorded in the Board minutes.
(c) All Board members and alternates and the Secretary will be notified at least 10 days in advance of all Board meetings, except the chairperson of the Board can waive the 10-day requirement in matters of an emergency nature.
(d) Each member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board, and the motion will carry if supported by one vote more than 50 percent of the total votes represented by the Board members present.
(e) There shall be no voting by proxy.
(f) The chairperson shall be a voting member of the Board.
§ 1219.40
Committee procedure.
(a) The Board may establish committees as deemed necessary to carry out the purposes and objectives of the Order.
(b) The chairperson of the Board shall appoint all committee chairpersons and shall appoint all members of each committee after consultation with the committee chairperson affected. Appointments are subject to approval by the Board and may be changed from time to time as determined by the chairperson of the Board with the concurrence of the Board.
(c) The chairperson of the Board may appoint committee members from among the Board members and alternates and from the industry in general.
(d) The rules and procedures under which committees conduct their activities shall be prescribed in the Board's bylaws.
(e) Committee members and the Secretary will be notified at least 10 days in advance of all committee meetings.
(f) It will be considered a quorum at a committee meeting when at least one more than half of those assigned to the committee are present.
(g) There shall be no voting by proxy on committees.
(h) The chairperson of the Board shall be an ex-officio member of all committees.
§ 1219.41
Compensation and expenses.
(a) The members and alternates of the Board and committee members shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses, as approved by the Board, incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
(b) The Board shall have in place sufficient internal controls to prevent reimbursements or expenditures for unreasonable or otherwise controversial travel and meeting expenses.
§ 1219.42
Prohibited activities.
The Board may not engage in and shall prohibit its employees and agents from engaging in:
(a) Any action that would be a conflict of interest. For the purposes of this subpart, Board members and employees thereof must disclose any relationship with any organization or company that has a contract with the Board or operates a State promotion program. No member may vote on any matter in which the member or member's business entity has a financial interest.
(b) Using funds collected under this subpart for the purpose of influencing legislation or governmental action or policy, by local, national, and foreign governments, except to develop and make recommendations to the Secretary as provided for in this subpart.
(c) In a program, plan, or project conducted under this subpart:
(1) Making any reference to private brand names or making false, misleading, disparaging, or unwarranted claims on behalf of Hass avocados or
(2) Making any false, misleading, or disparaging statements with respect to the attributes or use of any agricultural product. This section shall not preclude the Board from offering its programs, plans, and projects for use by commercial parties under such terms and conditions as the Board may prescribe as approved by the Secretary.
(d) For the purposes of this section, a reference to State of origin or country of origin does not constitute a reference to a private brand name with regard to any funds credited to or disbursed by the Board to the Association or to any importer association established in accordance with § 1219.54.

# Budgets, Expenses, and Assessments
§ 1219.50
Budgets, programs, plans, and projects.
(a) The Board shall submit to the Secretary, on a fiscal period basis, annual budgets of its anticipated expenses and disbursements of the Board in the administration of this subpart, including the projected costs of Hass avocado promotion, industry information, consumer information, and related research programs, plans, and projects. The first budget shall cover such period as may remain before the beginning of the next fiscal period. If such fiscal period is 90 days or less, the first budget shall cover such period, as well as the next fiscal period. Thereafter, the Board shall submit budgets for each succeeding fiscal period not less than 60 days before the beginning of such fiscal period.
(b) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop programs, plans and projects for Hass avocado promotion, industry information, consumer information as well as related research. The Board shall submit to the Secretary for approval any program, plan, or project authorized in this subpart. Such programs, plans or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, implementation, issuance, effectuation, administration, and evaluation of appropriate programs, plans, or projects for advertising, sales promotion, other promotion, and consumer information with respect to Hass avocados directed toward increasing the general demand for Hass avocados in the United States. Funds shall be available as necessary to carry out this section;
(2) The establishment, implementation, issuance, effectuation, administration, and evaluation of appropriate programs, plans, and projects designed to strengthen the position of the Hass avocado industry in the domestic marketplace; to maintain, develop, and expand markets for Hass avocados in the United States; to lead to the development of new marketing strategies; to advance the image and desirability of, increase the efficiency of, and encourage further development of the Hass avocado industry; and to provide for the disbursement of necessary funds for the purposes described in this section;
(3) The establishment, implementation, issuance, effectuation, administration, and evaluation of programs, plans, and projects for marketing development research; research on the sale, distribution, marketing, use, quality, and nutritional value of Hass avocados; and other research with respect to Hass avocado marketing, promotion, industry information, or consumer information, including the creation of new products thereof. Information acquired from such plans and projects shall be disseminated as appropriate. Funds shall be available as necessary to carry out this section; and
(4) The Board to enter into contracts or make agreements for the development and carrying out of research, promotion, and information, and pay for the costs of such contracts or agreements with funds collected pursuant to § 1219.54.
(c) A budget, program, plan, or project for Hass avocados promotion, industry information, consumer information, or related research may not be implemented prior to approval of the budget, program, plan, or project by the Secretary. If the Secretary fails to provide notice to the Board or approval or disapproval of a budget, program, plan, or project within 45 days after receipt, such budget, program, plan, or project shall be deemed approved by
the Secretary and may be implemented by the Board.
(d) The Board, from time to time, may seek advice and consult with experts from the production, import, wholesale, and retail segments of the Hass avocado industry to assist in the development of promotion, industry information, consumer information, and related research programs, plans, and projects. For these purposes, the Board may appoint special committees composed of persons other than Board members. A committee so appointed shall consult directly with the Board.
(e) Programs must be conducted throughout the year to reflect the periods when imported and domestic Hass avocados are in the U.S. marketplace.
(f) The Board shall consult with both the Association and importer associations on programs, plans, and projects for generic promotions.
§ 1219.51
Contracts and agreements.
(a) The Board shall enter into a contract or an agreement with the Association for the implementation of programs, plans, or projects for promotion, industry information, consumer information, or related research with respect to Hass avocados and for the payment of the cost of the contract or agreement with funds received by the Board under this subpart. The Board may disburse such funds as necessary for these purposes after such programs, plans, or projects have been submitted to and approved by the Secretary.
(b) Any contract or agreement entered into shall provide that the contracting or agreeing party shall develop and submit to the Board a program, plan or project, together with a budget that includes the estimated costs to be incurred for the program, plan or project, and such program, plan or project shall become effective on the approval of the Secretary. For such contract or agreement, the contracting or agreeing party shall:
(1) Keep accurate records of all transactions of the party;
(2) Account for funds received and expended;
(3) Make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted; and
(4) Make such other reports as the Board or the Secretary shall require.
(c) The Secretary may audit the records of the contracting or agreeing party periodically.
(d) Contractors and subcontractors are subject to the provisions of § 1219.42.
(e) The Board may enter into contracts or agreements for administrative services, including contracts for employment, as may be required to conduct its business. To the extent appropriate to the contract involved, contracts or agreements entered into by the Board under the authority of this section shall conform to the provisions described in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1219.52
Control of administrative costs.
(a) As soon as practicable after September 9, 2002, and after consultation with the Secretary and other appropriate persons, the Board shall implement a system of cost controls based on normally accepted business practices to:
(1) Ensure that the costs incurred by the Board in administering this part in any fiscal period shall not exceed 10 percent of the projected level of assessments and other income received by the Board for generic promotion and research programs for that fiscal period; and
(2) Cover the minimum administrative activities and personnel needed to properly administer and enforce this subpart, and conduct, supervise, and evaluate programs, plans, and projects under this subpart.
(b) Reimbursements to the Secretary required under § 1219.53(b) are excluded from the limitation on spending.
(c) To the extent possible, the Board shall use the resources, staffs, and facilities of existing avocado organizations as provided in § 1219.54(a).
§ 1219.53
Budget and expenses.
(a) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses, including provision for a reasonable reserve for operating contingencies, as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning and to enable it to exercise
its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. Such expenses shall be paid from funds received by the Board, including assessments, contributions from any person not subject to assessments under this subpart, and other funds available to the Board.
(b) The Board shall reimburse the Department:
(1) For expenses not to exceed $25,000 incurred by the Secretary in connection with any referendum conducted under the Act;
(2) For administrative costs incurred by the Secretary for supervisory work of up to two employee years annually after the Order or amendment to the Order has been issued and made effective; and
(3) For costs incurred by the Secretary in implementation of the Order, for enforcement of the Act and the order, for subsequent referenda conducted under the Act, and in defending the Board in litigation arising out of action taken by the Board or otherwise in defense of the Order.
(c) The Board shall establish and maintain the minimum level of annual administrative expenses necessary to efficiently and effectively carry out the programs authorized by the Act. The Board shall include its annual administrative expenses as a separate item in its annual report. The Board shall adhere to its fiduciary responsibilities and ensure that all monies are spent in accordance with the Act and the Order.
(d) With the approval of the Secretary, the Board may borrow money for the payment of administrative expenses, subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board. Any funds borrowed by the Board shall be expended only for startup costs and capital outlays and are limited to the first period of operation of the Board.
(e) The Board may accept voluntary contributions, but these shall only be used to pay expenses incurred in the conduct of programs, plans, and projects. The contributions shall be free from any encumbrance by the donor, and the Board shall retain complete control of their use.
§ 1219.54
Assessments.
(a) Except as provided in § 1219.55, the initial rate of assessment shall be 2.5 cents per pound on fresh Hass avocados produced and handled in the United States and on fresh Hass avocados imported into the United States. An equivalent rate shall be assessed on processed and frozen Hass avocados on which an assessment has not been paid. Such equivalent rate will be assessed on processed or frozen Hass avocados upon the recommendation of the Board with the approval of the Secretary. The rate of assessment may be increased or decreased as recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary. Such an increase or decrease may occur not more than once annually. Any change in the assessment rate shall be announced by the Board at least 30 days prior to going into effect and shall not be subject to a vote in a referendum. The maximum assessment rate authorized is 5 cents per pound. No more than one assessment shall be made on any Hass avocados.
(b)
Domestic assessments.
The collection of assessments on domestic Hass avocados will be the responsibility of the first handler.
(1) In the case of a producer acting as the producer's own first handler, the producer will be required to collect and remit the assessments due to the Board.
(2) Each first handler shall collect from the producer and pay to the Board an assessment of 2.5 cents per pound in accordance with this subpart. Assessments shall be remitted by each first handler to the Board or its agent within 30 days after the end of the month in which the sale or non-sale transfer subject to assessment under this subpart took place.
(3) The first handler shall maintain a separate record of the domestic Hass avocados of each producer whose domestic Hass avocados are handled, including the domestic Hass avocados owned by the handler and domestic Hass avocados that are exported.
(4) Assessment of other types of fresh avocados may be added at the recommendation of the Board with the approval of the Secretary.
(c)
Import assessments.
Each importer of fresh Hass avocados shall pay an assessment to the Board through Customs on fresh Hass avocados imported for marketing in the United States.
(1) The assessment rate for imported fresh Hass avocados shall be the same or equivalent to the rate for fresh Hass avocados produced and handled in the United States.
(2) The import assessment shall be uniformly applied to imported fresh Hass avocados that are identified by the number 0804.40.00.10 in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States or any other numbers to identify fresh Hass avocados. Assessments on other types of imported fresh avocados or on processed Hass avocados, such as prepared, preserved, or frozen Hass avocados or Hass avocado paste, puree, and oil will be added at the recommendation of the Board with the approval of the Secretary.
(3) The assessments due on imported Hass avocados shall be paid when they are released from custody by Customs and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States.
(d) All assessment payments and reports will be submitted to the Board's office. All final payments for a crop year are to be received no later than November 30 of that year, unless the Board determines that assessments due from the first handler shall be paid to the Board at a different time and manner, with approval of the Secretary.
(e) A late payment charge prescribed by the Secretary shall be imposed on any first handler who fails to remit to the Board the total amount for which any such handler is liable on or before the due date. In addition to the late payment charge, an interest charge shall be imposed on the outstanding amount for which the handler is liable. The rate of interest shall be prescribed by the Secretary. The timeliness of a payment to the Board shall be based on the date the payment is actually received by the Board.
(f) Regulations issued by the Secretary may provide for different first handler payment schedules of assessments on domestic Hass avocados, so as to recognize differences in marketing or purchasing practices and procedures.
(g) Persons failing to remit total assessments due in a timely manner may also be subject to actions under federal debt collection procedures.
(h) The Board may authorize other organizations to collect assessments on its behalf with approval of the Secretary.
(i) The collection of assessments shall commence on or after a date established by the Secretary and shall continue until terminated by the Secretary. If the Board is not constituted on the date the first assessments are to be remitted, the Secretary shall have the authority to receive assessments on behalf of the Board and may hold such assessments in an interest-bearing account until the Board is constituted and the funds are transferred to the Board.
(j) To facilitate the payment of assessments under this section, the Board shall publish lists of first handlers required to remit assessments under this subpart and exempt handlers.
(k) The Association shall receive an amount of assessment funds equal to 85 percent of the assessments paid on Hass avocados produced in such State. Such funds shall be remitted to such State organization no later than 30 days after such funds are received by the Board. In addition, such funds and any proceeds from the investment of such funds shall be used by the Association to finance promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information programs, plans, and projects in the United States. However, no such funds shall be used for any administrative expenses incurred by the Association.
(l) An association of Hass avocado importers established pursuant to § 1219.58 shall receive an amount of assessment funds equal to 85 percent of the assessments paid on Hass avocados imported by its members. Such funds shall be remitted to such importer association no later than 30 days after such funds are received by the Board. In addition, such funds and any proceeds from the investment of such funds shall be used by the importer association to finance promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information programs, plans,
and projects in the United States. However, no such funds shall be used for any administrative expenses incurred by the importer association.
(m) In general, assessment funds received by the Board shall be used:
(1) For payment of costs incurred in implementing and administering this subpart;
(2) To provide for a reasonable reserve to be maintained from assessments to be available for contingencies; and
(3) To cover the administrative costs incurred by the Secretary in implementing and administering this Act, as set forth in § 1219.53(b).
(n) The Board may establish an operating monetary reserve which may carry over to subsequent fiscal periods:
Provided that,
the funds in the reserve do not exceed one fiscal period's budget. Subject to approval by the Secretary, reserve funds may be used to defray any expenses authorized under this part.
§ 1219.55
Exemption from assessment.
(a) Any sale of Hass avocados for export from the United States is exempt from assessment.
(b) The Board may require persons receiving an exemption from assessments to provide to the Board reports on the disposition of exempt Hass avocados.
§ 1219.56
Adjustment of accounts.
Whenever the Board or the Secretary determines through an audit of a person's reports, records, books, or accounts or by some other means that additional money is due to the Board, the person shall be notified of the amount due. The person shall then remit any amount due the Board by the next date for remitting assessments. Overpayments shall be credited to the account of the person remitting the overpayment and shall be applied against any amounts due in succeeding months unless the person requests a refund of the overpayment.
§ 1219.57
Patents, copyrights, trademarks, publications, and product formulations.
(a) Any patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, information, publications, and product formulations developed through the use of funds received by the Board under this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government as represented by the Board, and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sale, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, information, publications, or product formulations, inure to the benefit of the Board; shall be considered income subject to the same fiscal, budget, and audit controls as other funds of the Board; and may be licensed subject to approval of the Secretary. Section 1219.72 describes the procedures for termination.
(b) Should patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, publications, or product formulations be developed through the use of funds collected by the Board under this subpart and funds contributed by another organization or person, ownership and related rights to such patents, copyrights, trademarks, inventions, publications, or product formulations shall be determined by agreement between the Board and the party contributing funds towards the development of such patent, copyright, trademark, invention, publication, or product formulation in a manner consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 1219.58
Importer associations.
(a) An association of avocado importers is eligible to receive assessment funds and any proceeds from the investment of such funds only if such importer association is:
(1) Established pursuant to State law that requires detailed State regulation comparable to that applicable to the State organization of domestic avocado producers, as determined by the Secretary; or
(2) Certified by the Secretary as meeting the requirements applicable to the Board as to its operations and obligations, including budgets, programs, plans, projects, audits, conflicts of interest, and reimbursements for administrative costs incurred by the Secretary.
(b) An importer association may represent any importers of Hass avocados
including importers of Hass avocados from a particular foreign country. An importer association may be composed of importers as well as representatives of foreign avocado exporting industries. An importer association should establish it own bylaws and may use existing organizations for the establishment of the association and coordination of the association's promotion and research efforts.
(c) For the purposes of the Order, the information required for certification of the importer associations by the Secretary may include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Evidence of incorporation under any state law with all appropriate legal requirements;
(2) Evidence that the association is composed of importers that are located in any state and subject to assessments under the Order, no matter where the association has been incorporated or in which state the importers reside;
(3) Certification of the association's ability and willingness to further the aims and objectives of the Order;
(4) Evidence of stability and permanency; and
(5) A description of the functions of the association.

# Books, Records, and Reports
§ 1219.60
Reports.
(a) Each first handler of domestic Hass avocados, producer, and importer subject to this subpart shall report to the administrative staff of the Board, at such times and in such manner as the Board may prescribe, such information as may be necessary for the Board to perform its duties.
(b) First handler reports shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
(1) Number of pounds of domestic Hass avocados received during the reporting period;
(2) Number of pounds on which assessments were collected;
(3) Assessments collected during the reporting period;
(4) Name and address of person(s) from whom the first handler collected the assessments on each pound handled;
(5) Date collection was made on each pound handled;
(6) Record of assessments paid, including a statement from the handler that assessments have been paid on all domestic Hass avocados handled during the reporting period; and
(7) Number of pounds exported.
(c) Each importer subject to this subpart may be required to report the following:
(1) Number of pounds of Hass avocados imported during the reporting period;
(2) Number of pounds on which an assessment was paid;
(3) Name and address of the importer;
(4) Date collection was made on each pound imported and to whom payment was made; and
(5) Record of each importation of Hass avocados during such period, giving quantity, variety, date, and port of entry.
§ 1219.61
Books and records.
Each producer, first handler, and importer subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available for inspection by the employees and agents of the Board and the Secretary, such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart, and the regulations issued thereunder, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Books and records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
§ 1219.62
Books and records of the Board.
(a) The Board shall maintain such books and records as the Secretary may require. Such books and records shall be made available upon request by the Secretary for inspection and audit.
(b) The Board shall prepare and submit to the Secretary, from time to time, such reports as the Secretary may require.
(c) The Board shall account for the receipt and disbursement of all the funds entrusted to the Board.
(d) The Board shall cause the books and records of the Board to be audited by an independent auditor at the end of each fiscal period. A report of each
audit shall be submitted to the Secretary.
§ 1219.63
Confidential treatment.
(a) All information obtained from the books, records, or reports under the Act, this subpart, and the regulations issued thereunder shall be kept confidential and shall not be disclosed to the public by any person, including all current and former officers, employees, staff and agents of the Department, the Board, and contracting and subcontracting agencies or agreeing parties having access to such information. Only those persons having a specific need for such information to effectively administer the provisions of this subpart shall have access to such information. Only such information so obtained as the Secretary deems relevant shall be disclosed, and then only in a judicial proceeding or administrative hearing brought at the direction, or upon the request, of the Secretary, or to which the Secretary or any officer of the United States is a party, and involving this subpart. Nothing in this subpart shall be deemed to prohibit:
(1) The issuance of general statements based upon the reports of the number of persons subject to this subpart or statistical data collected from such reports, if such statements do not identify the information furnished by any person; or
(2) The publication, by direction of the Secretary, of the name of any person who has been adjudged to have violated this subpart, together with a statement of the particular provisions of this subpart violated by such person.
(b) Any disclosure of any confidential information by any employee or agent of the Board shall be considered willful misconduct.
(c) No information on how a person voted in a referendum conducted under the Act shall be made public.
§ 1219.64
List of importers.
The administrative staff of the Board shall periodically review the list of importers of Hass avocados to determine whether persons on the list are subject to this subpart.
§ 1219.65
List of producers.
The administrative staff of the Board shall periodically review the list of producers of Hass avocados to determine whether the persons on the list of subject to this subpart. On the request of the Secretary or the Board, the Association shall provide to the Secretary or the administrative staff of the Board the list of producers of Hass avocados.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1219.70
Right of the Secretary.
All fiscal matters, programs, plans, and projects, contracts, rules or regulations, reports, or other substantive actions proposed and prepared by the Board shall be submitted to the Secretary for approval.
§ 1219.71
Suspension or termination.
(a) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this part or subpart or a provision thereof if the Secretary finds that the part or subpart or a provision thereof obstructs or does not tend to effectuate the purposes of the Act, or if the Secretary determines that this part or subpart or a provision thereof is not favored by persons voting in a referendum conducted pursuant to the Order or the Act.
(b) The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this subpart at the end of the marketing year whenever the Secretary determines that its suspension or termination is approved or favored by a majority of the producers and importers voting who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production or importation of Hass avocados.
(c) If, as a result of a referendum, the Secretary determines that this subpart is not approved, the Secretary shall:
(1) Suspend or terminate, as appropriate, the collection of assessments not later than 180 days after making such determination; and
(2) Suspend or terminate, as appropriate, all activities under this subpart in an orderly manner as soon as practicable.
§ 1219.72
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend to the Secretary not more than five of its members to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all of the funds and property owned, in possession of or under control of the Board, including claims for any funds unpaid or property not delivered or any other claim existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The said trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contracts or agreements entered into by it pursuant to the Order;
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements and deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to such person or persons as the Secretary may direct; and
(4) Upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary and appropriate to vest in such persons title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to the Order.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to the Order shall be subject to the same obligations imposed upon the Board and the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be returned to the persons who contributed such funds, or paid assessments, or, if not practicable, shall be turned over to the Secretary to be distributed to authorized Hass avocado producer and importer organizations in the interest of continuing Hass avocado promotion, research, and information programs.
§ 1219.73
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may thereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any such rule or regulation issued thereunder; or
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or of any rule or regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary or of any person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1219.74
Personal liability.
No member, alternate member, employee, or agent of the Board shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly with others, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts, either of Association or omission, as such member, alternate, employee, or agent, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1219.75
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstance is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart, or the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1219.76
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the Board or by any interested persons affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary. Except for changes in the assessment rate, the provisions of the Act applicable to the Order are applicable to any amendment of the Order.
§ 1219.77
OMB control numbers.
The control numbers assigned to the information collection requirements in this part by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35, are OMB control numbers 0581-0197 and 0505-0001.

# Subpart B—Referendum Procedures
§ 1219.100
General.
Referenda to determine whether eligible producers and importers of Hass avocados favor the issuance, amendment, suspension, or termination of the Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Order shall be conducted in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1219.101
Definitions.
(a)
Administrator
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, with power to redelegate, or any officer or employee of the U.S. Department of Agriculture to whom authority has been delegated or may hereafter be delegated to act in the Administrator's stead.
(b)
Eligible importer
means any person who imported Hass avocados that are identified by the number 0804.40.00.10 in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States for at least one year prior to the referendum. Importation occurs when Hass avocados originating outside of the United States are released from custody by the U.S. Customs Service and introduced into the stream of commerce in the United States. Included are persons who hold title to foreign-produced Hass avocados immediately upon release by the U.S. Customs Service, as well as any persons who act on behalf of others, as agents or brokers, to secure the release of Hass avocados from the U.S. Customs Service when such Hass avocados are entered or withdrawn for consumption in the United States.
(c)
Eligible producer
means any person who produced Hass avocados in the United States for at least one year prior to the referendum who:
(1) Owns, or shares the ownership and risk of loss of, the crop;
(2) Rents Hass avocado production facilities and equipment resulting in the ownership of all or a portion of the Hass avocados produced;
(3) Owns Hass avocado production facilities and equipment but does not manage them and, as compensation, obtains the ownership of a portion of the Hass avocados produced; or
(4) Is a party in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce Hass avocados who share the risk of loss and receive a share of the Hass avocados produced. No other acquisition of legal title to Hass avocados shall be deemed to result in persons becoming eligible producers.
(d)
Hass avocados
means the fruit grown in or imported into the United States of the species
Persea americana
Mill. For the purposes of the initial referendum, the term shall include fresh fruit only.
(e)
Order
means the Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Order.
(f)
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity. For the purpose of this definition, the term “partnership” includes, but is not limited to:
(1) A husband and a wife who have title to, or leasehold interest in, a Hass avocado farm as tenants in common, joint tenants, tenants by the entirety, or, under community property laws, as community property; and
(2) So-called “joint ventures” wherein one or more parties to an agreement, informal or otherwise, contributed land and others contributed capital, labor, management, or other services, or any variation of such contributions by two or more parties.
(g)
Referendum agent
or
agent
means the individual or individuals designated by the Administrator to conduct the referendum.
(h)
Representative period
means the period designated by the Administrator.
(i)
United States.
The term “United States” means collectively of the several 50 States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of Micronesia.
[67 FR 7264, Feb. 19, 2002; 67 FR 13563, Mar. 25, 2002]
§ 1219.102
Registration.
An eligible producer or importer of Hass avocados, as defined in this subpart, at the time of the referendum and during a representative period, who chooses to vote in any referendum conducted under this subpart, shall register with the referendum agent prior to the voting period, after receiving notice from the referendum agent concerning the referendum under § 1219.104(b). Registration information shall be confidential under § 1219.108.
§ 1219.103
Voting.
(a) Each eligible producer and eligible importer who registers to vote in the referendum shall be entitled to cast only one ballot in the referendum. However, each producer in a landlord-tenant relationship or a divided ownership arrangement involving totally independent entities cooperating only to produce Hass avocados, in which more than one of the parties is a producer, shall be entitled to cast one ballot in the referendum covering only such producer's share of the ownership.
(b) Proxy voting is not authorized, but an officer or employee of an eligible corporate producer or importer, or an administrator, executor, or trustee or an eligible entity may cast a ballot on behalf of such entity. Any individual so voting in a referendum shall certify that such individual is an officer or employee of the eligible entity, or an administrator, executive, or trustee of an eligible entity and that such individual has the authority to take such action. Upon request of the referendum agent, the individual shall submit adequate evidence of such authority.
(c) All ballots are to be cast by mail or fax, as instructed by the referendum agent.
§ 1219.104
Instructions.
The referendum agent shall conduct the referendum, in the manner herein provided, under the supervision of the Administrator. The Administrator may prescribe additional instructions, not inconsistent with the provisions hereof, to govern the procedure to be followed by the referendum agent. Such agent shall:
(a) Determine the period during which ballots may be cast (voting period).
(b) Notify producers and importers of the voting period for the referendum and the requirement to register to vote in the referendum at least 30 days in advance by utilizing available media or public information sources, without incurring advertising expense, to publicize the dates, places, method of voting, eligibility requirements, and other pertinent information. Such sources of publicity may include, but are not limited to, print and radio.
(c) Develop the ballots and related material to be used in the referendum. The ballot shall provide for recording essential information, including that needed for ascertaining whether the person voting, or on whose behalf the vote is cast, is an eligible voter.
(d) Develop a list of producers and importers who register to vote.
(e) Mail to registered voters the instructions on voting, a ballot, and a summary of the terms and conditions of the proposed Order.
(f) At the end of the voting period, collect, open, number, and review the ballots and tabulate the results in the presence of an agent of a third party authorized to monitor the referendum process.
(g) Prepare a report on the referendum.
(h) Announce the results to the public.
§ 1219.105
Subagents.
The referendum agent may appoint any individual or individuals necessary or desirable to assist the agent in performing such agent's functions hereunder. Each individual so appointed may be authorized by the agent to perform any or all of the functions which, in the absence of such appointment, shall be performed by the agent.
§ 1219.106
Ballots.
The referendum agent and subagents shall accept all ballots cast. However, if an agent or subagent deems that a ballot should be challenged for any reason, the agent or subagent shall endorse above their signature, on the ballot, a statement to the effect that such
ballot was challenged, by whom challenged, the reasons therefore, the results of any investigations made with respect thereto, and the disposition thereof. Ballots invalid under this subpart shall not be counted.
§ 1219.107
Referendum report.
Except as otherwise directed, the referendum agent shall prepare and submit to the Administrator a report on the results of the referendum, the manner in which it was conducted, the extent and kind of public notice given, and other information pertinent to the analysis of the referendum and its results.
§ 1219.108
Confidential information.
The list of registered voters, ballots, and all other information or reports that reveal, or tend to reveal, the identity or vote of voters in the referendum shall be strictly confidential and shall not be disclosed.
§ 1219.109
OMB control number.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirement in this subpart by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 is OMB control number 0581-0197.

# Subpart C—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
70 FR 2758, Jan. 14, 2005, unless otherwise noted.
§ 1219.200
Terms defined.
Unless otherwise defined in this subpart, the definitions of terms used in this subpart shall have the same meaning as the definitions of such terms which appear in Subpart A—Hass Avocado Promotion, Research, and Information Order of this part.
§ 1219.201
Definitions.
Organic Act
means section 2103 of the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6502).
§ 1219.202
Exemption for organic Hass avocados.
(a) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for exemption under this section, an eligible Hass avocado producer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before November 1, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) The producer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each handler to whom the producer sells Hass avocados. The handler shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(f) An importer who imports products that are eligible to be labeled as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP, or certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” under a U.S. equivalency arrangement established under the NOP, may be exempt from the payment of assessments on those products. Such importer may submit documentation to the Board and request an exemption from assessment on certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” Hass avocados on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time initially, and annually thereafter on or before November 1, as long as the importer continues to be eligible for the exemption. This documentation shall include the same information required of producers in paragraph (c) of this section. If the importer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant the exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the importer. If Customs collects the assessment on exempt product that is identified as “organic” by a number in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule, the Board must reimburse the exempt importer the assessments paid upon receipt of such assessments from Customs. For all other exempt organic product for which Customs collects the assessment, the importer may apply to the Board for a reimbursement of assessments paid, and the importer must submit satisfactory proof to the Board that the importer paid the assessment on exempt organic product. Any importer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any imported agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(g) The exemption will apply immediately following the issuance of the Certificate of Exemption.
[70 FR 2758, Jan. 14, 2005, as amended at 80 FR 82031, Dec. 31, 2015]
§ 1219.203
Reapportionment of membership.
Pursuant to § 1219.30(c), the positions authorized in § 1219.30(b)(3) are reapportioned as follows: 3 importer members and their alternates.
[71 FR 26823, May 9, 2006]
Pt. 1220

# PART 1220—SOYBEAN PROMOTION, RESEARCH, AND CONSUMER INFORMATION

# Subpart A—Soybean Promotion and Research Order

# Definitions
Sec.
1220.101
Act.
1220.102
Board.
1220.103
Commerce.
1220.104
Committee.
1220.105
Consumer information.
1220.106
[Reserved]
1220.107
Cooperator organization.
1220.108
Department.
1220.109
Eligible organization.
1220.110
First purchaser.
1220.111
Fiscal period.
1220.112
Industry information.
1220.113
Marketing.
1220.114
National nonprofit producer-governed organization.
1220.115
Net market price.
1220.116
Part and subpart.
1220.117
Plans and projects.
1220.118
Person.
1220.119
Producer.
1220.120
[Reserved]
1220.121
Promotion.
1220.122
Qualified State Soybean Board.
1220.123
Referendum.
1220.124
[Reserved]
1220.125
Research.
1220.126
Secretary.
1220.127
Soybean products.
1220.128
Soybeans.
1220.129
State and United States.
1220.130
Unit.

# United Soybean Board
1220.201
Membership of board.
1220.202
Term of office.
1220.203
Nominations.
1220.204
Appointment.
1220.205
Nominee's agreement to serve.
1220.206
Vacancies.
1220.207
Alternate members.
1220.208
Removal.
1220.209
Procedure.
1220.210
Compensation and reimbursement.
1220.211
Powers of the Board.
1220.212
Duties.

# Soybean Program Coordinating Committee
1220.213
Establishment and membership.
1220.214
Term of office.
1220.215
Vacancies.
1220.216
Procedure.
1220.217
Compensation and reimbursement.
1220.218
Officers of the Committee.
1220.219
Powers of the Committee.
1220.220
Duties of the Committee.

# Expenses and Assessments
1220.222
Expenses.
1220.223
Assessments.
1220.224-1220.227
[Reserved]
1220.228
Qualified State Soybean Boards.
1220.229
Influencing governmental action.
1220.230
Promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information.

# Reports, Books, and Records
1220.241
Reports.
1220.242
Books and records.
1220.243
Confidential treatment.

# Miscellaneous
1220.251
Proceedings after termination.
1220.252
Effect of termination or amendment.
1220.253
Personal liability.
1220.254
Patents, copyrights, inventions, and publications.
1220.255
Amendments.
1220.256
Separability.
1220.257
OMB control numbers.

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations

# Definitions
1220.301
Terms defined.
1220.302
Exemption.

# Assessments
1220.310
Assessments.
1220.311
Collection and remittance of assessments.
1220.312
Remittance of assessments and submission of reports to United Soybean Board or Qualified State Soybean Board.
1220.313
Qualified State Soybean Boards.
1220.314
Document evidencing payment of assessments.
1220.330-120.332
[Reserved]
Subparts C-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Procedures To Request a Referendum

# Definitions
1220.600
Act.
1220.601
Administrator, AMS.
1220.602
Administrator, FSA.
1220.603
Farm Service Agency.
1220.604
Farm Service Agency County Committee.
1220.605
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director.
1220.606
Farm Service Agency State Committee.
1220.607
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director.
1220.608
Order.
1220.609
Person.
1220.610
Producer.
1220.611
Public notice.
1220.612
Representative period.
1220.613
Secretary.
1220.614
Soybeans.
1220.615
State and United States.

# Procedures
1220.616
General.
1220.617
Supervision of the process for requesting a referendum.
1220.618
Eligibility.
1220.619
Time and place for requesting a referendum.
1220.620
Facilities.
1220.621
Certification and request form.
1220.622
Certification and request procedures.
1220.623
Canvassing requests.
1220.624
Confidentiality.
1220.625
Counting requests.
1220.626
FSA county office report.
1220.627
FSA State office report.
1220.628
Results of the request for referendum.
1220.629
Disposition of records.
1220.630
Instructions and forms.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 6301-6311 and 7 U.S.C. 7401.

# Subpart A—Soybean Promotion and Research Order

# Source:
56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1220.101
Act.
The term
Act
means the Soybean Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act, subtitle E of title
XIX, of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990, Public Law No. 101-624, and any amendments thereto.
§ 1220.102
Board.
The term
Board
means the United Soybean Board established under § 1220.201 of this subpart.
§ 1220.103
Commerce.
The term
commerce
means interstate, foreign, or intrastate commerce.
§ 1220.104
Committee.
The term
Committee
means the Soybean Program Coordinating Committee established under § 1220.213 of this subpart.
§ 1220.105
Consumer information.
The term
consumer information
means information that will assist consumers and other persons in making evaluations and decisions regarding the purchase, preparation, and use of soybeans or soybean products.
§ 1220.106
[Reserved]
§ 1220.107
Cooperator organization.
The term
Cooperator Organization
means the American Soybean Association, or any successor organization to the American Soybean Association, which conducts foreign market development activities on behalf of soybean producers.
§ 1220.108
Department.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture.
§ 1220.109
Eligible organization.
The term
eligible organization
means any organization which has been certified by the Secretary pursuant to § 1220.203 of this subpart as being eligible to submit nominations for initial membership on the Board.
§ 1220.110
First purchaser.
The term
first purchaser
means—
(a) except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, any person buying or otherwise acquiring from a producer soybeans produced by such producer; or
(b) In any case in which soybeans are pledged as collateral for a loan issued under any Commodity Credit Corporation price support loan program and the soybeans are forfeited by the producer in lieu of loan repayment, the Commodity Credit Corporation.
[56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 42923, Aug. 30, 1991; 57 FR 31095, July 14, 1992]
§ 1220.111
Fiscal period.
The term
fiscal period
means the calendar year or such other annual period as the Board may determine with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 1220.112
Industry information.
The term
industry information
means information and programs that will lead to the development of new markets, new marketing strategies, or increased efficiency for the soybean industry, and activities to enhance the image of the soybean industry.
§ 1220.113
Marketing.
The term
marketing
means the sale or other disposition of soybeans or soybean products in any channel of commerce.
§ 1220.114
National nonprofit producer-governed organization.
The term
national nonprofit producer-governed organization
means an organization that—
(a) Is a nonprofit organization pursuant to section 501(c) (3), (5) or (6) of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501(c) (3), (5) and (6)); and
(b) Is governed by a Board of directors of agricultural producers representing soybean producers on a national basis;
§ 1220.115
Net market price.
The term
net market price
means—
(a) except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the sales price, or other value received by a producer for soybeans after adjustments for any premium or discount based on grading or quality factors, as determined by the Secretary; or
(b) For soybeans pledged as collateral for a loan issued under any Commodity Credit Corporation price support loan program, and where the soybeans are forfeited by the producer in lieu of loan
repayment, the principal amount of the loan.
[56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 42923, Aug. 30, 1991; 57 FR 31095, July 14, 1992]
§ 1220.116
Part and subpart.
Part
means the Soybean Promotion and Research Order and all rules and regulations issued pursuant to the Act and the Order, and the Order itself shall be a “Subpart” of such part.
§ 1220.117
Plans and projects.
Plans and Projects
means promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information plans, studies, or projects pursuant to § 1220.230.
§ 1220.118
Person.
The term
person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1220.119
Producer.
The term
producer
means any person engaged in the growing of soybeans in the United States who owns, or who shares the ownership and risk of loss of, such soybeans.
§ 1220.120
[Reserved]
§ 1220.121
Promotion.
The term
promotion
means any action, including paid advertising, technical assistance, and trade servicing activities, to enhance the image or desirability of soybeans or soybean products in domestic and foreign markets, and any activity designed to communicate to consumers, importers, processors, wholesalers, retailers, government officials, or other information relating to the positive attributes of soybeans or soybean products or the benefits of importation, use, or distribution of soybeans and soybean products.
§ 1220.122
Qualified State Soybean Board.
The term
Qualified State Soybean Board
means a State soybean promotion entity that is authorized by State law and elects to be the Qualified State Soybean Board for the State in which it operates pursuant to § 1220.228(a)(1). If no such entity exists in a State, the term
Qualified State Soybean Board
means a soybean producer-governed entity—
(a) That is organized and operating within a State;
(b) That receives voluntary contributions and conducts soybean promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information programs; and
(c) That meets the criteria, established by the Board and approved by the Secretary, relating to the qualifications of such entity to perform its duties under this part as determined by the Board, and is certified by the Board under § 1220.228(a)(2), with the approval of the Secretary.
§ 1220.123
Referendum.
The term
Referendum
means a referendum, other than referenda defined in § 1220.106 and § 1220.124, to be conducted by the Secretary pursuant to the Act whereby producers shall be given the opportunity to vote to determine whether the continuance of this subpart is favored by a majority of producers voting.
§ 1220.124
[Reserved]
§ 1220.125
Research.
The term
research
means any type of study to advance the image, desirability, marketability, production, product development, quality, or functional or nutritional value of soybeans or soybean products, including any research activity designed to identify and analyze barriers to export sales of soybeans and soybean products.
§ 1220.126
Secretary.
The term
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States or any other officer or employee of the Department to whom there has been delegated, the authority to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1220.127
Soybean products.
The term
soybean products
means products produced in whole or in part from soybeans or soybean byproducts.
§ 1220.128
Soybeans.
The term
soybeans
means all varieties of Glycine max or Glycine soja.
§ 1220.129
State and United States.
The terms
State
and
United States
include the 50 States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
§ 1220.130
Unit.
The term
unit
shall mean each State, or group of States, which is represented on the Board.

# United Soybean Board
§ 1220.201
Membership of board.
(a) For the purposes of nominating and appointing producers to the Board, the United States shall be divided into thirty-one geographic units and the number of Board members from each unit, subject to paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be as follows:
Table 1 to Paragraph
(a)
State/unit
Number of
members
South Dakota
4
Ohio
4
Nebraska
4
Missouri
4
Minnesota
4
Iowa
4
Indiana
4
Illinois
4
North Dakota
3
Wisconsin
3
Tennessee
3
Mississippi
3
Michigan
3
Kentucky
3
Kansas
3
Arkansas
3
Virginia
2
Pennsylvania
2
North Carolina
2
Maryland
2
Louisiana
2
New York
2
Alabama
1
Texas
1
South Carolina
1
Oklahoma
1
New Jersey
1
Georgia
1
Delaware
1
Unit:
Eastern Region (Connecticut, Florida, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Vermont, West Virginia, District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico)
1
Western Region (Alaska, Arizona, California, Colorado, Hawaii, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and Wyoming)
1
(b) The Board shall be composed of soybean producers appointed by the Secretary from nominations submitted pursuant to § 1220.203. A soybean producer may only be nominated by the unit in which that soybean producer is a resident or producer.
(c) At the end of each three (3) year period, the Board shall review the geographic distribution of soybean production volume throughout the United States and may recommend to the Secretary a modification of paragraph (e) of this section, to best reflect the geographic distribution of soybean production volume in the United States. The Secretary may amend this subpart to make the changes recommended by the Board in levels of productions used to determine per unit representation. A unit may not, as a result of any modifications under this subsection, lose Board seats to which it is entitled at the time this subpart is initially issued unless its average annual production, as determined under paragraph (e)(6) of this section, declines below the levels required for representation, as specified in paragraphs (e) (1) through (5) of this section.
(d) At the end of each three (3) year period, the Secretary shall review the volume of production (minus the volume of production for which refunds have been paid) of each unit provided representation under paragraph (a) of this section, and shall adjust the boundaries of any unit and the number of Board members from each such unit to conform with the criteria set out in paragraphs (e) (1) through (5) of this section.
(e) The following formula will be used to determine the number of directors for each unit who shall serve on the Board:
(1)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, each State will be considered as a separate unit.
(ii) States which do not have annual average soybean production equal to or greater than three million (3,000,000) bushels shall be grouped, to the extent practicable, into geographically contiguous units each of which, to the extent practicable, have a combined annual soybean production level which is equal to or greater than three million (3,000,000) bushels and each such unit shall be entitled to at least one representative on the Board.
(2) Each unit that has an annual average soybean production of less than fifteen million (15,000,000) bushels shall be entitled to one representative on the Board.
(3) Each unit which has an annual average soybean production of fifteen million (15,000,000) or more bushels but less than seventy million (70,000,000) bushels shall be entitled to two (2) representatives on the Board.
(4) Each unit which has an annual average soybean production of seventy million (70,000,000) or more bushels but less than two hundred million (200,000,000) bushels shall be entitled to three (3) representatives on the Board.
(5) Each unit which has an annual average soybean production of two hundred million (200,000,000) bushels or more shall be entitled to four (4) representatives on the Board.
(6) For the purposes of this section, average annual soybean production shall be determined by using the average of the production for the State or unit over the five previous years, excluding the year in which production was the highest and the year in which production was the lowest.
(f) [Reserved]
[56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 29962, June 7, 1995; 60 FR 58500, Nov. 28, 1995; 62 FR 37489, July 14, 1997; 62 FR 41485, Aug. 1, 1997; 65 FR 63768, Oct. 25, 2000; 68 FR 57327, Oct. 3, 2003; 71 FR 69430, Dec. 1, 2006; 74 FR 62676, Dec. 1, 2009; 78 FR 2, Jan. 2, 2013; 80 FR 63910, Oct. 22, 2015; 83 FR 53366, Oct. 23, 2018; 86 FR 61670, Nov. 8, 2021; 89 FR 90571, Nov. 18, 2024]
§ 1220.202
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Board shall serve for terms of 3 years, except that the members appointed to the initial Board shall serve, proportionately, for terms of 1, 2, and 3 years.
(b) Each member shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed by the Secretary and has accepted the position.
(c) No member shall serve more than three consecutive 3-year terms in such capacity.
§ 1220.203
Nominations.
All nominations for appointments to the Board under § 1220.204 shall be made in the following manner:
(a) After the issuance of this subpart by the Secretary, nominations shall be obtained by the Secretary as specified in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section from Qualified State Soybean Boards or for initial Board nominations, eligible organizations deemed qualified to nominate pursuant to paragraph (f) of the section. A Qualified State Soybean Board, or for initial Board nominations, an eligible organization shall only submit nominations for positions on the Board representing the unit, as established under § 1220.201, in which such Qualified State Soybean Board operates.
(b) If the Secretary determines that a unit is not represented by a Qualified State Soybean Board or for initial Board nominations, an eligible organization, then the Secretary may solicit nominations from organizations which represent producers in that unit and from producers residing in that unit. A caucus may be held in such units for the purpose of collectively submitting nominations to the Secretary.
(c) Where there is more than one State comprising a unit, the Secretary shall take into consideration the nominations submitted by Qualified State Soybean Boards or for initial Board nominations, eligible organizations, within the unit. A caucus may be held in such units for the purpose of collectively submitting nominations to the Secretary. The Secretary shall consider the proportional levels of production in each State comprising the unit when appointing members to the Board representing that unit.
(d) At least two nominations shall be submitted for each position to be filled.
(e) Nominations may be submitted in order of preference and for the initial Board, in order of preference for staggered terms. Should the Secretary reject any nomination submitted and there are insufficient nominations submitted from which appointments can be made, the Secretary may request additional nominations under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, whichever provision is applicable for such unit.
(f) Any organization authorized pursuant to State law to collect assessments from producers may notify the Secretary of the organization's intent to nominate members to the initial Board for the State or unit, as established under § 1220.201, in which such organization operates and is authorized by State law. Such eligibility shall be based only upon the criteria established pursuant to § 1220.228(a)(1). There shall only be one organization authorized per State pursuant to this section to submit nominations to the initial Board. If no such entity exists in a State, any organization meeting those requirements of § 1220.228(a)(2) may request eligibility to submit nominations.
§ 1220.204
Appointment.
From the nominations made pursuant to § 1220.203, the Secretary shall appoint the members of the Board on the basis of representation provided for in § 1220.201.
§ 1220.205
Nominee's agreement to serve.
Any producer nominated to serve on the Board shall file with the Secretary at the time of nomination a written agreement to:
(a) Serve on the Board if appointed; and
(b) Agree to disclose any relationship with any soybean promotion entity or with any organization that has or is being considered for a contractual relationship with the Board.
§ 1220.206
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Board, the Secretary shall request nominations for a successor pursuant to § 1220.203, and such successor shall be appointed pursuant to § 1220.204.
§ 1220.207
Alternate members.
(a) The Secretary shall solicit, pursuant to the procedures of § 1220.203, nominations for alternate members of the Board.
(b) The Secretary shall appoint one alternate member of the Board for each unit which has only one member pursuant to § 1220.204 and § 1220.205.
(c) Alternate members of the Board may attend meetings of the Board as a voting member upon the following circumstances:
(1) A member of the Board for the unit which the alternate member represents is absent; and
(2) Such member, or in the case of incapacitation or death of the member, a relative, has contacted the appropriate officer of the Board to inform such officer of such absence;
(d) An alternate member of the Board, when attending Board meetings in an official capacity, shall have the rights, duties and obligations of a Board member.
§ 1220.208
Removal.
If the Secretary determines that any person appointed under this part fails or refuses to perform his or her duties properly or engages in acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct, the Secretary shall remove the person from office. A person appointed or certified under this part or any employee of the Board or Committee may be removed by the Secretary if the Secretary determines that the person's continued
service would be detrimental to the purposes of the Act.
§ 1220.209
Procedure.
(a) At a properly convened meeting of the Board, a majority of the members shall constitute a quorum.
(b)(1) Except for roll call votes, each member of the Board will be entitled to one vote on any matter put to the Board and the motion will carry if supported by a simple majority of those voting.
(2)(i) If a member requests a roll call vote, except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, each unit as established under § 1220.201, shall cast one vote for each percent, or portion of a percent, of the average total amount of assessments remitted to the Board that was remitted from the unit (minus refunds) during each of the three previous fiscal years of the Board under § 1220.223.
(ii)(A) During the first fiscal year of the Board, the percentage used to determine the votes given to a unit will be based on annual average soybean production of the three previous years. If a unit is represented by more than one member, each member representing the unit shall receive an equal percentage of the votes allocated to the unit.
(B) During the second and third year this subpart is in effect, the percentage used to determine the votes given to a unit will be based upon averaging the unit's percentage of annual assessments remitted to the Board (minus refunds).
(iii) Should a member representing a unit not be present, then the other members representing such unit shall vote, on an equal basis if there is more than one member representing the unit present, the number of votes which the absent member would have been entitled to vote.
(iv) A motion will carry on a roll call vote if approved by both a simple majority of all votes cast and a simple majority of all units voting (with the vote of each unit determined by a simple majority of all votes cast by members in that unit).
(3) A member may not cast votes by proxy.
(c) In lieu of a properly convened meeting and, when in the opinion of the chairperson of the Board such action is considered necessary, the Board may take action upon the concurring votes of a majority of its members, or if a roll call vote is requested, a simple majority of all votes cast and a simple majority of all units voting by mail, telephone, facsimile, or telegraph, but any such action by telephone shall be confirmed promptly in writing. In the event that such action is taken, all members must be notified and provided the opportunity to vote. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a regular or special meeting of the Board.
(d) On or after the end of the three-year period beginning on the effective date of this subpart, the Board may recommend to the Secretary changes in the voting procedures of the Board described in paragraph (b) of this section.
§ 1220.210
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Board shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed for necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by them in the performance of their responsibilities under this subpart.
§ 1220.211
Powers of the Board.
The Board shall have the following powers:
(a) To receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative develop, and budget for plans or projects for promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information and to make recommendations to the Secretary regarding such proposals;
(b) To administer the provisions of this subpart in accordance with its terms and provisions;
(c) To make rules to effectuate the terms and provisions of this subpart;
(d) To receive, investigate, and report to the Secretary complaints of violations of the provisions of this subpart;
(e) To disseminate information to producers or producer organizations through programs or by direct contact utilizing the public postage system or other systems;
(f) To assign responsibilities relating to budget and program development to the Committee as provided in § 1220.219.
(g) To select committees and subcommittees of Board members, and to adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable;
(h) To contract with Qualified State Soybean Boards to implement plans or projects;
(i) To recommend to the Secretary amendments to this subpart; and
(j) With the approval of the Secretary, to invest, pending disbursement pursuant to a plan or project, funds collected through assessments authorized under § 1220.223 in, and only in, obligations of the United States or any agency thereof, in general obligations of any State or any political subdivision thereof, in any interest-bearing account or certificate of deposit of a bank which is a member of the Federal Reserve System, or in obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States.
§ 1220.212
Duties.
The Board shall have the following duties:
(a) To meet not less than three times annually, or more often if required for the Board to carry out its responsibilities pursuant to this subpart.
(b) To organize and select from among its members a chairperson, vice chairperson, a treasurer and such other officers as may be necessary.
(c) To appoint from its members an executive committee and to delegate to the committee authority to administer the terms and provisions of this subpart under the direction of the Board and within the policies determined by the Board.
(d) To employ or contract for such persons to perform administrative functions as it may deem necessary and define the duties and determine the compensation of each.
(e) To develop and submit to the Secretary for approval, promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information plans or projects.
(f) To prepare, and submit to the Secretary for approval, budgets on a fiscal period basis of its anticipated expenses and disbursements in the administration of this subpart, including probable costs of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information plans or projects, and also including a description of the proposed promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information programs contemplated therein.
(g) To maintain such books and records, which shall be available to the Secretary for inspection and audit, and to prepare and submit such reports from time to time to the Secretary, as the Secretary may prescribe, and to make appropriate accounting with respect to the receipt and disbursement of all funds entrusted to it.
(h) With the approval of the Secretary, to enter into contracts or agreements with appropriate parties, including national nonprofit producer-governed organizations, for the development and conduct of activities authorized under § 1220.230 of this subpart and for the payment of the cost thereof with funds collected through assessments pursuant to § 1220.223. Provided, that the Board shall contract with only one national nonprofit producer-governed organization to administer all projects within a program area.
Any such contract or agreement shall provide that:
(1) The contractor shall develop and submit to the Board a plan or project together with a budget or budgets which shall show the estimated cost to be incurred for such plan or project;
(2) Any such plan or project shall become effective only upon approval of the Secretary; and
(3) The contracting party shall keep complete and accurate records of all of its transactions and make periodic reports to the Board of activities conducted pursuant to a contract and an accounting for funds received and expended, and such other reports as the Secretary or the Board may require. The Board and Secretary may audit the records of the contracting party periodically.
(i) To prepare and make public, at least annually, a report of its activities carried out and an accounting for funds received and expended.
(j) [Reserved]
(k) To cause its books to be audited by a certified public accountant at least once each fiscal period and at
such other times as the Secretary may require and to submit a copy of each such audit to the Secretary.
(l) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Board and committees as is given to members in order that the Secretary, or a representative of the Secretary, may attend such meetings.
(m) To submit to the Secretary such information pursuant to this subpart as may be requested.
(n) To encourage the coordination of programs of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information designed to strengthen the soybean industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain and expand domestic and foreign markets and uses for soybean and soybean products produced in the United States.
[56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 29962, June 7, 1995; 60 FR 58500, Nov. 28, 1995]

# Soybean Program Coordinating Committee
§ 1220.213
Establishment and membership.
(a) The Board may establish, with the approval of the Secretary, a Soybean Program Coordinating Committee to assist in the administration of this subpart. The Committee shall consist of 15 members. The Committee shall be composed of 10 Board members elected by the Board and 5 producers elected by the Cooperator Organization.
(b) Board representation on the Committee shall consist of the Chairperson and Treasurer of the Board, and eight additional members duly elected by the Board to serve on the Committee. The eight representatives to the Committee elected by the Board shall, to the extent practicable, reflect the geographic and unit distribution of soybean production.
(c) Cooperator Organization representation on the Committee shall consist of five members elected by the Cooperator Organization Board of Directors. The Cooperator Organization shall submit to the Secretary the names of the representatives elected by the Cooperator Organization to serve on the Committee, the manner in which such election was held, and verify that such representatives are producers. The prospective Cooperator Organization representatives shall file with the Secretary a written agreement to serve on the Committee and to disclose any relationship with any soybean entity or with any organization that has or is being considered for a contractual relationship with the Board. When the Secretary is satisfied that the above conditions are met, the Secretary shall certify such representatives as eligible to serve on the Committee.
§ 1220.214
Term of office.
(a) The members of the Committee shall serve for a term of 1 year.
(b) No member shall serve more than six consecutive terms.
§ 1220.215
Vacancies.
To fill any vacancy occasioned by the death, removal, resignation, or disqualification of any member of the Committee, the Board or the Cooperator Organization, depending upon which organization is represented by the vacancy, shall submit the name of a successor for the position in the manner utilized to appoint representatives pursuant to § 1220.213 above.
§ 1220.216
Procedure.
(a) Attendance of at least 12 members of the Committee shall constitute a quorum at a properly convened meeting of the Committee. Any action of the Committee shall require the concurring votes of at least two-thirds (
2/3
) of the members present. The Committee shall establish rules concerning timely notice of meetings.
(b) When in the opinion of the chairperson of the Committee emergency action must be taken before a meeting can be called, the Committee may take action upon the concurring votes of no less than twelve of its members by mail, telephone, facsimile, or telegraph. Action taken by this emergency procedure is valid only if all members are notified and provided the opportunity to vote and any telephone vote is confirmed promptly in writing. Any action so taken shall have the same force and effect as though such action had been taken at a properly convened meeting of the Committee.
(c) A member may not cast votes by proxy.
§ 1220.217
Compensation and reimbursement.
The members of the Committee shall serve without compensation but shall be reimbursed by the Board for necessary and reasonable expenses incurred by them in the performance of their responsibilities under this subpart.
§ 1220.218
Officers of the Committee.
The following persons shall serve as officers of the Committee:
(a) The Chairperson of the Board shall be Chairperson of the Committee.
(b) The Committee shall elect or appoint such other officers as it may deem necessary.
§ 1220.219
Powers of the Committee.
If established by the Board, the Committee may have the following powers:
(a) To receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative, develop and budget for plans or projects to promote the use of soybeans and soybean products as well as plans or projects for promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information and to make recommendations to the Board regarding such proposals; and
(b) To select committees and subcommittees of Committee members, and to adopt such rules for the conduct of its business as it may deem advisable.
§ 1220.220
Duties of the Committee.
If established by the Board, the Committee may have the following duties:
(a) To meet and to organize;
(b) To prepare and submit to the Board for approval, budgets on a fiscal period basis of proposed costs of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information plans or projects, and also including a general description of the proposed promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information programs contemplated therein;
(c) To give the Secretary the same notice of meetings of the Committee and its subcommittees as is given to members in order that the Secretary, or the Secretary's representative, may attend such meetings;
(d) To submit to the Board and to the Secretary such information pursuant to this subpart as may be requested; and
(e) To encourage the coordination of programs of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information designed to strengthen the soybean industry's position in the marketplace and to maintain and expand domestic and foreign markets and uses for soybeans and soybean products.

# Expenses and Assessments
§ 1220.222
Expenses.
(a) The Board is authorized to incur such expenses (including provision for a reasonable reserve) as the Secretary finds are reasonable and likely to be incurred by the Board for its maintenance and functioning and to enable it to exercise its powers and perform its duties in accordance with the provisions of this subpart. However, during any fiscal year, expenses incurred by the Board for administrative staff costs and their benefits shall not exceed l percent of the projected level of assessments, net of projected refunds, of the Board for that fiscal year. Such expenses shall be paid from assessments received pursuant to § 1220.223. The administrative expenses of the Board, including the cost of administrative staff, shall not exceed 5 percent of the projected level of assessments, net of projected refunds, of the Board for that fiscal year.
(b) The Board shall reimburse the Secretary, from assessments received pursuant to § 1220.223, for administrative costs incurred after an Order has been submitted to the Department pursuant to section 1968(b) of the Act; Provided, that the Board shall only be required to reimburse the Secretary for one-half (50%) of the costs incurred by the Secretary to conduct the refund referendum relating to continuation of authority to pay refunds.
(c)(1) The Board may, with the approval of the Secretary, authorize a credit to Qualified State Soybean Boards of up to 5 percent of the amount to be remitted to the Board pursuant to § 1220.223 and § 1220.228 of this subpart
to offset collection and compliance costs relating to such assessments and for fees paid to State governmental agencies or first purchasers for collection of the assessments where the payment of such fees by the Qualified State Soybean Board is required by State law enacted prior to November 28, 1990.
(2) The portion of the credit authorized in paragraph (c)(1) of this section which compensates Qualified State Soybean Boards for fees paid to State governmental agencies or first purchasers for collection of the assessments where the payment of such fees by the Qualified State Soybean Board is required by State law enacted prior to November 28, 1990:
(i) Shall not exceed one-half of such fees paid to State governmental agencies or first purchasers, and;
(ii) Shall not exceed 2.5 percent of the amount of assessments collected and remitted to the Board.
(3) Except for that portion of the credit issued pursuant to paragraph (c)(2) of this section, credits authorized by paragraph (c)(1) of this section will be included as part of the Board's administrative expenses.
§ 1220.223
Assessments.
(a)(1) Except as prescribed by regulations approved by the Secretary or as otherwise provided in this section, each first purchaser of soybeans shall collect an assessment from the producer, and each producer shall pay such assessment to the first purchaser, at the rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the net market price of the soybeans purchased. Each first purchaser shall remit such assessment to the Board or to a Qualified State Soybean Board, as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
(2) Any producer marketing processed soybeans or soybean products of that producer's own production, shall remit to a Qualified State Soybean Board or to the Board, as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, an assessment on such soybeans or soybean products at a rate of one-half of one percent (0.5%) of the net market price of the soybeans involved or the equivalent thereof.
(3) In determining the assessment due from each producer under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, a producer who is contributing to a Qualified State Soybean Board shall receive a credit from the Board for contributions to such Qualified State Soybean Board on any soybeans assessed under this section in an amount not to exceed one-quarter of one percent of the net market price of the soybeans assessed. Producers receiving a refund from a State entity are required to remit that refunded portion to the Board in the manner and form required by the Secretary.
(4) In order for a producer to receive the credit provided for in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the Qualified State Soybean Board or the first purchaser must establish to the satisfaction of the Board that the producer has contributed to a Qualified State Soybean Board.
(5)(i) If the soybeans, for which an assessment is paid, were grown in a State other than the State which is the situs of the first purchaser, the first purchaser that collects the assessment shall remit the assessment and information as to the State of origin of the soybeans to the Qualified State Soybean Board operating in the State in which the first purchaser is located. The Qualified State Soybean Board operating in the State in which the first purchaser is located shall remit such assessments to the Qualified State Soybean Board operating in the State in which the soybeans were grown. If no such Qualified State Soybean Board exists in such State, then the assessments shall be remitted to the Board. The Board, with the approval of the Secretary, may authorize Qualified State Soybean Boards to propose modifications to the foregoing “State of Origin” rule to ensure effective coordination of assessment collections between Qualified State Soybean Boards.
(ii)(A) If a producer pledges soybeans grown by that producer as collateral for a loan issued by the Commodity Credit Corporation and if that producer forfeits said soybeans in lieu of loan repayment, the Commodity Credit Corporation shall at the time of the loan settlement, collect from the producer
the assessments due based on 0.5 percent of the principal loan amount received by the producer and remit the assessment to the Qualified State Soybean Board in the State in which the soybeans were pledged, or if no Qualified State Soybean Board exists in such State, the Board.
(B) If a producer redeems and subsequently markets soybeans which have been pledged as collateral for a loan issued by the Commodity Credit Corporation, the first purchaser shall collect and remit the assessments due pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or if a producer markets such soybeans as processed soybeans or as soybean products, the producer shall remit the assessment pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(iii) Qualified State Soybean Boards and the Board shall coordinate assessment collection procedures to ensure that producers marketing soybeans are required to pay only one assessment per bushel of soybeans and collections are adjusted among States on a mutually agreeable basis.
(b) The collection of assessments pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, shall commence on and after the date assessments are required to be paid and shall continue until terminated by the Secretary. If the Board is not constituted on the date the first assessments are to be collected, the Secretary shall have the authority to receive the assessments on behalf of the Board, and to hold such assessments until the Board is constituted, then remit such assessments to the Board.
(c)(1) Each person responsible for the collection of assessments under paragraph (a) of this section, shall collect and remit the assessments to the Board or a Qualified State Soybean Board on a monthly basis or as required by State law, but no less than quarterly, unless the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, has specifically authorized otherwise.
(2) Any unpaid assessments due the Board or a Qualified State Soybean Board from a person responsible for remitting assessments to the Board or a Qualified State Soybean Board pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, shall be increased two percent (2%) each month beginning with the day following the date such assessments were due under this subpart. Any remaining amount due shall be increased at the same rate on the corresponding day of each month thereafter until paid.
(3) The amounts payable pursuant to this section shall be computed monthly on unpaid assessments and shall include any unpaid late charges previously applied pursuant to this section.
(4) For the purpose of this section, any assessment that was determined at a date later than prescribed by this subpart because of a person's failure to submit a report to the Board or a Qualified State Soybean Board when due, shall be considered to have been payable by the date it would have been due if the report had been filed when due.
(d) Prior to the continuance referendum, the Board, pursuant to procedures approved by the Secretary, shall ensure that each Qualified State Soybean Board is provided credit in accordance with the provisions of section 1969(n)(1) and subject to section 1969(n)(3) of the Act.
(e) Following the continuance referendum, the Board, pursuant to procedures approved by the Secretary, shall ensure annually that each Qualified State Soybean Board is provided credit in accordance with the provisions of section 1969(n)(2) and subject to section 1969(n)(3) of the Act.
[56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, as amended at 56 FR 42923, Aug. 30, 1991; 57 FR 31096, July 14, 1992; 84 FR 20771, May 13, 2019]
§§ 1220.224-1220.227
[Reserved]
§ 1220.228
Qualified State Soybean Boards.
(a)(1) Any soybean promotion entity that is authorized by State statute to collect assessments required by State law from soybean producers may notify the Board of its election to be the Qualified State Soybean Board for the State in which it operates so that producers may receive credit pursuant to § 1220.223(a)(3) for contributions to such organization. Only one such entity may make such election or be qualified pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Such entity, upon making such election, agrees to the following:
(i) To conduct activities as defined in § 1220.230 that are intended to strengthen the soybean industry's position in the marketplace;
(ii) Provide a report describing the manner in which assessments are collected and the procedure utilized to ensure that assessments due are paid;
(iii) Collect assessments paid on soybeans marketed within the State and establish procedures for ensuring compliance with this subpart with regard to the payment of such assessments;
(iv) Remit to the Board each assessment paid and remitted to it, minus authorized credits issued pursuant to § 1220.222(c) and credits issued to producers pursuant to § 1220.223(a)(3), and other required deductions by the last day of the month following the month in which the assessment was remitted to it unless the Board determines a different date for remittance of assessments;
(v) If the entity is authorized or required to pay refunds to producers, any requests from producers for refunds for contributions to it by the producer following the termination of authority to pay refunds, will be honored by forwarding to the Board that portion of such refunds equal to the amount of credit received by the producer for contributions to it pursuant to § 1220.223(a)(3);
(vi) [Reserved]
(vii) Furnish the Board with an annual report by a certified public accountant or an authorized State agency of all funds remitted to such Board pursuant to this subpart; and
(viii) Not use funds it collects pursuant to this subpart to fund plans or projects which make use of any unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value or use of any product that competes with soybeans or soybean products; and
(ix)(A) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ix)(B) of this section, funds collected or received by the Qualified State Soybean Board under this subpart shall not be used in any manner for the purpose of influencing any action or policy of the United States Government, any foreign or State government, or any political subdivision thereof.
(B) The prohibition in paragraph (a)(1)(ix)(A) of this section, shall not apply to—
(
1
) The communication to appropriate government officials of information relating to the conduct, implementation, or results of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information under the Order;
(
2
) Any action designed to market soybeans or soybean products directly to a foreign government or political subdivision thereof; or
(
3
) The development and recommendation of amendments to this subpart.
(2) If no entity elects to serve as a Qualified State Soybean Board within a State pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, any State soybean promotion entity that is organized and operating within a State, and receives assessments or contributions from producers and conducts soybean or soybean product promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information programs, may apply for certification as the Qualified State Soybean Board for such State so that producers may receive credit pursuant to § 1220.223(a)(3) for contributions to such organizations. All provisions of this subpart applicable to Qualified State Soybean Boards will be applicable to such entity. The Board shall review such applications for certification and shall make a determination as to the certification of each applicant.
(b) In order for the State soybean entity to be certified by the Board pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section, as a Qualified State Soybean Board, the entity must:
(1) Conduct activities as defined in § 1220.230 that are intended to strengthen the soybean industry's position in the marketplace;
(2) Submit to the Board a report describing the manner in which assessments are collected and the procedure utilized to ensure that assessments due are paid;
(3) Certify to the Board that such State entity will collect assessments paid on soybeans marketed within the State and establish procedures for ensuring compliance with this subpart with regard to the payment of such assessments;
(4) Certify to the Board that such organization will remit to the Board each assessment paid and remitted to it, minus credits issued pursuant to § 1220.222(c) and authorized credits issued to producers pursuant to § 1220.223(a)(3), and other required deductions by the last day of the month following the month in which the assessment was remitted to it unless the Board determines a different date for remittance of assessments;
(5)-(6) [Reserved]
(7) Certify to the Board that it will furnish the Board with an annual report by a certified public accountant or an authorized State agency of all funds remitted to such Board pursuant to this subpart; and
(8) Not use funds it collects pursuant to this subpart to fund plans or projects which make use of any unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value or use of any product that competes with soybeans or soybean products; and
(9)(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section, funds collected or received by the Qualified State Soybean Board under this subpart shall not be used in any manner for the purpose of influencing any action or policy of the United States Government, any foreign or State government, or any political subdivision thereof.
(ii) The prohibition in paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section, shall not apply to—
(A) The communication to appropriate government officials of information relating to the conduct, implementation, or results of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information under this subpart;
(B) Any action designed to market soybeans or soybean products directly to a foreign government or political subdivision thereof; or
(C) The development and recommendation of amendments to this subpart.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subpart, and provided that activities of a Qualified State Soybean Board are authorized under the Act and this subpart, the Board shall not have the authority to:
(1) Establish guidelines, regulations, or rules which would restrict or infringe upon a Qualified State Soybean Board's authority to determine administrative or program expenditure allocations or administrative or program implementation; and
(2) Direct Qualified State Soybean Boards to participate or not participate in program activities or implementation.
(d) The Board shall establish procedures, after an opportunity for public comment and subject to approval of the Secretary, which provide Qualified State Soybean Boards with a right to present information to the Board prior to any determinations relating to nonparticipation as a Qualified State Soybean Board following initial election or determination as a Qualified State Soybean Board.
(e) Entities authorized or required to pay refunds to producers must certify to the Board that any requests from producers for such refunds for contributions to it by the producer will be honored by forwarding to the Board that portion of such refunds equal to the amount of credit received by the producer for contributions pursuant to § 1220.223(a)(3). Entities not authorized by State statute but organized and operating within a State and certified by the Board pursuant to paragraph (a)(2) of this section must provide producers an opportunity for a State refund and must forward that refunded portion to the Board.
[56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 58500, Nov. 28, 1995; 61 FR 50694, Sept. 27, 1996; 72 FR 2769, Jan. 23, 2007; 84 FR 20771, May 13, 2019]
§ 1220.229
Influencing governmental action.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, funds collected or received by the Board under this subpart shall not be used in any manner for the purpose of influencing any action or policy of the United States Government, any foreign or State government, or any political subdivision thereof.
(b) The prohibition in paragraph (a) of this section shall not apply to—
(1) The development and recommendation of amendments to this subpart;
(2) The communication to appropriate government officials of information relating to the conduct, implementation, or results of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information under this subpart; or
(3) Any action designed to market soybeans or soybean products directly to a foreign government or political subdivision thereof.
§ 1220.230
Promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information.
(a) The Board shall receive and evaluate, or on its own initiative, develop and submit to the Secretary for approval any plans or projects authorized in this subpart. Such plans or projects shall provide for:
(1) The establishment, issuance, effectuation, and administration of appropriate promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information activities with respect to soybean and soybean products;
(2) The establishment and conduct of research, and studies with respect to the sale, distribution, marketing and utilization of soybean and soybean products and the creation of new products thereof, to the end that marketing and utilization of soybean and soybean products may be encouraged, expanded, improved or made more acceptable; and
(3) Such other activities as are authorized by the Act and this subpart.
(b) Each plan or project described in paragraph (a) of this section, shall be periodically reviewed or evaluated by the Board to ensure that each such plan or project contributes to an effective program of promotion, research, consumer information, and industry information. If it is found by the Board that any such plan or project does not further the purposes of the Act, then the Board shall terminate such plan or project.
(c) No such plans or projects shall make use of unfair or deceptive acts or practices with respect to the quality, value or use of any competing product. In carrying out any plan or project funded by the Board described in paragraph (a) of this section, no preference shall be given to a brand or trade name of any soybean product without the approval of the Board and the Secretary.

# Reports, Books, and Records
§ 1220.241
Reports.
Each producer marketing processed soybeans or soybean products of that producer's own production and each first purchaser responsible for the collection of assessments under § 1220.223 shall be required to report to the Board periodically such information as may be required by the regulations recommended by the Board and approved by the Secretary. Such information may include but not be limited to the following:
(a) The number of bushels of soybeans purchased, initially transferred, or which, in any other manner, is subject to the collection of assessment;
(b) The amount of assessments remitted;
(c) The basis, if necessary, to show why the remittance is less than one-half percent (0.5%) of the net market price per bushel of soybeans purchased multiplied by the number of bushels purchased; and
(d) The date any assessment was paid.
§ 1220.242
Books and records.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each person who is subject to this subpart shall maintain and make available for inspection by the Board or Secretary such books and records as are necessary to carry out the provisions of this subpart and the regulations issued under this part, including such records as are necessary to verify any reports required. Such records shall be retained for at least two years beyond the fiscal period of their applicability.
(b) Any producer who plants less than 25 acres of soybeans annually and does not market such soybeans shall not be required to maintain books or records pursuant to this subpart.
§ 1220.243
Confidential treatment.
Except as otherwise provided in the Act, financial or commercial information that is obtained under the Act and this subpart and that is privileged and confidential shall be kept confidential by all persons, including employees and former employees of the Board, all officers and employees and all former officers and employees of the Department, and by all officers and employees and all former officers and employees of contracting agencies having access to such information, and shall not be available to Board members or any other producers. Only those persons having a specific need for such information in order to effectively administer the provisions of this part shall have access to such information.

# Miscellaneous
§ 1220.251
Proceedings after termination.
(a) Upon the termination of this subpart, the Board shall recommend not more than five of its members to the Secretary to serve as trustees for the purpose of liquidating the affairs of the Board. Such persons, upon designation by the Secretary, shall become trustees of all the funds and property, owned, in the possession of or under the control of the Board, including any unpaid claims or property not delivered or any other claims existing at the time of such termination.
(b) The trustees shall:
(1) Continue in such capacity until discharged by the Secretary;
(2) Carry out the obligations of the Board under any contract or agreements entered into by it pursuant to § 1220.212(h);
(3) From time to time account for all receipts and disbursements; and
(4) Deliver all property on hand, together with all books and records of the Board and of the trustees, to such persons as the Secretary may direct, and upon the request of the Secretary, execute such assignments or other instruments necessary or appropriate to vest in such persons full title and right to all of the funds, property, and claims vested in the Board or the trustees pursuant to this subpart.
(c) Any person to whom funds, property, or claims have been transferred or delivered pursuant to this subpart shall be subject to the same obligation imposed upon the Board and upon the trustees.
(d) Any residual funds not required to defray the necessary expenses of liquidation shall be turned over to the Secretary to be used, to the extent practicable, in the interest of continuing one or more of the promotion, research, consumer information, or industry information plans or projects authorized pursuant to this subpart.
§ 1220.252
Effect of termination or amendment.
Unless otherwise expressly provided by the Secretary, the termination of this subpart or of any rule issued pursuant hereto, or the issuance of any amendment to either thereof, shall not:
(a) Affect or waive any right, duty, obligation, or liability which shall have arisen or which may hereafter arise in connection with any provision of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder;
(b) Release or extinguish any violation of this subpart or any regulation issued thereunder; or
(c) Affect or impair any rights or remedies of the United States, or of the Secretary, or of any person, with respect to any such violation.
§ 1220.253
Personal liability.
No member, employee or agent of the Board, including employees, agents or board members of Qualified State Soybean Boards, acting pursuant to authority provided in this subpart, shall be held personally responsible, either individually or jointly, in any way whatsoever, to any person for errors in judgment, mistakes, or other acts of either commission or omission, of such member or employee, except for acts of dishonesty or willful misconduct.
§ 1220.254
Patents, copyrights, inventions, and publications.
(a) Any patents, copyrights, inventions, or publications developed through the use of funds remitted to the Board under the provisions of this subpart shall be the property of the U.S. Government as represented by the
Board, and shall, along with any rents, royalties, residual payments, or other income from the rental, sale, leasing, franchising, or other uses of such patents, copyrights, inventions, or publications, inure to the benefit of the Board. Upon termination of this subpart, § 1220.251 shall apply to determine disposition of all such property.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, if patents, copyrights, inventions, or publications are developed by the use of funds remitted to the Board under this subpart. Should patents, copyrights, inventions or publications be developed through the use of funds remitted to the Board under this subpart and funds contributed by another organization or person, ownership and related rights to such patents, copyrights, inventions, or publications shall be determined by agreement between the Board and the party contributing funds towards the development of such patent, copyright, invention or publication.
§ 1220.255
Amendments.
Amendments to this subpart may be proposed, from time to time, by the Board, or by any Qualified State Soybean Board recognized, or by any interested person affected by the provisions of the Act, including the Secretary.
§ 1220.256
Separability.
If any provision of this subpart is declared invalid or the applicability thereof to any person or circumstances is held invalid, the validity of the remainder of this subpart of the applicability thereof to other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
§ 1220.257
OMB control numbers.
The control number assigned to the information collection requirements by the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act, Public Law 96-511, is OMB number 0581-0093, except Board member nominee information sheets are assigned OMB number 0505-0001.
[56 FR 31049, July 9, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 50694, Sept. 27, 1996]

# Subpart B—Rules and Regulations

# Source:
57 FR 29439, July 2, 1992, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1220.301
Terms defined.
As used throughout this subpart, unless the context otherwise requires, terms shall have the same meaning as the definition of such terms as appears in subpart A of this part.
§ 1220.302
Exemption.
(a) A producer who operates under an approved National Organic Program (7 CFR part 205) (NOP) organic production system plan may be exempt from the payment of assessments under this part, provided that:
(1) Only agricultural products certified as “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) are eligible for exemption;
(2) The exemption shall apply to all certified “organic” or “100 percent organic” (as defined in the NOP) products of a producer regardless of whether the agricultural commodity subject to the exemption is produced by a person that also produces conventional or nonorganic agricultural products of the same agricultural commodity as that for which the exemption is claimed;
(3) The producer maintains a valid certificate of organic operation as issued under the Organic Foods Production Act of 1990 (7 U.S.C. 6501-6522) (OFPA) and the NOP regulations issued under OFPA (7 CFR part 205); and
(4) Any producer so exempted shall continue to be obligated to pay assessments under this part that are associated with any agricultural products that do not qualify for an exemption under this section.
(b) To apply for an exemption under this section, the producer shall submit a request to the Board on an
Organic Exemption Request Form
(Form AMS-15) at any time during the year initially, and annually thereafter on or before January 1, for as long as the producer continues to be eligible for the exemption.
(c) A producer request for exemption shall include the following:
(1) The applicant's full name, company name, address, telephone and fax numbers, and email address;
(2) Certification that the applicant maintains a valid certificate of organic operation issued under the OFPA and the NOP;
(3) Certification that the applicant produces organic products eligible to be labeled “organic” or “100 percent organic” under the NOP;
(4) A requirement that the applicant attach a copy of their certificate of organic operation issued by a USDA-accredited certifying agent under the OFPA and the NOP;
(5) Certification, as evidenced by signature and date, that all information provided by the applicant is true; and
(6) Such other information as may be required by the Board, with the approval of the Secretary.
(d) If a producer complies with the requirements of this section, the Board will grant an assessment exemption and issue a Certificate of Exemption to the producer within 30 days. If the application is disapproved, the Board will notify the applicant of the reason(s) for disapproval within the same timeframe.
(e) The producer shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Exemption to each first purchaser. The first purchaser shall maintain records showing the exempt producer's name and address and the exemption number assigned by the Board.
(f) The exemption will apply at the first reporting period following the issuance of the exemption.
[70 FR 2759, Jan. 14, 2005; 80 FR 80231, Dec. 31, 2015]

# Assessments
§ 1220.310
Assessments.
(a) A 0.5 percent of the net market price per bushel assessment on soybeans marketed shall be paid by the producer of the soybeans in the manner designated in § 1220.311.
(b) If more than one producer shares the proceeds received for the soybeans marketed, each such producer is obligated to pay that portion of the assessments which is equivalent to each producer's proportionate share of the proceeds.
(c) Failure of the first purchaser to collect the assessment on each bushel of soybeans marketed as designated in § 1220.311 shall not relieve the producer of the producer's obligation to pay the assessment to the appropriate Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board as required in § 1220.312.
§ 1220.311
Collection and remittance of assessments.
(a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, each first purchaser making payment to a producer for soybeans marketed by a producer shall collect from that producer at the time of settlement of that producer's account an assessment at the rate of 0.5 percent of the net market price per bushel of soybeans marketed and shall be responsible for remitting the assessment to the Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board as provided in § 1220.312. The first purchaser shall give to the producer a receipt indicating payment of the assessment. The receipt shall be any document issued by the first purchaser that contains the information requested in § 1220.314(a).
(b) A first purchaser who purchases soybeans pursuant to a contract with a producer, either on a volume basis or on a per acre basis, shall be responsible for remitting the assessment due on soybeans purchased as required in § 1220.312. Such assessment shall be based upon 0.5 percent of the net market price specified or established in the contract and shall be collected at the time of payment to the producer. If the net market price is not specified or established in the contract the assessment shall be based on fair market value as specified in paragraph (c) of this section below.
(c) Any producer marketing processed soybeans or soybean products of that producer's own production either directly or through retail or wholesale outlets shall be responsible for remitting to the Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board pursuant to § 1220.312, an assessment on the number of bushels of soybeans processed or manufactured into soybean products at the rate 0.5 percent of the net market price of the soybeans involved or the equivalent thereof. The
assessment shall attach upon date of sale of the processed soybeans or soybean products and shall be based upon the posted county price for soybeans on the date of the sale as posted at the local ASCS office for the county in which the soybeans are grown. The producer shall remit the assessment in the manner provided in § 1220.312.
(d) Any producer marketing processed soybeans or soybean products of that producer's own production shall be responsible for remitting to the Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board pursuant to § 1220.312, an assessment on the number of bushels of soybeans processed or manufactured into soybean products at the rate of 0.5 percent of the net market price of the soybeans involved or the equivalent thereof. The assessment shall attach upon the date of final settlement for such processed soybeans or soybean products and shall be based upon the posted county price for soybeans on the date of final settlement as posted at the local ASCS office for the county in which the soybeans are grown. The producer shall remit the assessment in the manner provided in § 1220.312.
(e) A producer delivering soybeans of the producer's own production against a soybean futures contract shall be responsible for remitting an assessment at the rate of 0.5 percent of net market price as specified in settlement documents. The assessment shall attach at the time of delivery and the producer shall remit the assessment due in accordance with § 1220.312.
(f) A producer who forfeits soybeans of that producer's own production which were pledged as collateral on a loan issued by Commodity Credit Corporation shall pay an assessment. The assessment shall attach upon the date the settlement statement is prepared and issued to the producer by the Commodity Credit Corporation and shall be 0.5 percent of the principal amount of the loan for the soybeans as specified by Commodity Credit Corporation in the settlement statement. The Commodity Credit Corporation shall collect the assessment and then remit the assessment due in accordance with § 1220.312.
§ 1220.312
Remittance of assessments and submission of reports to United Soybean Board or Qualified State Soybean Board.
(a) Each first purchaser and each producer responsible for the remittance of assessments shall remit assessments and submit a report of assessments to the Qualified State Soybean Board in the State in which each first purchaser or each producer responsible for the remittance of assessments is located or if there is no Qualified State Soybean Board in such State, then to the United Soybean Board as provided in this section.
(b) First purchasers and producers responsible for remitting assessments shall remit assessments and reports on a monthly or quarterly basis depending on the State or region in which the first purchasers or producers are located. The reporting period for each State and region shall be as follows:
Monthly
Quarterly
Arkansas
Alabama
Iowa
Delaware
Kansas
Florida
Kentucky
Georgia
Michigan
Illinois
Minnesota
Indiana
Missouri
Louisiana
Mississippi
Maryland
North Carolina
North Dakota
Tennessee
Nebraska
Wisconsin
New Jersey
Ohio
Oklahoma
Pennsylvania
South Carolina
South Dakota
Texas
Virginia
Eastern Region
Western Region
(c)
Reports.
Each first purchaser or producer responsible for remitting assessments shall make reports on forms made available by the United Soybean Board or on Qualified State Soybean Board forms which contain the information required in § 1220.241 and are approved by the Board. A first purchaser with multiple facilities or purchasing locations within a State shall have the option to submit a single, consolidated report specifying the combined volume of soybeans purchased or the net market value of all soybeans purchased
from the producers in the State. Reports shall be submitted with assessments due in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Remittances.
Each first purchaser or producer responsible for remitting assessments shall remit all assessments to the Qualified State Soybean Board, its designee, or the United Soybean Board. All assessments shall be remitted in the form of a check or money order payable to the order of the applicable Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board and shall be sent to the designated address not later than the last day of the month following the month or quarter in which the soybeans, processed soybeans, or soybean products were marketed and shall be accompanied by the reports required by paragraph (c) of this section. All remittances shall be received subject to collection and payment at par.
(e)
Receipt of Reports and Remittances.
The timeliness of receipt of reports and assessments by the Board or Qualified State Soybean Board shall be based on the applicable postmark date or the date actually received by the Board or the Qualified State Soybean Board whichever is earlier.
[57 FR 29439, July 2, 1992, as amended at 58 FR 40732, July 30, 1993; 60 FR 58500, Nov. 28, 1995; 68 FR 69954, Dec. 16, 2003]
§ 1220.313
Qualified State Soybean Boards.
The following State soybean promotion organizations shall be Qualified State Soybean Boards. First purchasers and producers responsible for remitting assessments located in States which have a Qualified State Soybean Board shall remit assessments accompanied by the required reports to the Qualified State Soybean Board in the State in which the first purchaser or producer responsible for remitting assessments is located.
(1) Alabama Soybean Producers Board
(2) Arkansas Soybean Promotion Board
(3) Delaware Soybean Board
(4) Florida Soybean Advisory Council
(5) Georgia Agricultural Commodity Commission for Soybeans
(6) Illinois Soybean Program Operating Board
(7) Iowa Soybean Promotion Board
(8) Indiana Soybean Development Council, Inc.
(9) Kansas Soybean Commission
(10) Kentucky Soybean Promotion Board
(11) Louisiana Soybean Promotion Board
(12) Maryland Soybean Board
(13) Soybean promotion Committee of Michigan
(14) Minnesota Soybean Research and Promotion Council
(15) Mississippi Soybean Promotion Board
(16) Missouri Soybean Merchandising Council
(17) Nebraska Soybean Development, Utilization, and Marketing Board
(18) New Jersey Soybean Board
(19) North Carolina Soybean Producers Association
(20) North Dakota Soybean Council
(21) Ohio Soybean Council Board of Trustees
(22) Oklahoma Soybean Commission
(23) Pennsylvania Soybean Board
(24) South Carolina Soybean Board
(25) South Dakota Soybean Research and Promotion Council
(26) Tennessee Soybean Promotion Board
(27) Texas Soybean Producers Board
(28) Virginia Soybean Board
(29) Wisconsin Soybean Marketing Board, Inc.
§ 1220.314
Document evidencing payment of assessments.
(a) Each first purchaser responsible for remitting an assessment to a Qualified State Soybean Board or the United Soybean Board is required to give to the producer from whom the first purchaser collected an assessment written evidence of payment of the assessment containing the following information:
(1) Name and address of the first purchaser.
(2) Name of producer who paid assessment.
(3) Number of bushels sold.
(4) Net market price.
(5) Total assessments paid by the producer.
(6) Date.
(7) State in which soybeans were grown.
(b) [Reserved]
§§ 1220.330-1220.332
[Reserved]
Subparts C-E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Procedures To Request a Referendum

# Source:
69 FR 13461, Mar. 23, 2004, unless otherwise noted.

# Definitions
§ 1220.600
Act.
Act
means the Soybean, Promotion, Research, and Consumer Information Act set forth in title XIX, subtitle E, of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101-624), and any amendments thereto.
§ 1220.601
Administrator, AMS.
Administrator, AMS,
means the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom there has been delegated or may be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1220.602
Administrator, FSA.
Administrator, FSA,
means the Administrator, of the Farm Service Agency, or any officer or employee of USDA to whom there has been delegated or may be delegated the authority to act in the Administrator's stead.
§ 1220.603
Farm Service Agency.
Farm Service Agency
also referred to as “FSA” means the Farm Service Agency of USDA.
§ 1220.604
Farm Service Agency County Committee.
Farm Service Agency County Committee,
also referred to as “FSA County Committee or COC,” means the group of persons within a county who are elected to act as the Farm Service Agency County Committee.
§ 1220.605
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director.
Farm Service Agency County Executive Director,
also referred to as “CED,” means the person employed by the FSA County Committee to execute the policies of the FSA County Committee and to be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the FSA county office, or the person acting in such capacity.
§ 1220.606
Farm Service Agency State Committee.
Farm Service Agency State Committee,
also referred to as “FSA State Committee,” means the group of persons within a State who are appointed by the Secretary to act as the Farm Service Agency State Committee.
§ 1220.607
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director.
Farm Service Agency State Executive Director,
also referred to as “SED,” means the person employed by the FSA State Committee to execute the policies of the FSA State Committee and to be responsible for the day-to-day operation of the FSA State office, or the person acting in such capacity.
§ 1220.608
Order.
Order
means the Soybean Promotion and Research Order.
§ 1220.609
Person.
Person
means any individual, group of individuals, partnership, corporation, association, cooperative, or any other legal entity.
§ 1220.610
Producer.
Producer
means any person engaged in the growing of soybeans in the United States who owns or who shares the ownership and risk of loss of such soybeans.
§ 1220.611
Public notice.
Public notice
means a notice published in the
Federal Register,
not later than 60 days prior to the last day of the Request for Referendum period, that provides information regarding the Request for Referendum period. Such notification shall include, but not be limited to explanation of producers' rights, procedures to request a referendum, the purpose, dates of the Request for Referendum period, location for conducting the Request for Referendum, and eligibility requirements. Additionally, the United Soybean Board is required to provide producers,
in writing, this same information during the same time period. Other pertinent information shall also be provided, without advertising expense, through press releases by State and county FSA offices and other appropriate Government offices, by means of newspapers, electronic media, county newsletters, and the like.
§ 1220.612
Representative period.
Representative period
means the period designated by the Secretary pursuant to section 1970 of the Act.
§ 1220.613
Secretary.
Secretary
means the Secretary of Agriculture of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) or any other officer or employee of USDA to whom there has been delegated or to whom there may be delegated the authority to act in the Secretary's stead.
§ 1220.614
Soybeans.
Soybeans
means all varieties of glycine max or glycine soja.
§ 1220.615
State and United States.
State and United States
include the 50 States of the United States of America, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

# Procedures
§ 1220.616
General.
An opportunity to request a referendum shall be provided to U.S. soybean producers to determine whether eligible producers favor the conduct of a referendum and the Request for Referendum shall be carried out in accordance with this subpart.
(a) The opportunity to request a referendum shall be provided at the county FSA offices.
(b) If the Secretary determines, based on results of the Request for Referendum that no less than 10 percent (not in excess of one-fifth of which may be producers in any one State) of all producers have requested a referendum on the Order, a referendum will be held within 1 year of that determination.
(c) If the Secretary determines, based on the results of the Request for Referendum, that the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section are not met, a referendum will not be conducted.
(d) For purposes of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the number of soybean producers in the United States will be determined by the Secretary using data provided by USDA.
[69 FR 13461, Mar. 23, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 9049, Mar. 2, 2009; 79 FR 12039, Mar. 4, 2014]
§ 1220.617
Supervision of the process for requesting a referendum.
The Administrator, AMS, shall be responsible for supervising the process of permitting producers to request a referendum in accordance with this subpart.
§ 1220.618
Eligibility.
(a)
Eligible producers.
Each person who was a producer and provides evidence that they or the producer entity they represent has paid an assessment on soybeans during the representative period is provided the opportunity to request a referendum. Each producer entity is entitled to only one request.
(b)
Proxy Registration.
Proxy registration is not authorized, except that an officer or employee of a corporate producer, or any guardian, administrator, executor, or trustee of a producer's estate, or an authorized representative of any eligible producer entity (other than an individual producer), such as a corporation or partnership, may request a referendum on behalf of that entity. Any individual who requests a referendum on behalf of any producer entity, shall certify that he or she is authorized by such entity to take such action.
(c)
Joint and group interest.
A group of individuals, such as members of a family, joint tenants, tenants in common, a partnership, owners of community property, or a corporation engaged in the production of soybeans as a producer entity shall be entitled to make only one request for a referendum; provided, however, that any individual member of a group who is an eligible producer separate from the group may request a referendum separately.
§ 1220.619
Time and Place for Requesting a Referendum.
(a) The opportunity to request a referendum shall be provided during a 4-
week period beginning and ending on a date determined by the Secretary. Eligible persons shall have the opportunity to request a referendum by following the procedures in § 1220.622 during the normal business hours of each county FSA office.
(b) Producers can determine the location of county FSA offices by contacting the nearest county FSA office in their State or by an online search of FSA Web sites.
(c) Each eligible person shall request a referendum in the county FSA office where FSA maintains and processes the producer's, corporation's, or other entities administrative farm records. For the producer, corporation, or other entity not participating in FSA programs, the opportunity to request a referendum would be provided at the county FSA office serving the county where the producer, corporation, or other legal entity owns or rents land. An individual or authorized representative of a corporation who grows soybeans in more than one county would request a referendum in the county FSA office where the individual or corporation or other entity does most of its business.
[69 FR 13461, Mar. 23, 2004, as amended at 79 FR 12039, Mar. 4, 2014]
§ 1220.620
Facilities.
Each county FSA office will provide:
(a) A polling place that is well known and readily accessible to producers in the county and that is equipped and arranged so that each person can complete and submit their request in secret without coercion, duress, or interference of any sort whatsoever, and
(b) A holding container of sufficient size so arranged that no request can be read or removed without breaking seals on the container.
§ 1220.621
Certification and request form.
Form LS-51-1 shall be used to request a referendum and certify producer eligibility. The form does not require a “yes” or “no” vote. Individual producers and representatives of other producer entities should read the form carefully. By completing and signing the form, the individual simultaneously certifies eligibility and requests that a referendum be conducted.
§ 1220.622
Certification and request procedures.
(a) To request that a referendum be conducted, each eligible producer shall, during the Request for Referendum period, be provided the opportunity to request a referendum during a specified period announced by the Secretary.
(1) Each eligible producer shall be required to complete form LS-51-1 in its entirety and sign it. The producer must legibly print his/her name and, if applicable, the producer entity represented, address, county, and telephone number. The producer must read the certification statement on form LS-51-1 and sign it certifying that:
(i) The person or the producer entity they represent was a producer of soybeans during the representative period;
(ii) The individual requesting a referendum on behalf of a corporation or other entity is authorized to do so; and
(iii) The individual has submitted only one request for a referendum unless they are also an authorized representative for another eligible corporation or other entity.
(2) The producer, corporation, or other entity must also provide documentation, such as a sales receipt, showing that the producer, corporation, or other entity has paid an assessment on soybeans during the representative period.
(3) Only a completed and signed form LS-51-1 accompanied by documentation showing that soybean assessments were paid during the representative period shall be considered a valid request for a referendum.
