A statutory formula based on the cost of money to the Federal government determines the interest rate on direct loans. SBA publishes the rate periodically in the
Federal Register.
§ 120.214
What conditions apply for variable interest rates?
A Lender may use a variable rate of interest for guaranteed loans under the following conditions:
(a)
Frequency.
The first change may occur on the first calendar day of the month following initial disbursement, using the base rate (see paragraph (c) of this section) in effect on the first business day of the month. After that, changes may occur no more often than monthly.
(b)
Range of fluctuation.
The amount of fluctuation shall be equal to the movement in the base rate. The difference between the initial rate and the ceiling rate may be no greater than the difference between the initial rate and the floor rate.
(c)
Base rate.
The base rate will be one of the following: the prime rate or the Optional Peg Rate. The prime rate will be that which is in effect on the first business day of the month, as printed in a national financial newspaper published each business day. SBA may from time to time permit the use of alternative base rate options that are widely adopted for small business commercial lending and will publish notice of such alternative options in the
Federal Register.
SBA publishes the Optional Peg Rate quarterly in the
Federal Register
.
(d)
Maximum Allowable Variable Interest Rates.
The maximum allowable variable interest rates are set forth below, with the initial maximum allowable rate for the loan determined as of the date SBA receives the loan application:
(1) For all 7(a) loans of $50,000 and less, the interest rate shall not exceed six and a half (6.5) percentage points over the base rate;
(2) For all 7(a) loans of more than $50,000 and up to and including $250,000, the maximum interest rate shall not exceed six (6.0) percentage points over the base rate;
(3) For all 7(a) loans of more than $250,000 and up to and including $350,000, the maximum interest rate shall not exceed four and a half (4.5) percentage points over the base rate; and
(4) For all 7(a) loans of more than $350,000, the maximum interest rate shall not exceed three (3.0) percentage points over the base rate.
(e)
Amortization.
Initial amortization of principal and interest may be recomputed and reassessed as interest rates fluctuate, as directed by SBA. With prior approval of SBA, the Lender may use certain other amortization methods, except that SBA does not allow balloon payments.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 67101, Nov. 13, 2008; 87 FR 38908, June 30, 2022]

# Fees for Guaranteed Loans
§ 120.220
Fees that Lender pays SBA.
A Lender must pay a guaranty fee to SBA for each loan it makes. If the guarantee fee is not paid, SBA may terminate the guarantee. Acceptance of the guaranty fee by SBA does not waive any right of SBA arising from a Lender's negligence, misconduct or violation of any provision of these regulations or the guaranty agreement or other loan documents.
(a)
Amount of guaranty fee
—(1)
In general.
Except to the extent paragraph (a)(2) of this section applies, for a loan with a maturity of twelve (12) months or less, the guarantee fee which the Lender must pay to SBA is one-quarter (
1/4
) of one percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan. For a loan with a maturity of more than twelve (12) months, the guarantee fee is payable as follows:
(i) Not more than 2 percent of the guaranteed portion of a loan if the total amount of the loan is not more than $150,000;
(ii) Not more than 3 percent of the guaranteed portion of a loan if the total amount of the loan is more than $150,000 but not more than $700,000;
(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section, not more than 3.5 percent of the guaranteed portion of a loan if the total amount of the loan is more than $700,000; and
(iv) An additional 0.25 percent of the guaranteed portion of a loan if the total amount of the loan is more than $1,000,000.
(2)
For loans approved October 1, 2002, through September 30, 2004.
For a loan with a maturity of twelve (12) months or less, the guarantee fee which the Lender must pay to SBA is one-quarter (
1/4
) of one percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan. For a loan with a maturity of more than twelve (12) months, the guarantee fee is:
(i) 1 percent of the guaranteed portion of the loan if the total loan amount is not more than $150,000,
(ii) 2.5 percent of the guaranteed portion of a loan if the total loan amount is more than $150,000, but not more than $700,000, and
(iii) 3.5 percent of the guaranteed portion if the total loan amount is more than $700,000.
(3)
For loans approved under section 7(a)(31) of the Small Business Act (SBA Express loans) to veterans and/or the spouse of a veteran.
SBA will not collect a guarantee fee in connection with a loan made under section 7(a)(31) of the Small Business Act to a business owned and controlled by a veteran or the spouse of a veteran.
(b)
When the guaranty fee is payable.
For a loan with a maturity of twelve (12) months or less, the Lender must pay the guaranty fee to SBA electronically within 10 business days after receiving SBA loan approval. The Lender may only charge the Borrower for the fee after the Lender pays the guaranty fee. For a loan with a maturity in excess of twelve (12) months, the Lender must pay the guaranty fee to SBA electronically within 90 days after SBA gives its loan approval. The Lender may charge the Borrower the fee after the Lender has made the first disbursement of the loan. The Borrower may use the loan proceeds to pay the guaranty fee. However, the first disbursement must not be made solely or primarily to pay the guaranty fee.
(c)
Refund of guaranty fee.
For a loan with a maturity of more than twelve (12) months, SBA will refund the guaranty fee if the Lender has not made any disbursement and the lender requests in writing the refund and cancellation of the SBA guaranty.
(d)
Lender's retention of portion of guaranty fee.
With respect to a loan with a maturity of more than twelve (12) months, where the total loan amount is no more than $150,000 Lender may retain not more than 25 percent of the guaranty fee.
(e) If the guarantee fee is not paid, SBA may terminate the guarantee. The Borrower may use working capital loan proceeds to reimburse the Lender for the guarantee fee. Acceptance of the guarantee fee by SBA shall not waive any right of SBA arising from the Lender's misconduct or violation of any provision of this part, the guarantee agreement or other loan documents.
(f)
Lender's annual service fee payable to SBA
—(1)
In general.
Except to the extent paragraph (f)(2) of this section applies, the lender shall pay SBA an annual service fee in an amount not to exceed 0.55 percent of the outstanding balance of the guaranteed portion of each loan. The service fee cannot be charged to the Borrower. SBA may institute a late fee charge for delinquent payments of the annual service fee to cover administrative costs associated with collecting delinquent fees.
(2)
For loans approved from October 1, 2002, through September 30, 2004.
The lender shall pay SBA an annual service fee equal to 0.25 percent of the outstanding balance of the guaranteed portion of each loan. The service fee cannot be charged to the Borrower. SBA may institute a late fee charge for delinquent payments of the annual service fee to cover administrative costs associated with collecting delinquent fees.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996; 61 FR 11471, Mar. 20, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 51680, Aug. 28, 2003; 68 FR 56554, Oct. 1, 2003; 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011; 82 FR 39502, Aug. 21, 2017; 87 FR 38908, June 30, 2022; 88 FR 21899, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.221
Fees and expenses that the Lender may collect from a loan applicant or Borrower.
Unless otherwise allowed by SBA Loan Program Requirements, the
Lender may charge and collect from the applicant or Borrower only the following fees and expenses:
(a)
Service and packaging fees.
The Lender may charge an applicant reasonable fees (customary for similar Lenders in the geographic area where the loan is being made) for packaging and other services. The Lender must advise the applicant in writing that the applicant is not required to obtain or pay for unwanted services. The applicant is responsible for deciding whether fees are reasonable. SBA may review these fees at any time. Lender must refund any such fee considered unreasonable by SBA.
(b)
Extraordinary servicing.
Subject to prior written SBA approval, if all or part of a loan will have extraordinary servicing needs, the Lender may charge the applicant a service fee not to exceed 2 percent per year on the outstanding balance of the part requiring special servicing.
(c)
Out-of-pocket expenses.
The Lender may collect from the applicant necessary out-of-pocket expenses such as filing or recording fees.
(d)
Late payment fee.
The Lender may charge the Borrower a late payment fee not to exceed 5 percent of the regular loan payment.
(e)
Legal services.
Lender may charge the Borrower for legal services rendered on an hourly basis.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 7648, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020]
§ 120.222
Prohibition on sharing premiums for secondary market sales.
The Lender or its Associates may not share any premium received from the sale of an SBA guaranteed loan in the secondary market with a Service Provider, packager, or other loan-referral source.
[82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 7648, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020; 87 FR 38908, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.223
Subsidy recoupment fee payable to SBA by Borrower.
(a) The subsidy recoupment fee is payable to SBA when:
(1) Loan has a maturity of 15 years or more.
(2) Borrower makes a voluntary prepayment (or several prepayments in the aggregate) during any one of the first three successive 12 month periods following the first disbursement of the loan. Prepayment is defined as a payment of principal in excess of the amount due according to the amortization schedule.
(3) The prepayment (or several prepayments in the aggregate) is more than 25 percent of the highest outstanding principal balance of the loan in any one of the first three successive 12 month periods following the first disbursement.
(b) When all the conditions above exist, the following subsidy recoupment fees apply:
(1) If the prepayment is made during the first 12 month period after first disbursement, the charge is 5 percent of the total amount of all prepayments made during such period;
(2) If the prepayment is made during the second 12 month period after first disbursement, the charge is 3 percent of the total amount of all prepayments made during that period; and
(3) If the prepayment is made during the third 12 month period after first disbursement, the charge is 1 percent of the total amount of all prepayments made during that period.
[68 FR 51680, Aug. 28, 2003]

# Subpart C—Special Purpose Loans
§ 120.300
Statutory authority.
Congress has authorized several special purpose programs in various subsections of section 7(a) of the Act. Generally, 7(a) loan policies, eligibility requirements and credit criteria enumerated in subpart B of this part apply to these programs. The sections of this subpart prescribe the special conditions applying to each special purpose program. As with other business loans, special purpose loans are available only to the extent funded by annual appropriations.

# Disabled Assistance Loan Program (DAL)
§ 120.310
What assistance is available for the disabled?
Section 7(a)(10) of the Act authorizes SBA to guarantee or make direct loans to the disabled. SBA distinguishes two kinds of assistance:
(a)
DAL-1.
DAL-1 Financial Assistance is available to non-profit public or private organizations for disabled individuals that employ such individuals; or
(b)
DAL-2.
DAL-2 Financial Assistance is available to:
(1) Small businesses wholly owned by disabled individuals; and
(2) Disabled individuals to establish, acquire, or operate a small business.
§ 120.311
Definitions.
(a)
Organization for the disabled
means one which:
(1) Is organized under federal or state law to operate in the interest of disabled individuals;
(2) Is non-profit;
(3) Employs disabled individuals for seventy-five percent of the time needed to produce commodities or services for sale; and
(4) Complies with occupational and safety standards prescribed by the Department of Labor.
(b)
Disabled individual
means a person who has a permanent physical, mental or emotional impairment, defect, ailment, disease or disability which limits the type of employment for which the person would otherwise be qualified.
§ 120.312
DAL-1 use of proceeds and other program conditions.
(a) DAL-1 applicants must submit appropriate documents to establish program eligibility.
(b) Generally, applicants may use loan proceeds for any 7(a) loan purposes. Loan proceeds may not be used:
(1) To purchase or construct facilities if construction grants and mortgage assistance are available from another Federal source; or
(2) For supportive services (expenses incurred by a DAL-1 organization to subsidize wages of low producers, health and rehabilitation services, management, training, education, and housing of disabled workers).
(c) SBA does not consider a DAL-1 organization to have a conflict of interest if one or more of its Associates is an Associate of the Lender.
§ 120.313
DAL-2 use of proceeds and other program conditions.
(a) The DAL-2 loan proceeds may be used for any 7(a) loan purposes.
(b) An applicant may use DAL-2 loan proceeds to acquire an eligible small business without complying with the change of ownership conditions in § 120.202.
(c) A DAL-2 applicant must submit evidence from a physician, psychiatrist, or other qualified professional as to the permanent nature of the disability and the limitation it places on the applicant.
§ 120.314
Resolving doubts about creditworthiness.
For the purpose of the DAL Program, SBA shall resolve doubts concerning the creditworthiness of an applicant in favor of the applicant. However, the applicant must present satisfactory evidence of repayment ability. Personal guarantees of Associates are not required for purposes of DAL-1 financial assistance.
§ 120.315
Interest rate and loan limit.
The interest rate on direct DAL loans is three percent. There is an administrative limit of $150,000 on a direct DAL loan.

# Businesses Owned by Low Income Individuals
§ 120.320
Policy.
Section 7(a)(11) of the Act authorizes SBA to guarantee or make direct loans to establish, preserve or strengthen small business concerns:
(a) Located in an area having high unemployment according to the Department of Labor;
(b) Located in an area in which a high percentage of individuals have a low income inadequate to satisfy basic family needs; and
(c) More than 50 percent owned by low income individuals.

# Energy Conservation
§ 120.330
Who is eligible for an energy conservation loan?
SBA may make or guarantee loans to assist a small business to design, engineer, manufacture, distribute, market, install, or service energy devices or techniques designed to conserve the Nation's energy resources.
§ 120.331
What devices or techniques are eligible for a loan?
Eligible energy conservation devices or techniques include:
(a) Solar thermal equipment;
(b) Photovoltaic cells and related equipment;
(c) A product or service which increases the energy efficiency of existing equipment, methods of operation or systems which use fossil fuels, and which is on the Energy Conservation Measures list of the Secretary of Energy;
(d) Equipment producing energy from wood, biological waste, grain or other biomass energy sources;
(e) Equipment for cogeneration of energy, district heating or production of energy from industrial waste;
(f) Hydroelectric power equipment;
(g) Wind energy conversion equipment; and
(h) Engineering, architectural, consulting, or other professional services necessary or appropriate for any of the devices or techniques in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section.
§ 120.332
What are the eligible uses of proceeds?
(a)
Acquire property.
The Borrower may use the loan proceeds to acquire land necessary for imminent plant construction, buildings, machinery, equipment, furniture, fixtures, facilities, supplies, and material needed to accomplish any of the eligible program purposes in § 120.330.
(b)
Research and development.
Up to 30% of loan proceeds may be used for research and development:
(1) Of an existing product or service; or
(2) A new product or service.
(c)
Working capital.
The Borrower may use proceeds for working capital for entering or expanding in the energy conservation market.
§ 120.333
Are there any special credit criteria?
In addition to regular credit evaluation criteria, SBA shall weigh the greater risk associated with energy projects. SBA shall consider such factors as quality of the product or service, technical qualifications of the applicant's management, sales projections, and financial status.

# Export Working Capital Program (EWCP)
§ 120.340
What is the Export Working Capital Program?
Under the EWCP, SBA guarantees short-term working capital loans made by participating lenders to exporters (section 7(a)(14) of the Act). Loan maturities may be for up to three years with annual renewals. Proceeds can be used only to finance export transactions. Loans can be for single or multiple export transactions. An export transaction is the production and payment associated with a sale of goods or services to a foreign buyer. The maximum loan amount for any one EWCP loan is $5,000,000. EWCP loans shall receive a guaranty of 90 percent, not to exceed $4,500,000.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.341
Who is eligible?
In addition to the eligibility criteria applicable to all 7(a) loans, an applicant must be in business for one full year at the time of application, but not necessarily in the exporting business. SBA may waive this requirement if the applicant has sufficient export trade experience or other managerial experience.
§ 120.342
What are eligible uses of proceeds?
Loan proceeds may be used:
(a) To acquire inventory;
(b) To pay the manufacturing costs of goods for export;
(c) To purchase goods or services for export;
(d) To support standby letters of credit;
(e) For pre-shipment working capital; and
(f) For post-shipment foreign accounts receivable financing.
§ 120.343
Collateral.
A Borrower must give SBA a first security interest sufficient to cover 100 percent of the EWCP loan amount (such as insured accounts receivable or letters of credit). Collateral must be located in the United States, its territories or possessions.
§ 120.344
Unique requirements of the EWCP.
(a) An applicant must submit cash flow projections to support the need for the loan and the ability to repay. After the loan is made, the loan recipient must submit continual progress reports.
(b) SBA does not limit the amount of extraordinary servicing fees, as referenced in § 120.221(b), under the EWCP.
(c) SBA does not prescribe the interest rates for the EWCP, but will monitor these rates for reasonableness.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 85 FR 7648, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020]

# International Trade Loans
§ 120.345
Policy.
Section 7(a)(16) of the Act authorizes SBA to guarantee loans to small businesses that are:
(a) Engaged or preparing to engage in international trade; or
(b) Adversely affected by import competition.
§ 120.346
Eligibility.
(a) An applicant must establish that:
(1) The loan proceeds will significantly expand an existing export market or develop new export markets; or
(2) The applicant business is adversely affected by import competition; and
(3) The loan will improve the applicant's competitive position.
(b) The applicant must have a business plan reasonably supporting its projected export sales.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.347
Use of proceeds.
The Borrower may use loan proceeds to acquire, construct, renovate, modernize, improve, or expand facilities and equipment to be used in the United States to produce goods or services involved in international trade, and to develop and penetrate foreign markets. The Borrower may also use proceeds in the refinancing of existing indebtedness that is not structured with reasonable terms and conditions, including any debt that qualifies for refinancing under 7(a) Loan Program Requirements, and to provide working capital.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.348
Amount of guarantee.
The maximum loan amount for any one International Trade (IT) loan is $5,000,000. IT loans may receive a maximum guaranty of 90 percent or $4,500,000, except that the maximum guaranty amount for any working capital component of an IT loan is limited to $4,000,000. To the extent that the Borrower has a separate EWCP loan or any other 7(a) loan for working capital, the guaranty amount for the other loan is counted against the $4,000,000 guaranty limit for the IT loan.
[76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.349
Collateral.
Each IT loan must be secured either by a first lien position or first mortgage on the property or equipment financed by the IT loan or on other assets of the Borrower, except that an IT loan may be secured by a second lien position on the property or equipment financed by the IT loan or on other assets of the Borrower, if the SBA determines the second lien position provides adequate assurance of the payment of the IT loan.
[76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]

# Qualified Employee Trusts (ESOP)
§ 120.350
Policy.
Section 7(a)(15) of the Act authorizes SBA to guarantee a loan to a:
(a) Qualified employee trust (“ESOP”) to:
(1) Help finance the growth of its employer's small business; or
(2) Purchase ownership or voting control of the employer; and a
(b) Small business concern, if the proceeds from the loan are only used to make a loan to a qualified employee trust that results in the qualified employee trust owning at least 51 percent of the small business concern.
[87 FR 38908, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.351
Definitions.
All terms specific to ESOPs have the same definition for purposes of this section as in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Code (title 26 of the United States Code) or regulations (26 CFR chapter I).
§ 120.352
Use of proceeds.
Loan proceeds may be used for:
(a)
Qualified employee trust.
A qualified employee trust may use loan proceeds for two purposes:
(1)
Qualified employer securities.
A qualified employee trust may relend loan proceeds to the employer by purchasing qualified employer securities. The small business concern may use these funds for any general 7(a) purpose.
(2)
Control of employer.
A qualified employee trust may use loan proceeds to purchase a controlling interest (51 percent) in the employer. Ownership and control must vest in the trust by the time the loan is repaid.
(b)
Small business concern.
A small business concern may only use loan proceeds to make a loan to a qualified employee trust that results in the qualified employee trust owning at least 51 percent of the small business concern.
[87 FR 38908, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.353
Eligibility.
SBA may assist a qualified employee trust (or equivalent trust) that meets the requirements and conditions for an ESOP prescribed in all applicable IRS, Treasury and Department of Labor (DOL) regulations. In addition, the following conditions apply:
(a) The small business must provide the funds needed by the trust to repay the loan; and
(b) The small business must provide adequate collateral.
§ 120.354
Creditworthiness.
In determining repayment ability, SBA shall not consider the personal assets of the employee-owners of the trust. SBA shall consider the earnings history and projected future earnings of the employer small business. SBA may consider the business and management experience of the employee-owners.

# Veterans Loan Program
§ 120.360
Which veterans are eligible?
SBA may guarantee or make direct loans to a small business 51 percent owned by one or more of the following eligible veterans:
(a) Vietnam-era veterans who served for a period of more than 180 days between August 5, 1964, and May 7, 1975, and were discharged other than dishonorably;
(b) Disabled veterans of any era with a minimum compensable disability of 30 percent; or
(c) A veteran of any era who was discharged for disability.
§ 120.361
Other conditions of eligibility.
(a) Management and daily operations of the business must be directed by one or more of the veteran owners whose veteran status was used to qualify for the loan.
(b) This direct loan program is available only if private sector financing and guaranteed loans are not available.
(c) A veteran may qualify only once for this program on a direct loan basis.

# Loans to Participants in the 8(
a

# ) Program
§ 120.375
Policy.
Section 7(a)(20) of the Act authorizes SBA to provide direct (unilaterally or together with Lenders) or guaranteed loans to firms participating in the 8(a) Program.
§ 120.376
Special requirements.
The following special conditions apply (otherwise, 7(a) loan eligibility criteria apply):
(a) The Associate Administrator for Business Development may waive the direct loan administrative ceiling of $150,000, and raise it to $750,000.
(b) The SBA portion of a guaranteed loan must not exceed $750,000.
(c) The interest rate on a guaranteed loan shall be the same as on 7(a) guaranteed business loans. The interest rate on a direct loan shall be one percent less than on a regular direct loan.
(d) For a direct loan or SBA's portion of an immediate participation loan, SBA shall subordinate its security interest on all collateral to other debt of the applicant.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009]
§ 120.377
Use of proceeds.
The loan proceeds shall not be used for debt refinancing. Only a manufacturing concern may use loan proceeds for working capital.

# CapLines Program
§ 120.390
Revolving credit.
(a) CapLines finances eligible small businesses' short-term, revolving and non-revolving working-capital needs. SBA regulations governing the 7(a) loan program govern business loans made under this program. The maximum guaranteed amount and the maximum loan amount are the same under CapLines as other 7(a) loans, as stated in § 120.151.
(b) CapLines proceeds can be used to finance the cyclical, recurring, or other identifiable short-term operating capital needs of small businesses. Proceeds can be used to create current assets or used to provide financing against the current assets that already exist.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]

# Builders Loan Program
§ 120.391
What is the Builders Loan Program?
Under section 7(a)(9) of the Act, SBA may make or guarantee loans to finance small general contractors to construct or rehabilitate residential or commercial property for resale. This program provides an exception under specified conditions to the general rule against financing investment property. “Construct” and “rehabilitate” mean only work done on-site to the structure, utility connections and landscaping.
§ 120.392
Who may apply?
A construction contractor or home-builder with a past history of profitable construction or rehabilitation projects of comparable type and size may apply. An applicant may subcontract the work. Subcontracts in excess of $25,000 may require 100 percent payment and performance bonds.
§ 120.393
Are there special application requirements?
(a) An applicant must submit documentation from:
(1) A mortgage lender indicating that permanent mortgage money is available to qualified purchasers to buy such properties;
(2) A real estate broker indicating that a market exists for the proposed building and that it will be compatible with its neighborhood; and
(3) An architect, appraiser or engineer agreeing to make inspections and certifications to support interim disbursements.
(b) The Borrower may substitute a letter from a qualified Lender for one or more of the letters.
§ 120.394
What are the eligible uses of proceeds?
A Borrower must use the loan proceeds solely to acquire, construct or substantially rehabilitate an individual residential or commercial building for sale. “Substantial” means rehabilitation expenses of more than one-third of the purchase price or fair market value at the time of the application. A Borrower may use up to 33 percent of the proceeds to acquire land, and up to 5 percent for community improvements such as curbs and sidewalks.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.395
What is SBA's collateral position?
SBA will require a lien on the building which must be in no less than a second position.
§ 120.396
What is the term of the loan?
The loan must not exceed sixty (60) months plus the estimated time to complete construction or rehabilitation.
§ 120.397
Are there any special restrictions?
The borrower must not use loan proceeds to purchase vacant land for possible future construction or to operate or hold rental property for future rehabilitation. SBA may allow rental of the property only if the rental will improve the ability to sell the property. The sale must be a legitimate change of ownership.

# America's Recovery Capital (Business Stabilization) Loan Program—ARC Loan Program
§ 120.398
America's Recovery Capital (ARC) Loan Program.
(a)
Purpose.
The purpose of the ARC Loan Program is to enable SBA to guarantee certain loans to viable small businesses that are experiencing immediate financial hardship. Loans made under this loan program are referred to as ARC Loans and are subject to the requirements set forth in this Part for 7(a) loans except as noted in this section.
(b)
Definitions.
(1) (i)
Eligible Borrower
is a small business concern as defined in Section 3 of the Small Business Act and § 120.100. Eligible Borrower does not include:
(A) Ineligible small businesses as listed in § 120.110; and
(B) Small business concerns with the following primary industry North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) codes:
(
1
) 713210 (Casinos (Except Casino Hotels));
(
2
) 721120 (Casino Hotels);
(
3
) 713290 (Other Gambling Industries);
(
4
) 713910 (Golf Courses and Country Clubs); and
(
5
) 712130 (Zoos and Botanical Gardens).
(ii) Applications submitted by small business concerns with a primary industry NAICS code of 713940 (Fitness and Recreational Sports Centers) will be identified and reviewed by SBA to determine eligibility in accordance with the statutory restriction on assistance to swimming pools.
(2)
Going Concern
is a small business concern actively engaging in business with the expectation of indefinite continuance.
(3)
Qualifying Small Business Loan
is a loan previously made to an Eligible Borrower for any of the purposes set forth in § 120.120 and not for any of the purposes set forth in § 120.130 or 120.160(d). Qualifying Small Business Loans may include credit card obligations, capital leases for major equipment and vehicles, notes payable to vendors or suppliers, loans in the first lien position made by commercial lenders in connection with the Development Company Loan Program (504), home equity loans used to finance business operations, other loans to small businesses made without an SBA guaranty, and loans made by or with an SBA guaranty on or after February 17, 2009. Loans made or guaranteed by SBA before February 17, 2009 are not Qualifying Small Business Loans for the purposes of the ARC Loan Program. A Qualifying Small Business Loan may not be used as the basis for more than one ARC Loan but ARC Loans may be used to pay multiple Qualifying Small Business Loans.
(4)
Viable small business
is a small business that is a Going Concern but which is having difficulty making periodic payments of principal and interest on Qualifying Small Business Loan(s) and/or meeting operating expenses of the business although it can reasonably demonstrate its projected continued operation for a reasonable period beyond the six month period of payment assistance with an ARC Loan.
(c)
Period of program.
The ARC Loan Program is authorized through September 30, 2010, or until appropriated funds are exhausted, whichever is sooner.
(d)
Use of proceeds.
Loans made under the ARC Loan Program are for the sole purpose of making periodic payments of principal and interest (including default interest), in full or in part, for up to six (6) months, on one or more existing Qualifying Small Business Loans. ARC Loan proceeds cannot be used to
make payments on loans made or guaranteed by SBA prior to February 17, 2009.
(e)
Loan terms.
(1)
Guaranty percentage.
ARC Loans are 100% guaranteed by SBA.
(2)
Maximum loan size.
An ARC Loan may not exceed $35,000.
(3)
Interest rate.
The interest rate for ARC Loans will be published by SBA in the
Federal Register.
(4)
Loan maturity.
An ARC Loan may be made with a maturity of up to six and one-half years.
(5)
Disbursement period.
The disbursement period for an ARC Loan is up to six consecutive months.
(6)
Loan payments.
(i)
Borrower's payments.
The borrower will be responsible for all principal payments.
(ii)
Payment of interest by SBA.
SBA will make periodic interest payments to the lender on ARC Loans. Interest will accrue only until the date 120 days after the earliest uncured payment default on the ARC Loan. However, the amount paid by SBA on a defaulted ARC Loan, when it honors its guarantee, will be adjusted to reconcile for any overpayments or underpayments of interest previously paid to the Lender. Interim adjustments to interest paid by SBA to lenders may be made during the term of the ARC Loan and interest payments due the Lender will be adjusted to accommodate the interim interest adjustments.
(iii)
Deferral period.
No principal repayment is required during the disbursement period or for 12 months following the final loan disbursement.
(iv)
Repayment period.
The borrower will be required to pay the loan principal over five years beginning in the 13th month following the final loan disbursement. The ARC Loan balance will be fully amortized over the five year repayment period. Balloon payments may not be required by lenders. The borrower may prepay all or a portion of the principal during the life of the loan without penalty.
(f)
Number of ARC Loans per small business.
No small business may obtain more than one ARC Loan, but the proceeds of the ARC loan may be used to pay more than one Qualifying Small Business Loan.
(g)
Personal guarantees.
Holders of at least a 20 percent ownership interest in the borrower generally must guarantee the ARC Loan.
(h)
Collateral.
SBA requires each lender to follow the collateral policies and procedures that it has established and implemented for similarly-sized non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. The lender's collateral policies must be commercially reasonable and prudent. Lenders will certify that the collateral policies applied to the ARC Loan meet this standard. Lenders may charge borrowers the direct cost of securing and liquidating collateral for ARC Loans. SBA will reimburse Lenders for the direct cost of liquidating collateral that are not reimbursed by the borrower in the event of default. Reimbursement of the direct costs of liquidation by SBA to the Lender is limited to the amount of the recovery received on the ARC Loan.
(i)
Credit criteria.
To be approved for an ARC Loan, the applicant must be a creditworthy small business with a reasonable expectation of repayment, taking into consideration the following:
(1) Character, reputation, and credit history of the applicant (and the Operating Company, if applicable) and its Associates;
(2) Experience and depth of management;
(3) Strength of the business;
(4) Past earnings, current earnings, and projected cash flow; and
(5) Ability to repay the loan with earnings from the business.
(j)
Statement of hardship.
In addition to the certifications required for 7(a) loans generally, ARC Loan recipients must submit a statement certifying that they are experiencing immediate financial hardship and provide documentation to support the certification.
(k)
Loan application.
The provisions of § 120.191 do not apply for ARC Loans. A lender making an ARC Loan will provide an application with information on the small business that includes the nature and history of the business, current and historical financial statements (or tax returns), and other information that SBA may require.
(l)
Preferences and refinancing.
A lender may make an ARC Loan to an Eligible Borrower that intends to use the
proceeds of the ARC Loan to make periodic payments of principal and interest on a Qualifying Small Business Loan that is owned or serviced by that same lender. The provisions of §§ 120.10, 120.536(a)(2) and 120.925 with regard to Preference for repayments without prior SBA approval do not apply to ARC Loans. The provisions of § 120.201 restricting refinancing also do not apply to ARC Loans.
(m)
Loan fees.
Neither the lender nor SBA shall impose any fees or direct costs on a borrower of an ARC Loan, except that lenders may charge borrowers for the direct costs of securing and liquidating collateral for the ARC Loan. Fees include, but are not limited to, points, bonus points, prepayment penalties, brokerage fees, fees for processing, origination, or application, and out of pocket expenses (other than the direct costs of securing and liquidating collateral). SBA will not impose any fees on a lender making an ARC Loan.
(n)
Lender reporting.
Lenders shall report on its ARC Loans in accordance with requirements established by SBA from time to time for 7a loans and loans made under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
(o)
Loan servicing.
Each originating lender shall service all of its ARC Loans in accordance with the existing practices and procedures that the Lender uses for its non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. In all circumstances, such practices and procedures must be commercially reasonable and consistent with prudent lending standards and in accordance with SBA Loan Program Requirements as defined in § 120.10. SBA's prior written consent is required for servicing actions that may have significant exposure implications for SBA. SBA may require written notice of other servicing actions it considers necessary for portfolio management purposes.
(p)
Liquidations.
Each Lender shall be responsible for liquidating any defaulted ARC Loan originated by the Lender. ARC Loans will be liquidated in accordance with the existing practices and procedures that the Lender uses for its non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. In all circumstances, such practices and procedures must be commercially reasonable and consistent with prudent lending standards and in accordance with SBA Loan Program Requirements as defined in Section 120.10. Loans with de minimis value may, at the Lender's request and with SBA's approval, be liquidated by SBA or its agent(s). Significant liquidation actions taken on ARC Loans must be documented. The reimbursement of liquidation related fees by SBA to the Lender is limited to the amount of the recovery on the ARC Loan.
(q)
Purchase requests.
Any purchase request to SBA to honor its guaranty on a defaulted ARC Loan shall be made by the originating lender. Lenders may request SBA to purchase an ARC Loan when there has been an uncured payment default exceeding 60 days or when the borrower has declared bankruptcy. SBA requires Lenders to submit loans for purchase no later than 120 days after the earliest uncured payment default on the ARC Loan. Additionally, SBA may honor its guarantee and require a Lender to submit an ARC Loan for purchase at any time. Except as noted above, the Lender is required to complete all recovery actions on the ARC Loan after purchase.
(r)
Prohibition on secondary market sales and loan participations.
A lender may not sell an ARC loan into the secondary market nor may a lender participate a portion of an ARC loan with another lender.
(s)
Loan volume.
SBA reserves the right to allocate loan volume under the ARC Loan Program among Lenders (as defined in § 120.10).
(t)
Delegated authority.
SBA may allow lenders to use their delegated authority to process ARC Loans.
(u)
Personal resources test.
The personal resources test provisions of § 120.102 do not apply to ARC Loans.
(v)
Statutory loan limit.
The provisions of § 120.151 do not apply to ARC Loans.
[74 FR 27247, June 9, 2009]

# Subpart D—Lenders
§ 120.400
Loan Guarantee Agreements.
SBA may enter into a Loan Guarantee Agreement with a Lender to make deferred participation (guaranteed) loans. Such an agreement does not obligate SBA to participate in any
specific proposed loan that a Lender may submit. The existence of a Loan Guarantee Agreement does not limit SBA's rights to deny a specific loan or establish general policies.
See also
§ 120.440(c) concerning Supplemental Guarantee Agreements.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]

# Participation Criteria
§ 120.410
Requirements for all participating Lenders.
A Lender must:
(a) Have a continuing ability to evaluate, process, close, disburse, service, liquidate and litigate small business loans including, but not limited to:
(1) Holding sufficient permanent capital to support SBA lending activities (for SBA Lenders with a Federal Financial Institution Regulator, meeting capital requirements for an adequately capitalized financial institution is considered sufficient permanent capital to support SBA lending activities; and for SBLCs and NFRLs, meeting their respective minimum capital requirement); and
(2) Maintaining satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The 7(a) Lender's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures (like default rate, purchase rate and loss rate), loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission);
(b) Be open to the public for the making of such loans (not be a financing subsidiary, engaged primarily in financing the operations of an affiliate);
(c) Have continuing good character and reputation, and otherwise meet and maintain the ethical requirements of § 120.140
(d) Be supervised and examined by either:
(1) A Federal Financial Institution Regulator,
(2) A state banking regulator satisfactory to SBA, or
(3) SBA;
(e) Be in good standing with SBA, as defined in § 120.420(f) (and determined by SBA in its discretion), and, as applicable, with its state regulator and be considered Satisfactory by its Federal Financial Institution Regulator (as determined by SBA and based on, for example, information in published orders/agreements and call reports); and
(f) Operate in a safe and sound condition using commercially reasonable lending policies, procedures, and standards employed by prudent Lenders.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 302, Jan. 3, 1997; 73 FR 75510, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 78213, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 120.411
Preferences.
An agreement to participate under the Act may not establish any Preferences in favor of the Lender.
§ 120.412
Other services Lenders may provide Borrowers.
Subject to § 120.140 Lenders, their Associates or the designees of either may provide services to and contract for goods with a Borrower only after full disbursement of the loan to the small business or to an account not controlled by the Lender, its Associate, or the designee. A Lender, an Associate, or a designee providing such services must do so under a written contract with the small business, based on time and hourly charges, and must maintain time and billing records for examination by SBA. Fees cannot exceed those charged by established professional consultants providing similar services.
See also
§ 120.195.
§ 120.413
Advertisement of relationship with SBA.
A Lender may refer in its advertising to its participation with SBA. The advertising may not:
(a) State or imply that the Lender, or any of its Borrowers, has or will receive preferential treatment from SBA;
(b) Be false or misleading; or
(c) Make use of SBA's seal.

# Participating Lender Financings

# Source:
Sections 120.420 through 120.428 appear at 64 FR 6507, Feb. 10, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 120.420
Definitions.
(a)
7(a) Loans
—All references to 7(a) loans under this subpart include loans made under section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 631
et seq.
) and loans made under section 502 of the Small Business Investment Act (15 U.S.C. 661
et seq.
), both of which may be securitized under this subpart.
(b)
Benchmark Number
—The maximum number of percentage points that a securitizer's Currency Rate can decrease without triggering the PLP suspension provision set forth in § 120.425. SBA will publish the Benchmark Number in the
Federal Register.
(c)
Currency Rate
—A securitizer's “Currency Rate” is the dollar balance of its 7(a) guaranteed loans that are less than 30 days past due divided by the dollar balance of its portfolio of 7(a) guaranteed loans outstanding, as calculated quarterly by SBA, excluding loans approved in SBA's current fiscal year.
(d)
Currency Rate Percentage
—The relationship between the securitizer's Currency Rate and the SBA 7(a) loan portfolio Currency Rate as calculated by dividing the securitizer's Currency Rate by the SBA 7(a) loan portfolio Currency Rate.
(e)
Good Standing
—In general, a Lender is in “good standing” with SBA if it:
(1) Is in compliance with all applicable:
(i) Laws and regulations;
(ii) Policies; and
(iii) Procedures;
(2) Is in good financial condition as determined by SBA;
(3) Is not under investigation or indictment for, or has not been convicted of, or had a judgment entered against it for felony or fraud, or charges relating to a breach of trust or violation of a law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships, unless the Lender Oversight Committee has determined that good standing exists despite the existence of such factors.
(4) Does not have any officer or employee who has been under investigation or indictment for, or has been convicted of or had a judgment entered against him for, a felony or fraud, or charges relating to a breach of trust or violation of a law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships, unless the Lender Oversight Committee has determined that good standing exists despite the existence of such person.
(f)
Initial Currency Rate
—The Initial Currency Rate (ICR) is the securitizer's benchmark Currency Rate. SBA will calculate the securitizer's ICR as of the end of the calendar quarter immediately prior to the first securitization completed after April 12, 1999. This calculation will include all 7(a) loans which are outstanding and were approved in any fiscal year prior to SBA's current fiscal year. Each quarter, SBA will compare each securitizer's Currency Rate to its ICR.
(g)
Initial Currency Rate Percentage
—The Initial Currency Rate Percentage (ICRP) measures the relationship between a securitizer's Initial Currency Rate and the SBA 7(a) loan portfolio Currency Rate at the time of the first securitization after April 12, 1999. The ICRP is calculated by dividing the securitizer's Currency Rate by the SBA 7(a) loan portfolio Currency Rate. SBA will calculate the securitizer's ICRP as of the end of the calendar quarter immediately prior to the first securitization completed after April 12, 1999.
(h)
Loss Rate
—A securitizer's “loss rate,” as calculated by SBA, is the aggregate principal amount of the securitizer's 7(a) loans determined uncollectible by SBA for the most recent 10-year period, excluding SBA's current fiscal year activity, divided by the aggregate original principal amount of 7(a) loans disbursed by the securitizer during that period.
(i)
Nondepository Institution
—A “nondepository institution” is a Small Business Lending Company (“SBLC”) regulated by SBA or a Business and Industrial Development Company (“BIDCO”) or other nondepository institution participating in SBA's 7(a) program.
(j)
Securitization
—A “securitization” is the pooling and sale of the unguaranteed portion of SBA guaranteed loans to a trust, special purpose vehicle, or other mechanism, and the issuance of securities backed by those loans to investors in either a private placement or public offering.
[64 FR 6507, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 75511, Dec. 11, 2008; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.421
Which Lenders may securitize?
All SBA participating Lenders may securitize subject to SBA's approval.
§ 120.422
Are all securitizations subject to this subpart?
All securitizations are subject to this subpart. Until additional regulations are promulgated, SBA will consider securitizations involving multiple Lenders on a case by case basis, using the conditions in § 120.425 as a starting point. SBA will consider securitizations by affiliates as single Lender securitizations for purposes of this subpart.
§ 120.423
Which 7(a) loans may a Lender securitize?
A Lender may only securitize 7(a) loans that will be fully disbursed within 90 days of the securitization's closing date. If the amount of a fully disbursed loan increases after a securitization settles, the Lender must retain the increased amount.
§ 120.424
What are the basic conditions a Lender must meet to securitize?
To securitize, a Lender must:
(a) Be in good standing with SBA as defined in § 120.420(f) of this chapter and determined by SBA in its discretion;
(b) Have satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The Lender's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures (like default rate, purchase rate and loss rate), loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission);
(c) Use a securitization structure which is satisfactory to SBA;
(d) Use documents acceptable to SBA, including SBA's model multi-party agreement, as amended from time to time;
(e) Obtain SBA's written consent, which it may withhold in its sole discretion, prior to executing a commitment to securitize; and
(f) Cause the original notes to be stored at the FTA, as defined in § 120.600, and other loan documents to be stored with a party approved by SBA.
[64 FR 6507, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 75511, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.425
What are the minimum elements that SBA will require before consenting to a securitization?
A securitizer must comply with the following three conditions:
(a) Capital Requirement—All securitizers must be considered to be “well capitalized” by their regulator. SBA will consider a depository institution to be in compliance with this section if it meets the definition of “well capitalized” used by its bank regulator. SBA's capital requirement does not change the requirements that banks already meet. For nondepository institutions, SBA, as the regulator, will consider a non-depository institution to be “well capitalized” if it maintains a minimum unencumbered paid in capital and paid in surplus equal to at least 10 percent of its assets, excluding the guaranteed portion of 7(a) loans. The capital charge applies to the remaining balance outstanding on the unguaranteed portion of the securitizer's 7(a) loans in its portfolio and in any securitization pools. Each nondepository institution must submit annual audited financial statements demonstrating that it has met SBA's capital requirement.
(b) Subordinated Tranche—A securitizer or its wholly owned subsidiary must retain a tranche of the securities issued in the securitization (subordinated tranche) equal to the greater of two times the securitizer's Loss Rate or 2 percent of the principal
balance outstanding at the time of securitization of the unguaranteed portion of the loans in the securitization. This tranche must be subordinate to all other securities issued in the securitization including other subordinated tranches. The securitizer or its wholly owned subsidiary may not sell, pledge, transfer, assign, sell participations in, or otherwise convey the subordinated tranche during the first 6 years after the closing date of the securitization. The securities evidencing the subordinated tranche must bear a legend stating that the securities may not be sold until 6 years after the issue date. SBA's Securitization Committee may modify the formula for determining the tranche size for a securitizer creating a securitization from a pool of loans located in a region affected by a severe economic downturn if the Securitization Committee concludes that enforcing this section might exacerbate the adverse economic conditions in the region. SBA will work with the securitizer to verify the accuracy of the data used to make the Loss Rate calculation.
(c) PLP Privilege Suspension.
(1)
Suspension:
If a securitizer's Currency Rate declines, SBA may suspend the securitizer's PLP unilateral loan approval privileges (PLP approval privileges) if the decline from the securitizer's ICR is more than the Benchmark Number as published in the
Federal Register
from time to time and the securitizer's Currency Rate Percentage is less than its ICRP. The securitizer will first be placed on probation for one quarter. If, at the end of the probationary quarter the securitizer has not met either of the following conditions in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section, SBA will suspend the securitizer's PLP approval privileges and will not approve additional securitization requests from that securitizer. SBA will provide written notice at least 10 days prior to the effective date of suspension. The suspension will last a minimum of 3 months. During the suspension period, the securitizer must use Certified Lender or Regular Procedures to process 7(a) loan applications. The prohibition will end if, at the end of the probationary quarter: (i) the securitizer has improved its Currency Rate to above its ICR less the Benchmark Number; or (ii) its Currency Rate Percentage is either the same or greater than its ICRP.
(2)
Reinstatement:
The suspension will remain in effect until the securitizer meets either the condition in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section. If the securitizer meets either condition by the end of the 3-month period, notifies SBA with acceptable documentation, and SBA agrees, SBA will reinstate the securitizer. If the securitizer cannot meet either condition, the suspension will remain in effect. The securitizer may then petition the Lender Oversight Committee (Committee) for reinstatement. The Committee will review the reinstatement petition and determine if the securitizer's PLP approval privilege and securitization status should be reinstated. The Committee may consider the economic conditions in the securitizer's market area, the securitizer's efforts to improve its Currency Rate, and the quality of the securitizer's 7(a) loan packages and servicing. The Committee will consider only one petition by a securitizer per quarter.
(3)
The Benchmark Number.
SBA will monitor the Benchmark Number. If economic conditions or policy considerations warrant, SBA may modify the Benchmark Number to protect the safety and soundness of the 7(a) program.
(4)
Data.
SBA will calculate Currency Rate and Currency Rate Percentages quarterly from financial information that securitizers provide. SBA will work with a securitizer to verify the accuracy of the data used to make the Currency Rate calculation.
[64 FR 6508, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 65 FR 49481, Aug. 14, 2000; 73 FR 75511, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.426
What action will SBA take if a securitizer transfers the subordinated tranche prior to the termination of the holding period?
If a securitizer transfers the subordinated tranche prior to the termination of the holding period, SBA will suspend immediately the securitizer's ability to make new 7(a) loans. The securitizer will have 30 calendar days to submit an
explanation to Lender Oversight Committee (“Committee”). The Committee will have 30 calendar days to review the explanation and determine whether to lift the suspension. If an explanation is not received within 30 calendar days or the explanation is not satisfactory to the Committee, SBA may transfer the servicing of the applicable securitized loans, including the securitizers' servicing fee on the guaranteed and unguaranteed portions and the premium protection fee on the guaranteed portion, to another SBA participating Lender.
[64 FR 6507, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 75511, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.427
Will SBA approve a securitization application from a capital impaired Securitizer?
If a securitizer does not maintain the level of capital required by this subpart, SBA will not approve a securitization application from that securitizer.
§ 120.428
What happens to a securitizer's other PLP responsibilities if SBA suspends its PLP approval privilege?
The securitizer must continue to service and liquidate loans according to its PLP Supplemental Agreement.

# Other Conveyances

# Source:
Sections 120.430 through 120.435 appear at 64 FR 6509, 6510, Feb. 10, 1999, unless otherwise noted.
§ 120.430
What conveyances are covered by §§ 120.430 through 120.435?
Sections 120.430 through 120.435 cover all other transactions in which a Lender sells, sells a participating interest in, or pledges an SBA guaranteed loan other than for the purpose of securitizing and other than conveyances covered under Subpart F, Secondary Market, of this part.
§ 120.431
Which Lenders may sell, sell participations in, or pledge 7(a) loans?
All Lenders may sell, sell participations in, or pledge 7(a) loans in accordance with this subpart.
§ 120.432
Under what circumstances does this subpart permit sales of, or sales of participating interests in, 7(a) loans?
(a) A Lender may sell all of its interest in a 7(a) loan to another Lender operating under a current Loan Guarantee Agreement (SBA Form 750) (“participating Lender”), with SBA's prior written consent, which SBA may withhold in its sole discretion. A Lender may not sell any of its interest in a 7(a) loan to a nonparticipating Lender. The purchasing Lender must take possession of the promissory note and other loan documents, and service the sold 7(a) loan. The purchasing Lender purchases the loan subject to SBA's existing rights including its right to deny liability on its guarantee as provided in § 120.524. After purchase, the purchased loan will be subject to the purchasing Lender's Loan Guarantee Agreement. This paragraph (a) applies to all 7(a) loans purchased from any Federal or state banking regulator, any receiver, or any conservator, unless SBA agrees otherwise in writing.This paragraph (a) applies to all 7(a) loans purchased from any Federal or state banking regulator, any receiver, or any conservator, unless SBA agrees otherwise in writing.
(b) A Lender may sell, or sell a participating interest in, a part of a 7(a) loan to another participating Lender. If the Lender retains ownership of a part of the unguaranteed portion of the loan equal to at least 10 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the loan, the Lender must give SBA prior written notice of the transaction, and the Lender must continue to hold the note and service the loan. If a Lender retains ownership of a part of the unguaranteed portion of the loan equal to less than 10 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the loan, the Lender must obtain SBA's prior written consent to the transaction, which consent SBA may withhold in its sole discretion. The Lender must continue to hold the note and other loan documents, and service the loan unless SBA otherwise agrees in its sole discretion.
(c) For purposes of determining the percentage of ownership a Lender has
retained, SBA will not consider a Lender to be the owner of the part of a loan in which it has sold a participating interest.
[64 FR 6509, 6510, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 85 FR 7648, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.433
What are SBA's other requirements for sales and sales of participating interests?
SBA requires the following:
(a) The Lender must be in good standing with SBA as defined in § 120.420(f) and determined by SBA in its discretion;
(b) The Lender has satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The Lender's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures (like default rate, purchase rate and loss rate), loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission); and
(c) In transactions requiring SBA's consent, all documentation must be satisfactory to SBA, including, if SBA determines it to be necessary, a multi-party agreement.
[64 FR 6507, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 75511, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.434
What are SBA's requirements for loan pledges?
(a) Except as set forth in § 120.435, SBA must give its prior written consent to all pledges of any portion of a 7(a) loan, which consent SBA may withhold in its sole discretion;
(b) The Lender must be in good standing with SBA as defined in § 120.420(f) and determined by SBA in its discretion;
(c) The Lender has satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The Lender's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures (like default rate, purchase rate and loss rate), loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission);
(d) All loan documents must be satisfactory to SBA and must include a multi-party agreement among SBA, Lender, the pledgee, FTA and such other parties as SBA determines are necessary;
(e) The Lender must use the proceeds of the loan secured by the 7(a) loans only for financing 7(a) loans and for costs and expenses directly connected with the borrowing for which the loans are pledged;
(f) The Lender must remain the servicer of the loans and retain possession of all loan documents other than the original promissory notes;
(g) The Lender must deposit the original promissory notes at the FTA; and
(h) The Lender must retain an economic interest in and the ultimate risk of loss on the unguaranteed portion of the loans.
[64 FR 6507, Feb. 10, 1999, as amended at 73 FR 75511, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.435
Which loan pledges do not require notice to or consent by SBA?
(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 120.434(e), 7(a) loans may be pledged for the following purposes without notice to or consent by SBA:
(1) Treasury tax and loan accounts;
(2) The deposit of public funds;
(3) Uninvested trust funds;
(4) Borrowings from a Federal Reserve Bank; or
(5) Advances by a Federal Home Loan Bank.
(b) For purposes of the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), the other provisions of § 120.434 shall also not apply to PPP loans pledged under paragraph (a)(4) or (5) of this section.
[85 FR 21752, Apr. 20, 2020]

# Delegated Authority Criteria
§ 120.440
How does a 7(a) Lender obtain delegated authority?
(a) In making its decision to grant or renew a delegated authority, SBA considers whether the Lender, as determined by SBA in its discretion:
(1) Has the continuing ability to evaluate, process, close, disburse, service, liquidate and litigate SBA loans. This includes the ability to develop and analyze complete loan packages. SBA may consider the experience and capability of Lender's management and staff.
(2) Has satisfactory SBA performance (as defined in § 120.410(a)(2));
(3) Is in compliance with SBA Loan Program Requirements (
e.g.,
Form 1502 reporting, timely payment of all fees to SBA);
(4) Has completed to SBA's satisfaction all required corrective actions;
(5) Whether Lender is subject to any enforcement action, order or agreement with a regulator or the presence of other regulatory concerns as determined by SBA; and
(6) Whether Lender exhibits other risk factors (
e.g.,
has rapid growth; low SBA activity; SBA loan volume; Lender, an officer or director is under investigation or indictment).
(b) Delegated authority decisions are made by the appropriate SBA official in accordance with Delegations of Authority, and are final.
(c) If delegated authority is approved or renewed, Lender must execute a Supplemental Guarantee Agreement, which will specify a term not to exceed two years. SBA may grant shortened renewals based on risk or any of the other delegated authority criteria. Lenders with less than 3 years of SBA lending experience will be limited to a term of 1 year or less.
[82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017, as amended at 85 FR 7648, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020]
§ 120.441-§ 120.447
[Reserved]

# Preferred Lenders Program (PLP)
§ 120.450
What is the Preferred Lenders Program?
Under the Preferred Lenders Program (PLP), designated Lenders process, close, service, and liquidate SBA guaranteed loans with reduced requirements for documentation to and prior approval by SBA.
§ 120.451
[Reserved]
§ 120.452
What are the requirements of PLP loan processing?
(a) Subparts A and B of this part govern the making of PLP loans, except for the following:
(1) Certain types of businesses, loans, and loan programs are not eligible for PLP, as detailed in published SBA policy and procedures.
(2) A Lender may not make a PLP business loan which reduces its existing credit exposure for any Borrower, except in cases where an interim loan(s) has been made for other than real estate construction purposes to the Borrower which was approved by the Lender within 90 days of receipt of the issuance fo a subsequent PLP loan number.
(3) SBA will not guarantee more than the specified statutory percentage of any PLP loan.
(b) A PLP Lender notifies SBA of its approval of a PLP loan by submitting to SBA's loan processing center appropriate documentation signed by two of the PLP's authorized representatives. SBA will attach the SBA guarantee and notify the PLP Lender of the SBA loan number (if it does not identify a problem with eligibility, and funds are available).
(c) The PLP Lender is responsible for all PLP loan decisions regarding eligibility (including size) and creditworthiness. The PLP Lender is also responsible for confirming that all PLP loan closing decisions are correct, and that it has complied with all requirements of law and SBA regulations.

# SBA Supervised Lenders
§ 120.460
What are SBA's additional requirements for SBA Supervised Lenders?
(a) In general. In addition to complying with SBA's requirements for SBA Lenders, an SBA Supervised Lender must meet the additional requirements set forth in this regulation and the SBA Supervised Lender regulations that follow.
(b) Operations and internal controls. Each SBA Supervised Lender's board of directors (or management, if the SBA Supervised Lender is a division of another company and does not have its own board of directors) must adopt an internal control policy which provides adequate direction to the institution in establishing effective control over and accountability for operations, programs, and resources. The internal control policy must, at a minimum:
(1) Direct management to assign responsibility for the internal control function (covering financial, credit, credit review, collateral, and administrative matters) to an officer or officers of the SBA Supervised Lender;
(2) Adopt and set forth procedures for maintenance and periodic review of the internal control function; and
(3) Direct the operation of a program to review and assess the SBA Supervised Lender's assets. The asset review program policies must specify the following:
(i) Loan, loan-related asset, and appraisal review standards, including standards for scope of selection for review (of any such loan, loan-related asset or appraisal) and standards for work papers and supporting documentation;
(ii) Asset quality classification standards consistent with the standardized classification systems used by the Federal Financial Institution Regulators;
(iii) Specific internal control requirements for the SBA Supervised Lender's major asset categories (cash and investment securities), lending, and the issuance of debt;
(iv) Specific internal control requirements for the SBA Supervised Lender's oversight of Lender Service Providers; and
(v) Standards for training to implement the asset review program.
(c) An SBA Supervised Lender must have qualified full-time professional management including, but not limited to, a chief executive officer or the equivalent to manage daily operations, and a chief credit/risk officer. An SBA Supervised Lender must also have at least one other part-time professional employee (which may be a shared employee of the lender's affiliates) qualified by training and experience to carry out its business plan. An SBA Supervised Lender is expected to sustain a sufficient level of lending activity in its lending area, which means obtaining at least four 7(a) loan approvals during two consecutive fiscal years. This paragraph only applies to SBA Supervised Lenders that make or acquire a 7(a) loan after January 4, 2021, or to any SBA Supervised Lender approved after such date, including in the event of a change of ownership or control of an SBA Supervised Lender.
(d) An NFRL may only make or acquire 7(a) loans in the state in which its primary state regulator is located, except that an NFRL's lending area may include a local trade area that is contiguous to such state (e.g., a city or metropolitan statistical area that is bisected by a state line) if the NFRL receives SBA's prior written approval. This paragraph applies to all NFRLs on or after January 4, 2021, including in the event of approval of a new NFRL or a change of ownership or control of an NFRL; provided however, that if SBA has approved any NFRL to make 7(a) loans out of their state, then this paragraph will apply on or after January 4, 2022.
[73 FR 75512, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 78213, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 120.461
What are SBA's additional requirements for SBA Supervised Lenders concerning records?
(a)
Report filing.
All SBA Supervised Lender-specific reports (including all SBLC-only reports) must be filed with the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority.
(b)
Maintenance of records.
An SBA Supervised Lender must maintain at its principal business office accurate and current financial records, including books of accounts, minutes of stockholder, directors, and executive committee meetings, and all documents and supporting materials relating to the SBA Supervised Lender's transactions. However, securities held by a custodian pursuant to a written agreement are exempt from this requirement.
(c)
Permanent preservation of records.
An SBA Supervised Lender must permanently preserve in a manner permitting immediate (one business day) retrieval the following documentation for the financial statements and other reports required by § 120.464 (and the accompanying certified public accountant's opinion):
(1) All general and subsidiary ledgers (or other records) reflecting asset, liability, capital stock and additional paid-in capital, income, and expense accounts;
(2) All general and special journals (or other records forming the basis for entries in such ledgers); and
(3) The corporate charter, bylaws, application for determination of eligibility to participate with SBA, and all minutes books, capital stock certificates or stubs, stock ledgers, and stock transfer registers.
(d)
Other preservation of records.
An SBA Supervised Lender must preserve for at least 6 years following final disposition of each individual SBA loan:
(1) All applications for financing;
(2) Lending, participation, and escrow agreements;
(3) Financing instruments; and
(4) All other documents and supporting material relating to such loans, including correspondence.
(e)
Electronic preservation.
Records and other documents referred to in this section may be preserved electronically if the original is available for retrieval within 15 working days.
[73 FR 75512, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.462
What are SBA's additional requirements on capital maintenance for SBA Supervised Lenders?
(a)
Minimum capital requirements
—(1)
For NFRLs.
(i) Beginning on January 4, 2024, each NFRL that makes or acquires a 7(a) loan must maintain the minimum capital required by its state regulator, or $2,500,000, whichever is greater.
(ii) Any NFRL approved on or after January 4, 2021, including in the event of a change of ownership or control, must maintain the minimum capital requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(iii) Unless subject to paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, an NFRL must comply with the minimum capital requirements for NFRLs that were in effect on January 3, 2021.
(2)
For SBLCs.
For information on minimum capital requirements for SBLCs, see § 120.471.
(b)
Capital adequacy.
The board of directors (or management, if the SBA Supervised Lender is a division of another company and does not have its own board of directors) of each SBA Supervised Lender must determine capital adequacy goals; that is, the total amount of capital needed to assure the SBA Supervised Lender's continued financial viability and provide for any necessary growth. The minimum standards set in § 120.471 for SBLCs and those established in § 120.462(a)(1) for NFRLs are not to be adopted as the ideal capital level for a given SBA Supervised Lender. Rather, the minimum standards are to serve as minimum levels of capital that each SBA Supervised Lender must maintain to protect against the credit risk and other general risks inherent in its operation.
(c)
Capital plan.
(1) The board of directors of each SBA Supervised Lender must establish, adopt, and maintain a formal written capital plan. The plan must include any interim capital targets that are necessary to achieve the SBA Supervised Lender's capital adequacy goals as well as the minimum capital standards. The plan must address any projected dividend goals, equity retirements, or any other anticipated action that may decrease the SBA Supervised Lender's capital. The plan must set forth the circumstances in which capital retirements (e.g., dividends, distributions of capital or purchase of treasury stock) can occur. In addition to factors described above that must be considered in meeting the minimum standards, the board of directors must also address the following factors in developing the SBA Supervised Lender's capital adequacy plan:
(i) Management capability;
(ii) Quality of operating policies, procedures, and internal controls;
(iii) Quality and quantity of earnings;
(iv) Asset quality and the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses within the loan portfolio;
(v) Sufficiency of liquidity; and
(vi) Any other risk-oriented activities or conditions that warrant additional capital (e.g., portfolio growth rate).
(2) An SBA Supervised Lender must keep its capital plan current, updating it at least annually or more often as operating conditions may warrant.
(d)
Certification of compliance.
Within 45 days of the end of each fiscal quarter, each SBA Supervised Lender must furnish the SBA with a calculation of capital and certification of compliance with its minimum capital requirement as set forth in §§ 120.471, 120.472, or 120.474, as applicable, for SBLCs and as established in § 120.462(a)(1) for NFRLs. The SBA Supervised Lender's chief financial officer must certify the calculation to be correct. The quarterly calculation and certification of compliance may be included in the SBA Supervised Lender's Quarterly Condition Report.
(e)
Capital impairment.
An SBA Supervised Lender must meet its minimum regulatory capital requirement and avoid capital impairment. Capital impairment exists if an SBA Supervised Lender fails to meet its minimum regulatory capital requirement under §§ 120.471, 120.472, and 120.474 for SBLCs or as established in § 120.462(a)(1) for NFRLs. An SBA Supervised Lender must provide the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority written notice of any failure to meet its minimum capital requirement within 30 calendar days of the month-end in which the impairment occurred. Unless otherwise waived by the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority in writing, an SBA Supervised Lender may not present any loans to SBA for guaranty until the impairment is cured. SBA may waive the presentment prohibition for good cause as determined by SBA in its discretion. In the case of differences in calculating capital or capital requirements between the SBA Supervised Lender and SBA, SBA's calculations will prevail until differences between the two calculations are resolved.
(f)
Capital restoration plan
— (1)
Filing requirement.
An SBA Supervised Lender must file a written capital restoration plan with SBA within 45 days of the date that the SBA Supervised Lender provides notice to SBA under paragraph (d) of this section or receives notice from SBA (whichever is earlier) that the SBA Supervised Lender has not met its minimum capital requirement, unless SBA notifies the SBA Supervised Lender in writing that the plan is to be filed within a different time period.
(2)
Plan content.
An SBA Supervised Lender must detail the steps it will take to meet its minimum capital requirement; the time within which each step will be taken; the timeframe for accomplishing the entire capital restoration; and the person or department at the SBA Supervised Lender charged with carrying out the capital restoration plan.
(3)
SBA response.
SBA will provide written notice of whether the capital restoration plan is approved or not or whether SBA will seek additional information. If the capital restoration plan is not approved by SBA, the SBA Supervised Lender will submit a revised capital restoration plan within the timeframe specified by SBA.
(4)
Amendment of capital restoration plan.
An SBA Supervised Lender that has submitted an approved capital restoration plan may, after prior written notice to and approval by SBA, amend the plan to reflect a change in circumstance. Until such time as a proposed amendment has been approved, the SBA Supervised Lender must implement the capital restoration plan as approved prior to the proposed amendment.
(5)
Failure.
If an SBA Supervised Lender fails to submit a capital restoration plan that is acceptable to SBA within its discretion within the required timeframe, or fails to implement, in any material respect as determined by SBA in its discretion, its SBA approved capital restoration plan within the plan timeframe, SBA may undertake enforcement actions under § 120.1500.
[73 FR 75512, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 78213, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 120.463
Regulatory accounting—What are SBA's regulatory accounting requirements for SBA Supervised Lenders?
(a)
Books and records.
The books and records of an SBA Supervised Lender must be kept on an accrual basis in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) as promulgated by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), supplemented by Regulatory Accounting Principles (RAP) as identified by SBA in Policy, Procedural or Information Notices, from time to time.
(b)
Annual audit.
Each SBA Supervised Lender must have its financial statements audited annually by a certified public accountant experienced in auditing financial institutions. The audit must be performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards as adopted by the Auditing Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) for non-public companies and by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) for public companies. Annually, the auditor must issue an audit report with an opinion as to the fairness of the SBA Supervised Lender's financial statements and their compliance with GAAP.
(c)
Auditor qualifications.
The audit shall be conducted by an independent certified public accountant who:
(1) Is registered or licensed to practice as a certified public accountant, and is in good standing, under the laws of the state or other political subdivision of the United States in which the SBA Supervised Lender's principal office is located;
(2) Agrees in the engagement letter with the SBA Supervised Lender to provide the SBA with access to and copies of any work papers, policies, and procedures relating to the services performed;
(3)(i) Is in compliance with the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct; and
(ii) Meets the independence requirements and interpretations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and its staff;
(4) Has received a peer review or is enrolled in a peer review program, that meets AICPA guidelines; and
(5) Is otherwise acceptable to SBA.
(d)
Change of auditor.
If an SBA Supervised Lender discharges or changes its auditor, it must notify SBA in writing within ten days of the occurrence. Such notification must provide:
(1) The name, address, and telephone number of the discharged auditor; and
(2) If the discharge/change involved a dispute over the financial statements, a reasonably detailed statement of all the reasons for the discharge or change. This statement must set out the issue in dispute, the position of the auditor, the position of the SBA Supervised Lender, and the effect of each position on the balance sheet and income statement of the SBA Supervised Lender.
(e)
Specific accounting requirements.
(1) Each SBA Supervised Lender must maintain an allowance for losses on loans and other assets that is sufficient to absorb all probable and estimated losses that may reasonably be expected based on the SBA Supervised Lender's historical performance and reasonably-anticipated events. Each SBA Supervised Lender must maintain documentation of its loan loss allowance calculations and analysis in sufficient detail to permit the SBA to understand the assumptions used and the application of those assumptions to the assets of the SBA Supervised Lender.
(2) The unguaranteed portions of loans determined to be uncollectible must be charged-off promptly. If the portion determined to be uncollectible by the SBA Supervised Lender is different from the amount determined by its auditors or the SBA, the SBA Supervised Lender must charge-off such amount as the SBA may direct.
(3) Each SBA Supervised Lender must classify loans as:
(i) “Nonaccrual,” if any portion of the principal or interest is determined to be uncollectible and
(ii) “Formally restructured,” if the loan meets the “troubled debt restructuring” definition set forth in FASB Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 15, Accounting by Debtors and Creditors for Troubled Debt Restructurings.
(4) When one loan to a borrower is classified as nonaccrual or formally restructured, all loans to that borrower
must be so classified unless the SBA Supervised Lender can document that the loans have independent sources of repayment.
(f)
Valuing loan servicing rights and residual interests.
Each SBA Supervised Lender must account for loan sales transactions and the valuation of loan servicing rights in accordance with GAAP. At the end of each quarter, the SBA Supervised Lender must review for reasonableness the existing environmental assumptions used in the valuation. Particular attention must be given to interest rate and repayment rate assumptions. Assumptions considered no longer reasonable must be modified and modifications must be reflected in the valuation and must be documented and supported by a market analysis. Work papers reflecting the analysis of assumptions and any resulting adjustment in the valuation must be maintained for SBA review in accordance with § 120.461. SBA may require an SBA Supervised Lender to use industry averages for the valuation of servicing rights.
[73 FR 75513, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.464
Reports to SBA.
(a) An SBA Supervised Lender must submit the following to SBA:
(1)
Annual Report.
Within three months after the close of each fiscal year, each SBA Supervised Lender must submit to SBA two copies of an annual report including audited financial statements as prepared by a certified public accountant in accordance with § 120.463. Specifically, the annual report must, at a minimum, include the following:
(i) Audited balance sheet;
(ii) Audited statement of income and expense;
(iii) Audited reconciliation of capital accounts;
(iv) Audited source and application of funds;
(v) Such footnotes as are necessary to an understanding of the report;
(vi) Auditor's letter to management on internal control weaknesses; and
(vii) The auditor's report.
(2)
Quarterly Condition Reports.
By the 45th calendar day following the end of each calendar quarter, each SBA Supervised Lender must submit a Quarterly Condition Report in a form and content as the SBA may prescribe from time to time. At a minimum, the Quarterly Condition Report must include the SBA Supervised Lender's quarterly financial statements, which may be internally prepared. The SBA Supervised Lender must apply uniform definitions to categories of nonperforming loans and include recovery amounts on liquidated loans. SBA may, on a case-by-case basis, depending on an SBA Supervised Lender's size and the quality of its assets, adjust the requirements for content and frequency of filing Quarterly Condition Reports.
(3)
Legal and Administrative Proceeding Report.
Each SBA Supervised Lender must report any legal or administrative proceeding by or against the SBA Supervised Lender, or against any officer, director or employee of the SBA Supervised Lender for an alleged breach of official duty, within ten business days after initiating or learning of the proceeding, and also must notify the SBA of the terms of any settlement or final judgment. The SBA Supervised Lender must include such information in any reporting required under other provisions of SBA regulations.
(4)
Stockholder Reports.
Each SBA Supervised Lender must submit to SBA a copy of any report furnished to its stockholders in any manner, within 30 calendar days after submission to stockholders, including any prospectus, letter, or other document, concerning the financial operations or condition of the SBA Supervised Lender.
(5)
Reports of Changes.
Each SBA Supervised Lender must submit to SBA a summary of any changes in the SBA Supervised Lender's organization or financing (within 30 calendar days of the change), such as:
(i) Any change in its name, address or telephone number;
(ii) Any change in its charter, bylaws, or its officers or directors (to be accompanied by a statement of personal history on the form approved by SBA);
(iii) Any change in capitalization, including such types of change as are identified in this part 120;
(iv) Any changes affecting an SBA Supervised Lender's eligibility to continue to participate as an SBA Supervised Lender; and
(v) Notice of any pledge of stock (within 30 calendar days of the transaction) if 10 percent or more of the stock is pledged by any person (or group of persons acting in concert) as collateral for indebtedness.
(6)
Report of Changes in Financial Condition.
In addition to other reports required under this part 120, each SBA Supervised Lender must submit a report to SBA on any material change in financial condition. The SBA Supervised Lender must submit such report promptly, but no later than ten days after its management becomes aware of such change (except as provided for in § 120.462(d)). Failure to promptly notify SBA concerning a material change in financial condition may lead to enforcement action.
(7)
Other Reports.
Each SBA Supervised Lender must submit such other reports as SBA from time to time may in writing require.
(b)
Preparing financial reports for filing.
Each SBA Supervised Lender must prepare financial reports:
(1) In accordance with all applicable laws, regulations, procedures, standards, and such instructions and specifications and in such form and media format as may be prescribed by SBA from time to time;
(2) On an accrual basis, in accordance with GAAP principles and such other accounting requirements, standards, and procedures as may be prescribed by the SBA from time to time;
(3) That contain all applicable footnotes in accordance with GAAP principals, one of which includes a brief analysis of how the SBA Supervised Lender complies with SBA's capital regulations, as applicable; and
(4) In such manner as to facilitate the reconciliation of these reports with the books and records of the SBA Supervised Lender.
(c)
Responsibility for assuring the accuracy of filed financial reports.
Each financial report filed with SBA must be certified as having been prepared in accordance with all applicable regulations, SOPs, notices, and instructions and to be a true, accurate, and complete representation of the financial condition and financial performance of the SBA Supervised Lender to which it applies. The reports must be certified by the officer of the reporting SBA Supervised Lender named for that purpose by action of the institution's board of directors. If the institution's board of directors has not acted to name an officer to certify the correctness of its reports of financial condition and financial performance, then the reports must be certified by the president or chief executive officer of the reporting SBA Supervised Lender.
(d)
Waiver.
The appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority may in his/her discretion waive any § 120.464 reporting requirement for SBA Supervised Lenders for good cause (including, but not limited to, where an SBA Supervised Lender has a relatively small SBA loan portfolio), as determined by SBA. SBA Supervised Lenders must request the waiver in writing and include all supporting reasons and documentation. The waiver decision of the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority is final.
[73 FR 75514, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.465
Civil penalty for late submission of required reports.
(a)
Obligation to submit required reports by applicable due dates.
SBA Supervised Lenders must submit complete reports by the due dates described in the regulations or as directed in writing by SBA. SBA considers any report that an SBA Supervised Lender sends to SBA by the applicable due date but that is submitted only in part, to have not been submitted by the applicable due date. SBA also considers any report that is postmarked by the due date to be submitted by the due date.
(b)
Amount of civil penalty.
For each day past the due date for such report, the SBA Supervised Lender must pay to SBA a civil penalty of not more than $8,058 per day per report. Such civil penalty continues to accrue until and including the date upon which SBA Supervised Lender submits the complete report. In determining the amount of the civil penalty to be assessed, SBA may consider the financial
resources and good faith of the SBA Supervised Lender, the gravity of the violation, the history of previous violations and any such other matters as justice may require.
(c)
Notification of amount of civil penalty.
SBA will notify the SBA Supervised Lender in writing of the amount of civil penalties imposed either upon receiving the required complete report or at such other time as SBA determines. The SBA Supervised Lender must pay this amount to SBA within 30 days of the date of SBA's written demand.
(d)
Identification during examination.
SBA may also impose on an SBA Supervised Lender a civil penalty as described in this section if SBA discovers, during an examination pursuant to subpart I of this Part 120 or otherwise, that the SBA Supervised Lender did not submit a required report by the due date.
(e)
Extensions of submission due dates.
(1) An SBA Supervised Lender may request in writing to SBA that SBA extend its report due date. The request must reference the report and its due date, state the reasonable cause for extension, and assert how much additional time is needed in order to submit a complete report. SBA will advise SBA Supervised Lender in writing as to whether it approved or denied the extension request. If SBA determines that there is reasonable cause to grant an extension and it is not due to willful neglect, SBA will establish a new due date. Such determination as to willful neglect and reasonable cause is in SBA's discretion. SBA will consider the following factors in determining willful neglect:
(i) Whether the SBA Supervised Lender failed to file required reports for more than two reporting periods and
(ii) If SBA provided the SBA Supervised Lender notice of the failure to file and the SBA Supervised Lender failed to respond or failed to provide a reasonable explanation for the filing failure in its response.
(2) If SBA disapproves the extension, the due date remains the same. The civil penalty accrues regardless of whether the SBA Supervised Lender files an extension request. If SBA approves the extension, SBA will waive the civil penalty that has accrued so far for that particular report. However, a new civil penalty will accrue if the SBA Supervised Lender does not submit a complete report by the new due date established by SBA.
(f)
Requests for reduction or exemption.
(1) An SBA Supervised Lender may request a reduction or exemption from the civil penalty in writing to SBA. The request must reference the required report, its due date and the amount sought for reduction, and state in detail the reasons for the reduction. SBA will consider the following factors:
(i) Whether there is reasonable cause for failure to file timely and it was not due to willful neglect;
(ii) Whether the SBA Supervised Lender has demonstrated to SBA's satisfaction that it has modified its internal procedures to comply with reporting requirements in the future; and
(iii) Whether the SBA Supervised Lender has demonstrated to SBA's satisfaction, based on financial information fully disclosed together with its request, that it would have difficulty paying the civil penalty assessed.
(2) SBA must also determine that a reduction or exemption is not inconsistent with the public interest or the protection of SBA.
(3) SBA may in writing approve the exemption, reduce the civil penalty, or deny the exemption.
(4) If SBA grants the reduction request or denies the reduction or exemption, the SBA Supervised Lender must pay the amount owed within 30 days of the letter date. Civil penalties will accrue while the request is pending.
(g)
Reconsideration of decisions.
An SBA Supervised Lender may request in writing to the Associate Administrator for Capital Access (AA/CA) to reconsider its request for extension, reduction, or exemption. The reconsideration request must be received by SBA within 30 days of the date of the letter denying the SBA Supervised Lender's original request. SBA will not consider untimely requests. The SBA Supervised Lender must include any additional information or documentation to support its reconsideration request. SBA will issue a written decision on
the reconsideration request. The decision is a final agency decision. If on reconsideration, a civil penalty remains due, the SBA Supervised Lender must pay to SBA the civil penalty within 30 days of the written decision or as otherwise directed. Civil penalties will continue to accrue while the reconsideration request is pending.
(h)
Other enforcement actions.
SBA may seek additional remedies for failure to timely file reports as authorized by law.
(i)
Exception for affiliate of SBLC.
Civil penalties under this section do not apply to any affiliate of an SBLC that procures at least 10% of its annual purchasing requirements from small manufacturers.
[73 FR 75515, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 31491, May 19, 2016; 82 FR 9969, Feb. 9, 2017; 83 FR 7363, Feb. 21, 2018; 84 FR 12061, Apr. 1, 2019; 85 FR 13727, Mar. 10, 2020; 86 FR 52957, Sept. 24, 2021; 87 FR 28758, May 11, 2022; 88 FR 50005, Aug. 1, 2023; 89 FR 48134, June 5, 2024]
§ 120.466
SBA Supervised Lender application.
An entity seeking to participate as an SBA Supervised Lender must apply to SBA. SBA evaluates SBA Supervised Lender applicants through an initial review and final review, as follows:
(a)
Initial review.
SBA Supervised Lender applicants must submit a written plan containing information about the organization and its current and proposed lending activities (“Lender Assessment Plan”). After SBA's review of the Lender Assessment Plan, the Office of Capital Access may require an interview with the applicant and its management team. SBA will determine, in its sole discretion, whether an applicant may proceed to the final review. If SBA determines that an applicant may not proceed to the final review, the applicant must wait at least 6 months before it may submit a new Lender Assessment Plan. Each applicant must demonstrate to SBA's satisfaction that it meets the ethical requirements and the participation criteria set forth in 13 CFR 120.140 and 120.410. The Lender Assessment Plan must include the following items:
(1) The legal name, address, telephone number and email address of the applicant;
(2) Business plan, detailing the applicant's proposed lending area and the volume of loan activity projected over the next 3 years (supported by current and projected balance sheets, income statements and statements of cash flows);
(3) Capitalization (current and proposed), including the form of organization and the identification of all debt and classes of equity capital and proposed funding amounts, including any rights or preferences accorded to such interests (
e.g.,
voting rights, redemption rights and rights of convertibility) and any conditions for the transfer, sale or assignment of such interests;
(4) A list of all members of the applicant's management team, including the applicant's officers, directors, managers and key employees, as well as the applicant's owners, Associates (as defined in § 120.10) and Affiliates (as defined in § 121.103 of this chapter);
(5) A written summary of the professional experience (including any prior experience with any SBA program) of the applicant's management team (including key employees);
(6) In connection with any application to acquire an existing SBLC License, the applicant must include a letter agreement signed by an authorized official of the SBLC whose License is to be acquired certifying that the SBLC is seeking to transfer its SBA lending authority to the applicant;
(7) If approval of any state or Federal chartering, licensing or other regulatory authority is required, copies of any licenses issued by or documents filed with such authority.
(b)
Final review.
Each applicant that receives notice from SBA in writing that it may proceed to the final review must submit a complete application to SBA within 90 calendar days. The application requirements for SBA Supervised Lenders are set forth in official SBA policy and procedures. An incomplete application submitted to SBA will not be processed and will be returned to the applicant. SBA may, in its sole discretion, approve or deny any SBA Supervised Lender application. The decision to approve or deny an
SBA Supervised Lender application is a final agency decision. If an SBA Supervised Lender application is denied by SBA or if a complete application is not timely submitted, the applicant may not submit a new Lender Assessment Plan and restart the application process until 12 months from the date of denial or the date a complete application was due to SBA, as applicable.
(c)
NFRL operating and lending experience requirement.
For an entity seeking to become an NFRL, evidence of at least 1 year of current operating and relevant commercial lending experience by the entity must be provided.
[85 FR 78213, Dec. 4, 2020, as amended at 88 FR 21899, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.467
Evaluation of SBA Supervised Lender applicants.
(a) SBA will evaluate an SBA Supervised Lender applicant based on information from, among other sources, the Lender Assessment Plan, an interview with the applicant's management team (if required), the application and any other documentation submitted by the applicant, the results of background investigations, public record searches and due diligence conducted by SBA or other Federal or state agencies. SBA's evaluation will consider factors such as the following:
(1) Professional qualifications of its management team (including key employees), including demonstrated commercial lending experience, business reputation, adherence to legal and ethical standards, track record in making and monitoring business loans, and prior history, if any, working as an officer, manager, director or key employee of a lender involved in any SBA program or any other Federal or state lending program.
(2) Historical performance measures of loans originated by the applicant or attributable to its management team (including key employees), including loan default rates, purchase rates and loss rates, measured in both percentage terms and in comparison to appropriate industry benchmarks, review/examination assessments and other performance measures.
(3) The applicant's capitalization, organizational structure, business plan (including any risk factors), projected financial performance, financial strength, liquidity, the soundness of its financial projections and underlying assumptions, loan underwriting process, operations plan and the history of compliance of the applicant and its management team (including key employees) with SBA Loan Program Requirements.
(4) Whether the NFRL's state regulator and the state statute or regulations governing the NFRL's operations, including but not limited to those pertaining to audit, examination, supervision, enforcement and information sharing, are satisfactory to SBA in its sole discretion.
(5) For changes of ownership or control, in addition to the factors listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, SBA will consider whether the applicant's plan for the resolution of any outstanding monetary liabilities to SBA, including repairs and denials and civil monetary penalties, is acceptable to SBA in its sole discretion.
(b) SBA may prohibit any individual or entity from participating as an officer, director, manager, owner or key employee of the applicant if such individual or entity:
(1) Has a previous record of failing to materially comply with SBA Loan Program Requirements;
(2) Previously participated in a material way with any past or present SBA Lender or Intermediary that failed to maintain satisfactory SBA performance;
(3) Previously defaulted on any Federal loan or Federally assisted financing that resulted in the Federal Government or any of its agencies or departments sustaining a loss in any of its programs; or
(4) Ever failed to pay when due any debt or obligation, including any amounts in dispute, to the Federal Government or guaranteed by the Federal Government (including but not limited to taxes or business or student loans).
[85 FR 78214, Dec. 4, 2020]
§ 120.468
Change of ownership or control requirements for SBA Supervised Lenders.
(a)
SBA prior approval required.
Any change of ownership or control of an
SBA Supervised Lender without SBA's prior written approval is prohibited. Prior to entering into any agreement, other than a non-binding letter of intent, for a change of ownership or control, SBA Supervised Lenders must receive SBA's prior written approval from the appropriate SBA official in accordance with the prevailing Delegations of Authority. An SBA Supervised Lender may not register proposed new owners on its books and records or permit them to participate in any manner in the conduct of the SBA Supervised Lender's affairs unless approved in writing by SBA. Any type of non-binding letter of intent regarding a prospective change of ownership or control must be reported to SBA within 30 calendar days. A change of ownership or control includes the following:
(1) Any transfer(s) (direct or indirect) of 10 percent or more of any class of the SBA Supervised Lender's stock or ownership interests (or series of transfers which, in the aggregate over an 18 month period, equals 10 percent or more), or any agreement providing for such transfer;
(2) Any transfer(s) (direct or indirect) that could result in the beneficial ownership by any person or group of persons acting in concert of 10 percent or more of any class of the SBA Supervised Lender's stock or ownership interests, or any agreement providing for such transfer(s);
(3) Any merger, consolidation, or reorganization;
(4) Any other transaction or agreement that transfers control of an SBA Supervised Lender; or
(5) Any other transaction or event that results in any change in the possession (direct or indirect) of the right to control, or the power to direct or cause the direction of, the management or policies of an SBA Supervised Lender, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
(b)
Approval required by other regulatory authorities.
If a change of ownership or control of an SBA Supervised Lender is subject to the approval of any state or Federal chartering, licensing or other regulatory authority, copies of any documents filed with such authority must, at the same time, be transmitted to the appropriate SBA official in accordance with the prevailing Delegations of Authority. The approval of any state or Federal authority will be required in addition to SBA's prior written approval.
(c)
Application requirements for changes of ownership or control.
An applicant must submit a Lender Assessment Plan and a new application in accordance with § 120.466 for any change of ownership or control. If a proposed change of ownership is for less than 50 percent of the ownership interests in an SBA Supervised Lender, SBA may, in its sole discretion, limit the requirements of the Lender Assessment Plan or the complete application as set forth in official SBA policy and procedures.
(d)
Voluntary surrender of SBA lending authority.
An SBA Supervised Lender may voluntarily surrender its SBA lending authority (including its SBLC license or NFRL lending authority, as applicable) and withdraw as a participating Lender with SBA's prior written approval. The SBA Supervised Lender must agree to transfer its entire 7(a) loan portfolio to one or more Lenders acceptable to SBA in accordance with § 120.432(a), and enter into a withdrawal agreement to resolve any outstanding issues, including any outstanding monetary liabilities, to SBA's satisfaction. SBA may, in its sole discretion, take over the servicing of an SBA Supervised Lender's 7(a) loan portfolio in accordance with § 120.535(d) upon the voluntary surrender of its SBA lending authority.
[85 FR 78214, Dec. 4, 2020]

# Small Business Lending Companies (SBLC)
§ 120.470
What are SBA's additional requirements for SBLCs?
In addition to complying with SBA's requirements for SBA Lenders and SBA Supervised Lenders, an SBLC (including a Community Advantage SBLC) must meet the requirements contained in this regulation and the SBLC regulations that follow.
(a)
Lending.
An SBLC or Community Advantage SBLC may make:
(1) Loans under section 7(a) (except section 7(a)(13) of the Act in participation with SBA); and/or
(2) SBA guaranteed loans to Intermediaries (see subpart G of this part). Such loans are subject to the same conditions as guaranteed loans made to Intermediaries by 7(a) Lenders.
(b)
Business structure.
An SBLC must be a corporation (profit or nonprofit) or a limited liability company or limited partnership, except for a Community Advantage SBLC, which must either be a nonprofit corporation or have been a Community Advantage Pilot Program participant.
(c)
Written agreement.
An SBLC must sign a written agreement with SBA.
(d)
Dual control.
An SBLC must maintain dual control over disbursement of funds and withdrawal of securities.
(1) An SBLC may disburse funds only by checks or wire transfers authorized by signatures of two or more officers covered by the SBLC's fidelity bond, except that checks in an amount of $10,000 or less may be signed by one bonded officer, provided that such action is permitted under the SBLC's fidelity bond.
(2) There must be two or more bonded officers, or one bonded officer and a bonded employee to open safe deposit boxes or withdraw securities from safekeeping. The SBLC must furnish to each depository bank, custodian, or entity providing safe deposit boxes a certified copy of the resolution implementing control procedures.
(e)
Fidelity insurance.
An SBLC, except for a Community Advantage SBLC, must maintain a Brokers Blanket Bond, Standard Form 14, or Finance Companies Blanket Bond, Standard Form 15, or such other form of coverage as SBA may approve, in a minimum amount of $2,000,000 executed by a surety holding a certificate of authority from the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 9304-9308. SBA's Administrator, in consultation with SBA's Associate Administrator for the Office of Capital Access (AA/OCA), or their designee(s), at their discretion, will determine the appropriate bond coverage levels for Community Advantage SBLCs as published in Loan Program Requirements.
(f)
Common control.
(1) An SBLC must not control, be controlled by, or be under common control with another SBLC.
(2) In the case of a purchase of an SBLC by an organization that already owns an SBLC, the purchasing entity will have six months to submit a plan to SBA for the divestiture of one of the SBLCs. All divestiture plans must be approved by SBA and SBA may withhold approval in its discretion. Divestiture of the SBLC must occur within one year of purchase date.
(3) Without prior written SBA approval, an Associate of one SBLC must not be an Associate of another SBLC or of any entity which directly or indirectly controls, or is under common control with, another SBLC.
(4) For purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, common control means a condition where two or more SBLCs, either through ownership, management, contract, or otherwise, are under the Control of one group or Person (as defined in § 120.10 of this chapter). Two or more SBLCs are presumed to be under common control if they are Affiliates of each other by reason of common ownership or common officers, directors, or general partners.
(5) “Affiliate” has the meaning set forth in § 121.103 of this chapter.
(6) “Control” means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of an SBLC or other concern, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract, or otherwise. The common control presumption may be rebutted by evidence satisfactory to SBA.
(g)
Borrowed funds.
In general, an SBLC may not be capitalized with borrowed funds. Shareholders owning 10 percent or more of any class of its stock must not use personally-borrowed funds to purchase the stock unless the net worth of the shareholder is at least twice the amount borrowed or unless the shareholder receives SBA's prior written approval for a lower ratio.
[73 FR 75515, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 78215, Dec. 4, 2020; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022; 88 FR 21899, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.471
What are the minimum capital requirements for SBLCs?
(a)
Minimum capital requirements.
(1) Beginning on January 4, 2024, each SBLC that makes or acquires a 7(a)
loan must maintain, at a minimum, unencumbered paid-in capital and paid-in surplus of at least $5,000,000, or 10 percent of the aggregate of its share of all outstanding loans, whichever is greater.
(2) Any SBLC approved on or after January 4, 2021, including in the event of a change of ownership or control, must maintain the minimum capital requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3) Unless subject to paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, an SBLC must comply with the minimum capital requirements that were in effect on January 3, 2021.
(4) A Community Advantage SBLC must maintain a minimum amount of capital as determined at the discretion of the Administrator in consultation with SBA's Associate Administrator for the Office of Capital Access (AA/OCA), or their designee(s). The minimum capital amount as published in Loan Program Requirements will ensure sufficient risk protection for SBA and lenders while not burdening smaller lenders with large capital requirements.
(5) Community Advantage SBLCs must maintain a loan loss reserve account as determined at the discretion of the Administrator in consultation with SBA's Associate Administrator for the Office of Capital Access (AA/OCA), or their designee(s) as published in Loan Program Requirements.
(b)
Composition of capital.
For purposes of complying with paragraph (a) of this section, capital consists only of one or more of the following:
(1) Common stock;
(2) Preferred stock that is noncumulative as to dividends and does not have a maturity date;
(3) Unrestricted net assets (for non-profit corporations);
(4) Additional paid-in capital representing amounts paid for stock in excess of the par value;
(5) Retained earnings of the business; and/or
(6) For limited liability companies and limited partnerships, capital contributions must not be subject to repayment at any specific time, must not be subject to withdrawal and must have no cumulative priority return.
(c)
Voluntary capital reduction.
Without prior written SBA approval, an SBLC must not voluntarily reduce its capital, or repurchase and hold more than 2 percent of any class or combination of classes of its stock.
(d)
Issuance of securities.
Without prior written SBA approval, an SBLC must not issue any securities (including stock options and debt securities) except stock dividends.
[73 FR 75516, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 78215, Dec. 4, 2020; 88 FR 21899, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.472
Higher individual minimum capital requirement.
The Associate Administrator for Capital Access (AA/CA) may require, under § 120.473(d), an SBLC to maintain a higher level of capital, if the AA/CA determines, in his/her discretion, that the SBLC's level of capital is potentially inadequate to protect the SBA from loss due to the financial failure of the SBLC. The factors to be considered in the determination will vary in each case and may include, for example:
(a) Specific conditions or circumstances pertaining to the SBLC;
(b) Exigency of those circumstances or potential problems;
(c) Overall condition, management strength, and future prospects of the SBLC and, if applicable, its parent or affiliates;
(d) The SBLC's liquidity and existing capital level, and the performance of its SBA loan portfolio;
(e) The management views of the SBLC's directors and senior management; and
(f) Other risk-related factors, as determined by SBA.
[73 FR 75516, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.473
Procedures for determining individual minimum capital requirement.
(a)
Notice.
When SBA determines that an individual minimum capital requirement above that set forth in this subpart or other legal authority is necessary or appropriate for a particular SBLC, SBA will notify the SBLC in writing of the proposed individual minimum capital requirement, the date by which it should be reached and will
provide an explanation of why the requirement proposed is considered necessary or appropriate.
(b)
SBLC response.
The SBLC may respond to the notice. The response should include any matters which the SBLC would have SBA consider in deciding whether individual minimum capital requirements should be established for the SBLC, what those capital requirements should be, and, if applicable, when they should be achieved. The response must be in writing and delivered to the AA/CA within 30 days after the date on which the SBLC received the notice. SBA may shorten the time for response when, in the opinion of SBA, the condition of the SBLC so warrants, provided that the SBLC is informed promptly of the new time period, or the SBLC consents to the shortening of its response time. In its discretion, SBA may extend the time period for good cause.
(c)
Failure to respond.
An SBLC that does not respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by SBA will have waived any objections to the proposed minimum capital requirement and the deadline for its achievement. Failure to respond will also constitute consent to the individual minimum capital requirement.
(d)
Decision.
After the close of the SBLC's response period, the AA/CA will decide, based on a review of SBA reasons for proposing the individual minimum capital requirement, the SBLC's response, and other information concerning the SBLC, whether the individual minimum capital requirement should be established for the SBLC and, if so, the requirement and the date it will become effective. The SBLC will be notified of the decision in writing. The notice will include an explanation of the decision; except for a decision not to establish an individual minimum capital requirement for the SBLC.
(e)
Submission of plan.
The decision may require the SBLC to develop and submit to SBA, within a time period specified, an acceptable plan to reach the individual minimum capital requirement by the date required.
(f)
Change in circumstances.
If, after SBA's decision in paragraph (d) of this section, there is a change in the circumstances affecting the SBLC's capital adequacy or its ability to reach the required individual minimum capital requirement by the specified date, either the SBLC or the AA/CA may propose to the other a change in the individual minimum capital requirement for the SBLC, the date when the individual minimum must be achieved, and/or the SBLC's plan (if applicable). The AA/CA may decline to consider proposals that are not based on a significant change in circumstances or are repetitive or frivolous. Pending a decision by the AA/CA on reconsideration, SBA's original decision and any plan required under that decision will continue in full force and effect.
[73 FR 75516, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.474
Relation to other actions.
In lieu of, or in addition to, the procedures in this subpart, the individual minimum capital requirement for an SBLC may be established or revised through a written agreement or cease and desist proceedings under subpart I of this part.
[73 FR 75517, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.475
[Reserved]
§ 120.476
Prohibited financing.
An SBLC may not make a loan to a small business that has received financing (or a commitment for financing) from an SBIC that is an Associate of the SBLC.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996. Redesignated at 73 FR 75516, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.490
Audits.
Every SBLC is subject to periodic audits by SBA's Office of Inspector General, Auditing Division, and the cost of such audits will be assessed against the SBLC, except for the first audit. Fees are structured based on the SBLC's assets as of the date of the latest audited financial statement submitted to SBA before the audit. The fee schedule is set forth in SBA's Standard Operating Procedures manual.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996. Redesignated at 73 FR 75516, Dec. 11, 2008]

# Subpart E—Servicing, Liquidation and Debt Collection Litigation of 7(a) and 504 Loans

# SBA'S Purchase of a Guaranteed Portion
§ 120.520
Purchase of 7(a) loan guarantees.
(a)
When SBA will purchase
—(1)
For loans approved on or after May 14, 2007.
A Lender may demand in writing that SBA honor its guarantee if the Borrower is in default on any installment for more than 60 calendar days (or less if SBA agrees) and the default has not been cured, provided all business personal property securing the defaulted SBA loan has been liquidated. A Lender may also submit a request for purchase of a defaulted 7(a) loan when a Borrower files for federal bankruptcy once a period of at least 60 days has elapsed since the last full installment payment. If a Borrower cures a default before a Lender requests purchase by SBA, the Lender's right to request purchase on that default lapses. SBA considers liquidation of business personal property collateral to be completed when a Lender has exhausted all prudent and commercially reasonable efforts to collect upon these assets. In addition, SBA, in its sole discretion, may purchase the guaranteed portion of a loan at any time whether in default or not, with or without the request from a Lender.
(2)
For loans approved before May 14, 2007.
The regulations applicable to the time that a Lender may make demand for purchase that were in effect immediately prior to this date will govern such loans.
(b)
Documentation for purchase.
SBA will not purchase its guaranteed portion of a loan from a Lender unless the Lender has submitted to SBA documentation that SBA deems sufficient to allow SBA to determine whether purchase of the guarantee is warranted under § 120.524.
(c)
Purchase of loans sold in Secondary Market.
When the Lender has sold the guaranteed portion of a loan in the Secondary Market, under subpart F of this part, Lenders must perform all necessary servicing and liquidation actions for such loan even after SBA has purchased the guaranteed portion of such loan from a Registered Holder (as that term is defined in § 120.600(i)). In the event that SBA purchases its guaranteed portion of such a loan from the Registered Holder, Lenders must provide SBA with a loan status report within 15 business days of such purchase. This report should include but not be limited to, a status report on the borrower and current condition of the collateral, plans for any type of loan workout or loan restructuring, existing liquidation activities including the sale of loan collateral, or the status of ongoing foreclosure proceedings. The report should accompany requested documentation that SBA deems sufficient to be able to review the Lender's administration of the loan under § 120.524. A Lender's failure to provide sufficient documentation may constitute a material failure to comply with SBA requirements under § 120.524(a)(1), and may lead to initiation of an action for recovery from the Lender of all or some of the moneys SBA paid to a Registered Holder on a guarantee. SBA will also evaluate the Lender's continued participation in the Secondary Market and may restrict further sale of guaranteed portions into the Secondary Market until SBA determines that the Lender has provided sufficient documentation for purchases.
(d)
No waiver of SBA's rights.
Purchase by SBA of the guaranteed portion of a loan, or of a portion of SBA's guarantee of a loan, either through a negotiated agreement with a Lender or otherwise, does not waive any of SBA's rights to recover from the responsible Lender any money paid on the guarantee based upon the occurrence of any of the events set forth in § 120.524(a) in connection with that loan.
[72 FR 18360, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 120.521
What interest rate applies after SBA purchases its guaranteed portion?
When SBA purchases the guaranteed portion of a fixed interest rate loan, the rate of interest remains as stated in the note. On loans with a fluctuating interest rate, the interest rate that the Borrower owes will be at the rate in effect at the time of the earliest
uncured payment default, or the rate in effect at the time of purchase (where no default has occurred).
§ 120.522
Payment of accrued interest to the Lender or Registered Holder when SBA purchases the guaranteed portion.
(a)
Rate of interest.
If SBA purchases the guaranteed portion from a Lender or from a Registered Holder (if sold in the Secondary Market), it will pay accrued interest at:
(1) The rate in the note if it is a fixed rate loan; or
(2) The rate in effect on the date of the earliest uncured payment default, or of SBA's purchase (if there has been no default).
(b)
Payment to Lender
—(1)
For loans approved on or after May 14, 2007.
SBA will pay up to a maximum of 120 days interest to a Lender at the time of guarantee purchase.
(2)
For loans approved before May 14, 2007.
The regulations applicable to the amount of interest that SBA will pay to a Lender upon loan default that were in effect immediately prior to this date will govern such loans.
(c)
Payment to Registered Holder.
SBA will pay a Registered Holder all accrued interest up to the date of payment.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 18361, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 120.523
What is the “earliest uncured payment default”?
The earliest uncured payment default is the date of the earliest failure by a Borrower to pay a regular installment of principal and/or interest when due. Payments made by the Borrower before a Lender makes its request to SBA to purchase are applied to the earliest uncured payment default. If the installment is paid in full, the earliest uncured payment default date will advance to the next unpaid installment date. If a Borrower makes any payment after the Lender makes its request to SBA to purchase, the earliest uncured payment default date does not change because the Lender has already exercised its right to request purchase.
§ 120.524
When is SBA released from liability on its guarantee?
(a) SBA is released from liability on a loan guarantee (in whole or in part, within SBA's exclusive discretion), if any of the events below occur:
(1) The Lender has failed to comply materially with any Loan Program Requirement for 7(a) loans.
(2) The Lender has failed to make, close, service, or liquidate a loan in a prudent manner;
(3) The Lender's improper action or inaction has placed SBA at risk;
(4) The Lender has failed to disclose a material fact to SBA regarding a guaranteed loan in a timely manner;
(5) The Lender has misrepresented a material fact to SBA regarding a guaranteed loan;
(6) SBA has received a written request from the Lender to terminate the guarantee;
(7) The Lender has not paid the guarantee fee within the period required under SBA rules and regulations;
(8) The Lender has failed to request that SBA purchase a guarantee within 180 days after maturity of the loan. However, if the Lender is conducting liquidation or debt collection litigation in connection with a loan that has matured, SBA will be released from its guarantee only if the Lender fails to request that SBA purchase the guarantee within 180 days after the completion of the liquidation or debt collection litigation;
(9) The Lender has failed to use required SBA forms or exact electronic copies; or
(10) The Borrower has paid the loan in full.
(b) If SBA determines, at any time, that any of the events set forth in paragraph (a) of this section occurred in connection with that loan, SBA is entitled to recover any moneys paid on the guarantee plus interest from the Lender. In the exercise of its rights, SBA may utilize all legal means available, including offset and judicial remedies.
(c) If the Lender's loan documentation or other information indicates that one or more of the events in paragraph (a) of this section occurred, SBA may undertake such investigation as it deems necessary to determine whether
to honor or deny the guarantee, and may withhold a decision on whether to honor the guarantee until the completion of such investigation.
(d) Any information provided to SBA by a Lender or other party will not prejudice, or be construed as effecting any waiver of, SBA's right to deny liability for a guarantee if one or more of the events listed in paragraph (a) of this section occur.
(e) Unless SBA provides written notice to the contrary, the Lender remains responsible for all loan servicing ad liquidation actions until SBA honors its guarantee in full.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 72 FR 18361, Apr. 12, 2007; 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.530
Deferment of payment.
SBA may agree to defer payments on a business loan for a stated period of time, and use such other methods as it considers necessary and appropriate to help in the successful operation of the Borrower. This policy applies to all business loan programs, including 504 loans.
§ 120.531
Extension of maturity.
SBA may agree to extend the maturity of a loan for up to 10 years beyond its original maturity if the extension will aid in the orderly repayment of the loan.
§ 120.535
Standards for Lender and CDC loan servicing, loan liquidation and debt collection litigation.
(a)
Service using prudent lending standards.
Lenders and CDCs must service 7(a) and 504 loans in their portfolio no less diligently than their non-SBA portfolio, and in a commercially reasonable manner, consistent with prudent lending standards, and in accordance with Loan Program Requirements. Those Lenders and CDCs that do not maintain a non-SBA loan portfolio must adhere to the same prudent lending standards for loan servicing followed by commercial lenders on loans without a government guarantee.
(b)
Liquidate using prudent lending standards.
Lenders and Authorized CDC Liquidators must liquidate and conduct debt collection litigation for 7(a) and 504 loans in their portfolio no less diligently than for their non-SBA portfolio, and in a prompt, cost-effective and commercially reasonable manner, consistent with prudent lending standards, and in accordance with Loan Program Requirements and with any SBA approval of either a liquidation or litigation plan or any amendment of such a plan. Lenders and CDCs that do not maintain a non-SBA loan portfolio must adhere to the same prudent lending standards followed by commercial lenders that liquidate loans without a government guarantee. They are also to operate in accordance with Loan Program Requirements and with any SBA approval of either a liquidation or litigation plan or any amendment of such a plan.
(c)
Absence of actual or apparent conflict of interest.
A CDC must not take any action in the liquidation or debt collection litigation of a 504 loan that would result in an actual or apparent conflict of interest between the CDC (or any employee of the CDC) and any Third Party Lender, associate of a Third Party Lender, or any person participating in a liquidation, foreclosure or loss mitigation action.
(d)
SBA rights to take over servicing or liquidation.
SBA may, in its sole discretion, undertake the servicing, liquidation and/or litigation of any 7(a) or 504 loan. If SBA elects to service, liquidate and/or litigate a loan, it will notify the relevant Lender or CDC in writing, and, upon receiving such notice, the Lender or CDC must assign the Loan Instruments to SBA and provide any needed assistance to allow SBA to service, liquidate and/or litigate the loan. SBA will notify the Borrower of the change in servicing. SBA may use contractors to perform these actions.
[72 FR 18361, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 120.536
Servicing and liquidation actions that require the prior written consent of SBA.
(a)
Actions by Lenders and CDCs.
Except as otherwise provided in a Supplemental Guarantee Agreement with a Lender or an Agreement with a CDC, SBA must give its prior written consent before a Lender or CDC takes any of the following actions:
(1) Increases the principal amount of a loan above that authorized by SBA at loan origination.
(2) Confers a Preference on the Lender or CDC or engages in an activity that creates a conflict of interest.
(3) Compromises the principal balance of a loan.
(4) Takes title to any property in the name of SBA.
(5) Takes title to environmentally contaminated property, or takes over operation and control of a business that handles hazardous substances or hazardous wastes.
(6) Transfers, sells or pledges more than 90% of a loan.
(7) Takes any action for which prior written consent is required by a Loan Program Requirement.
(b)
Actions by CDCs only (other than PCLP CDCs).
SBA must give its prior written consent before a CDC, other than a PCLP CDC, takes any of the following actions with respect to a 504 loan:
(1) Alters substantially the terms or conditions of any Loan Instrument.
(2) Releases collateral having a cumulative market value in excess of 10 percent of the Debenture amount or $10,000, whichever is less.
(3) Accelerates the maturity of the note.
(4) Compromises or releases any claim against any Borrower or obligor, or against any guarantor, standby creditor, or any other person that is contingently liable for moneys owed on the loan.
(5) Purchases or pays off any indebtedness secured by the property that serves as collateral for a defaulted 504 loan, such as payment of the debt(s) owed to a lien holder or lien holders with priority over the lien securing the loan.
(6) Accepts a workout plan to restructure the material terms and conditions of a loan that is in default or liquidation.
(7) Takes any action for which prior written consent is required by a Loan Program Requirement.
(c)
Documentation requirements.
For all servicing/liquidation actions not requiring SBA's prior written consent, Lenders and CDCs must document the justifications for their decisions and retain these and supporting documents in their file for future SBA review to determine if the actions taken by the Lender or CDC were prudent, commercially reasonable, and complied with all Loan Program Requirements.
[72 FR 18361, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 120.540
Liquidation and litigation plans.
(a)
SBA oversight.
SBA may monitor or review liquidation through the review of liquidation plans which all Authorized CDC Liquidators and certain Lenders must submit to SBA for approval prior to undertaking liquidation, and through liquidation wrap-up reports which Lenders must submit to SBA at the completion of liquidation. SBA will monitor debt collection litigation, such as judicial foreclosures, bankruptcy proceedings and other state and federal insolvency proceedings, through the review of litigation plans, as set forth in this section.
(b)
Liquidation plan.
An Authorized CDC Liquidator and a Lender for a loan made under its authority as a CLP Lender must, prior to undertaking any liquidation, submit a written proposed liquidation plan to SBA and receive SBA's written approval of that plan.
(c)
Litigation plan.
An Authorized CDC Liquidator and a Lender must obtain SBA's prior approval of a litigation plan before proceeding with any Non-Routine Litigation, as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. SBA's prior approval is not required for Routine Litigation, as defined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(1) Non-Routine Litigation includes:
(i) All litigation where factual or legal issues are in dispute and require resolution through adjudication;
(ii) Any litigation where legal fees are estimated to exceed $10,000;
(iii) Any litigation involving a loan where a Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator has an actual or potential conflict of interest with SBA; and
(iv) Any litigation involving a 7(a) or 504 loan where the Lender or CDC has made a separate loan to the same borrower which is not a 7(a) or 504 loan.
(2) Routine Litigation means uncontested litigation, such as non-adversarial matters in bankruptcy and undisputed foreclosure actions, having
estimated legal fees not exceeding $10,000.
(d)
Decision by SBA to take over litigation.
If a Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator is conducting, or proposes to conduct, debt collection litigation on a 7(a) loan or 504 loan, SBA may take over the litigation if SBA determines that the outcome of the litigation could adversely affect SBA's administration of the loan program or that the Government is entitled to legal remedies that are not available to the Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator. Examples of cases that could adversely affect SBA's administration of a loan program include, but are not limited to, situations where SBA determines that:
(1) The litigation involves important governmental policy or program issues.
(2) The case is potentially of great precedential value or there is a risk of adverse precedent to the Government.
(3) The Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator has an actual or potential conflict of interest with SBA.
(4) The legal fees of the Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator's outside counsel are unnecessary, unreasonable or not customary in the locality.
(e)
Amendments to a liquidation or litigation plan.
Lenders and Authorized CDC Liquidators must submit an amended liquidation or litigation plan to address any material changes arising during the course of the liquidation or litigation that were not addressed in the original plan or an amended plan. Lenders and Authorized CDC Liquidators must obtain SBA's written approval of the amended plan prior to taking any further liquidation or litigation action. Examples of such material changes that would require the approval of an amended plan include, but are not limited to:
(1) Changes arising during the course of Routine Litigation that transform the litigation into Non-Routine Litigation, such as when the debtor contests a foreclosure or when the actual legal fees incurred exceed $10,000.
(2) If SBA has approved a litigation plan where anticipated legal fees exceed $10,000, or has approved an amended plan, and thereafter the anticipated or actual legal fees increase by more than 15 percent.
(3) If SBA has approved a liquidation plan, or an amended plan, and thereafter the anticipated or actual costs of conducting the liquidation increase by more than 15 percent.
(f)
Limited waiver of need for a written liquidation or litigation plan.
SBA may, in its discretion, and upon request by a Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator, waive the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c) or (e) of this section, if one of the following extraordinary circumstances warrant such a waiver: the need for expeditious action to avoid the potential risk of loss on the loan or dissipation of collateral exists; an immediate response is required to litigation by a borrower, guarantor or third party; or another urgent reason arises. The Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator must obtain SBA's written consent to such waiver before undertaking the Emergency action, if at all practicable. SBA's waiver will apply only to the specific action(s) which the Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator has identified to SBA as being necessary to address the Emergency. The Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator must, as soon after the Emergency as is practicable, submit a written liquidation or litigation plan to SBA or, if appropriate, a written amended plan, and may not take further liquidation or litigation action without written approval of such plan or amendment by SBA.
(g)
Appeals.
A Lender for loans made under its authority as a CLP Lender or an Authorized CDC Liquidator that disagrees with an SBA office's decision pertaining to an original or amended liquidation plan, other than such portions of the plan that address litigation matters, may submit a written appeal to the Director/Office of Financial Program Operations (D/OFPO) within 30 days of the decision. The D/OFPO or designee will make the final Agency decision in consultation with the Associate General Counsel for Litigation. A Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator that disagrees with an SBA office's decision pertaining to an original or amended litigation plan, or the portion of a liquidation plan addressing litigation matters, may submit a written appeal to the Associate General Counsel
for Litigation within 30 days of the decision. The Associate General Counsel for Litigation will make the final Agency decision in consultation with the D/OFPO.
[72 FR 18362, Apr. 12, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.541
Time for approval by SBA.
(a) Except as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, in responding to a request for approval under §§ 120.540(b), 120.540(c), 120.536(b)(5) or 120.536(b)(6), SBA will approve or deny the request within 15 business days of the date when SBA receives the request. If SBA is unable to approve or deny the request within this 15-day period, SBA will provide a written notice of no decision to the Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator, stating the reason for SBA's inability to act; an estimate of the additional time required to act on the plan or request; and, if SBA deems appropriate, requesting additional information.
(b) Except as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, unless SBA gives its written consent to a proposed liquidation or litigation plan, or a proposed amendment of a plan, or any of the actions set forth in § 120.536(b)(5) or § 120.536(b)(6), SBA will not be deemed to have approved the proposed action.
(c) If a Lender seeks to perform liquidation on a loan made under its authority as a CLP Lender by submitting a liquidation plan to SBA for approval, SBA will approve or deny such plan within ten business days. If SBA fails to approve or deny the plan within ten business days, SBA will be deemed to have approved such plan.
[72 FR 18362, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 120.542
Payment by SBA of legal fees and other expenses.
(a)
Legal fees SBA will not pay.
(1) SBA will not pay legal fees or other costs that a Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator incurs:
(i) In asserting a claim, cross claim, counterclaim, or third-party claim against SBA or in defense of an action brought by SBA, unless payment of such fees or costs is otherwise required by federal law.
(ii) In connection with actions of a Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator's outside counsel for performing non-legal liquidation services, unless authorized by SBA prior to the action.
(iii) In taking actions which solely benefit a Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator and which do not benefit SBA, as determined by SBA.
(2) SBA will not pay legal fees or other costs a Lender or CDC incurs in the defense of, or pay for any settlement or adverse judgment resulting from, a suit, counterclaim or other claim by a borrower, guarantor, or other party that seeks damages based upon a claim that the Lender or CDC breached any duty or engaged in any wrongful actions, unless SBA expressly directed the Lender or CDC to undertake the allegedly wrongful action that is the subject of the suit, counterclaim or other claim.
(b)
Legal fees SBA may decline to pay.
In addition to any right or authority SBA may have under law or contract, SBA may, in its discretion, decline to pay a Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator for all, or a portion, of legal fees and/or other costs incurred in connection with the liquidation and/or litigation of a 7(a) loan or 504 loan under any of the following circumstances:
(1) SBA determines that the Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator failed to perform liquidation or litigation promptly and in accordance with commercially reasonable standards, in a prudent manner, or in accordance with any Loan Program Requirement or SBA approvals of either a liquidation or litigation plan or any amendment of such a plan.
(2) A Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator fails to obtain prior written approval from SBA for any liquidation or litigation plan, or for any amended liquidation or litigation plan, or for any action set forth in § 120.536, when such approval is required by these regulations or a Loan Program Requirement.
(3) If SBA has not specifically approved fees or costs identified in an original or amended liquidation or litigation plan under § 120.540, and SBA determines that such fees or costs are not reasonable, customary or necessary in the locality in question. In such cases, SBA will pay only such fees as it deems
are necessary, customary and reasonable in the locality in question.
(c)
Fees for liquidation actions performed by Authorized CDC Liquidators.
Subject to paragraph (d) of this section, SBA will compensate Authorized CDC Liquidators for their liquidation actions on 504 loans, whether such actions are performed by the CDC or the CDC's contractor retained in accordance with § 120.975(a)(2) or (b)(2)(ii). The compensation fee will be a percentage (to be published in the
Federal Register
from time to time, but not to exceed 10%) of the net recovery proceeds realized from the sale of collateral or other liquidation actions on an individual loan, up to a fee of $25,000 for such loan, and a lower percentage (also to be published in the
Federal Register
from time to time, but not to exceed 5%) of the realized net recovery proceeds above such amounts. The compensation fee limits set forth in this paragraph (c) do not include reasonable, customary and necessary administrative costs related to liquidation activities on such loan that are incurred in accordance with the liquidation plan, or amendments thereto, approved by SBA pursuant to § 120.540(b). The Authorized CDC Liquidator may compensate its contractor up to the amount it receives from SBA. All requests for compensation fees must be received by SBA within nine months from the date of SBA's purchase of the defaulted debenture. Fee requests not received within such timeframe will be automatically rejected.
(d)
Appeals—liquidation costs.
A Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator that disagrees with a decision by an SBA office to decline to reimburse all, or a portion, of the fees and/or costs incurred in conducting liquidation may appeal this decision in writing to the D/OFPO within 30 days of the decision. The decision of the D/OFPO or designee will be made in consultation with the Associate General Counsel for Litigation, and will be the final Agency decision.
(e)
Appeals—litigation costs.
A Lender or Authorized CDC Liquidator that disagrees with a decision by SBA to decline to reimburse all, or a portion, of the legal fees and/or costs incurred in conducting debt collection litigation may appeal this decision in writing to the Associate General Counsel for Litigation within 30 days of the decision. The decision of the Associate General Counsel for Litigation will be made in consultation with the D/OFPO, and will be the final Agency decision.
[72 FR 18362, Apr. 12, 2007, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.545
What are SBA's policies concerning the liquidation of collateral and the sale of business loans and physical disaster assistance loans, physical disaster business loans and economic injury disaster loans?
(a)
Liquidation policy.
SBA or the Lender may liquidate collateral securing a loan if the loan is in default or there is no reasonable prospect that the loan can be repaid within a reasonable period.
(b)
Sale and conversion of loans.
Without the consent of the Borrower, SBA may:
(1) Sell a direct loan;
(2) Convert a guaranteed or immediate participation loan to a direct loan; or
(3) Convert an immediate participation loan to a guaranteed loan or a loan owned solely by the Lender.
(4) Sell direct and purchased 7(a) and 501, 502, 503 and 504 loans and physical disaster home loans, physical disaster business loans and economic injury disaster loans in asset sales. SBA will offer these loans for sale to qualified bidders by means of competitive procedures at publicly advertised sales. Bidder qualifications will be set for each sale in accordance with the terms and conditions of each sale.
(c)
Disposal of collateral and assets acquired through foreclosure or conveyance.
SBA or the Lender may sell real and personal property (including contracts and claims) pledged to secure a loan that is in default in accordance with the provisions of the related security instrument (
see
§ 120.550 for Homestead Protection for Farmers).
(1)
Competitive bids or negotiated sales.
Generally, SBA will offer loan collateral and acquired assets for public sale through competitive bids at auctions or sealed bid sales. The Lender may use negotiated sales if consistent with its
usual practice for similar non-SBA assets.
(2)
Lease of acquired property.
Normally, neither SBA nor a Lender will rent or lease acquired property or grant options to purchase. SBA and the Lender will consider proposals for a lease if it appears a property cannot be sold advantageously and the lease may be terminated on reasonable notice upon receipt of a favorable purchase offer.
(d)
Recoveries and security interests shared.
SBA and the Lender will share pro rata (in accordance with their respective interests in a loan) all loan payments or recoveries, including proceeds from asset sales, all reasonable expenses (including advances for the care, preservation, and maintenance of collateral securing the loan and the payment of senior lienholders), and any security interest or guarantee (excluding SBA's guarantee) which the Lender or SBA may hold or receive in connection with a loan.
(e)
Guarantors.
Guarantors of financial assistance have no rights of contribution against SBA on an SBA guaranteed or direct loan. SBA is not deemed to be a co-guarantor with any other guarantors.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 44110, Aug. 13, 1999; 65 FR 17133, Mar. 31, 2000; 68 FR 51680, Aug. 28, 2003. Redesignated and amended at 72 FR 18362, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 120.546
Loan asset sales.
(a)
General.
Loan asset sales are governed by § 120.545(b)(4) and by this section.
(b)
7(a) loans
—(1)
For loans approved on or after May 14, 2007.
The Lender will be deemed to have consented to SBA's sale of the loan (guaranteed and unguaranteed portions) in an asset sale conducted or overseen by SBA upon the occurrence any of the following:
(i) SBA's purchase of the guaranteed portion of the loan from the Registered Holder for a loan where the guaranteed portion has been sold in the Secondary Market pursuant to subpart F of this part and after default, the Lender has not exercised its option to purchase such guaranteed portion; or
(ii) SBA's purchase of the guaranteed portion from the Lender, provided however, that if SBA purchased the guaranteed portion pursuant to § 120.520(a)(1) prior to the Lender's completion of liquidation for the loan, then SBA will not sell such loan in an asset sale until nine months from the date of SBA's purchase; or
(iii) SBA receives written consent from the Lender.
(2) For loans identified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the Lender may request that SBA withhold the loan from an asset sale if the Lender submits a written request to SBA within 15 business days of SBA's purchase of the guaranteed portion of the loan from the Registered Holder and if such request addresses the issues described in this subparagraph. The Lender's written request must advise SBA of the status of the loan, the Lender's plans for workout and/or liquidation, including and pending sale of loan collateral or foreclosure proceedings arranged prior to SBA's purchase that already are underway, and the Lender's estimated schedule for restructuring the loan or liquidating the collateral. SBA will consider the Lender's request and, based on the circumstances, SBA in its sole discretion may elect to defer including the loan in an asset sale in order to provide the Lender additional time to complete the planned restructuring and/or liquidation actions.
(3)
For loans approved before May 14, 2007.
SBA must obtain written consent from the Lender for the sale of such loans in an asset sale.
(4) After SBA has purchased the guaranteed portion of a loan from the Registered Holder or from the Lender, the Lender must continue to perform all necessary servicing and liquidation actions for the loan up to the point the loan is transferred to the purchaser in an asset sale. The Lender also must cooperate and take all necessary actions to effectuate both the asset sale and the transfer of the loan to the purchaser in the asset sale.
(c)
504 loans
—(1)
PCLP Loans.
After SBA's purchase of a Debenture, SBA may at its sole discretion sell a defaulted PCLP Loan in an asset sale conducted or overseen by SBA, after providing to the PCLP CDC that made the loan advance notice of not less than 90 days before the date upon
which SBA first makes its records concerning such loan available to prospective purchasers for examination.
(2)
All other 504 loans.
After SBA's purchase of a Debenture, SBA may at its sole discretion sell a defaulted 504 loan in an asset sale conducted or overseen by SBA.
[72 FR 18364, Apr. 12, 2007]

# Homestead Protection for Farmers
§ 120.550
What is homestead protection for farmers?
SBA may lease to a farmer-Borrower the farm residence occupied by the Borrower and a reasonable amount of adjoining property (no more than 10 acres and seven farm buildings), if they were acquired by SBA as a result of a defaulted farm loan made or guaranteed by SBA (
see
the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, 7 U.S.C. 1921, for qualifying loan purposes).
§ 120.551
Who is eligible for homestead protection?
SBA must notify the Borrower in possession of the availability of these homestead protection rights within 30 days after SBA acquires the property. A farmer-Borrower must:
(a) Apply for the homestead occupancy to the SBA field office which serviced the loan within 90 days after SBA acquires the property;
(b) Provide evidence that the farm produces farm income reasonable for the area and economic conditions;
(c) Show that at least 60 percent of the Borrower and spouse's gross annual income came from farm or ranch operations in at least any two out of the last six calendar years;
(d) Have resided on the property during the previous six years; and
(e) Be personally liable for the debt.
§ 120.552
Lease.
If approved, the applicant must personally occupy the residence during the term of the lease and pay a reasonable rent to SBA. The lease will be for a period of at least 3 years, but no more than 5 years. A lease of less than 5 years may be renewed, but not beyond 5 years from the original lease date. During or at the end of the lease period, the lessee has a right of first refusal to reacquire the homestead property under terms and conditions no less favorable than those offered to any other purchaser.
§ 120.553
Appeal.
If the application is denied, the Borrower may appeal the decision to the D/FA. Until the conclusion of any appeal, the Borrower may retain possession of the homestead property.
§ 120.554
Conflict of laws.
In the event of a conflict between the homestead provisions at §§ 120.550 through 120.553 of this part, and any state law relating to the right of a Borrower to designate for separate sale or to redeem part or all of the real property securing a loan foreclosed by the Lender, state law shall prevail.

# Subpart F—Secondary Market

# Fiscal and Transfer Agent (FTA)
§ 120.600
Definitions.
(a)
Certificate
is the document the FTA issues representing either a beneficial fractional undivided interest in a Pool (Pool Certificate), or a fractional undivided interest in some or all of the guaranteed portion of an individual 7(a) guaranteed loan (Individual Certificate).
(b)
Current
means that no repayment from a Borrower to a Lender is over 29 days late measured from the due date of the payment on the records of the FTA's central registry (Pools) or the entity servicing the loan (individual guaranteed portion).
(c)
Dollar-Weighted Average Net Rate
of a Pool is calculated by multiplying the interest rate of each loan in the Pool by the ratio of that loan's current outstanding guaranteed principal to the current outstanding guaranteed principal of all loans in the Pool, and adding the sum of the resulting products. The Dollar-Weighted Average Net Rate of a Pool will fluctuate over the life of the Pool as loan defaults, prepayments and normal loan repayments occur.
(d)
FTA
is the SBA's fiscal and transfer agent.
(e)
Note Rate
is the interest rate on the Borrower's note.
(f)
Net Rate
is the interest rate on an individual guaranteed portion of a loan in a Pool.
(g)
Pool
is an aggregation of SBA guaranteed portions of loans made by Lenders.
(h)
Pool Assembler
is a financial institution that:
(1) Organizes and packages a Pool by acquiring the SBA guaranteed portions of loans from Lenders;
(2) Resells fractional interests in the Pool to Registered Holders; and
(3) Directs the FTA to issue Certificates.
(i)
Pool Rate
is the interest rate on a Pool Certificate.
(j)
Registered Holder
is the Certificate owner listed in FTA's records.
(k)
SBA's Secondary Market Program Guide
is an issuance from SBA which describes the characteristics of Secondary Market transactions.
(l)
Weighted Average Coupon (WAC) Pool
is a Pool where the interest rate payable to the investor is equal to the Dollar-Weighted Average Net Rate of the Pool.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 67102, Nov. 13, 2008; 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.601
SBA Secondary Market.
The SBA secondary market (“Secondary Market”) consists of the sale of Certificates, representing either a fractional undivided interest in some or all of the guaranteed portion of an individual 7(a) guaranteed loan or a fractional undivided interest in a Pool consisting of the SBA guaranteed portions of a number of 7(a) guaranteed loans. Transactions involving interests in Pools or the sale of individual guaranteed portions of loans are governed by the contracts entered into by the parties, SBA's Secondary Market Program Guide, and this subpart. See sections 5(f), (g), and (h) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 634(f), (g), and (h)).
[76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]

# Certificates
§ 120.610
Form and terms of Certificates.
(a)
General form and content.
Each Certificate must be registered with the FTA. SBA must approve the terms of the Certificate.
(b)
Face amount of Pool Certificate.
The face amount of a Pool Certificate cannot be less than a minimum amount as specified in the Program Guide, and the dollar amount of Certificates must be in increments which SBA will specify in the Program Guide (except for one Certificate in each Pool). SBA may change these requirements based upon an analysis of market conditions and program experience, and will publish any such change in the
Federal Register.
(c)
Basis of payment for Pool Certificates.
Principal installments and interest payments are based on the unpaid principal balance of the portion of the Pool represented by a Pool Certificate. All prepayments on loans in the Pool must be passed through to the appropriate Registered Holders with the regularly scheduled payments to such Holders.
(d)
Basis of payment for Individual Certificates.
Principal installments and interest payments are based on the unpaid principal balance of the SBA guaranteed portion of the loan supporting an Individual Certificate. The Certificate must provide for a pass through to the Registered Holder of payments which the FTA receives from a Lender or any entity servicing the loan, less applicable fees.
(e)
Interest rate on Pool Certificate.
The interest rate on a Pool Certificate will be either the lowest Net Rate of any individual guaranteed portion of a loan in the Pool or the Dollar-Weighted Average Net Rate of the Pool.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 67102, Nov. 13, 2008]
§ 120.611
Pools backing Pool Certificates.
(a)
Pool characteristics.
As set forth in the Program Guide, each Pool must have:
(1) A minimum number of guaranteed portions of loans;
(2) A minimum aggregate principal balance of the guaranteed portions;
(3) A maximum percentage of the Pool which an individual guaranteed portion may constitute;
(4) A maximum allowable difference between the highest and lowest note interest rates;
(5) A maximum allowable difference between the remaining terms to maturity of the loans in the Pool;
(6) A minimum weighted average maturity at Pool formation; and
(7) A maximum allowable difference between the highest and lowest Net Rate on the guaranteed portions that are placed in a WAC Pool.
(b)
Adjustment of Pool characteristics.
SBA may adjust the Pool characteristics periodically based upon program experience and market conditions.
(c)
Increments of guaranteed portion.
If the amount of the guaranteed portion of an individual 7(a) guaranteed loan is more than $500,000, a Pool Assembler may elect to divide the guaranteed portion into increments of $500,000 and one increment of any remaining amount less than $500,000, in order to permit the maximum amount of any guaranteed portion in a Pool to be not more than $500,000. Only one increment from a loan to a specific borrower may be included in a Pool.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 67102, Nov. 13, 2008; 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.612
Loans eligible to back Certificates.
(a) Pool Certificates are backed by the SBA guaranteed portions of loans comprising the Pool. An Individual Certificate is backed by the SBA guaranteed portion of a single loan. Any such loan must:
(1) Be current as of the date the Pool is formed or the individual guaranteed portion of a loan is initially sold in the Secondary Market;
(2) Be guaranteed under the Act; and
(3) Meet such other standards as SBA may determine to be necessary for the successful operation of the Secondary Market program.
(b) The loans that back a Pool must meet the SBA requirements in effect at the time the Pool is formed.
§ 120.613
Secondary Participation Guarantee Agreement.
When a Lender wants to sell the guaranteed portion of a loan, it enters into a Secondary Participation Guarantee Agreement (“SPGA”) with SBA and the prospective purchaser. The terms of sale between the Lender and the purchaser cannot require the Lender or SBA to repurchase the guaranteed portion of the loan except in accordance with the terms of the SPGA. Before execution of the SPGA, the Lender must:
(a) Submit to FTA a copy of the proposed SPGA, the note, and such other documents as SBA may require;
(b) Except for export working capital loans, disburse to the Borrower the full amount of the loan; and
(c) Pay SBA all guarantee fees relevant to the loan in full.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 51680, Aug. 28, 2003]

# The SBA Guarantee of a Certificate
§ 120.620
SBA guarantee of a Pool Certificate.
(a)
Extent of Guarantee.
SBA guarantees to a Registered Holder the timely payment of principal and interest installments and any prepayment or other recovery of principal to which the Registered Holder is entitled. If the Borrower of a loan in a Pool backing the Certificates does not make a required installment payment, SBA, through the FTA, will make advances to maintain the schedule of interest and principal payments to the Registered Holders.
(b)
SBA guarantee backed by full faith and credit.
SBA's guarantee of the Pool Certificate is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
§ 120.621
SBA guarantee of an Individual Certificate.
(a)
Extent of SBA guarantee.
With respect to Individual Certificates, SBA guarantees to purchase from the Registered Holder the guaranteed portion of the loan for an amount equal to the unpaid principal and accrued interest due as of the date of SBA's purchase, less deductions for applicable fees. Unlike the SBA guarantee with respect to pooled loans, SBA does not guarantee
timely payment on Individual Certificates.
(b)
What triggers the SBA guarantee.
SBA's guarantee to the Registered Holder may be called upon when:
(1) The Borrower remains in uncured default for 60 days on payments of principal or interest due on the note;
(2) The Lender fails to send to the FTA on a timely basis payments it received from the Borrower; or
(3) The FTA fails to send to the Registered Holder on a timely basis any payments it has received from the Lender.
(c)
Full faith and credit.
SBA's guarantee to the Registered Holder is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.

# Pool Assemblers
§ 120.630
Qualifications to be a Pool Assembler.
(a)
Application to become Pool Assembler.
The application to become a Pool Assembler is available from the D/FA. In order to qualify as a Pool Assembler, an entity must send the application to the D/FA, with an application fee, and certify that it:
(1) Is regulated by the appropriate agency as defined in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G));
(2) Meets all financial and other applicable requirements of its regulatory authority and the Government Securities Act of 1986, as amended (Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3208);
(3) Has the financial capability to assemble acceptable and eligible guaranteed loan portions in sufficient quantity to support the issuance of Pool Certificates; and
(4) Is in good standing with SBA (as the D/FA determines in his or her discretion), and is Satisfactory with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (“OCC”) if it is a national bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation if it is a bank not regulated by the OCC, or the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (“FINRA”) if it is a member as determined by SBA.
(5) For any pool assembler that is an SBA Lender, that the SBA Lender has satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The Lender's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures (like default rate, purchase rate and loss rate), loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission).
(b)
Approval by SBA.
An entity may not submit Pool applications to the FTA until SBA has approved the application to become a Pool Assembler.
(c)
Conduct of business by Pool Assembler.
An entity continues to qualify as a Pool Assembler so long as it:
(1) Meets the eligibility standards in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Conducts its business in accordance with SBA regulations and accepted securities or banking industry practices, ethics, and standards; and
(3) Maintains its books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or in accordance with the guidelines of the regulatory body governing its activities.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 75517, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.631
Suspension or termination of Pool Assembler.
(a)
Suspension or termination.
The D/FA may suspend a Pool Assembler from operating in the Secondary Market for up to 18 months or terminate its status as a Pool Assembler, if the Pool Assembler (and/or its Associates):
(1) Does not comply with any of the requirements in § 120.630 (a) and (c);
(2) Has been indicted or otherwise formally charged with, or convicted of, a misdemeanor or felony;
(3) Has received an adverse civil judgment that it has committed a breach of trust or a violation of a law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships;
(4) Has not formed a Pool for at least three years; or
(5) Is under investigation by its regulating authority for activities which may affect its fitness to participate in the Secondary Market.
(b)
Suspension procedures.
The D/FA shall notify a Pool Assembler by certified mail, return receipt requested, of the decision to suspend and the reasons therefore at least 10 business days prior to the effective date of the suspension. The Pool Assembler may appeal the suspension made under this section pursuant to the procedures set forth in part 134 of this chapter. The action of the D/FA shall remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal.
(c)
Notice of termination.
In order to terminate a Pool Assembler, the D/FA must issue an order to show cause why the SBA should not terminate the Pool Assembler's participation in the Secondary Market. The Pool Assembler may appeal the termination made under this section pursuant to procedures set forth in part 134 of this chapter. The action of the D/FA shall remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal.

# Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 120.640
Administration of the Pool and Individual Certificates.
(a)
FTA responsibility.
The FTA has the responsibility to administer each Pool or Individual Certificate. It shall maintain a registry of Registered Holders and other information as SBA requires.
(b)
Self-liquidating.
Each Pool or individual guaranteed portion of a loan in the Secondary Market is self-liquidating because of Borrower payments or prepayments, redemption by SBA, and/or payments by SBA or the Lender after default by the Borrower. Substitution of the guaranteed portions of existing loans for defaulted loans is not permitted.
(c)
SBA's right to subrogation.
If SBA pays a claim under a guarantee with respect to a Certificate issued under this subpart, it must be subrogated fully to the rights satisfied by such payment.
(d)
SBA ownership rights not limited.
No Federal, State or local law can preclude or limit the exercise by SBA of its ownership rights in the portions of loans constituting the Pool against which the Certificates are issued.
§ 120.641
Disclosure to purchasers.
(a)
Information to purchaser.
Prior to any sale, the Pool Assembler, Registered Holder of an Individual Certificate, or any subsequent seller must disclose to the purchaser, verbally or in writing, information on the terms, conditions, and yield as described in the SBA Secondary Market Program Guide.
(b)
Information on transfer document.
The seller must provide the same information described in paragraph (a) of this section in writing on the transfer document when the seller submits it to the FTA. After the sale of an Individual Certificate, the FTA will provide the disclosure information in writing to the purchaser.
(c)
Information in prospectus.
If the Registered Holder is a trust, investment Pool, mutual fund or other security, it must disclose the information in paragraph (a) of this section to investors through a prospectus and other promotional material if an Individual Certificate or Pool Certificate is placed into or used as the backing for the investment vehicle.
§ 120.642
Requirements before the FTA issues Pool Certificates.
Before the FTA issues any Pool Certificate, the Pool Assembler must deliver to it the following documents:
(a) A properly completed Pool application form;
(b) Either:
(1) Individual Certificates evidencing the guaranteed portions comprising the Pool; or
(2) An executed SPGA and related documentation for the loans whose guaranteed portions are to be part of the Pool; and
(c) Any other documentation which SBA may require.
§ 120.643
Requirements before the FTA issues Individual Certificates.
(a)
FTA issuance of initial Certificate.
Before the FTA can issue the Individual Certificate for a guaranteed portion of a loan, the original seller must provide the following documents to the FTA:
(1) An executed SPGA;
(2) A copy of the note representing the guaranteed loan; and
(3) Any other documentation which SBA may require.
(b) Review of documentation. SBA may review or require the FTA to review any documentation before the FTA issues a Certificate.
§ 120.644
Transfers of Certificates.
(a)
General rule.
Certificates are transferable. Transfers in the Secondary Market must comply with Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York. The seller must use the detached form of assignment (SBA Form 1088), unless the seller and purchaser choose to use another form which the SBA approves. The FTA may refuse to issue a Certificate until it is satisfied that the documents of transfer are complete.
(b)
Transfer on FTA records.
In order for the transfer of a Certificate to be effective the FTA must reflect it on its records.
(c)
Contents of letter of transmittal accompanying the transfer of Certificates.
(1) A letter of transmittal must accompany each Certificate which a Registered Holder submits to the FTA for transfer. The Registered Holder must supply the following information in the letter:
(i) Pool number, if applicable;
(ii) Certificate number;
(iii) Name of purchaser of Certificate;
(iv) Address and tax identification number of the purchaser;
(v) Name and telephone number of the person handling or facilitating the transfer;
(vi) Instructions for the delivery of the new Certificate.
(2) The Registered Holder must also send the fee which the FTA charges for this service. The FTA will supply fee information to the Registered Holder.
(d)
Lender cannot purchase guaranteed portion of loan it made.
The Lender (or its Associate) that made a 7(a) guaranteed loan cannot purchase the guaranteed portion of that loan in the Secondary Market. If a Lender does purchase the guaranteed portion of one of its own loans, it shall not have the unconditional guarantee of SBA.
§ 120.645
Redemption of Certificates.
(a)
Redemption of Individual Certificate.
The prepayment of the underlying loan or a default on such loan will trigger the redemption of the Certificate by FTA/SBA in accordance with the procedures prescribed in the SPGA.
(b)
Redemption of Pool Certificate.
The FTA and SBA may redeem a Pool Certificate because of prepayment or default of all loans in a Pool.
§ 120.650
Registration duties of FTA in Secondary Market.
The FTA registers all Certificates. This means it issues, transfers title to, and redeems them. All financial transactions relating to a guaranteed portion of a loan flow through the FTA. In fulfilling its obligation to keep the central registry current, the FTA may, with SBA's approval, obtain any necessary information from the parties involved in the Secondary Market.
§ 120.651
Claim to FTA by Registered Holder to replace Certificate.
(a) To replace a Certificate because of loss, theft, destruction, mutilation, or defacement, the Registered Holder must:
(1) Give the FTA information about the Certificate and the facts relating to the claim;
(2) File an indemnity bond acceptable to SBA and the FTA with a surety to protect the interests of SBA and the FTA;
(3) Pay the FTA its fee to replace a Certificate; and
(4) Use an affidavit of loss (form available from the FTA) to report:
(i) The name and address of the Registered Holder (and the name and capacity of any representative actually filing the claim);
(ii) The Certificate by Pool number, if applicable;
(iii) The Certificate number;
(iv) The original principal amount;
(v) The name in which the Certificate was registered;
(vi) Any assignment, endorsement or other writing on the Certificate; and
(vii) A statement of the circumstances of the theft or loss.
(b) When the FTA receives notice of the theft or loss, it will stop any transfer of the Certificate. The Registered Holder must send to the FTA all available portions of a mutilated or defaced
Certificate. When the Registered Holder completes these steps, the FTA will replace the Certificate.
§ 120.652
FTA fees.
The FTA may charge reasonable servicing fees, transfer fees, and other fees as the SBA and FTA may negotiate under contract.

# Suspension or Revocation of Participant in Secondary Market
§ 120.660
Suspension or revocation.
(a)
Temporary suspension or revocation of Lender, broker, dealer, or Registered Holder for violation of Secondary Market rules and regulations or other risks to SBA.
The D/FA together with the Director, Office of Credit Risk Management (D/OCRM) may suspend for a period of no more than 120 calendar days or revoke for a period of no more than two (2) years, the privilege of a Lender, broker, dealer, or Registered Holder to sell, purchase, broker, or deal in loans or Certificates for:
(1) Committing a serious violation, in SBA's discretion, of:
(i) The regulations governing the Secondary Market; or
(ii) Any provisions in the contracts entered into by the parties, including SBA Forms 1086, 1088 and 1454;
(2) Knowingly submitting false or fraudulent information to the SBA or FTA; or
(3) A Lender's receipt, from its primary Federal or state regulator (including SBA), of a cease and desist order, a consent agreement affecting capital or commercial lending issues, a supervisory action citing unsafe or unsound banking practices, or any other supervisory action a primary regulator establishes hereafter that addresses unsafe or unsound lending practices; or a going concern opinion issued by the Lender's auditor. A Lender subject to a public action or going concern opinion must notify the D/FA and the D/OCRM within five (5) business days (or as soon as practicable thereafter) of the public issuance of any such action or the issuance of a going concern opinion. The Lender notice shall include copies of all relevant documents for SBA review.
(b)
Additional rules for suspension or revocation of broker or dealer.
In addition to acting under paragraph (a) of this section, the D/FA may suspend or revoke the privilege of any broker or dealer to sell or otherwise deal in Certificates in the Secondary Market if:
(1) Its supervisory agency has revoked or suspended the broker or dealer from engaging in the securities business, or is investigating the firm or broker for a practice which SBA considers, in its sole discretion, to be relevant to the broker's or dealer's fitness to participate in the Secondary Market;
(2) The broker or dealer has been indicted or otherwise formally charged with a misdemeanor or felony which bears on its fitness to participate in the Secondary Market; or
(3) A civil judgment is entered holding that the broker or dealer has committed a breach of trust or a violation of any law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships.
(c)
Notice to suspend or revoke.
The D/FA and the D/OCRM shall notify the affected party in writing, providing the reasons therefore, at least 10 business days prior to the effective date of the suspension or revocation. The affected party may appeal the suspension or revocation made under this section pursuant to the procedures set forth in part 134 of this chapter. The action taken by the D/FA and the D/OCRM will remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal.
(d)
Early termination of suspension or revocation.
SBA may, by written notice, terminate a Secondary Market suspension or revocation under this section, if the D/FA and the D/OCRM, in their sole discretion, determine that such termination is warranted for good cause.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 39503, Aug. 21, 2017]

# Subpart G—Microloan Program
§ 120.700
What is the Microloan Program?
The Microloan Program assists women, low income individuals, minority entrepreneurs, and other small businesses which need small amounts
of financial assistance. Under this program, SBA makes direct and guaranteed loans to Intermediaries (as defined below) who use the proceeds to make loans to eligible borrowers. SBA may also make grants under the program to Intermediaries and other qualified nonprofit entities to be used for marketing, management, and technical assistance to the program's target population.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47073, Sept. 11, 2001]
§ 120.701
Definitions.
Deposit account
is a demand, time, savings, passbook, or similar account maintained with an insured depository institution (not including an account evidenced by a Certificate of Deposit).
Economically Distressed Area
is a county or equivalent division of local government of a State in which the small business concern is located, in which, according to the most recent data available from the Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce, not less than 40 percent of residents have an annual income that is at or below the poverty level.
Grant
is a Federal award of money, or property in lieu of money (including cooperative agreements) to an eligible grantee that must account for its use. The term does not include the provision of technical assistance, revenue sharing, loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, insurance, direct appropriations, or any fellowship or other lump sum award.
Insured depository institution
means any federally insured bank, savings association, or credit union.
Intermediary
is an entity participating in the Microloan Program which makes and services Microloans to eligible small businesses and which provides marketing, management, and technical assistance to its borrowers. It may be:
(1) A private, nonprofit community development corporation or other entity;
(2) A consortium of private, nonprofit community development corporations or other entities;
(3) A quasi-governmental economic development entity, other than a state, county, municipal government or any agency thereof; or
(4) An agency of or a nonprofit entity established by a Native American Tribal Government.
Microloan
is a short-term, fixed interest rate loan of not more than $50,000 made by an Intermediary to an eligible small business.
Non-Federal sources
are sources of funds other than the Federal Government and may include indirect costs or in-kind contributions paid for under non-Federal programs. Community Block Development Grants are considered non-Federal sources.
Rural Area
is any political subdivision or unincorporated area:
(1) In a nonmetropolitan county (as defined by the Secretary of Agriculture) or its equivalent thereof; or
(2) In a metropolitan county or its equivalent that has a resident population of less than 20,000 if the Small Business Administration has determined such political subdivision or area to be rural.
Specialized Intermediary
is an Intermediary which maintains a portfolio of Microloans averaging $10,000 or less.
[89 FR 35689, May 2, 2024]
§ 120.702
Are there limitations on who can be an Intermediary or on where an Intermediary may operate?
(a)
Prior experience requirement.
To be eligible to be an Intermediary, an organization must:
(1) Have made and serviced short-term fixed rate loans of not more than $50,000 to newly established or growing small businesses for at least one year: and
(2) Have at least one year of experience providing technical assistance to its borrowers.
(b)
Limitation to one state.
An Intermediary may not operate in more than one state unless the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority determines that it would be in the best interests of the small business community for it to operate across state lines.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47878, Sept. 14, 2001; 73 FR 75517, Dec. 11, 2008; 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.703
How does an organization apply to become an Intermediary?
(a)
Application Process.
Organizations interested in becoming Intermediaries should contact SBA for information on the application process.
(b)
Documentation in support of application.
The application must include a detailed narrative statement describing:
(1) The types of businesses assisted in the past and those the applicant intends to assist with Microloans;
(2) The average size of the loans made in the past and the average size of intended Microloans;
(3) The extent to which the applicant will make Microloans to small businesses in rural areas;
(4) The geographic area in which the applicant intends to operate, including a description of the economic and demographic conditions existing in the intended area of operations;
(5) The availability and cost of obtaining credit for small businesses in the area;
(6) The applicant's experience and qualifications in providing marketing, management, and technical assistance to small businesses; and
(7) Any plan to use other technical assistance resources (such as counselors from the Service Corps of Retired Executives) to help Microloan borrowers.
§ 120.704
How are applications evaluated?
(a)
Evaluation criteria.
In selecting Intermediaries, SBA will attempt to insure that Microloans are available to small businesses in all industries and particularly to small businesses located in urban and rural areas.
(b)
Preference for organizations which make very small loans.
In selecting Intermediaries, SBA will give priority to applicants which maintain a portfolio of loans averaging $10,000 or less.
(c)
Consideration of quasi-governmental organizations.
Generally, SBA will consider applications by quasi-governmental organizations only when it determines that program services for a particular geographic area would be best provided by such organization.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47878, Sept. 14, 2001]
§ 120.705
What is a Specialized Intermediary?
At the end of an Intermediary's first year of participation in the program, SBA will determine whether it qualifies as a Specialized Intermediary. An Intermediary qualifies as a Specialized Intermediary if it maintains a portfolio of Microloans averaging $10,000 or less. Specialized Intermediaries qualify for more favorable interest rates on SBA loans. If, after the first year, an Intermediary qualifies as a Specialized Intermediary, the special interest rate is applied retroactively to SBA loans made to the Intermediary. After the first year SBA will determine an Intermediary's qualifications as a Specialized Intermediary annually, based on its lending practices during the term of its participation in the program. Specialized Intermediaries also qualify for a greater amount of technical assistance grant funding.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47878, Sept. 14, 2001]
§ 120.706
What are the terms and conditions of an SBA loan to an Intermediary?
(a)
Loan amount.
An Intermediary may not borrow more than $750,000 in the first year of participation in the program, or more than $3,000,000 in any subsequent year. An Intermediary's obligation to SBA may not exceed an aggregate of $7 million, subject to statutory limitations on the total amount of funds available per state.
(b)
Repayment terms.
During the first year of the loan, an Intermediary is not required to make any payments, but interest accrues from the date that SBA disburses the loan proceeds to the Intermediary. After that, SBA will determine the periodic payments. The loan must be repaid within 10 years.
(c)
Interest rate.
The interest rate is equal to the rate applicable to five-year obligations of the United States Treasury, adjusted to the nearest one-eighth percent, less 1.25 percent. However, the interest rate for Specialized Intermediaries is equal to the rate applicable to five-year obligations of the United States Treasury, adjusted to the nearest one-eighth percent, less two percent.
(d)
Collateral.
As security for repayment of the SBA loan, an Intermediary must pledge to SBA a first lien position in the MRF (described below), LLRF (described below), and all notes receivable from Microloans.
(e)
Default.
If for any reason an Intermediary is unable to make payment to SBA when due, SBA may accelerate maturity of the loan and demand payment in full. In this event, or if an Intermediary violates this part or the terms of its loan agreement, it must surrender possession of all collateral described in paragraph (d) of this section to SBA. The Intermediary is not obligated to pay SBA any loss or deficiency which may remain after liquidation of the collateral unless the loss was caused by fraud, negligence, violation of any of the ethical requirements of § 120.140, or violation of any other provision of this part.
(f)
Fees.
SBA does not charge Intermediaries any fees for loans under this Program. An Intermediary may, however, pay minimal closing costs to third parties, such as filing and recording fees.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47073, Sept. 11, 2001; 76 FR 63546, Oct. 12, 2011; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022; 89 FR 35690, May 2, 2024]
§ 120.707
What conditions apply to loans by Intermediaries to Microloan borrowers?
(a)
General.
Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (a), an Intermediary may only make Microloans to small businesses eligible to receive financial assistance under this part. A borrower may also use Microloan proceeds to establish a nonprofit childcare business. An Intermediary may not make Microloans to businesses with an Associate who is currently incarcerated, serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed upon adjudication of guilty, or to childcare businesses with an Associate who is currently on probation or parole for an offense against children. Proceeds from Microloans may be used only for working capital and acquisition of materials, supplies, furniture, fixtures, and equipment. SBA does not review Microloans for creditworthiness.
(b)
Amount and maturity.
Generally, Intermediaries should not make a Microloan of more than $10,000 to any borrower. An Intermediary may not make a Microloan of more than $20,000 unless the borrower demonstrates that it is unable to obtain credit elsewhere at comparable interest rates and that it has good prospects for success. An Intermediary may not make a Microloan of more than $50,000, and no borrower may owe an Intermediary more than $50,000 at any one time. Each Microloan must be repaid within seven years.
(c)
Interest rate.
The maximum interest rate that can be charged a Microloan borrower is:
(1) On loans of more than $10,000, the interest rate charged on the SBA loan to the Intermediary, plus 7.75 percentage points; and
(2) On loans of $10,000 or less, the interest rate charged on the SBA loan to the Intermediary, plus 8.5 percentage points.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47073, Sept. 11, 2001; 66 FR 47878, Sept. 14, 2001; 76 FR 63547, Oct. 12, 2011; 80 FR 34046, June 15, 2015; 85 FR 7651, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022; 89 FR 34101, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 120.708
What is the Intermediary's financial contribution?
The Intermediary must contribute from non-Federal sources an amount equal to 15 percent of any loan that it receives from SBA. The contribution may not be borrowed. For purposes of this program, Community Development Block Grants are considered non-Federal sources.
§ 120.709
What is the Microloan Revolving Fund?
The Microloan Revolving Fund (“MRF”) is a Deposit Account into which an Intermediary must deposit the proceeds from SBA loans, its contributions from non-Federal sources, and payments from its Microloan borrowers. An Intermediary may only withdraw from this account the money needed to establish the Loan Loss Reserve Fund (§ 120.710), proceeds for each
Microloan it makes, and any payments to be made to SBA.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 80 FR 34046, June 15, 2015]
§ 120.710
What is the Loan Loss Reserve Fund?
(a)
General.
The Loan Loss Reserve Fund (“LLRF”) is a Deposit Account which an Intermediary must establish to pay any shortage in the MRF caused by delinquencies or losses on Microloans.
(b)
Level of Loan Loss Reserve Fund.
Until it is in the Microloan program for at least five years, an Intermediary must maintain a balance on deposit in its LLRF equal to 15 percent of the outstanding balance of the notes receivable owed to it by its Microloan borrowers (“Portfolio”).
(c)
SBA review of Loan Loss Reserve Fund.
After an Intermediary has been in the Microloan program for five years, it may request SBA's appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority to reduce the percentage of its Portfolio which it must maintain in its LLRF to an amount equal to the actual average loan loss rate during the preceding five-year period. Upon receipt of such request, he/she will review the Intermediary's annual loss rate for the most recent five-year period preceding the request.
(d)
Reduction of Loan Loss Reserve Fund.
The appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority has the authority to reduce the percentage of an Intermediary's Portfolio that it must maintain in its LLRF to an amount equal to the actual average loan loss rate during the preceding five-year period. The appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority cannot reduce the LLRF to less than ten percent of the Portfolio.
(e)
What must an intermediary demonstrate to get a reduction in Loan Loss Reserve Fund?
To receive a reduction in its LLRF, an Intermediary must:
(1) Have satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The Intermediary's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures (like default rate, purchase rate and loss rate), loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission); and
(2) No other factors exist that may impair the Intermediary's ability to repay all obligations which it owes to the SBA under the Microloan program.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 17439, Apr. 3, 2000; 73 FR 75517, Dec. 11, 2008; 80 FR 34046, June 15, 2015; 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.711
What rules govern Intermediaries?
Intermediaries must operate in accordance with applicable statutes, regulations, policy notices, SBA's Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), and the information in the application.
§ 120.712
How does an Intermediary get a grant to assist Microloan borrowers?
(a)
General.
(1) Except as provided in (a)(2) of this section, an Intermediary is eligible to receive a base grant of not more than 25 percent of the outstanding balance of all SBA loans to the Intermediary.
(2) In fiscal years in which the amount appropriated for grants is sufficient to provide all Intermediaries with a base grant equal to 25 percent or more of their total outstanding SBA loan balances, then the amount of base grants to eligible Intermediaries will be equal to at least 25 percent of the outstanding balance of all SBA loans to the Intermediary and not more than 30 percent of such balance.
(3) The Intermediary must contribute, solely from non-Federal sources, an amount equal to 25 percent of the grant. Contributions may be made in cash or in kind.
(b)
Limitations on grant funds.
An Intermediary may not borrow its contribution. It may only use grant funds to provide Microloan borrowers with marketing, management, and technical assistance, except that:
(1) Up to 50 percent of the grant funds may be used to provide information and technical assistance to prospective Microloan borrowers; provided, however, that no more than 5 percent of the grant funds may be used to market or advertise the products and services of the Microloan Intermediary directly related to the Microloan Program; and
(2) Grant monies may be used to attend training required by SBA.
(c)
Intermediaries eligible to receive additional bonus grant monies.
An Intermediary may receive an additional SBA grant equal to five percent of the outstanding balance of all loans received from SBA (with no obligation to contribute additional matching funds) if the Intermediary:
(1) Is a Specialized Intermediary;
(2) Provides not less than 25 percent of its loans to small business concerns located in or owned by one or more residents of an Economically Distressed Area; or
(3) Maintains a portfolio of Microloans of which at least 25 percent is serving Rural Areas.
(d)
Third party contracts for technical assistance.
An Intermediary may use no more than 50 percent of the grant funds it receives from SBA for contracts with third parties for the latter to provide technical assistance to Microloan borrowers.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 47073, Sept. 11, 2001; 76 FR 63547, Oct. 12, 2011; 80 FR 34047, June 15, 2015; 85 FR 7651, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022; 89 FR 35690, May 2, 2024]
§ 120.713
Does SBA provide technical assistance to Intermediaries?
SBA may procure technical assistance for an Intermediary to improve its knowledge, skill, and understanding of microlending by awarding a grant to a more experienced Intermediary. SBA may also obtain such assistance for prospective Intermediaries in areas of the country that are either not served or underserved by an existing Intermediary.
§§ 120.714-120.715
[Reserved]
§ 120.716
What is the minimum number of loans an Intermediary must make each Federal fiscal year?
(a)
Minimum loan requirement.
Intermediaries must close and fund the required number of microloans per year (October 1-September 30) as follows, except that an Intermediary entering the program will not be required to meet the minimum in that year:
(1) For fiscal year 2015, four microloans,
(2) For fiscal year 2016, six microloans,
(3) For fiscal year 2017, eight microloans, and
(4) For fiscal years 2018 and thereafter, ten microloans per year.
(b) Intermediaries that do not meet the minimum loan requirement are not eligible to receive new grant funding unless they submit a corrective action plan acceptable to SBA, in its discretion. Intermediaries that have submitted acceptable corrective action plans may receive a reduced grant at SBA's discretion.
[80 FR 34047, June 15, 2015]

# Subpart H—Development Company Loan Program (504)
§ 120.800
[Reserved]
§ 120.801
How a 504 Project is financed.
(a) One or more small businesses may apply for 504 financing through a CDC serving the area where the 504 Project is located. SBA issues a loan number if it agrees to guarantee part of the funding for a Project.
(b) Usually, a Project requires interim financing from an interim lender (often the same lender that later provides a portion of the permanent financing).
(c) Generally, permanent financing of the Project consists of:
(1) A contribution by the small business in an amount of at least 10 percent of the Project costs;
(2) A loan made with the proceeds of a CDC Debenture for up to 40 percent of the Project costs and certain administrative costs, collateralized by a second lien on the Project Property; and
(3) A
Third Party Loan
comprising the balance of the financing, collateralized by a first lien on the Project property (see § 120.920).
(d) The Debenture is guaranteed 100 percent by SBA (with the full faith and credit of the United States), and sold to Underwriters who form Debenture Pools. Investors purchase interests in Debenture Pools and receive Certificates representing ownership of all or part of a Debenture Pool. SBA and CDCs use various agents to facilitate the sale and service of the Certificates and the orderly flow of funds among the parties.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999; 88 FR 21899, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.802
Definitions.
The following terms have the same meaning wherever they are used in this subpart. Defined terms are capitalized wherever they appear.
Area of Operations
is the geographic area where SBA has approved a CDC's request to provide 504 program services to small businesses on a permanent basis. The minimum Area of Operations is the State in which the CDC is incorporated.
Central Servicing Agent
(CSA) is an entity that receives and disburses funds among the various parties involved in 504 financing under a master servicing agent agreement with SBA.
Certificate
is a document issued by SBA or its agent representing ownership of all or part of a Debenture Pool.
Debenture
is an obligation issued by a CDC and guaranteed 100 percent by SBA, the proceeds of which are used to fund a 504 loan.
Debenture Pool
is an aggregation of Debentures.
Designated Attorney
is the CDC closing attorney that SBA has approved to close loans under an expedited closing process for a Priority CDC.
Investor
is an owner of a beneficial interest in a Debenture Pool.
Job Opportunity
is a full time (or equivalent) permanent job created within two years of receipt of 504 funds, or retained in the community because of a 504 loan.
Lead SBA Office
is the SBA District Office designated by SBA as the primary liaison between SBA and a CDC and with responsibility for managing SBA's relationship with that CDC.
Local Economic Area
is an area, as determined by SBA, that is in a State other than the State in which an existing CDC (or an applicant applying to become a CDC) is incorporated, is contiguous to the CDC's existing Area of Operations (or the applicant's proposed Area of Operations) of its State of incorporation, and is a part of a local trade area that is contiguous to the CDC's Area of Operations (or applicant's proposed Area of Operations) of its State of incorporation. Examples of a local trade area would be a city that is bisected by a State line or a metropolitan statistical area that is bisected by a State line.
Multi-State CDC
is a CDC that is incorporated in one State and is authorized by SBA to operate as a CDC in a State contiguous to its State of incorporation beyond any contiguous Local Economic Areas.
Net Debenture Proceeds
are the portion of Debenture proceeds that finance eligible Project costs (excluding administrative costs).
Priority CDC
is a CDC certified to participate on a permanent basis in the 504 program (see § 120.812) that SBA has approved to participate in an expedited 504 loan and Debenture closing process.
Project
is the purchase or lease, and/or improvement or renovation of long-term fixed assets by a small business, with 504 financing, for use in its business operations.
Project Property
is one or more long-term fixed assets, such as land, buildings, machinery, and equipment, acquired or improved by a small business, with 504 financing, for use in its business operations.
Third Party Loan
is a loan from a commercial or private lender, investor, or Federal (non-SBA), State or local government source that is part of the Project financing.
Underwriter
is an entity approved by SBA to form Debenture Pools and arrange for the sale of Certificates.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999; 65 FR 42632, July 11, 2000; 68 FR 57980, Oct. 7, 2003]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 120.802 were published at 89 FR 102701, Dec. 18, 2024, effective Jan. 17, 2025.

# Certification Procedures To Become a CDC
§ 120.810
Applications for certification as a CDC.
(a) An applicant for certification as a CDC must apply to the SBA District Office serving the jurisdiction in which the applicant has or proposes to locate its headquarters (see § 101.103 of this chapter).
(b) The applicant must apply for an Area of Operations. The applicant's proposed Area of Operations must include the entire State in which the applicant is incorporated, and may include Local Economic Areas. An applicant may not apply to cover an area as a Multi-State CDC.
(c) The applicant must demonstrate that it satisfies the CDC certification and operational requirements in §§ 120.820, and 120.822 through 120.824. The applicant also must include an operating budget, approved by the applicant's Board of Directors, which demonstrates the required financial ability (as described in § 120.825), and a plan to meet CDC operational requirements (without specializing in a particular industry) in §§ 120.821, and 120.826 through 120.830.
(d) The District Office will forward the application and its recommendation to the D/FA, who will make the final decision. SBA will notify the CDC in writing of its decision, and, if the petition is declined, the reasons for the decision.
[68 FR 57980, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.812
Probationary period for newly certified CDCs.
(a) Newly certified CDCs will be on probation for a period of two years from the date of certification, at the end of which the CDC must petition the Lead SBA Office for:
(1) Permanent CDC status; or
(2) A one-year extension of probation. If a one-year extension of probation is granted, at the end of this extension period, the CDC must petition the Lead SBA Office for permanent CDC status or an additional one-year extension of probation.
(b) SBA will consider the failure to file a petition before the end of the probationary period as a withdrawal from the 504 program. If the CDC elects withdrawal, SBA will direct the CDC to transfer all funded and/or approved loans to another CDC, SBA, or another servicer approved by SBA.
(c) The Lead SBA Office will send the petition and its recommendation to the D/FA, who will make the final decision. SBA will determine permanent CDC status or an extension of probation, in part, based upon the CDC's compliance with the certification and operational requirements in §§ 120.820 through 120.830. To be considered for permanent CDC status or an extension of probation, the CDC must have satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The CDC's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures, loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission).
(d) SBA will notify the CDC in writing of its decision, and, if the petition is declined, the reasons for the decision. If SBA declines the petition, the CDC will no longer have authority to participate in the 504 Loan Program and SBA will direct the CDC to transfer all funded and/or approved loans to another CDC, SBA, or another servicer approved by SBA.
[68 FR 57980, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 75517, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]

# Requirements for CDC Certification and Operation
§ 120.816
CDC non-profit status and good standing.
A CDC must be a non-profit corporation, except that for-profit CDCs certified by SBA prior to January 1, 1987 may retain their certifications. An SBIC may not become a CDC. A CDC
must be in good standing based upon the following criteria:
(a) In good standing in the State in which the CDC is incorporated and any other State in which the CDC conducts business.
(b) In compliance with all laws, including taxation requirements, in the State in which the CDC is incorporated and any other State in which the CDC conducts business.
(c) Must have satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The CDC's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures, loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission).
(d) If a non-profit CDC has a membership and the members are responsible for electing or appointing voting directors to the CDC's Board of Directors, no person or entity can control more than 25 percent of the CDC's voting membership.
[68 FR 57980, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 75518, Dec. 11, 2008. Redesignated at 79 FR 15649, Mar. 21, 2014; 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017; 84 FR 66294, Dec. 4, 2019]
§ 120.818
Applicability to existing for-profit CDCs.
(a) Unless expressly provided otherwise in the regulations, any Loan Program Requirement that applies to non-profit CDCs also applies to for-profit CDCs.
(b) No person or entity can own or control more than 25 percent of a for-profit CDC's stock.
[79 FR 15649, Mar. 21, 2014, as amended at 84 FR 66294, Dec. 4, 2019]
§ 120.820
CDC Affiliation.
(a) A CDC must be independent and must not be affiliated (as determined in accordance with § 121.103 of this chapter) with any Person (as defined in § 120.10) except as permitted under this section.
(b) A CDC may be affiliated with an entity (other than a 7(a) Lender or another CDC) whose function is economic development in the same Area of Operations and that is either a non-profit entity or a State or local government or political subdivision (e.g., council of governments).
(c) A CDC must not be affiliated (as determined in accordance with § 121.103) with or invest, directly or indirectly, in a 7(a) Lender. A CDC that was affiliated with a 7(a) Lender as of November 6, 2003 may continue such affiliation.
(d) A CDC must not be affiliated (as determined in accordance with § 121.103 of this chapter) with another CDC. In addition, a CDC must not directly or indirectly invest in or finance another CDC, except with the prior written approval of D/FA or designee and D/OCRM or designee if they determine in their discretion that such approval is in the best interests of the 504 Loan Program.
(e) A CDC may remain affiliated with a for-profit entity (other than a 7(a) Lender) if such affiliation existed prior to March 21, 2014. A CDC may also be affiliated with a for-profit entity (other than a 7(a) Lender) whose function is economic development in the same Area of Operations with the prior written approval of the D/FA or designee if he or she determines in his or her discretion that such approval is in the best interests of the 504 Loan Program.
(f) A CDC must not directly or indirectly invest in a Licensee (as defined in § 107.50 of this chapter) licensed by SBA under the SBIC program authorized in Part A of Title III of the Small Business Investment Act, 15 U.S.C. 681 et seq. A CDC that has an SBA-approved investment in a Licensee as of November 6, 2003 may retain such investment.
(g) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b), (c), and (e) of this section, a CDC may be affiliated with a Community Advantage SBLC. Additionally, CDCs that are also Community Advantage Pilot Program Lenders as of May 11, 2023 may be licensed as Community Advantage SBLCs.
[79 FR 15649, Mar. 21, 2014, as amended at 88 FR 21900, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.821
CDC Area of Operations.
A CDC must operate only within its designated Area of Operations approved by SBA except as provided in § 120.839.
[68 FR 57980, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.823
CDC Board of Directors.
(a) The CDC, whether for-profit or non-profit, must have a Board of Directors with at least seven (7) voting directors who live or work in the CDC's State of incorporation or in an area that is contiguous to that State that meets the definition of a Local Economic Area for the CDC. The Board must be actively involved in encouraging economic development in the Area of Operations. The initial Board may be created by any method permitted by applicable State law. At a minimum, the Board must have directors with background and expertise in internal controls, financial risk management, commercial lending, legal issues relating to commercial lending, corporate governance, and economic, community or workforce development. Directors may be either currently employed or retired.
(b) At least two voting members of the Board of Directors, other than the CDC manager, must possess commercial lending experience satisfactory to SBA. When the Board votes on SBA loan approval or servicing actions, at least two voting Board members, with such commercial lending experience, other than the CDC manager, must be present and vote.
(c) The Board of Directors must meet at least quarterly and shall be responsible for the actions of the CDC and any committees established by the Board of Directors. In addition, the Board of Directors is subject to the following requirements:
(1) Except for the CDC manager, no person on the CDC's staff may be a voting director of the Board;
(2) A quorum must be present to transact business. The quorum shall be set by the CDC but shall be no less than 50% of the voting members of the Board of Directors;
(3) Attendance at meetings may be through any format permitted by State law;
(4) No CDC Board member may serve on the Board of another CDC.
(d) The Board shall have and exercise all corporate powers and authority and be responsible for all corporate actions and business. There must be no actual or appearance of a conflict of interest with respect to any actions of the Board. The Board is responsible for ensuring that the structure and operation of the CDC, as set forth in the Bylaws, comply with SBA's Loan Program Requirements. The responsibilities of the Board include, but are not limited, to the following:
(1) Approving the mission and the policies for the CDC;
(2) Hiring, firing, supervising and annually evaluating the CDC manager;
(3) Setting the salary for the CDC manager and reviewing all salaries;
(4) Establishing committees, at its discretion, including the following:
(i)
Executive Committee.
To the extent authorized in the Bylaws, the Board of Directors may establish an Executive Committee. The Executive Committee may exercise the authority of the Board; however, the delegation of its authority does not relieve the Board of its responsibility imposed by law or Loan Program Requirements. No further delegation or redelegation of this authority is permitted. If the Board establishes an Executive Committee and delegates any of its authority to the Executive Committee as set forth in the Bylaws of the CDC, the Executive Committee must:
(A) Be chosen by and from the Board of Directors from the Board; and
(B) Meet the same organizational and representational requirements as the Board of Directors, except that the Executive Committee must have a minimum of four voting members who must be present to conduct business.
(ii)
Loan Committee.
The Board of Directors may establish a Loan Committee. The Loan Committee may exercise the authority of the Board only as set forth below; however, the delegation of its authority does not relieve the Board of its responsibility imposed by law or Loan Program Requirements. If the Board of Directors chooses to establish a Loan Committee, no CDC staff or manager may serve on the
Loan Committee. The Loan Committee must:
(A) Be chosen by the Board of Directors, and consist of individuals with a background in either financial risk management, commercial lending, or legal issues relating to commercial lending who are not associated with another CDC;
(B) Have a Quorum of at least four Loan Committee members authorized to vote;
(C) Have at least two (2) Loan Committee members with commercial lending experience satisfactory to SBA;
(D) Have no actual or appearance of a conflict of interest, including for example, a Loan Committee member participating in deliberations on a loan for which the Third Party Lender is the member's employer or the member is otherwise associated with the Third Party Lender; and
(E) Consist only of Loan Committee members who live or work in the CDC's State of incorporation or in an area that meets the definition of a Local Economic Area for the CDC, except that, for Projects that are financed under a CDC's Multi-State authority, the CDC must satisfy the requirements of either § 120.835(c)(1) or (2) when voting on that Project.
(5) Ensuring that the CDC's expenses are reasonable and customary;
(6) Hiring directly an independent auditor to provide the financial statements in accordance with Loan Program Requirements;
(7) Monitoring the CDC's portfolio performance on a regular basis;
(8) Reviewing a semiannual report on portfolio performance from the CDC manager, which would include, but not be limited to, asset quality and industry concentration;
(9) Ensuring that the CDC establishes and maintains adequate reserves for operations;
(10) Ensuring that the CDC invests in economic development in each of the States in its Area of Operations in which it has a portfolio, and approving each investment. If the investment is included in the CDC's budget, the Board's approval of the budget may be deemed approval of the investment. If the investment is not included in the budget, the Board must separately approve the investment;
(11) Establishing a policy in the Bylaws of the CDC prohibiting an actual conflict of interest or the appearance of same, and enforcing such policy (see § 120.140 and § 120.851);
(12) Retaining accountability for all of the actions of the CDC;
(13) Establishing written internal control policies, in accordance with § 120.826;
(14) Establishing commercially reasonable loan approval policies, procedures, and standards. The Bylaws must include any delegations of authority to the Loan Committee and Executive Committee, if either Committee has been established. In addition, the CDC must establish and set forth in detail in a policy manual its credit approval process. All 504 loan applications must have credit approval prior to submission to the Agency. The Loan Committee, if established, may be delegated the authority to provide credit approval for loans up to $2,000,000 but, for loans of $1,000,000 to $2,000,000, the Loan Committee's action must be ratified by the Board or Executive Committee prior to Debenture closing. Only the Board or Executive Committee, if authorized by the Board, may provide credit approval for loans greater than $2,000,000.
(15) All members of the Board of Directors must annually certify in writing that they have read and understand this section, and copies of the certification must be included in the Annual Report to SBA.
(e) The Board of Directors shall maintain Directors' and Officers' Liability and Errors and Omissions insurance in amounts established by SBA that are based on the size of the CDC's portfolio and other relevant factors.
[79 FR 15649, Mar. 21, 2014, as amended at 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017; 84 FR 66294, Dec. 4, 2019]
§ 120.824
Professional management and staff, and contracts for services.
(a)
Management.
A CDC must have full-time professional management, including an executive director or the equivalent (CDC manager) to manage daily operations. This requirement is
met if the CDC has at least one salaried professional employee that is employed directly (not a contractor or an officer, director, 20 percent or more equity owner, or key employee of a contractor) on a full-time basis to manage the CDC. The CDC manager must be hired by the CDC's Board of Directors and subject to termination only by the Board. A CDC may obtain, under a written contract, management services provided by a qualified individual under the following circumstances:
(1) The CDC must submit a request for the D/FA (or designee) to approve, in consultation with the D/OCRM (or designee), a waiver of the requirement that the manager be employed directly by the CDC. In its request, the CDC must demonstrate that:
(i) Another non-profit entity (that is not a CDC) that has the economic development of the CDC's Area of Operations as one of its principal activities will provide management services to the CDC and, if the manager is also performing services for the non-profit entity, the manager will be available to small businesses interested in the 504 program and to 504 loan borrowers during regular business hours; or
(ii) The CDC submitting the request for the waiver is rural, has insufficient loan volume to justify having management employed directly by the CDC, and is requesting to contract with another CDC located in the same general area to provide the management.
(2) The CDC must submit a request for the D/FA (or designee), in consultation with the D/OCRM (or designee), to pre-approve the contract for management services. This contract must comply with paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) and, if applicable, paragraph (d) of this section.
(b)
Professional staff.
The CDC must have a full-time professional staff qualified by training and experience to market the 504 Loan Program, package and process loan applications, close loans, service, and, if authorized by SBA, liquidate the loan portfolio, and to sustain a sufficient level of service and activity in the Area of Operations.
(c)
Professional services contracts.
Through a written contract with qualified individuals or entities, a CDC may obtain services for marketing, packaging, processing, closing, servicing, or liquidation functions, or for other services (
e.g.,
legal, accounting, information technology, independent loan reviews, and payroll and employee benefits), provided that:
(1) The contract must be pre-approved by the D/FA (or designee), subject to the following exceptions:
(i) CDCs may contract for legal, accounting, and information technology services without SBA approval, except for legal services in connection with loan liquidation or litigation.
(ii) CDCs may contract for independent loan review services with non-CDC entities without SBA approval. Contracts between CDCs for independent loan reviews must be pre-approved by SBA in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) If the contract requires SBA's prior approval under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the CDC's Board must explain to SBA why it is in the best interest of the CDC to obtain services through a contract and must demonstrate that:
(i) The compensation under the contract is paid only by the CDC obtaining the services, is reasonable and customary for similar services in the Area of Operations, and is only for actual services performed;
(ii) The full term of the contract (including options) is necessary and appropriate and the contract permits the CDC procuring the services to terminate the contract prior to its expiration date with or without cause; and
(iii) There is no actual or apparent conflict of interest or self-dealing on the part of any of the CDC's officers, management, or staff, including members of the Board and Loan Committee, in the negotiation, approval or implementation of the contract.
(3) Neither the contractor nor any officer, director, 20 percent or more equity owner, or key employee of a contractor may be a voting or non-voting member of the CDC's Board.
(4) The CDC procuring the services must provide a copy of all executed contracts requiring SBA prior approval to SBA as part of the CDC's Annual Report submitted under § 120.830(a) unless the CDC certifies that it has previously
submitted an identical copy of the executed contract to SBA.
(5) With respect to any contract under which the CDC's staff are deemed co-employees of both the CDC and the contractor (
e.g.,
contracts with professional employer organizations to obtain employee benefits, such as retirement and health benefits, for the CDC's staff), the contract must provide that the CDC retains the final authority to hire and fire the CDC's employees.
(6) If the contract is between CDCs, the CDCs and the contract must also comply with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Professional Services Contracts between CDCs.
Notwithstanding the prohibition in 13 CFR 120.820(d) against a CDC affiliating with another CDC, a CDC may obtain services through a written contract with another CDC for managing, marketing, packaging, processing, closing, servicing, independent loan review, or liquidation functions, provided that:
(1) The contract between the CDCs must be pre-approved by the D/FA (or designee), in consultation with the D/OCRM (or designee), who determines in his or her discretion that such approval is in the best interests of the 504 Loan Program and that the terms and conditions of the contract are satisfactory to SBA. For management services, a CDC may contract with another CDC only in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) Except for contracts for liquidation services and independent loan reviews:
(i) The CDCs entering into the contract must be located in the same SBA Region or, if not located in the same SBA Region, must be located in contiguous States. For purposes of this provision, the location of a CDC is the CDC's State of incorporation;
(ii) A CDC may provide assistance to only one CDC per State; and
(iii) No CDC may provide assistance to another CDC in its State of incorporation or in any State in which it has Multi-State authority.
(3) The Board of Directors for each CDC entering into the contract must be separate and independent and may not include any common directors. In addition, if either of the CDCs is for-profit, neither CDC may own any stock in the other CDC. The CDCs are also prohibited from comingling any funds.
(4) With respect to contracts for independent loan reviews, CDCs may not review each other's portfolios or exchange any other services, nor may they enter into any other arrangement with each other that could appear to bias the outcome or integrity of the independent loan review.
(5) The contract must satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section.
[84 FR 66294, Dec. 4, 2019]
§ 120.825
Financial ability to operate.
A CDC must be able to sustain its operations continuously, with reliable sources of funds (such as income from services rendered and contributions from government or other sponsors). Any funds generated from 503 and 504 loan activity by a CDC remaining after payment of staff and overhead expenses must be retained by the CDC as a reserve for future operations or for investment in other local economic development activity in its Area of Operations. If a CDC is operating as a Multi-State CDC, it must maintain a separate accounting for each State of all 504 fee income and expenses and provide, upon SBA's request, evidence that the funds resulting from its Multi-State CDC operations are being invested in economic development activities in each State in which they were generated.
[65 FR 42633, July 11, 2000]
§ 120.826
Basic requirements for operating a CDC.
A CDC must operate in accordance with the following requirements:
(a)
In general.
CDCs must meet all 504 Loan Program Requirements. In its Area of Operations, a CDC must market the 504 program, package and process 504 loan applications, close and service 504 loans, and if authorized by SBA, liquidate and litigate 504 loans. It must supply to SBA current and accurate information about all certification and operational requirements, and maintain the records and submit all reports required by SBA.
(b)
Operations and internal controls.
Each CDC's board of directors must adopt an internal control policy which provides adequate direction to the institution for effective control over and accountability for operations, programs, and resources. The board adopted internal control policy must, at a minimum:
(1) Direct management to assign the responsibility for the internal control function (covering financial, credit, credit review, collateral, and administrative matters) to an officer or officers of the CDC;
(2) Adopt and set forth procedures for maintenance and periodic review of the internal control function;
(3) Direct the operation of a program to review and assess the CDC's 504-related loans. For the 504 review program, the internal control policies must specify the following:
(i) Loan, loan-related collateral, and appraisal review standards, including standards for scope of selection (for review of any such loan, loan-related collateral or appraisal) and standards for work papers and supporting documentation;
(ii) Loan quality classification standards consistent with the standardized classification systems used by the Federal Financial Institution Regulators;
(iii) Specific control requirements for the CDC's oversight of Lender Service Providers; and
(iv) Standards for training to implement the loan review program; and
(4) Address other control requirements as may be established by SBA.
(c)
Annual Audited/Reviewed Financial Statements.
Each CDC with a 504 loan portfolio balance of $30 million or more (as calculated by SBA) must have its financial statements audited annually by a certified public accountant that is independent and experienced in auditing financial institutions. The audit must be performed in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards as adopted by the Auditing Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA). The auditor must be independent, as defined by the AICPA, of the CDC. Annually, the auditor must issue an opinion as to the fairness of the CDC's financial statements and their compliance with GAAP. For CDCs with a 504 portfolio balance of less than $30 million (as calculated by SBA), the CDC's annual financial statements submitted to SBA must be reviewed by an independent CPA in accordance with GAAP, except that the D/OCRM may require a CDC with a portfolio balance of less than $30 million to submit an audited financial statement in the event the D/OCRM determines, in his or her discretion, that such audit is necessary or appropriate when the CDC is in material noncompliance with Loan Program Requirements.
(d)
Auditor qualifications.
The audit or review must be conducted by an independent certified public accountant who:
(1) Is registered or licensed to practice as a public accountant, and is in good standing, under the laws of the state or other political subdivision of the United States in which the CDC's principal office is located;
(2) Agrees in the engagement letter with the CDC to provide the SBA with access to and copies of any work papers, policies, and procedures relating to the services performed;
(3)(i) Is in compliance with the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct; and
(ii) Meets the independence requirements and interpretations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and its staff;
(4) Has received a peer review or is enrolled in a peer review program that meets AICPA guidelines; and
(5) Is otherwise acceptable to SBA.
[73 FR 75518, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 84 FR 66295, Dec. 4, 2019]
§ 120.827
Other services a CDC may provide to small businesses.
A CDC may provide a small business with assistance unrelated to the 504 loan program as long as the CDC does not make such assistance a condition of the CDC accepting from that small business an application for a 504 loan. An example of other services a CDC may provide is assisting a small business in applying for a 7(a) loan (as described in § 120.2). A CDC is subject to
part 103 of this chapter when providing such assistance.
[68 FR 57981, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.828
Minimum level of 504 loan activity and restrictions on portfolio concentrations.
(a) A CDC is required to receive SBA approval of at least four 504 loan approvals during two consecutive fiscal years.
(b) A CDC's 504 loan portfolio must be diversified by business sector.
[68 FR 57981, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.829
Job Opportunity average a CDC must maintain.
(a) A CDC's portfolio must maintain a minimum average of one Job Opportunity per an amount of 504 loan funding that will be specified by SBA from time to time in a
Federal Register
notice. Such Job Opportunity average remains in effect until changed by subsequent
Federal Register
publication. A CDC is permitted two years from its certification date to meet this average.
(b) A CDC must indicate in its annual report the Job Opportunities actually or estimated to be provided by each Project.
(c) If a CDC does not maintain the required average, it may retain its certification if it justifies to SBA's satisfaction its failure to do so in its annual report and shows how it intends to attain the required average.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 57981, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.830
Reports a CDC must submit.
A CDC must submit the following reports to SBA:
(a) An Annual Report within one hundred-eighty days after the end of the CDC's fiscal year (to include Federal tax returns for that year). A CDC that is certified by SBA within 6 months of the CDC's fiscal year-end is not required to submit an Annual Report for that year. The Annual Report must include, but is not limited to, the following:
(1) Audited or Reviewed Financial Statements as required in § 120.826(c) and (d) for the CDC and any affiliates or subsidiaries of the CDC.
(i) Audited financial statements must, at a minimum, include the following:
(A) Audited balance sheet;
(B) Audited statement of income (or receipts) and expenses;
(C) Audited statement of source and application of funds;
(D) Such footnotes as are necessary to an understanding of the financial statements;
(E) Auditor's letter to management on internal control weaknesses; and
(F) The auditor's report; and
(ii) Reviewed financial statements must, at a minimum, include the following:
(A) Balance sheet;
(B) Statement of income (or receipts) and expenses;
(C) Statement of source and application of funds;
(D) Such footnotes as are necessary to an understanding of the financial statements;
(E) The accountant's review report; and
(2) Report on compensation: CDCs are required to provide detailed information on total compensation (including salary, bonuses and expenses) paid within the CDC's most recent tax year for current and former officers and directors, and for current and former employees and independent contractors with total compensation of more than $100,000 during that period.
(3) Certification of members of the Board of Directors. Written annual certification by each Board member that he or she has read and understands the requirements set forth in § 120.823.
(4) Report on investment in economic development. Written report on investments in economic development in each State in which the CDC has an outstanding 504 loan.
(b) For each new associate and staff, a Statement of Personal History (for use by non-bank lenders and CDCs) and other information required by SBA;
(c) Reports of involvement in any legal proceeding;
(d) Changes in organizational status;
(e) Changes in any condition that affects its eligibility to continue to participate in the 504 program; and
(f) Quarterly service reports on each loan in its portfolio which is 60 days or
more past due (and interim reports upon request by SBA).
(g) Other reports as required by SBA.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 57981, Oct. 7, 2003; 73 FR 75518, Dec. 11, 2008; 79 FR 15650, Mar. 21, 2014]

# Extending a CDC'S Area of Operations
§ 120.835
Application to expand an Area of Operations.
(a)
General.
A CDC that has been certified to participate in the 504 program may apply to expand its Area of Operations if it meets all requirements to be an Accredited Lender Program (ALP) CDC, as set forth in § 120.840(c), and demonstrates that it can competently fulfill its 504 program responsibilities in the proposed area.
(b)
Local Economic Area Expansion.
A CDC seeking to expand its Area of Operations into a Local Economic Area must apply in writing to the Lead SBA Office.
(c)
Multi-State expansion.
A CDC seeking to become a Multi-State CDC must apply to the SBA District Office that services the area within each State where the CDC intends to locate its principal office for that State. A CDC may apply to be a Multi-State CDC only if the State the CDC seeks to expand into is contiguous to the State of the CDC's incorporation and either:
(1) The CDC establishes a Loan Committee in the additional State consisting only of members who live or work in that State and that satisfies the other requirements in § 120.823(d)(4)(ii)(A) through (D); or
(2) For any Project located in the additional State, the CDC's Board or Loan Committee (if established in the CDC's State of incorporation) includes at least two members who live or work in that State when voting on that Project. These two members may vote only on Projects located in the additional State.
[68 FR 57981, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 79 FR 15650, Mar. 21, 2014; 84 FR 66295, Dec. 4, 2019]
§ 120.837
SBA decision on application for a new CDC or for an existing CDC to expand Area of Operations.
The processing District Office must solicit the comments of any other District Office in which the CDC operates or proposes to operate. The processing District Office must determine that the CDC is in compliance with SBA's regulations, policies, and performance benchmarks, including pre-approval and annual review by SBA of any management or staff contracts, and the timely submission of all annual reports. In making its recommendation on the application, the District Office may consider any information presented to it regarding the requesting CDC, the existing CDC, or CDCs that may be affected by the application, and the proposed Area of Operations.
(a) The SBA District office will submit the application, recommendation, and supporting materials within 60 days of the receipt of a complete application from the CDC to the D/FA, who will make the final decision. The D/FA may consider any information submitted or available related to the applicant and the application.
(b) SBA will notify the CDC of its decision in writing, and if the application is denied, the reasons for its decision.
(c) If a CDC is approved to operate as a Multi-State CDC, the CDC's ALP, PCLP, or Priority CDC authority will carry over into every additional State in which it is approved to operate as a Multi-State CDC.
[65 FR 42633, July 11, 2000, as amended at 68 FR 57981, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.839
Case-by-case application to make a 504 loan outside of a CDC's Area of Operations.
A CDC may apply to make a 504 loan for a Project outside its Area of Operations by submitting a request to the 504 loan processing center. The applicant CDC must demonstrate that it can adequately fulfill its 504 program responsibilities for the 504 loan, including proper servicing. In addition, the CDC must have satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The CDC's Risk Rating, among other factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures, loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related
measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission). The 504 loan processing center may approve the application if:
(a) The applicant CDC has previously assisted the business or its affiliate(s) to obtain a 504 loan; or
(b) The existing CDC or CDCs serving the area agree to permit the applicant CDC to make the 504 loan; or
(c) There is no CDC within the Area of Operations.
[68 FR 57982, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 75518, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017; 84 FR 66296, Dec. 4, 2019]

# Accredited Lenders Program (ALP)
§ 120.840
Accredited Lenders Program (ALP).
(a)
General.
Under the ALP program, SBA designates qualified CDCs as ALP CDCs, gives them increased authority to process, close, and service 504 loans, and provides expedited processing of loan approval and servicing actions.
(b)
Application.
A CDC must apply for ALP status by submitting an application in accordance with SBA's Standard Operating Procedure 50 10, available at
http://www.sba.gov.
A final decision will be made by the appropriate SBA official in accordance with Delegations of Authority.
(c)
Eligibility.
In order for a CDC to be eligible to receive ALP status, its application must show that it meets the criteria set forth in § 120.841.
(d)
Additional application requirements.
The CDC's application must include the following:
(1) Certified copy of the CDC's Board of Directors' resolution authorizing the application for ALP status.
(2) Summary of the experience of each of the CDC's loan processing, closing, and servicing staff members with significant authority.
(3) Name, address, and summary of experience of Designated Attorney.
(4) Documentation of any SBA required insurance.
(5) Any other documentation required by SBA.
(e)
Term of ALP designation.
SBA generally will designate a CDC as an ALP CDC for a two-year period. SBA may renew the designation for additional two-year periods if the CDC continues to meet the ALP program eligibility requirements.
(f)
SBA approval or decline decision.
SBA will notify the CDC in writing of an approval or decline of either an ALP application or of an ALP renewal. If the SBA approves the CDC's application, the ALP CDC may exercise its ALP authority in its entire Area of Operations. If an application or renewal is declined, SBA will notify the CDC of the reasons for the decision.
[68 FR 57982, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 85 FR 7651, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.841
Qualifications for the ALP.
An applicant for ALP status must show that it substantially meets the following criteria:
(a)
CDC staff experience.
The CDC's staff must have well-trained, qualified loan officers who are knowledgeable concerning SBA's lending policies and procedures for the 504 program. The CDC must have at least one loan officer with three years of 504 loan processing experience and at least one loan officer with three years of 504 servicing experience or two years experience plus satisfactory completion of SBA-approved processing and servicing training. The same loan officer may meet these qualifications. In addition, the CDC's staff must have demonstrated satisfactorily to SBA the ability to process and service 504 loans.
(b)
Number of 504 loans approved and size of portfolio.
SBA must have approved at least 20 504 loan applications by the CDC in the most recent three years, and the CDC must have a portfolio of at least 30 active 504 loans. (An “active” 504 loan is a loan that was approved and closed by the CDC and has a status of either current, delinquent, or in liquidation.)
(c)
CDC reviews.
CDC reviews conducted by SBA must be current (within the last 24 months, if applicable) for applicants for ALP status. The CDC must have received a review assessment of either “Acceptable” or “Acceptable With Corrective Actions Required.” In addition, the CDC must have satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its discretion. The CDC's Risk Rating, among other
factors, will be considered in determining satisfactory SBA performance. Other factors may include, but are not limited to, review/examination assessments, historical performance measures, loan volume to the extent that it impacts performance measures, and other performance related measurements and information (such as contribution toward SBA mission);
(d)
Record of compliance with 504 program requirements.
The CDC must have a record of conforming to SBA's policies and procedures and of satisfactorily underwriting, closing and servicing 504 loans. SBA will consider all relevant material information, which will include but is not limited to whether the CDC meets all SBA's CDC portfolio benchmarks, when determining the CDC's record of compliance, including:
(1) Submission of satisfactory 504 loan analyses and applications, and all required, and properly completed, loan documents.
(2) Careful and thorough analysis and screening of all 504 loan applications for conformance with SBA credit and eligibility standards;
(3) Proper completion of required 504 loan closing documents and compliance with SBA 504 loan closing policies and procedures.
(4) Compliance with SBA loan servicing policies and procedures.
(5) Compliance with the certification and operational requirements as set forth in §§ 120.820 through 120.830.
(6) Submission of timely, complete and acceptable annual reports.
(7) Compliance with CDC ethical requirements (see § 120.851).
(e)
Priority CDC.
The CDC must be a Priority CDC with a Designated Attorney and SBA required insurance.
(f)
Record of Cooperation.
The CDC must have a record of effective communication and a cooperative relationship with all SBA offices including district offices and SBA's loan processing and servicing centers.
[68 FR 57982, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 18364, Apr. 12, 2007; 73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008; 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.842
ALP Express Loans.
(a)
Definition.
For the purposes of this section, an
ALP Express Loan:
(1) Means a 504 loan in an amount that is not more than $500,000; and
(2) Does not include a loan made to a borrower that is in an industry that has a high rate of default, as annually determined by SBA. SBA will publish an annual list of the industries with a high rate of default in a notice in the
Federal Register
.
(b)
Requirements for the underwriting, approving, closing, and servicing of ALP Express Loans
—(1)
General.
When underwriting, approving, closing, and servicing 504 loans under this section, the ALP CDC must comply with Loan Program Requirements and conduct such activities in accordance with prudent and commercially reasonable lending standards.
(2)
Documentation of decision making.
For each ALP Express Loan, the ALP CDC must document in its files the basis for its decisions with respect to underwriting, approving, closing, and servicing the loan.
(3)
Processing requirements
—(i)
Eligibility.
An ALP Express Loan is subject to SBA's final approval as to eligibility and, for each loan, an ALP CDC must submit the documents required by SBA to complete the eligibility review. ALP CDCs must submit to SBA for review and approval any servicing action that the ALP CDC proposes prior to closing that may affect the eligibility of the borrower or the ALP Express Loan.
(ii)
Credit decisions.
The ALP CDC is responsible for properly determining the applicant's creditworthiness and establishing the terms and conditions under which the ALP Express Loan will be made in accordance with SBA's Loan Program Requirements and prudent lending standards. The ALP CDC's determination regarding creditworthiness will not be subject to SBA review.
(4)
Submission of loan documents.
An ALP CDC must notify SBA of its credit decision on an ALP Express Loan by submitting to SBA all required documentation. SBA will review these documents to determine whether the applicant and the ALP Express Loan are eligible and whether SBA funds are available for the ALP Express Loan. If approved, SBA will notify the ALP CDC of the loan number assigned to the loan.
(5)
Loan and Debenture closing.
After receiving notification of the loan number from SBA, the ALP CDC is responsible for properly undertaking all actions necessary to close the ALP Express Loan and Debenture in accordance with the expedited loan closing procedures applicable to a Priority CDC and with § 120.960, and in compliance with all applicable Loan Program Requirements.
(6)
Servicing.
The ALP CDC is responsible for servicing its ALP Express Loans in accordance with § 120.970. SBA may in certain circumstances, in its discretion, elect to handle such duties with respect to a particular ALP Express Loan or Loans. Additional servicing requirements are set forth in subpart E of this part. The CDC must promptly notify SBA when it approves any servicing action delegated to the CDC under Loan Program Requirements.
(c)
Prohibition against making a 504 loan previously submitted to the SBA.
An ALP CDC may not process a 504 loan application under paragraph (b)(3) of this section from an applicant whose application was previously submitted to SBA and was withdrawn by the CDC or was declined or otherwise not approved by SBA.
(d)
Applicability.
The authority to make ALP Express Loans is available for applications submitted to the ALP CDC on or after June 27, 2022 and approved through September 30, 2023.
[87 FR 37982, June 27, 2022, as amended at 88 FR 21900, Apr. 12, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 120.842 were published at 89 FR 102701, Dec. 18, 2024, effective Jan. 17, 2025.

# Premier Certified Lenders Program
§ 120.845
Premier Certified Lenders Program (PCLP).
(a)
General.
Under the PCLP, SBA designates qualified CDCs as PCLP CDCs and delegates to them increased authority to process, close, service, and liquidate 504 loans. SBA also may give PCLP CDCs increased authority to litigate 504 loans.
(b)
Application.
A CDC must apply for PCLP status to the Lead SBA Office. The Lead SBA Office will send its written recommendation and the application to SBA's PCLP Loan Processing Center. The PCLP Loan Processing Center will review these materials and forward them to the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority for final determination.
(c)
Eligibility.
In order for a CDC to be eligible to receive PCLP status, its application must show that it meets the following criteria:
(1) The CDC must be an ALP CDC in substantial compliance with Loan Program Requirements or meet the criteria to be an ALP CDC set forth in § 120.841(a) through (f).
(2) The CDC can adequately comply with SBA liquidation and litigation requirements.
(d)
Additional application requirements.
The application must include the following:
(1) Certified copy of the CDC's Board of Directors' resolution authorizing the application for PCLP status.
(2) Summary of the experience of each of the CDC's loan processing, closing, servicing and liquidation staff members with significant authority.
(3) Name, address and summary of experience of Designated Attorney.
(4) Documentation of any SBA required insurance.
(5) Any other documentation required by SBA.
(e)
Term of designation.
If approved, SBA generally will confer PCLP status for a period of two years. However, if SBA deems it appropriate, it may confer PCLP status for a period of less than two years.
(f)
Area of Operations for PCLP CDCs.
If the SBA approves the CDC's application, the PCLP CDC may exercise its PCLP authority in its entire Area of Operations.
(g)
SBA approval or decline decision.
SBA will notify the CDC in writing of an approval or decline of a PCLP application. If an application is declined, SBA will notify the CDC of the reasons for the decision.
[68 FR 57982, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 18364, Apr. 12, 2007; 73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.846
Requirements for maintaining and renewing PCLP status.
(a) To maintain its status as a PCLP CDC, a CDC must continue to:
(1) Meet the PCLP eligibility requirements in § 120.845.
(2) Timely conform with all requirements and deadlines set forth in SBA's regulations and policy and procedural guidance concerning properly establishing, funding and reporting a PCLP Loan Loss Reserve Fund (LLRF).
(3) Substantially comply with all Loan Program Requirements.
(4) Remain an active CDC.
(5) In accordance with statutory requirements set forth in section 508(i) of Title V, 15 U.S.C. 697e(i), establish a goal of processing at least 50 percent of its 504 loans using PCLP procedures.
(b) SBA will notify the PCLP CDC in writing of a renewal or non-renewal of PCLP status. If PCLP status is not renewed, SBA will notify the CDC of the reasons for the decision.
[68 FR 57983, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 18364, Apr. 12, 2007]
§ 120.847
Requirements for the Loan Loss Reserve Fund (LLRF).
(a)
General.
PCLP CDCs must establish and maintain a LLRF (or multiple accounts which together constitute one LLRF) which complies with paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section. A PCLP CDC must use the LLRF or other funds to reimburse the SBA for 10 percent of any loss sustained by SBA as a result of a default in the payment of principal or interest on a Debenture it issued under the PCLP (“PCLP Debenture”). A CDC that is participating in the PCLP as of January 1, 2004, and a CDC that has participated in the PCLP in the past but which does not have PCLP status as of that date, must establish a LLRF within 30 days of that date to cover potential losses for all 504 loans made in connection with PCLP Debentures that remain outstanding as of that date. A CDC that receives PCLP status after that date must establish and maintain a LLRF prior to closing any 504 loans processed under its PCLP status. The LLRF is the accumulation of deposits that a PCLP CDC must establish and maintain for each PCLP Debenture that it issues. PCLP CDCs must coordinate with their Lead SBA Office to ensure that the LLRF is properly established, that all necessary documentation is executed and delivered by all parties in a timely fashion, and that all required deposits are made.
(b)
PCLP CDC Exposure and LLRF deposit requirements.
A PCLP CDC's “Exposure” is defined as its reimbursement obligation to SBA with respect to default in the payment of any PCLP Debenture. The amount of a PCLP CDC's Exposure is 10 percent of any loss (including attorney's fees; litigation costs; and care of collateral, appraisal and other liquidation costs and expenses) sustained by SBA as a result of a default in the payment of principal or interest on a PCLP Debenture.For each PCLP Debenture a PCLP CDC issues, it must establish and maintain an LLRF equal to one percent of the original principal amount of the PCLP Debenture. The amount the PCLP CDC must maintain in the LLRF for each PCLP Debenture remains the same even as the principal balance of the PCLP Debenture is paid down over time except that, after the first 10 years of the term of the Debenture, the amount maintained in the LLRF may be based on one percent of the current principal amount of the PCLP Debenture (the declining balance methodology), as determined by SBA. All withdrawals must be made in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section. A CDC may not use the declining balance methodology:
(1) With respect to any Debenture that has been purchased. Within 30 days after purchase, the CDC must restore the balance maintained in the LLRF for the Debenture that was purchased to one percent of the original principal amount of that Debenture; or
(2) With respect to any other Debenture if SBA notifies the CDC in writing that it has failed to satisfy the requirements in paragraph (e), (f), (h), (i), or (j) of this section. In such case, the CDC will not be required to restore the balance maintained in the LLRF to one percent of the original principal amount of the Debenture but must base the amount maintained in the LLRF on one percent of the principal amount of the Debenture as of the date
of notification. The CDC may not begin to use the declining balance methodology again until SBA notifies the CDC in writing that SBA has determined, in its discretion, that the CDC has corrected the noncompliance and has demonstrated its ability to comply with these requirements.
(c)
Establishing a LLRF.
The LLRF must be a deposit account (or accounts) with a federally insured depository institution selected by the PCLP CDC. A “deposit account” is a demand, time, savings, or passbook account, including a certificate of deposit (CD) which is either uncertificated or, if certificated, non-transferable. A “deposit account” is not an investment account and must not contain securities or other investment properties. A deposit account may contain only cash and CDs credited to that account. A PCLP CDC may pool its deposits for multiple PCLP Debentures in a single account in one institution. The LLRF must be segregated from the PCLP CDC's other operating accounts. The PCLP CDC is responsible for all fees, costs and expenses incurred in connection with establishing, managing and maintaining the LLRF, including fees associated with transferring funds or early withdrawal of CDs, and related income tax expenses.
(d)
Creating and perfecting a security interest in a LLRF.
A PCLP CDC must give SBA a first priority, perfected security interest in the LLRF to secure the PCLP CDC's obligation to reimburse SBA for the PCLP CDC's Exposure under all of its outstanding PCLP Debentures. (If a PCLP CDC's LLRF is comprised of multiple deposit accounts, it must give SBA this security interest with respect to each such account.) The PCLP CDC must grant to SBA the security interest in the LLRF pursuant to a security agreement between the PCLP CDC and SBA, and a control agreement between the PCLP CDC, SBA, and the applicable depository institution. The control agreement must include provisions requiring the depository institution to follow SBA instructions regarding withdrawal from the account without a requirement for obtaining further consent from the PCLP CDC, and must restrict the PCLP CDC's ability to make withdrawals from the account without SBA consent. When establishing the LLRF, a PCLP CDC must coordinate with its Lead SBA Office to execute and deliver the required documentation. The PCLP CDC must provide to the Lead SBA Office a fully executed original of the security and control agreements. All documents must be satisfactory to SBA in both form and substance.
(e)
Schedule for contributions to a LLRF.
The PCLP CDC must contribute to the LLRF the required deposits for each PCLP Debenture in accordance with the following schedule:
(1) At least 50 percent of the required deposits to the LLRF on or about the date that it issues the PCLP Debenture.
(2) At least an additional 25 percent of the required deposits to the LLRF no later than one year after it issues the PCLP Debenture.
(3) Any remainder of the required deposits to the LLRF no later than two years after it issues the PCLP Debenture.
(f)
LLRF reporting requirements.
Each PCLP CDC must periodically report to SBA the amount in the LLRF in a form that will readily facilitate reconciliation of the amount maintained in the LLRF with the amount required to meet a PCLP CDC's Exposure for its entire portfolio of PCLP Debentures.
(g)
Withdrawal of excess funds.
Interest and other funds in the LLRF that exceed the required minimums as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, within the time frames set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, accrue to the benefit of the PCLP CDC. PCLP CDCs are authorized to withdraw excess funds, including interest, from the LLRF if such funds exceed the required minimums set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. The PCLP CDC must forward requests for withdrawals to the Lead SBA Office, which will verify the existence and amount of excess funds and notify the financial institution to transfer the excess funds to the PCLP CDC.
(h)
Determining SBA loss.
When a PCLP CDC has concluded the liquidation of a defaulted 504 loan made with the proceeds of a PCLP Debenture and has submitted a liquidation wrap-up report to SBA, or when SBA otherwise
determines that the PCLP CDC has exhausted all reasonable collection efforts with respect to that 504 loan, SBA will determine the amount of the loss to SBA. SBA will notify the PCLP CDC of the amount of its reimbursement obligation to SBA (if any) and will explain how SBA calculated the loss.
(1) If the PCLP CDC agrees with SBA's calculations of the loss, it must reimburse SBA for ten percent of the amount of that loss no later than 30 days after SBA's notification to the PCLP CDC of the CDC's reimbursement obligation.
(2) If the PCLP CDC disputes SBA's calculations, it must reimburse SBA for ten percent of any loss amount that is not in dispute no later than 30 days after SBA's notification to the PCLP CDC of the CDC's reimbursement obligation. No later than 30 days after SBA's notification, the PCLP CDC may submit to the D/FA or his or her delegate a written appeal of any disagreement regarding the calculation of SBA's loss. The PCLP CDC must include with that appeal an explanation of its reasons for the disagreement. Upon the D/FA's final decision as to the disputed amount of the loss, the PCLP CDC must promptly reimburse SBA for ten percent of that amount.
(i)
Reimbursing SBA for loss.
A PCLP CDC may use funds in the LLRF or other funds to reimburse SBA for the PCLP CDC's Exposure on a defaulted PCLP Debenture. If a PCLP CDC does not satisfy the entire reimbursement obligation within 30 days after SBA's notification to the PCLP CDC's of its reimbursement obligation, SBA may cause funds in the LLRF to be transferred to SBA in order to cover the PCLP CDC's Exposure, unless the PCLP CDC has filed an appeal under paragraph (h)(2) of this section. If the PCLP CDC has filed such an appeal, SBA may cause such a transfer of funds to SBA 30 days after the D/FA's or his or her delegate's decision. If the LLRF does not contain sufficient funds to reimburse SBA for any unpaid Exposure with respect to any PCLP Debenture, the PCLP CDC must pay SBA the difference within 30 days after demand for payment by SBA.
(j)
Insufficient funding of LLRF.
A PCLP CDC must diligently monitor the LLRF to ensure that it contains sufficient funds to cover its Exposure for its entire portfolio of PCLP Debentures. If, at any time, the LLRF does not contain sufficient funds, the PCLP CDC must, within 30 days of the earlier of the date it becomes aware of this deficiency or the date it receives notification from SBA of this deficiency, make additional contributions to the LLRF to make up this difference.
[68 FR 57983, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 84 FR 66296, Dec. 4, 2019]
§ 120.848
Requirements for 504 loan processing, closing, servicing, liquidating, and litigating by PCLP CDCs.
(a)
General.
In processing closing, servicing, liquidating and litigating 504 loans under the PCLP (“PCLP Loans”), the PCLP CDC must comply with Loan Program Requirements and conduct such activities in accordance with prudent and commercially reasonable lending standards.
(b)
Documentation of decision making.
For each PCLP Loan, the PCLP CDC must document in its files the basis for its decisions with respect to loan processing, closing, servicing, liquidating, and litigating.
(c)
Processing requirements.
SBA expects PCLP CDCs to handle most 504 loan processing situations, although SBA may require that the PCLP CDC process 504 loans involving complex or problematic eligibility issues through the SBA using standard 504 loan processing procedures. The PCLP CDC is responsible for properly determining borrower creditworthiness and establishing the terms and conditions under which the PCLP Loan will be made. The PCLP CDC also is responsible for properly undertaking such other processing actions as SBA may delegate to the PCLP CDC.
(d)
Submission of loan documents.
A PCLP CDC must notify SBA of its approval of a 504 loan by submitting to SBA's PCLP Loan Processing Center all documentation required by SBA, including SBA's PCLP eligibility checklist, signed by an authorized representative of the PCLP CDC. The PCLP Loan Processing Center will review these documents to determine whether
the PCLP CDC has identified any problems with the PCLP Loan approval, and whether SBA funds are available for the PCLP Loan. If appropriate, the PCLP Processing Center will notify the PCLP CDC of the loan number assigned to the loan.
(e)
Loan and Debenture closing.
After receiving notification from SBA PCLP Loan Processing Center, the PCLP CDC is responsible for properly undertaking all actions necessary to close the PCLP Loan and Debenture in accordance with the expedited loan closing procedures applicable to a Priority CDC and with § 120.960.
(f)
Servicing, liquidation and litigation responsibilities.
The PCLP CDC generally must service, liquidate and litigate its entire portfolio of PCLP Loans, although SBA may in certain circumstances elect to handle such duties with respect to a particular PCLP Loan or Loans. Additional servicing and liquidation requirements are set forth in subpart E of this part.
(g)
Making a 504 loan previously considered by another CDC.
A PCLP CDC also may utilize its PCLP status to process a 504 loan application from an applicant whose application was declined or rejected by another CDC operating in that same Area of Operations, if the applicant is located within that area and as long as SBA has not previously declined that applicant's 504 loan application. This may include the processing of a 504 loan application from an applicant that has withdrawn its application from another CDC.
[68 FR 57984, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 18364, Apr. 12, 2007]

# Other CDC Requirements
§ 120.851
CDC ethical requirements.
CDCs and their Associates must act ethically and exhibit good character. They must meet all of the ethical requirements of § 120.140. In addition, they are subject to the following:
(a) Any benefit flowing to a CDC's Associate or his or her employer from activities as an Associate must be merely incidental (this requirement does not prevent an Associate or an Associate's employer from providing interim financing as described in § 120.890 or Third Party Loans as described in § 120.920, as long as such activity does not violate § 120.140); and
(b) A CDC's Associate may not be an officer, director, or manager of more than one CDC.
[68 FR 57984, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.852
[Reserved]
§ 120.853
Inspector General audits of CDCs.
The SBA Office of Inspector General may also conduct, supervise or coordinate audits pursuant to the Inspector General Act. The CDC must cooperate and make its staff, records, and facilities available.
[68 FR 57985, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.857
Voluntary transfer and surrender of CDC certification.
A CDC may not transfer its certification or withdraw from the 504 program without SBA's consent. The CDC must provide a plan to SBA to transfer its portfolio. The portfolio may only be transferred with SBA's written consent. If a CDC desires to withdraw from the 504 program, it must forfeit its portfolio to SBA. SBA may conduct an audit of the transferring or withdrawing CDC.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996. Redesignated at 68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003]

# Project Economic Development Goals
§ 120.860
Required objectives.
A Project must achieve at least one of the economic development objectives set forth in § 120.861 or § 120.862.
§ 120.861
Job creation or retention.
A Project must create or retain one Job Opportunity per an amount of 504 loan funding that will be specified by SBA from time to time in a
Federal Register
notice. Such Job Opportunity average remains in effect until changed by subsequent
Federal Register
publication.
[68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.862
Other economic development objectives.
A Project that achieves any of the following community development or public policy goals is eligible if the CDC's overall portfolio of 504 loans, including the subject loan, meets or exceeds the CDC's required Job Opportunity average. Loan applications must indicate how the Project will meet the specified economic development objective.
(a) Community Development goals:
(1) Improving, diversifying or stabilizing the economy of the locality;
(2) Stimulating other business development;
(3) Bringing new income into the community;
(4) Assisting manufacturing firms (North American Industry Classification System (NAICS), Sectors 31 “ 33); or
(5) Assisting businesses in Labor Surplus Areas as defined by the Department of Labor.
(b) Public Policy goals:
(1) Revitalizing a business district of a community with a written revitalization or redevelopment plan;
(2) Expansion of exports;
(3) Expansion of small businesses owned and controlled by women as defined in section 29(a)(3) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 656(a)(3);
(4) Expansion of small businesses owned and controlled by veterans (especially service-disabled veterans) as defined in section 3(q) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. 632(q);
(5) Expansion of minority enterprise development (see § 124.103(b) of this chapter for minority groups who qualify for this description);
(6) Aiding rural development;
(7) Increasing productivity and competitiveness (retooling, robotics, modernization, competition with imports);
(8) Modernizing or upgrading facilities to meet health, safety, and environmental requirements;
(9) Assisting businesses in or moving to areas affected by Federal budget reductions, including base closings, either because of the loss of Federal contracts or the reduction in revenues in the area due to a decreased Federal presence;
(10) Reduction of rates of unemployment in labor surplus areas, as such areas are determined by the Secretary of Labor;
(11) Reduction of energy consumption by at least 10 percent;
(12) Increased use of sustainable design, including designs that reduce the use of greenhouse gas emitting fossil fuels, or low-impact design to produce buildings that reduce the use of non-renewable resources and minimize environmental impact; or
(13) Plant, equipment and process upgrades of renewable energy sources such as the small-scale production of energy for individual buildings' or communities' consumption, commonly known as micropower, or renewable fuels producers including biodiesel and ethanol producers.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999; 68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003; 76 FR 63547, Oct. 12, 2011; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]

# Leasing Policies Specific to 504 Loans
§ 120.870
Leasing Project Property.
(a) A Borrower may use the proceeds of a 504 loan to acquire, construct, or modify buildings and improvements, and/or to purchase and install machinery and equipment located on land leased to the Borrower by an unrelated lessor if:
(1) The remaining term of the lease, including options to renew, exercisable only by the lessee, equals or exceeds the term of the Debenture;
(2) The Borrower assigns its interest in the lease to the CDC with right of reassignment to SBA; and
(3) The 504 loan is secured by a recorded lien against the leasehold estate and other collateral as necessary.
(b) If the Project is for new construction, the Borrower may lease long term up to 20 percent of the Rentable Property in the Project to one or more tenants if the Borrower immediately occupies at least 60 percent of the Rentable Property, plans to occupy within three years some of the remaining space not immediately occupied and not leased long term, and plans to occupy all of
the remaining space not leased long term within ten years.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999; 68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.871
Leasing part of Project Property to another business.
(a) The costs of interior finishing of space to be leased out to another business are not eligible Project costs.
(b) Third-party loan proceeds used to renovate the leased space do not count towards the 504 first mortgage requirement or the Borrower's contribution.

# Loan-Making Policies Specific to 504 Loans
§ 120.880
Basic eligibility requirements.
In addition to the eligibility requirements specified in subpart A, to be an eligible Borrower for a 504 loan, a small business must:
(a) Use the Project Property (except that an Eligible Passive Company may lease to an Operating Company); and
(b) Together with its Affiliates, meet one of the size standards set forth in § 121.301(b) of this chapter.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.881
Ineligible Projects for 504 loans.
In addition to the ineligible businesses and uses of proceeds specified in subpart A of this part, the following Projects are ineligible for 504 financing:
(a) Relocation of any of the operations of a small business which will cause a net reduction of one-third or more in the workforce of a relocating small business or a substantial increase in unemployment in any area of the country, unless the CDC can justify the loan because:
(1) The relocation is for key economic reasons and crucial to the continued existence, economic wellbeing, and/or competitiveness of the applicant; and
(2) The economic development benefits to the applicant and the receiving community outweigh the negative impact on the community from which the applicant is moving; and
(b) Projects in foreign countries (loans financing real or personal property located outside the United States or its possessions).
§ 120.882
Eligible Project costs for 504 loans.
Eligible Project costs which may be paid with the proceeds of 504 loans are:
(a) Costs directly attributable to the Project including expenditures incurred by the Borrower (with its own funds or from a loan) to acquire land used in the Project, or for any other expense directly attributable to the Project, prior to applying to SBA for the 504 loan;
(b) In Projects involving construction, a contingency reserve for cost overruns not to exceed 10 percent of construction cost;
(c) Professional fees directly attributable and essential to the Project, such as title insurance, opinion of title, architectural and engineering costs, appraisals, environmental studies, and legal fees related to zoning, permits, or platting; and
(d) Repayment of interim financing including points, fees and interest.
(e) If the project involves expansion of a small business concern, any amount of existing indebtedness that does not exceed 100 percent of the project cost of the expansion may be refinanced and added to the expansion cost if:
(1) Substantially all (75% or more) of the proceeds of the indebtedness were used to acquire land, including a building situated thereon, to construct a building thereon, or to purchase equipment. The assets acquired must be eligible for financing under the 504 loan program. If the acquisition, construction, or purchase of the asset was originally financed through a commercial loan that would have satisfied the “substantially all” requirement and that was subsequently refinanced one or more times, with the current commercial loan being the most recent refinancing, the current commercial loan will be deemed to satisfy this paragraph (e)(1).
(2) The existing indebtedness is collateralized by fixed assets. The 504 eligible fixed assets collateralizing any debt to be refinanced or relating to the
portion of debt being refinanced in the case of a partial refinance must also collateralize the 504 Loan unless SBA approves a waiver due to extraordinary circumstances. PCLP CDCs may not use their delegated authority to approve a loan requiring this waiver;
(3) The existing indebtedness was incurred for the benefit of the small business concern for which any new Project costs are incurred. Existing 7(a) and 504 loans may be refinanced under this section in accordance with SBA policies or procedures;
(4) The financing will be used only for refinancing existing indebtedness or costs relating to the project financed;
(5) The financing will provide a substantial benefit to the borrower when prepayment penalties, financing fees, and other financing costs are accounted for. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(5),
substantial benefit
means that the portion of the new installment amount attributable to the debt being refinanced must be less than the existing installment amount(s). Prepayment penalties, financing fees, and other financing costs must also be added to the amount being refinanced in calculating the percentage reduction in the new installment payment. Exceptions to the reduction requirement may be approved by the Director, Office of Financial Assistance (D/FA) or designee for good cause. PCLP CDCs may not use their delegated authority to approve a loan requiring this exception.
(6) The borrower has been current on all payments due on the existing debt for not less than 1 year preceding the date of refinancing. For purposes of this section, “date of refinancing” refers to the date the 504 loan is approved by SBA. Any unremedied delinquency after approval must be reported to SBA as an adverse change;
(7) The financing under section 504 will provide better terms or rate of interest than the existing indebtedness on the date of refinancing. For purposes of this paragraph, “better terms or rate of interest” may include longer maturity (but always commensurate with the assets' useful life), a lower interest rate committed on the Third Party Lender Loan or projected on the 504 loan, improved collateral conditions, or less restrictive loan covenants.
(8) The authority to approve the refinancing of same institution debt must be approved by SBA and is not delegated to the PCLP CDCs. For the purposes of this paragraph, “same institution debt” means any debt of the CDC or the Third Party Lender financing the new project, or of affiliates of either.
(f) For the purposes of paragraph (e), the phrase “project involves expansion of a small business concern” includes any project that involves the acquisition, construction or improvement of land, building or equipment for use by the small business concern.
(g) SBA may approve a Refinancing Project of a qualified debt subject to the following conditions and requirements:
(1) The Refinancing Project does not involve the expansion of a small business;
(2) The applicant for the refinancing available under this paragraph (g) has been in operation for all of the 2 year period ending on the date of application;
(3) A loan that is subject to a guarantee by a Federal agency or department may be refinanced under the following conditions and requirements:
(i) An existing 504 loan may be refinanced if both the Third Party Loan and the 504 Loan are being refinanced or the Third Party Loan has been paid in full. If the 504 Loan being refinanced received approval through another CDC, the CDC working on the current refinancing must provide advance notice to the other CDC in writing (by email or letter).
(ii) An existing 7(a) loan may be refinanced if the CDC notifies the 7(a) lender in advance in writing (by email or letter).
(iii) The refinancing will provide a substantial benefit to the Borrower. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(3)(iii),
substantial benefit
means that the portion of the new installment amount attributable to the debt being refinanced must be less than the existing installment amount(s). Prepayment penalties (including subsidy recoupment fees), financing fees, and other financing costs must be added to
the amount being refinanced in calculating the percentage reduction in the new installment payment, but the portion of the new installment amount attributable to Eligible Business Expenses (as described in paragraph (g)(16) of this section) is not included in this calculation. Exceptions to the reduction requirement may be approved by the D/FA or designee for good cause. PCLP CDCs may not use their delegated authority to approve a loan requiring the exception in this paragraph (g)(3)(iii).
(4) In addition to the annual guarantee fee assessed under § 120.971(d)(2), Borrower must pay SBA a supplemental annual guarantee fee to cover the additional cost attributable to the refinancing in an amount established by SBA each fiscal year.
(5) The funding for the Refinancing Project must come from three sources based on the current fair market value of the fixed assets serving as collateral for the Refinancing Project, including a Third Party Loan that is at least as much as the 504 loan, not less than 10% from the Borrower (excluding administrative costs), and not more than 40% from the 504 loan. If the Refinancing Project involves a limited or single purpose building or structure, the Borrower must contribute not less than 15% (excluding administrative costs), unless SBA determines, in its discretion, and publishes a notice in the
Federal Register,
that due to an economic recession, as determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research or its equivalent, Borrowers may contribute not less than 10% for Refinancing Projects involving a limited or single purpose property during the recession. The lower required contribution by the Borrower will be in effect until the first day of the calendar quarter following the end of the economic recession as determined by the National Bureau of Economic Research or its equivalent. SBA will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing the date on which the requirement of the lower Borrower contribution ended. In addition to a cash contribution, the Borrower's contribution may be satisfied as set forth in § 120.910 or by the equity in any other fixed assets that are acceptable to SBA as collateral for the Refinancing Project, provided that there is an independent appraisal of the fair market value of the asset;
(6)(i) The portion of the Refinancing Project provided by the 504 loan and the Third Party Loan may be no more than 90% of the fair market value of the fixed assets that will serve as collateral.
(ii) The Borrower's application may include a request to finance Eligible Business Expenses as part of the Refinancing Project if the amount of cash funds that will be provided for the Refinancing Project exceeds the amount to be paid to the lender of the qualified debt. The Borrower's application must include a specific description of the Eligible Business Expenses for which the financing is requested and an itemization of the amount of each expense. Any debt for Operating Expenses of the business that was incurred with a credit card or a business line of credit may be included if the credit card or business line of credit is issued in the name of the small business and the Applicant certifies that the debt being refinanced was incurred exclusively for business related purposes. Loan proceeds must not be used to refinance any personal expenses. Both the CDC and the Borrower must certify in the application that the funds will be used to cover Eligible Business Expenses. Borrower must, upon request, substantiate the use of the funds provided for business expenses through, for example, bank statements, invoices marked “paid,” cleared checks, or any other documents that demonstrate that a business obligation was satisfied with the funds provided.
(7) If the qualified debt is not fully satisfied by the funding provided by the Refinancing Project, the lender of the qualified debt must take one of the following actions, or some combination thereof, to address the deficiency:
(i) Forgiveness of all or part of the deficiency;
(ii) Acceptance of payment by the Borrower, or
(iii) Acceptance of a Note executed by the Borrower for the balance, or any portion of the balance. Such Note must be subordinate to the 504 loan if the Note and the 504 loan are secured by
any of the same collateral. The Note is subject to any other restrictions that SBA may establish to protect its creditor position, including standby requirements;
(8) The Third Party Lender must have a first lien position, and the 504 loan must have a second lien position, on all Eligible Fixed Assets securing the Refinancing Project. Any other lien must be junior in priority to these lien positions. For other fixed assets serving as collateral for the Refinancing Project, the lien positions of the Third Party Lender and the 504 loan may be junior to any existing liens acceptable to SBA;
(9) Eligible Project costs which may be paid with the proceeds of the 504 loan are the amount used to refinance the qualified debt and other costs under § 120.882(c) and (d) and eligible administrative costs under § 120.883;
(10) [Reserved]
(11) PCLP CDCs may not approve the refinancing of same institution debt under their delegated authority and must submit the application to SBA for approval.
(12) The 504 loans approved under this paragraph (g) must be disbursed within 9 months after loan approval. The Director, Office of Financial Assistance, or his or her designee, may approve a request for extension of the disbursement period for an additional 6 months for good cause.
(13) The Third Party Loan may not be sold on the secondary market as a part of a pool guaranteed under subpart J of this part, or any successor to this program, when the debt being refinanced is same institution debt;
(14) The Third Party Lender must certify that it would not refinance the qualified debt except for the assistance provided under this paragraph (g);
(15) Notwithstanding § 120.860, a debt may be refinanced under this paragraph (g) if it does not meet the job creation or other economic development objectives set forth in § 120.861 or § 120.862. In such case, the 504 loan may not exceed the product obtained by multiplying the number of employees of the Borrower by $90,000. The number of employees of the Borrower is equal to the sum of:
(i) The number of full-time employees of the Borrower on the date of the application; and
(ii) The product obtained by multiplying:
(A) The number of part-time employees of the Borrower on the date of the application; by
(B) The quotient obtained by dividing the average number of hours each part-time employee of the Borrower works each week by 40.
Example 1 to paragraph (g)(15):
30 full-time employees and 35 part-time employees working 20 hours per week is calculated as follows: 30 + (35 × (20/40)) = 47.5. The maximum amount of the 504 loan would be 47.5 multiplied by $90,000, or $4,275,000.
(16) For the purposes of this paragraph (g), the terms below are defined as follows:
Date of application
refers to the date the 504 loan application is received by SBA.
Eligible Business Expenses
are payments of the business for either Operating Expenses or Other Secured Debt.
Eligible Fixed Assets
are one or more long-term fixed assets, such as land, buildings, machinery, and equipment, acquired, constructed or improved by a small business for use in its business operations.
Fair market value
refers to the current appraised value of an asset that is established by an independent appraiser in accordance with the standards established by SBA in its SOPs.
Operating Expenses
are expenses of the business that were incurred but not paid prior to the date of the 504 application or that will become due for payment within 18 months after the date of application. Examples include salaries, rent, utilities, inventory, and other expenses of the business that are not capital expenditures.
Other Secured Debt
is debt incurred prior to the 504 loan application that has been secured by the same Eligible Fixed Assets securing the qualified debt and incurred for the benefit of the Borrower and/or Operating Company. Other Secured Debt does not include debt incurred for the purposes of capital expenditures, and any existing liens must be released or subordinated
to the amount of the debt being refinanced by the 504 loan.
Qualified debt
is a commercial loan:
(A) That was incurred not less than 6 months before the date of the application for refinancing available under this paragraph (g).
(B) Substantially all (75% or more) of which was for an Eligible Fixed Asset. If the Eligible Fixed Asset was originally financed through a commercial loan that would have satisfied the “substantially all” standard (the “original loan”) and that was subsequently refinanced one or more times, with the current commercial loan being the most recent refinancing, the current commercial loan will be deemed to satisfy this paragraph (B). If the original loan was for the construction of a new building, or the acquisition, renovation, or reconstruction of an existing building, and such loan would not have satisfied the leasing policies set forth in §§ 120.131 and 120.870(b), the current commercial loan will be deemed to satisfy these policies, provided that Borrower demonstrates compliance with § 120.131(b) for existing buildings as of the date of application.
(C) That was for the benefit of the small business concern;
(D) That is collateralized by Eligible Fixed Assets; and
(E) That is not a Third Party Loan that is part of an existing 504 Project, except as allowed under paragraph (g)(3) of this section.
Refinancing Project
means the fair market value of the Eligible Fixed Asset(s) securing the qualified debt and any other fixed assets acceptable to SBA, except that if the Refinancing Project includes the financing of Eligible Business Expenses, SBA will not accept as collateral any fixed assets other than the Eligible Fixed Asset(s) securing the Qualified Debt.
Same institution debt
means any debt of the CDC or the Third Party Lender, or an affiliate of either, that is providing funds for the refinancing.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003; 74 FR 29591, June 23, 2009; 76 FR 9218, Feb. 17, 2011; 76 FR 63155, Oct. 12, 2011; 79 FR 15650, Mar. 21, 2014; 81 FR 33125, May 25, 2016; 83 FR 19920, May 7, 2018; 86 FR 40779, July 29, 2021; 88 FR 70585, Oct. 12, 2023; 89 FR 79740, Oct. 1, 2024]
§ 120.883
Eligible administrative costs for 504 loans.
The following administrative costs are not part of Project costs, but may be paid with the proceeds of the 504 loan and the Debenture (see § 120.971):
(a) SBA guarantee fee;
(b) Funding fee (to cover the cost of a public issuance of securities and the Trustee);
(c) CDC processing fee;
(d) Borrower's out-of-pocket costs associated with 504 loan and Debenture closing other than legal fees (for example, certifications and the copying costs associated with them, overnight delivery, postage, and messenger services) but not to include fees and costs described in § 120.882;
(e) CDC Closing Fee (see § 120.971(a)(2)) up to a maximum of $10,000; and
(f) Underwriters' fee.
[64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999, as amended at 68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003; 88 FR 70586, Oct. 12, 2023]
§ 120.884
Ineligible costs for 504 loans.
Costs not directly attributable and necessary for the Project may not be paid with proceeds of the 504 loan. These include, but are not limited to, the following:
(a) Debt refinancing (other than interim financing), except as provided in § 120.882(e) and (g).
(b) A CDC may not use 504 loan proceeds to pay any creditor in a position to sustain a loss causing a shift to SBA of all or part of a potential loss from an existing debt.
(c) Third-Party Loan fees (commitment, broker, finders, origination, processing fees of permanent financing).
(d) Ancillary business expenses, such as:
(1) Working capital;
(2) Counseling or management services fees;
(3) Incorporation/organization costs;
(4) Franchise fees; and
(5) Advertising.
(e) Fixed-asset Project components, such as:
(1) Short-term equipment, furniture, and furnishings (unless essential to and a minor portion of the Project);
(2) Automobiles, trucks, and airplanes; and
(3) Construction equipment (except for heavy duty construction equipment integral to the business' operations with a remaining useful life of a minimum of 10 years).
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999; 74 FR 29591, June 23, 2009; 76 FR 9219, Feb. 17, 2011; 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017]

# Interim Financing
§ 120.890
Source of interim financing.
A Project may use interim financing for all Project costs except the Borrower's contribution. Any source (including a CDC) may supply interim financing provided:
(a) The financing is not derived from any SBA program, directly or indirectly;
(b) The terms and conditions of the financing are acceptable to SBA;
(c) The source is not the Borrower or an Associate of the Borrower; and
(d) The source has the experience and qualifications to monitor properly all Project construction and progress payments. (If the source lacks such experience or qualifications, SBA may require the interim loan to be managed by a third party such as a bank or professional construction manager.)
§ 120.891
Certifications of disbursement and completion.
Before the Debenture is issued, the interim lender must certify the amount disbursed. The CDC must certify that the Project was completed in accordance with the final plans and specifications (except as provided in § 120.961).
§ 120.892
Certifications of no adverse change.
Following completion of the Project, the following certifications must be made before the 504 loan closing:
(a) The interim lender must certify to the CDC that it has no knowledge of any unremedied substantial adverse change in the condition of the small business since the application to the interim lender;
(b) The Borrower (or Operating Company) must certify to the CDC that there has been no unremedied substantial adverse change in its financial condition or its ability to repay the 504 loan since the date of application, and must furnish interim financial statements, current within 120 days of closing; and
(c) The CDC must issue an opinion to the best of its knowledge that there has been no unremedied substantial adverse change in the Borrower's (or Operating Company's) ability to repay the 504 loan since its submission of the loan application to SBA.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003]

# Permanent Financing
§ 120.900
Sources of permanent financing.
Permanent financing for each Project must come from three sources: the Borrower's contribution, Third-Party Loans, and the 504 loan. Typically, the Borrower contributes 10 percent of the permanent financing, Third-Party Loans 50 percent and the 504 loan 40 percent.

# The Borrower's Contribution
§ 120.910
Borrower contributions.
(a) The Borrower must contribute to the Project cash (or property acceptable to SBA obtained with the cash) or land (that is part of the Project Property), in an amount equal to the following percentage of the Project cost, excluding administrative costs:
(1) At least 15 percent, if the Borrower (or Operating Company if the Borrower is an Eligible Passive Company) has operated for two years or less;
(2) At least 15 percent, if the Project involves the acquisition, construction, conversion, or expansion of a limited or single purpose building or structure;
(3) At least 20 percent, if the Project involves conditions described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section; or
(4) At least 10 percent, in all other circumstances.
(b) The source of the contribution may be a CDC or any other source except an SBA business loan program (see § 120.913 for SBIC exception).
[64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999]
§ 120.911
Land contributions.
The Borrower's contribution may be land (including buildings, structures and other site improvements which will be part of the Project Property) previously acquired by the Borrower.
[68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.912
Borrowed contributions.
The Borrower may borrow its cash contribution from the CDC or a third party. If any of the contribution is borrowed, the interest rate must be reasonable. If the loan is secured by any of the Project assets, the loan must be subordinate to the liens securing the 504 Loan, and the loan may not be repaid at a faster rate than the 504 Loan unless SBA gives prior written approval. A third party lender may not receive voting rights, stock options, or any other actual or potential voting interest in the small business.
§ 120.913
Limitations on any contributions by a Licensee.
Subject to part 107 of this chapter, a Licensee may provide financing for all or part of the Borrower's contribution to the Project. SBA will consider Licensee funds to be derived from federal sources if the Licensee has Leverage (as defined in § 107.50 of this chapter). If the Licensee does not have Leverage, SBA will consider the investment to be from private funds. Licensee financing must be subordinated to the 504 loan and must not be repaid at a faster rate than the Debenture. (Refer to § 120.930(a) for additional limitations.)
[68 FR 57987, Oct. 7, 2003]

# Third Party Loans
§ 120.920
Required participation by the Third Party Lender.
(a)
Amount of Third Party Loans.
A Project financing must include one or more Third Party Loans totaling at least as much as the 504 loan. However, the Third Party Loans must total at least 50 percent of the total cost of the Project if:
(1) The Borrower (or Operating Company, if the Borrower is an Eligible Passive Company) has operated for two years or less, or
(2) The Project is for the acquisition, construction, conversion or expansion of a limited or single purpose asset.
(b)
Third party loan collateral.
The 504 loan is usually collateralized by a second lien on Project Property. The Third Party Lender may obtain additional collateral or other security for the Third Party Loan (“Additional Collateral”) only if in the event of liquidation and unless otherwise approved in writing by SBA:
(1) The Third Party Lender liquidates or otherwise exhausts all reasonable avenues of collection with respect to the Additional Collateral no later than the disposition of the Project Property, and
(2) The Third Party Lender applies any proceeds received as a result of the Additional Collateral to the balance outstanding on the Third Party Loan prior to the application of proceeds from the disposition of the Project Property to the Third Party Loan.
[64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999, as amended at 79 FR 15650, Mar. 21, 2014]
§ 120.921
Terms of Third Party loans.
(a)
Maturity.
A Third Party Loan must have a term of at least 7 years when the 504 loan is for a term of 10 years and 10 years when the 504 loan is for 20 years. If there is more than one Third Party Loan, an overall loan maturity must be calculated, taking into account the maturities and amounts of each loan.
(b)
Interest rates.
Interest rates must be reasonable. SBA must establish and publish in the
Federal Register
a maximum interest rate for any Third Party Loan from commercial financial institutions. The rate shall remain in effect until changed.
(c)
Other terms.
The Third Party Loan must not have any early call feature or contain any demand provisions unless the loan is in default. By participating, a Third Party Loan lender waives, as to the CDC/SBA financing, any provision in its deed of trust, or mortgage, or other documents prohibiting further encumbrances or subordinate debt. In the event of default, the Third Party Lender must give the CDC and SBA written notice of default within 30 days of the event of default and at least 60 days prior to foreclosure.
(d)
Future advances.
The Third Party Loan must not be open-ended. After completion of the Project, the Third Party Lender may not make future advances under the Third Party Loan except expenditures to collect amounts due the Third Party Loan notes, maintain collateral and protect the Third Party Lender's lien position on the Third Party Loan.
(e)
Subordination.
The Third Party Lender's lien will be subordinate to the CDC/SBA lien regarding any prepayment penalties, late fees, other default charges, and escalated interest after default due under the Third Party Loan.
(f)
Escalation upon default.
A Third-Party Lender may not escalate the rate of interest upon default to a rate greater than the maximum rate set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. Regarding any Project that SBA approved after September 30, 1996, SBA will only pay the interest rate on the note in effect before the date of the Borrower's default.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 2118, Jan. 13, 1999; 88 FR 21900, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.922
Pre-existing debt on the Project Property.
In addition to its share of Project cost, a Third-Party Loan may include consolidation of existing debt on the Project Property. The consolidation must not improve the lien position of the Lender on the pre-existing debt, unless the debt is a previous Third-Party Loan.
§ 120.923
Policies on subordination.
(a) Financing provided by the seller of Project Property must be subordinate to the 504 loan. SBA may waive the subordination requirement if the property is classified as “other real estate owned” by a national bank or other Federally regulated lender and SBA considers the property to be of sufficient value to support the 504 loan.
(b) A Borrower is eligible for a 504 loan even if part of the Project financing is tax-exempt. SBA's lien position must not be subordinate to loans made from the proceeds of the tax-exempt obligation.
(c) The Borrower must not prepay any Project financing subordinate to the 504 loan without SBA's prior written consent.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.925
[Reserved]
§ 120.926
Referral fee.
The CDC can receive a reasonable referral fee from the Third Party Lender if the CDC secured the Third Party Lender for the Borrower under a written contract between the CDC and the Third Party Lender. Both the CDC and the Third Party Lender are prohibited from charging this fee to the Borrower. If a CDC charges a referral fee, the CDC will be construed as a Referral Agent under part 103 of this chapter.
[68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003]

# 504 Loans and Debentures
§ 120.930
Amount.
(a) Generally, a 504 loan may not exceed 40 percent of total Project cost plus 100 percent of eligible administrative costs. For good cause shown, SBA may authorize an increase in the percentage of Project costs covered up to 50 percent. No more than 50 percent of eligible Project costs can be from Federal sources, whether received directly or indirectly through an intermediary.
(b) A 504 loan must not be less than $25,000.
(c) Upon completion of the Project, the Debenture amount will be reduced by the amount that the unused contingency reserve exceeds 2 percent of the anticipated Debenture.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.931
504 Lending limits.
504 loan amounts shall be limited to:
(a) An outstanding balance of $5,000,000 for each Borrower and its affiliates if the loan proceeds will not be directed towards a Project in paragraph (c) of this section,
(b) An outstanding balance of $5,000,000 for each Borrower and its affiliates if one or more of the public policy goals enumerated in § 120.862(b) applies to the Project; and
(c) $5,500,000 for each Project for:
(1) Small Manufacturers (NAICS Codes 31-33) with all production facilities located in the United States;
(2) Reduction of the Borrower's, or if the Borrower is an Eligible Passive Company, the Operating Company's energy consumption by at least 10%; or
(3) Plant, equipment and process upgrades of renewable energy sources such as the small-scale production of energy for individual buildings' or communities' consumption, commonly known as micropower, or renewable fuel producers including biodiesel and ethanol producers.
[76 FR 63547, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.932
Interest rate.
The interest rate of the 504 Loan and the Debenture which funds it is set by the SBA and approved by the Secretary of the Treasury.
§ 120.933
Maturity.
From time to time, SBA will publish in the
Federal Register
the available maturities for a 504 loan and the Debenture that funds it. Such available maturities remain in effect until changed by subsequent
Federal Register
publication.
[68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.934
Collateral.
The CDC usually takes a second lien position on the Project Property to secure the 504 loan. Sometimes additional collateral is required. (In rare circumstances, SBA may permit other collateral substituted for Project Property.) All collateral must be insured against such hazards and risks as SBA may require, with provisions for notice to SBA and the CDC in the event of impending lapse of coverage.
[68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003]
§ 120.935
Deposit from the Borrower that a CDC may require.
At the time of application for a 504 loan, the CDC may require a deposit from the Borrower of $2,500 or 1 percent of the Net Debenture Proceeds, whichever is less. The deposit may be applied to the loan processing fee if the application is accepted, but must be refunded if the application is denied. If the small business withdraws its application, the CDC may deduct from the deposit reasonable costs incurred in packaging and processing the application.
§ 120.937
Assumption.
A 504 loan may be assumed with SBA's prior written approval.
§ 120.938
Default.
(a) Upon occurrence of an event of default specified in the 504 note which requires automatic acceleration, the note becomes due and payable. Upon occurrence of an event of default which does not require automatic acceleration, SBA may forbear acceleration of the note and attempt to resolve the default. If the default is not cured subsequently, the note shall be accelerated. In either case, upon acceleration of the note, the Debenture which funded it is also due immediately, and SBA must honor its guarantee of the Debenture. SBA shall not reimburse the investor for any premium paid.
(b) If a CDC defaults on a Debenture, SBA generally shall limit its recovery to the payments made by the small business to the CDC on the loan made from the Debenture proceeds, and the collateral securing the defaulted loan. However, SBA will look to the CDC for the entire amount of the Debenture in the case of fraud, negligence, or misrepresentation by the CDC.
§ 120.939
Borrower prohibition.
Neither a Borrower nor an Associate of the Borrower may purchase an interest in a Debenture Pool in which the Debenture that funded its 504 loan has been placed.
§ 120.940
Prepayment of the 504 loan or Debenture.
The Borrower may prepay its 504 loan, if it pays the entire principal balance, unpaid interest, any unpaid fees, and any prepayment premium established in the note. If the Borrower prepays, the CDC must prepay the corresponding Debenture with interest and premium. If one of the Debentures in a Debenture Pool is prepaid, the Investors in that Debenture Pool must be paid pro rata, and SBA's guarantee on
the entire Debenture Pool must be proportionately reduced. If the entire Debenture Pool is paid off, SBA may call all Certificates backed by the Pool for redemption.
§ 120.941
Certificates.
(a) The face value of a Certificate must be at least $25,000. Certificates are issued in registered form and transferred only by entry on the central registry maintained by the Trustee. SBA guarantees the timely payment of principal and interest on the Certificates.
(b) Before the sale of a Certificate, the seller, or the broker or dealer acting as the seller's agent, must disclose to the purchaser the terms, conditions, yield, and premium and other characteristics not guaranteed by SBA.

# Debenture Sales and Service Agents
§ 120.950
SBA and CDC must appoint agents.
SBA and the CDC must appoint the following agents to facilitate the sale and service of the Certificates and disbursement of the proceeds.
§ 120.951
Selling agent.
The CDC, with SBA approval, shall appoint a Selling Agent to select underwriters, negotiate the terms and conditions of Debenture offerings with the underwriters, and direct and coordinate Debenture sales.
§ 120.952
Fiscal agent.
SBA shall appoint a Fiscal Agent to assess the financial markets, minimize the cost of sales, arrange for the production of the Offering Circular, Debenture Certificates, and other required documents, and monitor the performance of the Trustee and the underwriters.
§ 120.953
Trustee.
SBA must appoint a Trustee to:
(a) Issue Certificates;
(b) Transfer the Certificates upon resale in the secondary market;
(c) Maintain physical possession of the Debentures for SBA and the Certificate holders;
(d) Establish and maintain a central registry of:
(1) Debenture Pools, including the CDC obligors and the interest rate payable on the Debentures in each Pool;
(2) Certificates issued or transferred, including the Debenture Pool backing the Certificate, name and address of the purchaser, price paid, the interest rate on the Certificate, and fees or charges assessed by the transferror; and
(3) Brokers and dealers in Certificates, and the commissions, fees or discounts granted to the brokers and dealers;
(e) Receive semi-annual Debenture payments and prepayments;
(f) Make regularly scheduled and prepayment payments to Investors; and
(g) Assure before any resale of a Debenture or Certificate is recorded in the registry that the seller has provided the purchaser a written disclosure statement approved by SBA.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 120.953 were published at 89 FR 102701, Dec. 18, 2024, effective Jan. 17, 2025.
§ 120.954
Central Servicing Agent.
(a) SBA has entered into a Master Servicing Agreement designating a Central Servicing Agent (CSA) to support the orderly flow of funds among Borrowers, CDCs, and SBA. The CDC and Borrower must enter into an individual Servicing Agent Agreement with the CSA for each 504 loan, constituting acceptance by the CDC and the Borrower of the terms of the Master Servicing Agreement.
(b) The CSA has established a master reserve account. All funds related to the 504 loans and Debentures flow through the master reserve account under the provisions of the Master Servicing Agreement. The master reserve account will be funded by a guarantee fee, a funding fee to be published from time to time in the
Federal Register,
and by principal and interest payments of 504 loans. At SBA's direction, the CSA may use funds in the master reserve account to defray program expenses. In the event a Borrower defaults and its 504 note is accelerated, SBA shall add funds under its guarantee to ensure the full and timely payment of the Debenture which funded the 504 loan. At SBA's direction, the CSA must pay to the CDC servicing
each loan the interest accruing in the master reserve account on loan payments made by each Borrower between the date of receipt of each monthly payment and the date of disbursement to investors. The CSA may disburse such interest periodically to CDCs on a pro rata basis. SBA may use interest accruals in the master reserve account earned prior to October 1991 (not previously distributed to the CDCs) for the costs of 504 program administration.
§ 120.955
Agent bonds and records.
(a) Each agent (in §§ 120.951 through 120.954) must provide a fidelity bond or insurance in such amount as necessary to fully protect the interest of the government.
(b) SBA must have access at the agent's place of business to all books, records and other documents relating to Debenture activities.
§ 120.956
Suspension or revocation of brokers and dealers.
The appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority may suspend or revoke the privilege of any broker or dealer to participate in the sale or marketing of Debentures and Certificates for actions or conduct bearing negatively on the broker's fitness to participate in the securities market. SBA must give the broker or dealer written notice, stating the reasons, at least 10 business days prior to the effective date of the suspension or revocation. A broker or dealer may appeal the suspension or revocation made under this section pursuant to the procedures set forth in part 134 of this chapter. The action of this official will remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal.
[73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008]

# Closings
§ 120.960
Responsibility for closing.
(a) The CDC is responsible for the 504 loan closing.
(b) The Debenture closing is the joint responsibility of the CDC and SBA.
(c) SBA may, within its sole discretion, decline to close the Debenture; direct the transfer of the 504 loan to another CDC; or cancel its guarantee of the Debenture, prior to sale, if any of the following occur:
(1) The CDC has failed to comply materially with any Loan Program Requirement as defined in § 120.10;
(2) The CDC has failed to make or close the 504 loan or prepare the Debenture closing in a prudent or commercially reasonable manner;
(3) The CDC's improper action or inaction places SBA at risk;
(4) The CDC has failed to use required SBA forms or electronic versions of those forms;
(5) The CDC, Third Party Lender or Borrower has failed to timely disclose to SBA a material fact regarding the Project or 504 loan;
(6) The CDC, Third Party Lender or Borrower has misrepresented a material fact to SBA regarding the Project or 504 loan; or
(7) SBA determines that there has been an unremedied material adverse change, such as deterioration in the Borrower's financial condition, since the 504 loan was approved, or that approving the closing of the Debenture will put SBA at unacceptable financial risk.
[68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 88 FR 21900, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.961
Construction escrow accounts.
The CSA, title company, CDC attorney, or bank may hold Debenture proceeds in escrow to complete Project components such as landscaping and parking lots, and acquire machinery and equipment if the component or acquisition is a minor portion of the total Project and has been contracted for completion or delivery at a specified price and specific future date. The escrow agent must disburse funds upon approval by the CDC and the SBA, supported by invoices and payable jointly to the small business and the designated contractor.

# Servicing
§ 120.970
Servicing of 504 loans and Debentures.
(a) In servicing 504 loans, CDCs must comply with Loan Program Requirements and in accordance with prudent
and commercially reasonable lending standards.
(b) The CDC is responsible for routine servicing including receipt and review of the Borrower's or Operating Company's financial statements on an annual or more frequent basis and monitoring the status of the Borrower and 504 loan collateral.
(c) The CDC is responsible for assuring that the Borrower makes all required insurance premium payments and has paid all taxes when due.
(d) The CDC is responsible for filing renewals and extensions of security interests on collateral for the 504 loan, as required.
(e) The CDC must timely respond to Borrower requests for loan modifications.
(f) For any 504 loan that is more than three months past due, the CDC must promptly request that SBA purchase the Debenture unless the 504 loan has an SBA-approved deferment or is in compliance with an SBA-approved plan to allow the Borrower to catch up on delinquent loan payments.
(g) The CDC must cooperate with SBA to cure defaults and initiate workouts.
(h) Additional servicing requirements are set forth in subpart E of this part.
[68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003, as amended at 72 FR 18364, Apr. 12, 2007]

# Fees
§ 120.971
Allowable fees paid by Borrower.
(a)
CDC fees.
The fees a CDC may charge the Borrower in connection with a 504 loan and Debenture are limited to the following:
(1)
Processing fee.
The CDC may charge up to 1.5 percent of the net Debenture proceeds to process the financing. Two-thirds of this fee will be considered earned and may be collected by the CDC when the loan number is issued by SBA. The portion of the processing fee paid by the Borrower may be reimbursed from the Debenture proceeds;
(2)
Closing fee.
The CDC may charge a reasonable closing fee sufficient to reimburse it for the expenses of its in-house or outside legal counsel, and other miscellaneous closing costs (CDC Closing Fee). Some closing costs may be funded out of the Debenture proceeds (see § 120.883 for limitations);
(3)
Servicing fee.
The CDC will charge a monthly servicing fee of at least 0.625 percent per annum and no more than 2 percent per annum on the unpaid balance of the loan as determined at five-year anniversary intervals. A servicing fee greater than 1.5 percent in a rural area and 1 percent everywhere else requires SBA's prior written approval, based on evidence of substantial need. The servicing fee may be paid only from loan payments received. The fees may be accrued without interest and collected from the CSA when the payments are made.
(4)
Late fees.
Loan payments received after the 15th of each month may be subject to a late payment fee of 5 percent of the late payment or $100, whichever is greater. These fees will be collected by the CSA on behalf of the CDC; and
(5)
Assumption fee.
Upon SBA's written approval, a CDC may charge an assumption fee not to exceed 1 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the loan being assumed.
(b)
CSA fees.
The CSA may charge an initiation fee on each loan and a monthly servicing fee under the terms of the Master Servicing Agreement.
(c)
Other agent fees.
Agent fees and charges necessary to market and service Debentures and Certificates may be assessed to the Borrower or the investor. The fees must be approved by SBA and published periodically in the
Federal Register.
(d)
SBA fees.
(1) SBA charges a 0.5 percent guarantee fee on the Debenture.
(2) For loans approved by SBA after September 30, 1996, SBA charges a fee of not more than 0.9375 percent annually on the unpaid principal balance of the loan as determined at five-year anniversary intervals.
(e)
Miscellaneous fees.
A funding fee not to exceed 0.25 percent of the Debenture may be charged to cover costs incurred by the trustee, fiscal agent, transfer agent.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 2119, Jan. 13, 1999; 68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003; 88 FR 21900, Apr. 12, 2023]
§ 120.972
Third Party Lender participation fee and CDC fee.
(a)
Participation fee.
For loans approved by SBA after September 30, 1996, SBA must collect a one-time fee equal to 50 basis points on the Third Party Lender's participation in a Project when the Third Party Lender occupies a senior credit position to SBA in the Project.
(b)
CDC fee.
For loans approved by SBA after September 30, 1996, SBA must collect an annual fee from the CDC equal to 0.125 percent of the outstanding principal balance of the Debenture. The fee must be paid from the servicing fees collected by the CDC and cannot be paid from any additional fees imposed on the Borrower.
[68 FR 57988, Oct. 7, 2003]

# Authority of CDCs To Perform Liquidation and Debt Collection Litigation
§ 120.975
CDC Liquidation of loans and debt collection litigation.
(a)
PCLP CDCs.
If a CDC is designated as a PCLP CDC under § 120.845, the CDC must liquidate and handle debt collection litigation with respect to all PCLP Loans in its portfolio on behalf of SBA as required by § 120.848(f), in accordance with subpart E of this part. With respect to all other 504 loans that a PCLP CDC makes, the PCLP CDC is an Authorized CDC Liquidator and must exercise its delegated authority to liquidate and handle debt-collection litigation in accordance with subpart E of this part for such loans, if the PCLP CDC is notified by SBA that it meets either of the following requirements to be an Authorized CDC Liquidator, as determined by SBA:
(1) The PCLP CDC has one or more employees who have not less than two years of substantive, decision-making experience in administering the liquidation and workout of defaulted or problem loans secured in a manner substantially similar to loans funded with 504 loan program debentures, and who have completed a training program on loan liquidation developed by the Agency in conjunction with qualified CDCs that meet the requirements of this section; or
(2) The PCLP CDC has entered into a contract with a qualified third party for the performance of its liquidation responsibilities and obtains the approval of SBA with respect to the qualifications of the contractor and the terms and conditions of the contract.
(b)
All other CDCs.
A CDC that is not authorized under paragraph (a) of this section may apply to become an Authorized CDC Liquidator with authority to liquidate and handle debt collection litigation with respect to 504 loans on behalf of SBA, in accordance with subpart E of this part, if the CDC meets the following requirements:
(1) The CDC meets either of the following criteria:
(i) The CDC participated in the loan liquidation pilot program established by the Small Business Programs Improvement Act of 1996 prior to October 1, 2006; or
(ii) During the three fiscal years immediately prior to seeking such authority, the CDC made an average of not less than ten 504 loans per year; and
(2) The CDC meets either of the following requirements:
(i) The CDC has one or more employees who have not less than two years of substantive, decision-making experience in administering the liquidation and workout of defaulted or problem loans secured in a manner substantially similar to loans funded with 504 loan program debentures, and who have completed a training program on loan liquidation developed by the Agency in conjunction with qualified CDCs that meet the requirements of this section; or
(ii) The CDC has entered into a contract with a qualified third party for the performance of its liquidation responsibilities and obtains the approval of SBA with respect to the qualifications of the contractor and the terms and conditions of the contract.
(c)
CDC counsel.
To perform debt collection litigation under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, a CDC must also have either in-house counsel with adequate experience as approved by SBA or entered into a contract for the performance of debt collection litigation with an experienced attorney or law firm as approved by SBA.
(d)
Application for authority to liquidate and litigate.
To seek authority to perform liquidation and debt collection litigation under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, a CDC other than a PCLP CDC must submit a written application to SBA and include documentation demonstrating that the CDC meets the requirements of paragraph (b) and (c) of this section. If a CDC intends to use a contractor to perform liquidation, it must obtain approval from SBA of both the qualifications of the contractor and the terms and conditions in the contract covering the CDC's retention of the contractor. SBA will notify a CDC in writing when the CDC can begin to perform liquidation and/or debt collection litigation under this section.
[72 FR 18365, Apr. 12, 2007]

# Enforceability of 501, 502 and 503 Loans and Other Laws
§ 120.990
501, 502 and 503 loans.
SBA has discontinued loan programs for 501, 502, and 503 loans. Outstanding loans remain under these programs, and Borrowers, CDCs, and SBA must comply with the terms and conditions of the corresponding notes and Debentures, and the regulations in this part in effect when the obligations were undertaken or last in effect, if applicable.
§ 120.991
Effect of other laws.
No State or local law may preclude or limit SBA's exercise of its rights with respect to notes, guarantees, Debentures and Debenture Pools, or of its enforcement rights to foreclose on collateral.

# Subpart I—Risk-Based Lender Oversight

# Source:
72 FR 25194, May 4, 2007, unless otherwise noted.

# Supervision
§ 120.1000
Risk-Based Lender Oversight.
(a)
Risk-Based Lender Oversight.
SBA monitors, supervises, examines, regulates, and enforces laws against SBA Supervised Lenders and the SBA operations of SBA Lenders and Intermediaries.
(b)
Scope.
Most rules and standards set forth in this subpart apply to SBA Lenders as well as Intermediaries; however, SBA has separate regulations for enforcement grounds and formal enforcement actions for Intermediaries at §§ 120.1425 and 120.1540.
[85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1005
Bureau of PCLP Oversight.
SBA's Bureau of PCLP Oversight within OCRM, monitors the capitalization of PCLP CDC pilot participants' LLRFs and performs other related functions.
[73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.1010
SBA access to SBA Lender and Intermediary files.
An SBA Lender and Intermediary must allow SBA's authorized representatives, including representatives authorized by the SBA Inspector General, during normal business hours, access to its files to review, inspect, and copy all records and documents, relating to SBA guaranteed loans or as requested for SBA oversight.
[73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1015
Risk Rating System.
(a)
Risk Rating.
SBA may assign a Risk Rating to all SBA Lenders and Intermediaries on a periodic basis. Risk Ratings are based on certain risk-related portfolio performance factors as set forth in notices or SBA's SOPs and as published from time to time.
(b)
Rating categories.
Risk Ratings fall into one of two broad categories: Acceptable Risk Ratings or Less Than Acceptable Risk Ratings.
[73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1025
Monitoring.
SBA may conduct monitoring of SBA Lenders and Intermediaries including, but not limited to, SBA Lenders' or Intermediaries' self-assessments.
[85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1050
Reviews and examinations.
(a)
Reviews.
SBA may conduct reviews of the SBA loan operations of SBA Lenders. The review may include, but is not limited to, an evaluation of the following:
(1) Portfolio performance;
(2) SBA operations management;
(3) Credit administration; and
(4) Compliance with Loan Program Requirements.
(b)
Examinations.
SBA may conduct safety and soundness examinations of SBA Supervised Lenders, except SBA will not conduct safety and soundness examinations of Other Regulated SBLCs under §§ 120.1510 and 1511. The safety and soundness examination may include, but is not limited to, an evaluation of:
(1) Capital adequacy;
(2) Asset quality (including credit administration and allowance for loan losses);
(3) Management quality (including internal controls, loan portfolio management, and asset/liability management);
(4) Earnings;
(5) Liquidity; and
(6) Compliance with Loan Program Requirements.
(c)
Reviews/examinations of Intermediaries.
SBA may perform reviews or examinations of Intermediaries.
(d)
Other reviews or examinations.
SBA may perform other reviews/examinations as needed as determined by SBA in its discretion.
[73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1051
Frequency of reviews and examinations.
SBA may conduct reviews and examinations of SBA Lenders and Intermediaries on a periodic basis. SBA may consider, but is not limited to, the following factors in determining frequency:
(a) Results of monitoring, including an SBA Lender's or Intermediary's Risk Rating;
(b) SBA loan portfolio size;
(c) Previous review or examination findings;
(d) Responsiveness in correcting deficiencies noted in prior reviews or examinations; and
(e) Such other risk-related information as SBA, in its discretion, determines to be appropriate.
[73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1055
Review and examination results.
(a)
Written Reports.
SBA will provide an SBA Lender and Intermediary a copy of SBA's written report prepared as a result of the SBA Lender or Intermediary review or examination (“Report”). SBA will provide the Report generally within 60 business days following SBA's conclusion of the review/examination unless SBA notifies the SBA Lender or Intermediary of a later date and the reason for the delay. The Report may contain findings, conclusions, corrective actions, and recommendations. Each director (or manager, in the absence of a Board of Directors) of the SBA Lender or Intermediary, in keeping with his or her responsibilities, must become fully informed regarding the contents of the Report.
(b)
Response to review and examination Reports.
SBA Lenders and Intermediaries must respond to Report findings, recommendations, and corrective actions, if any, in writing to SBA and, if requested, submit proposed corrective actions and/or a capital restoration plan. An SBA Lender or Intermediary must respond within 45 business days from the date the Report is received unless SBA notifies the SBA Lender or Intermediary in writing that the response, proposed corrective actions or capital restoration plan is to be filed within a different time period (either shortened or extended in SBA's discretion). The SBA Lender or Intermediary response must address each finding, recommendation, and corrective action. In proposing a corrective action or capital restoration plan, the SBA Lender or Intermediary must detail the steps it will take to correct the finding(s); the time within which each step will be taken; the timeframe for
accomplishing the entire corrective action plan; and the person(s) or department at the SBA Lender or Intermediary charged with carrying out the corrective action or capital restoration plan, as applicable. In addition, SBA Lenders and Intermediaries must implement corrective actions within 90 calendar days from the date the Report or SBA's letter requiring corrective action is received, unless SBA provides written notice of another timeframe. For purposes of this paragraph (b), a Report will be deemed to have been received on the date it was emailed to the last known email address of the SBA Lender or Intermediary unless the SBA Lender or Intermediary can provide compelling evidence to the contrary.
(c)
SBA response.
SBA will provide written notice of whether the response and, if applicable, any corrective action or capital restoration plan, is approved, or whether SBA will seek additional information or require other action.
(d)
Failure to respond or to submit or implement an acceptable plan.
If an SBA Lender or Intermediary fails to respond in writing to SBA, respond timely to SBA, or provide a response acceptable to SBA within SBA's discretion, or respond to all findings and required corrective actions in a Report, then SBA may take enforcement action under this subpart. If an SBA Lender or Intermediary that is requested to submit a corrective action plan or capital restoration plan to SBA fails to do so in writing; fails to submit timely such plan to SBA; or fails to submit a plan acceptable to SBA within SBA's discretion, then SBA may take enforcement action under this subpart. If an SBA Lender or Intermediary fails to implement in any material respect a corrective action or capital restoration plan within the required timeframe, then SBA may undertake enforcement action under this subpart.
[73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1060
Confidentiality of Reports, Risk Ratings and related Confidential Information.
(a)
In general.
Reports and other SBA prepared review or examination related documents are the property of SBA and are loaned to an SBA Lender or Intermediary for its confidential use only. The Reports, Risk Ratings, and related Confidential Information are privileged and confidential as more fully explained in paragraph (b) of this section. The Report, Risk Rating, and Confidential Information must not be relied upon for any purpose other than SBA's Lender oversight and SBA's portfolio management purposes. An SBA Lender or Intermediary must not make any representations concerning the Report (including its findings, conclusions, and recommendations), the Risk Rating, or the Confidential Information. For purposes of this regulation, Report means the review or examination report and related documents. For purposes of this regulation, Confidential Information is defined in the SBA Lender information portal and by notice issued from time to time. Access to the Lender information portal may be obtained by contacting the OCRM.
(b)
Disclosure prohibition.
Each SBA Lender and Intermediary is prohibited from disclosing its Report, Risk Rating, and Confidential Information, in full or in part, in any manner, without SBA's prior written permission. An SBA Lender and Intermediary may use the Report, Risk Rating, and Confidential Information for confidential use within its own immediate corporate organization. SBA Lender's and Intermediary's must restrict access to their Report, Risk Rating and Confidential Information to their respective parent entities, officers, directors, employees, auditors and consultants, in each case who demonstrate a legitimate need to know such information for the purpose of assisting in improving the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's SBA program operations in conjunction with SBA's Program and SBA's portfolio management (for purposes of this regulation, each referred to as a “permitted party”), and to those for whom SBA has approved access by prior written consent, and those for whom access is required by applicable law or legal process. If such law or process requires SBA Lender or Intermediaryto disclose the Report,
Risk Rating, or Confidential Information to any person other than a permitted party, SBA Lender or Intermediary will promptly notify SBA and SBA's Information Provider in writing and in advance of such disclosure so that SBA and the Information Provider have, within their discretion, the opportunity to seek appropriate relief such as an injunction or protective order prior to disclosure. For purposes of this regulation, “consultants” means only those consultants that are under written contract with an SBA Lender or Intermediary specifically to assist with addressing its Report Findings and Corrective Actions to SBA's satisfaction. The consultant contract must provide for both the consultant's agreement to abide by the disclosure prohibition in this paragraph and the consultant's agreement not to use the Report, Risk Rating, and Confidential Information for any purpose other than to assist with addressing the Report Findings and Corrective Actions. “Information Provider” means any contractor that provides SBA with the Risk Rating. Each SBA Lender and Intermediary must ensure that each permitted party is aware of and agrees to these regulatory requirements and must ensure that each such permitted party abides by them. Any disclosure of the Report, Risk Rating, or Confidential Information other than as permitted by this regulation may result in appropriate action as authorized by law. An SBA Lender and Intermediary will indemnify and hold harmless SBA from and against any and all claims, demands, suits, actions, and liabilities to any degree based upon or resulting from any unauthorized use or disclosure of the Report, Risk Rating, or Confidential Information. Information Provider contact information is available from the Office of Capital Access.
[73 FR 75519, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 82 FR 39504, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1070
SBA Lender oversight fees.
Lenders are required to pay to SBA fees to cover costs of examinations and reviews and, if assessed by SBA, other Lender oversight activities.
(a)
Fee components:
The fees may cover the following:
(1)
Examinations.
The costs of conducting a safety and soundness examination and related activities of an SBA-Supervised Lender, including any expenses that are incurred in relation to the examination and such activities.
(2)
Reviews.
The costs of conducting a review of a 7(a) Lender or a 7(a) Lender's loans, and related review activities (
e.g.,
corrective action assessments, delegated loan reviews), including any expenses that are incurred in relation to the review and such activities.
(3)
Monitoring.
The costs of conducting monitoring reviews of a 7(a) Lender, including any expenses that are incurred in relation to the monitoring review activities.
(4)
Other lender oversight activities.
The costs of additional expenses that SBA incurs in carrying out other lender oversight activities (for example, the salaries and travel expenses of SBA employees and equipment expenses that are directly related to carrying out lender oversight activities, technical assistance and analytics to support the monitoring and review program, and supervision and enforcement activity costs).
(b)
Allocation.
SBA will assess to 7(a) Lender(s) the costs associated with the review, examination, monitoring, or other lender oversight activity, as determined by SBA in its discretion. In general:
(1) Where the costs that SBA incurs for a review, exam, monitoring or other lender oversight activity are specific to a particular 7(a) Lender, SBA will charge that 7(a) Lender a fee for the actual costs of conducting the review, exam, monitoring or other lender oversight activity; and
(2) Where the costs that SBA incurs for the lender oversight activity are not sufficiently specific to a particular Lender, SBA will assess a fee based on each 7(a) Lender's portion of the total dollar amount of SBA guarantees in SBA's total portfolio or in the relevant portfolio segment being reviewed or examined, to cover the costs of such activity. SBA may waive the assessment of this fee for all 7(a) Lenders owing less than a threshold amount below
which SBA determines that it is not cost effective to collect the fee.
(c)
Billing process.
For the examinations or reviews conducted under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, SBA will bill each 7(a) Lender for the amount owed following completion of the examination, review or related activity. For monitoring conducted under paragraph (a)(3) of this section and the other lender oversight activity expenses incurred under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, SBA will bill each 7(a) Lender for the amount owed on an annual basis. SBA will state in the bill the date by which payment is due SBA and the approved payment method(s). The payment due date will be no less than 30 calendar days from the bill date.
(d)
Delinquent payment and late-payment charges.
Payments that are not received by the due date specified in the bill shall be considered delinquent. SBA will charge interest, and other applicable charges and penalties, on delinquent payments, as authorized by 31 U.S.C. 3717. SBA may waive or abate the collection of interest, charges and/or penalties if circumstances warrant. In addition, a 7(a) Lender's failure to pay any of the fee components described in this section, or to pay interest, charges and penalties that have been charged, may result in a decision to suspend or revoke a participant's eligibility, limit a participant's delegated authority, or other remedy available under law.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 82 FR 39505, Aug. 21, 2017]

# Enforcement Actions
§ 120.1300
Informal enforcement actions—7(a) Lenders.
(a) Upon a determination that the grounds in § 120.1400 exist, the D/OCRM may undertake, in his/her discretion, one or more of the informal enforcement actions listed in this section and is not restricted from delegating as appropriate. SBA will consider the severity or frequency of the violation or action triggering the ground and the circumstances in determining whether and what type of informal action to take. Circumstances that may lead to SBA taking informal enforcement action rather than formal enforcement action include, for example, when problems are narrow in scope and are correctible and SBA is confident of a 7(a) Lender's Board of Directors (“Board”) and management commitment and ability to correct; where violations are less frequent or less severe but warrant enforcement; or while more fully assessing risk.
(b) Informal enforcement actions include, but are not limited to:
(1)
An SBA supervisory letter.
The letter may discuss serious or persistent supervisory concerns, as determined by SBA, and expected corrective action by the 7(a) Lender. Supervisory letters include, for example, Notices of Material Non-Compliance;
(2)
Mandatory training.
SBA may require a 7(a) Lender to complete training to address certain findings, weaknesses, and deficiencies;
(3)
A commitment letter or Board resolution.
SBA may require a 7(a) Lender to submit a commitment letter or Board resolution, satisfactory to SBA, signed by the 7(a) Lender's Board on behalf of the entity that may:
(i) Include specific written commitments to take corrective actions in response to the 7(a) Lender's acknowledged deficiencies;
(ii) Identify the person(s) responsible for taking the corrective action; and
(iii) Set forth the timeframe for taking the corrective action. The document may be drafted by SBA or the 7(a) Lender;
(4)
Agreements.
SBA may request that a 7(a) Lender enter into a written agreement with, and drafted by, SBA to address and correct identified weaknesses and/or limit or mitigate risk. The agreement may provide, for example, that a 7(a) Lender take certain actions or refrain from certain actions; and
(5)
Other informal enforcement actions.
Others as SBA determines appropriate on a case by case basis.
(c) A 7(a) Lender may appeal informal enforcement actions to the appropriate Federal district court or SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) within 20 calendar days of the date of the decision, and in the event of an OHA appeal, OHA will issue its decision in accordance with part 134 of this
title. The enforcement action will remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal, if any. SBA is not precluded from taking one or more formal enforcement actions under § 120.1500, or as otherwise authorized by law, while an appeal of an informal enforcement action is pending.
[85 FR 14781, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1400
Grounds for enforcement actions—SBA Lenders.
(a)
Agreements.
By making SBA 7(a) guaranteed loans or 504 loans, SBA Lenders automatically agree to the terms, conditions, and remedies in Loan Program Requirements, as promulgated or issued from time to time and as if fully set forth in the SBA Form 750 (Loan Guaranty Agreement), Development Company 504 Debenture, CDC Certification, Servicing Agent Agreement, or other applicable participation, guaranty, or supplemental agreement. SBA Lenders further agree that a violation of Loan Program Requirements constitutes default under their respective agreements with SBA.
(1)
Additional agreements by CDCs.
By obtaining approval for 504 loans after January 1, 2018, a CDC consents to the remedies in § 120.1500(e)(3) and waives in advance any right it may have to contest the validity of the appointment of a receiver. The CDC agrees that its consent to SBA's application to a Federal court of competent jurisdiction for appointment of a receiver of SBA's choosing, an injunction or other equitable relief, and the CDC's consent in advance to the court's granting of SBA's application, may be enforced upon any basis in law or equity recognized by the court. The CDC's consent does not preclude the CDC from contesting whether or not SBA has established the grounds for seeking the remedy of a receivership. A CDC's consent to receivership as a remedy does not require SBA to seek appointment of a receiver in any particular SBA enforcement action.
(2)
Additional agreements by SBA Supervised Lenders (except Other Regulated SBLCs
). By making SBA 7(a) guaranteed loans after January 1, 2018, an SBA Supervised Lender (except an Other Regulated SBLC) consents to the remedies in § 120.1500(c)(3) and waives in advance any right it may have to contest the validity of the appointment of a receiver. The SBA Supervised Lender agrees that its consent to SBA's application to a Federal court of competent jurisdiction for appointment of a receiver of SBA's choosing, an injunction or other equitable relief, and the SBA Supervised Lender's consent in advance to the court's granting of SBA's application, may be enforced upon any basis in law or equity recognized by the court. The SBA Supervised Lender's consent does not preclude such Lender from contesting whether or not SBA has established the grounds for seeking the remedy of a receivership. The SBA Supervised Lender's consent to receivership as a remedy does not require SBA to seek appointment of a receiver in any particular SBA enforcement action.
(b)
Scope.
SBA may undertake one or more of the enforcement actions listed in §§ 120.1300 and 120.1500, or as otherwise authorized by law, if SBA determines that the grounds applicable to the enforcement action exist. Paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section list the grounds that trigger enforcement actions against each type of SBA Lender. In general, the grounds listed in paragraph (c) apply to all SBA Lenders. However, certain enforcement actions against SBA Supervised Lenders require the existence of certain grounds, as set forth in paragraphs (d) and (e). In addition, paragraph (f) of this section lists two additional grounds for taking enforcement action against CDCs that do not apply to other SBA Lenders. SBA considers the severity or frequency of a violation in determining whether to take an enforcement action and the type of enforcement action to take.
(c)
Grounds in general.
Except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the grounds that may trigger an enforcement action against any SBA Lender (regardless of its Risk Rating) include:
(1) Failure to maintain eligibility requirements for specific SBA programs and delegated authorities, including but not limited to: 7(a), PLP, SBAExpress, 504, ALP, PCLP, the alternative loss reserve pilot program and any pilot loan program;
(2) Failure to comply materially with any requirement imposed by Loan Program Requirements;
(3) Making a material false statement or failure to disclose a material fact to SBA. (A material fact is any fact which is necessary to make a statement not misleading in light of the circumstances under which the statement was made.);
(4) Not performing underwriting, closing, disbursing, servicing, liquidation, litigation or other actions in a commercially reasonable and prudent manner for 7(a) or 504 loans, respectively, as applicable. Evidence of such performance or actions may include, but is not limited to, the SBA Lender having a repeated Less Than Acceptable Risk Rating (generally in conjunction with other evidence) or an on-site review/examination assessment which is Less Than Acceptable;
(5) Failure within the time period specified to correct an underwriting, closing, disbursing, servicing, liquidation, litigation, or reporting deficiency, or failure in any material respect to take other corrective action, after receiving notice from SBA of a deficiency and the need to take corrective action;
(6) Engaging in a pattern of uncooperative behavior or taking an action that SBA determines is detrimental to the integrity or reputation of an SBA program, that undermines management or administration of a program, or that is not consistent with standards of good conduct. Prior to issuing a notice of a proposed enforcement action or immediate suspension under § 120.1500 based upon this paragraph, SBA must send prior written notice to the SBA Lender explaining why the SBA Lender's actions were uncooperative, detrimental to the program, undermined SBA's management of the program, or were not consistent with standards of good conduct. The prior notice must also state that the SBA Lender's actions could give rise to a specified enforcement action, and provide the SBA Lender with a reasonable time to cure the deficiency before any further action is taken;
(7) Repeated failure to correct continuing deficiencies;
(8) Unauthorized disclosure of Reports, Risk Rating, or Confidential Information;
(9) Any other reason that SBA determines may increase SBA's financial risk (for example, repeated Less Than Acceptable Risk Ratings (generally in conjunction with other indicators of increased financial risk); failure to properly oversee Agent activity (“Agent” as defined in part 103 of this title); or, indictment on felony or fraud charges of an officer, key employee, or loan agent involved with SBA loans for the SBA Lender);
(10) As otherwise authorized by law;
(11) For immediate suspension of all SBA Lenders from delegated authorities—upon a determination by SBA that:
(i) One or more of the grounds in paragraph (c) or (f) of this section, as applicable, exists; and
(ii) Immediate action is needed to protect the interests of the Federal Government (such as where there is risk of immediate harm or loss, a significant program integrity concern, or clear evidence of conduct indicating a lack of business integrity); and
(12) For immediate suspension of all SBA Lenders (except SBA Supervised Lenders, which are covered under paragraph (d)(2) of this section) from the authority to participate in the SBA loan program, including the authority to make, service, liquidate, or litigate 7(a) or 504 loans—upon a determination by SBA that:
(i) One or more of the grounds in paragraph (c) or (f) of this section, as applicable, exists; and
(ii) Immediate action is needed to protect the interests of the Federal Government (such as where there is risk of immediate harm or loss, a significant program integrity concern, or clear evidence of conduct indicating a lack of business integrity).
(d)
Grounds required for certain enforcement actions against SBA Supervised Lenders (except Other Regulated SBLCs) or, as applicable, Other Persons.
For purposes of Subpart I, Other Person means a Management Official, attorney, accountant, appraiser, Lender Service Provider or other individual involved
in the SBA Supervised Lender's operations. For the below listed SBA Supervised Lender enforcement actions, the grounds that are required to take the enforcement action are:
(1)
For SBA program suspensions and revocations
—
(i) False statements knowingly made in any required written submission to SBA; or
(ii) An omission of a material fact from any written submission required by SBA; or
(iii) A willful or repeated violation of SBA Loan Program Requirements; or
(iv) A willful or repeated violation of any condition imposed by SBA with respect to any application or request with SBA; or
(v) A violation of any cease and desist order of SBA.
(2)
For SBA program immediate suspension
—SBA may suspend an SBA Supervised Lender, effective immediately, if in addition to meeting the grounds set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the Administrator (or the Deputy Administrator, only if the Administrator is unavailable to take such action) finds extraordinary circumstances and takes such action in order to protect the financial or legal position of the United States.
(3)
For cease and desist orders
—
(i) A violation of SBA Loan Program Requirements; or
(ii) Where an SBA Supervised Lender or Other Person engages in or is about to engage in any acts or practices that will violate SBA Loan Program Requirements.
(4)
For an emergency cease and desist order
—
(i) Where grounds for cease and desist order are met,
(ii) The Administrator (or the Deputy Administrator, only if the Administrator is unavailable to take such action) finds extraordinary circumstances, and
(iii) In order to protect the financial or legal position of the United States.
(5)
For transfer of Loan portfolio
—
(i) Where a court has appointed a receiver; or
(ii) The SBA Supervised Lender is either not in compliance with capital requirements or is insolvent. An SBA Supervised Lender is insolvent within the meaning of this provision when all of its capital, surplus, and undivided profits are absorbed in funding losses and the remaining assets are not sufficient to pay and discharge its contracts, debts, and other obligations as they come due.
(6)
For transfer of servicing activity
—
(i) Where grounds for transfer of Loan portfolio are met; or
(ii) Where the SBA Supervised Lender is otherwise operating in an unsafe and unsound condition.
(7)
For order to remove Management Official
—where, in the opinion of the Administrator or his/her delegatee, the Management Official—
(i) Willfully and knowingly committed a substantial violation of the Act, SBA regulation, a final cease and desist order, or any agreement by the Management Official or the SBA Supervised Lender under the Act or SBA regulations, or
(ii) Willfully and knowingly committed a substantial breach of a fiduciary duty of that person as a Management Official and the violation or breach of fiduciary duty is one involving personal dishonesty on the part of such Management Official, or
(iii) The Management Official is convicted of a felony involving dishonesty or breach of trust and the conviction is no longer subject to further judicial review (excludes writ of habeas corpus).
(8)
For order to suspend or prohibit participation of Management Official
(interim measure pending removal)—where SBA is undertaking enforcement action of removal of a Management Official.
(9)
For order to suspend or prohibit participation of Management Official due to criminal charges
—where the Management Official is charged in any information, indictment or complaint authorized by a United States attorney with a felony involving dishonesty or breach of trust.
(e)
Grounds required for certain enforcement actions against SBLCs and Other Regulated SBLCs
—(1)
Capital directive.
If the AA/CA determines that an SBLC is capitally impaired or is otherwise being operated in an imprudent manner, the AA/CA may, in addition to any other action authorized by law, issue a directive to the SBLC to
increase capital consistent with § 120.1500(d)(1).
(2)
Civil action for termination.
If an SBLC violates the Act or SBA regulations, SBA may institute a civil action to terminate SBLC rights, privileges, and the franchise under § 120.1500(d)(2).
(f)
Additional grounds specific to CDCs.
In addition to the grounds set forth in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, SBA may take enforcement action against a CDC for:
(1) Failure to receive SBA approval for at least four 504 loans during the last two consecutive fiscal years, or
(2) For PCLP CDCs, failure to establish or maintain a LLRF as required by the PCLP.
[73 FR 75521, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 82 FR 39505, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 14782, Mar. 16, 2020; 87 FR 38909, June 30, 2022]
§ 120.1425
Grounds for formal enforcement actions—Intermediaries participating in the Microloan Program.
(a)
Agreement.
By participating in the SBA Microloan Program, Intermediaries automatically agree to the terms, conditions, and remedies in this part as if fully set forth in their participation agreement and all other agreements jointly executed by the Intermediary and SBA.
(b)
Scope.
SBA may undertake one or more of the formal enforcement actions listed in § 120.1540, or as otherwise authorized by law, if SBA determines that any of the grounds listed in paragraph (c) of this section exist.
(c)
Grounds in general
. For any Intermediary, grounds that may trigger enforcement action against the Intermediary (regardless of its Risk Rating) include:
(1) Failure to comply materially with any requirement imposed by Loan Program Requirements;
(2) Failure to meet any one of the following performance standards:
(i) Coverage of the service territory assigned by SBA, including honoring SBA's determined boundaries of neighboring intermediaries;
(ii) Fulfill reporting requirements;
(iii) Manage program funds and matching funds in a satisfactory and financially sound manner;
(iv) Communicate and file reports within six months after beginning participation in program;
(v) Maintain a currency rate of 85% or more for the Intermediary's SBA Microloan portfolio (that is, loans that are no more than 30 days late in scheduled payments);
(vi) Maintain a default rate in the Intermediary's Microloan portfolio of 15% or less of the cumulative dollars loaned under the program;
(vii) Maintain a staff trained in Microloan Program issues and Loan Program Requirements;
(viii) Maintain the financial ability to sustain the Intermediary's operations (including, but not limited to, adequate capital), as determined by SBA;
(ix) Satisfactorily provide in-house technical assistance to Microloan borrowers and prospective Microloan borrowers; or
(x) Close and fund the required number of microloans per year under § 120.716;
(3) Failure within the time period specified to correct an underwriting, closing, disbursing, servicing, liquidation, litigation, or reporting deficiency, or failure in any material respect to take other corrective action, after receiving notice from SBA of a deficiency and the need to take corrective action;
(4) Engaging in a pattern of uncooperative behavior or taking an action that SBA determines is detrimental to the integrity or reputation of the Microloan Program, that undermines management or administration of the program, or that is not consistent with standards of good conduct. Prior to issuing a notice of a proposed formal enforcement action or immediate suspension under § 120.1540 based upon the grounds discussed in this paragraph (c)(4), SBA must send prior written notice to the Intermediary explaining why the Intermediary's actions were uncooperative, detrimental to the program, undermined SBA's management of the program, or were not consistent with standards of good conduct. The prior notice must also state that the Intermediary's actions could give rise to a specified formal enforcement action, and provide the Intermediary
with a reasonable time to cure the deficiency before any further action is taken;
(5) Any other reason that SBA determines may increase SBA's financial or program risk (for example, repeated Less Than Acceptable Risk Ratings (generally in conjunction with other indicators of increased risk) or indictment on felony or fraud charges of an officer, key employee, or loan agent involved with SBA programs for the Intermediary);
(6) For immediate suspension of an Intermediary—upon a determination by SBA that:
(i) One or more of the grounds in paragraph (c) of this section exists; and
(ii) Immediate action is needed to protect the interests of the Federal Government (such as where there is risk of immediate harm or loss, a significant program integrity concern, or clear evidence of conduct indicating a lack of business integrity); and
(7) As otherwise authorized by law.
[73 FR 75521, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 34047, June 15, 2015; 85 FR 14782, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1500
Types of formal enforcement actions—SBA Lenders.
Upon a determination that the grounds set forth in § 120.1400 exist, the D/OCRM may undertake, in his/her discretion (and with the involvement of the LOC as appropriate and consistent with its assigned responsibilities), one or more of the following formal enforcement actions for each of the types of SBA Lender listed, and is not restricted from delegating as appropriate. SBA will consider the severity or frequency of the violation or action and the circumstances triggering the ground in determining whether and what type of enforcement action to take. SBA will take formal enforcement action in accordance with procedures set forth in § 120.1600. If formal enforcement action is taken under this section and the SBA Lender fails to implement required corrective action in any material respect within the required timeframe in response to the formal enforcement action, the D/OCRM may take further enforcement action, as authorized by law. SBA's decision to take a formal enforcement action will not, by itself, invalidate a guaranty previously provided by SBA.
(a)
Formal enforcement actions for all SBA Lenders
—(1)
Imposition of portfolio guaranty dollar limit.
SBA may limit the maximum dollar amount that SBA will guarantee on the SBA Lender's SBA loans or debentures.
(2)
Suspension or revocation of delegated authority.
SBA may suspend or revoke an SBA Lender's delegated authority (including, but not limited to, PLP, SBA Express, or PCLP delegated authorities).
(3)
Suspension or revocation from SBA program.
SBA may suspend or revoke an SBA Lender's authority to participate in the SBA loan program, including the authority to make, service, liquidate, or litigate 7(a) or 504 loans. Section 120.1400(d)(1) sets forth the grounds for SBA program suspension or revocation of an SBA Supervised Lender (except Other Regulated SBLCs). The grounds for SBA program suspension or revocation for all other SBA Lenders are set forth in § 120.1400(c) and, as applicable, paragraph (f) of § 120.1400.
(4)
Immediate suspension.
SBA may suspend, effective immediately, an SBA Lender's delegated authority or authority to participate in the SBA loan program, or the authority to make, service, liquidate, or litigate 7(a) or 504 loans. Section 120.1400(d)(2) sets forth the grounds for SBA program immediate suspension of an SBA Supervised Lender (except Other Regulated SBLCs). The grounds for SBA program immediate suspension for all other SBA Lenders and the grounds for immediate suspension of delegated authority for all SBA Lenders are set forth in § 120.1400(c)(11) and § 120.1400(c)(12).
(5)
Debarment.
In accordance with 2 CFR Parts 180 and 2700, SBA may take any necessary action to debar a Person, as defined in § 120.10, including but not limited to an officer, a director, a general partner, a manager, an employee, an agent or other participant in the affairs of an SBA Lender's SBA operations.
(6)
Other actions available under law.
SBA may take all other enforcement actions against SBA Lenders available under law.
(b)
Formal enforcement actions specific to 7(a) Lenders.
In addition to those formal enforcement actions applicable to all SBA Lenders, SBA may take the following actions:
(1) Secondary market suspension or revocation (other than temporary suspension and revocation under § 120.660). SBA may suspend or revoke a 7(a) Lender's authority to sell or purchase loans or certificates in the Secondary Market; or
(2) Civil monetary penalty (other than SBA Supervised Lender civil monetary penalty under § 120.465). SBA may assess a civil monetary penalty against a 7(a) Lender. The civil monetary penalty will be in an amount not to exceed the maximum published in the
Federal Register
from time to time, which will be 298,887 plus any increases required under law. In determining whether to assess a civil monetary penalty and, if so, in what amount, SBA may consider, for example, the following: The gravity (
e.g.,
severity and frequency) of the violation; the history of previous violations; the financial resources and good faith of the 7(a) Lender; and any other matters as justice may require.
(c)
Formal enforcement actions specific to SBA Supervised Lenders and Other Persons (except Other Regulated SBLCs).
In addition to those enforcement actions listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, SBA may take any one or more of the following enforcement actions specific to SBA Supervised Lenders and as applicable, Other Persons:
(1)
Cease and desist order.
SBA may issue a cease and desist order against the SBA Supervised Lender or Other Person. The Cease and Desist order may either require the SBA Supervised Lender or the Other Person to take a specific action, or to refrain from a specific action. The Cease and Desist Order may be issued as effective immediately (or as a proposal for Order). SBA may include in the cease and desist order the suspension of authority to lend.
(2)
Remove Management Official.
SBA may issue an order to remove a Management Official from office. SBA may suspend a Management Official from office or prohibit a Management Official from participating in management of the SBA Supervised Lender or in reviewing, approving, closing, servicing, liquidating or litigating any 7(a) loan, or any other activities of the SBA Supervised Lender while the removal proceeding is pending in order to protect an SBA Supervised Lender or the interests of SBA or the United States.
(3)
Initiate request for appointment of receiver and/or other relief.
The SBA may make application to any Federal court of competent jurisdiction for the court to take exclusive jurisdiction, without notice, of an SBA Supervised Lender, and SBA shall be entitled to the appointment of a receiver of SBA's choosing to hold, administer, operate, and/or liquidate the SBA Supervised Lender; and to such injunctive or other equitable relief as may be appropriate. Without limiting the foregoing and with SBA's written consent, the receiver may take possession of the portfolio of 7(a) loans and sell such loans to a third party, and/or take possession of servicing activities of 7(a) loans and sell such servicing rights to a third party. In deciding whether to seek the appointment of a receiver and in determining the scope of a receivership, SBA will consider the following factors, in its discretion:
(i) for NFRLs:
(A) the existence of fraud or false statements;
(B) the NFRL's refusal to cooperate with SBA enforcement action instructions or orders;
(C) the NFRL's insolvency (legal or equitable);
(D) the size of the NFRL's SBA loan portfolio(s) in relation to other activities of the NFRL;
(E) the dollar amount of any claims SBA may have against the NFRL;
(F) the NFRL's failure to comply materially with any requirement imposed by Loan Program Requirements; and/or
(G) the existence of other non-SBA enforcement actions against the NFRL;
(ii) for SBLCs:
(A) the existence of fraud or false statements;
(B) the SBLC's refusal to cooperate with SBA enforcement action instructions or orders;
(C) the SBLC's insolvency (legal or equitable);
(D) the dollar amount of any claims SBA may have against the SBLC; and/or
(E) the SBLC's failure to comply materially with any requirement imposed by Loan Program Requirements.
(4)
Civil monetary penalties for report filing failure under § 120.465.
SBA may seek civil penalties, in accordance with § 120.465, against an SBA Supervised Lender that fails to file any regular or special report by its due date as specified by regulation or SBA written directive.
(d)
Formal enforcement actions specific to SBLCs.
In addition to those supervisory actions listed in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, SBA may take the following enforcement actions specific to SBLCs.
(1)
Capital directive.
The AA/CA may issue a capital directive upon a determination that the grounds in § 120.1400(e)(1) exist. A directive may order the SBLC to:
(i) Achieve its minimum capital requirement applicable to it by a specified date;
(ii) Adhere to a previously submitted capital restoration plan (provided under § 120.462 or § 120.1055) to achieve the applicable capital requirement;
(iii) Submit and adhere to a capital restoration plan acceptable to SBA describing the means and time schedule by which the SBLC will achieve the applicable capital requirement (The SBLC must provide its capital restoration plan within 30 days from the date of the SBA order unless SBA notifies the SBLC that the plan is to be filed within a different time period. SBA may perform an on-site examination (generally within 90 days after the restoration plan is submitted) to verify the implementation of the plan and verify that the SBLC meets minimum capital requirements.);
(iv) Refrain from taking certain actions without obtaining SBA's prior written approval (Such actions may include but are not limited to: paying any dividend; retiring any equity; maintaining a rate of growth that causes further deterioration in the capital percentage; securitizing any unguaranteed portion of its 7(a) loans; or selling participations in any of its 7(a) loans); or
(v) Undertake a combination of any of these or similar actions.
(2)
Civil action for termination.
SBA may institute a civil action to terminate the rights, privileges, and franchises of an SBLC.
(e)
Formal enforcement actions specific to CDCs.
In addition to those enforcement actions listed in paragraph (a) of this section, SBA may take any one or more of the following enforcement actions specific to CDCs:
(1) Require the CDC to transfer part or all of its existing 504 loan portfolio and/or part or all of its pending 504 loan applications to SBA, another CDC, or any other entity designated by SBA. Any such transfer may be on a temporary or permanent basis, in SBA's discretion; or
(2) Instruct the Central Servicing Agent to withhold payment of servicing, late and/or other fee(s) to the CDC.
(3) Apply to any Federal court of competent jurisdiction for the court to take exclusive jurisdiction, without notice, of the CDC, and SBA shall be entitled to the appointment of a receiver of SBA's choosing to hold, administer, operate and/or liquidate the CDC; and to such injunctive or other equitable relief as may be appropriate. SBA will limit the scope of the receivership to the CDC's assets related to the SBA loan program(s) except where the CDC's business is almost exclusively SBA-related. SBA will only seek a receivership if there is either the existence of fraud or false statements, or if the CDC has refused to cooperate with SBA enforcement action instructions or orders. Without limiting the foregoing and with SBA's consent, the receiver may take possession of the portfolio of 504 loans and/or pending 504 loan applications, including for the purpose of carrying out an enforcement order under paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
[73 FR 75521, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 82 FR 39506, Aug. 21, 2017; 84 FR 12061, Apr. 1, 2019; 85 FR 14783, Mar. 16, 2020; 86 FR 52957, Sept. 24, 2021; 87 FR 28758, May 11, 2022; 87 FR 38910, June 30, 2022; 88 FR 50005, Aug. 1, 2023; 89 FR 48134, June 5, 2024]
§ 120.1510
Other Regulated SBLCs.
Other Regulated SBLCs are exempt from §§ 120.465, 120.1050(b), 120.1400(d), 120.1500(c), and 120.1600(b). This exemption is not intended to preclude SBA from seeking any other remedy authorized by law or equity.
[73 FR 75521, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.1511
Certification and other reporting and notification requirements for Other Regulated SBLCs.
(a)
Certification.
An SBLC seeking Other Regulated SBLC status must certify to SBA in writing that its lending activities are subject to regulation by a Federal Financial Institution Regulator or state banking regulator. This certification must be executed by the chair of the board of directors of the SBLC and submitted to SBA either:
(1) Within 60 calendar days of the effective date of this section or
(2) If the SBLC becomes subject to regulation by a Federal Financial Institution Regulator or state banking regulator after the effective date of this section for any reason (e.g. license transfers), within 60 days of the date that the SBLC becomes directly examined and directly regulated by such regulator.
(b)
Contents of Certification:
This certification must include:
(1) The identity of the Federal Financial Institution Regulator or state banking regulator that regulates the lending activities of the SBLC;
(2) A statement that the Federal Financial Institution Regulator or state banking regulator identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section regularly conducts safety and soundness examinations on the SBLC itself and not only on the SBLC's parent company or affiliate, if any; and
(3) The date of the most recent safety and soundness examination conducted on the SBLC by the Federal Financial Institution Regulator or state banking regulator. To qualify as an Other Regulated SBLC, the SBLC must have received this examination within the past 3 years of the date of certification.
(c)
Notification of examination.
An Other Regulated SBLC must notify SBA in writing each time a Federal Financial Institution Regulator or state banking regulator conducts a safety and soundness examination, and this notification must be submitted to SBA within 30 calendar days of the SBLC receiving the results of the examination. To retain its status as an Other Regulated SBLC, the Other Regulated SBLC must receive such examination, and provide the written notification to SBA, at least once every two years following initial certification.
(d)
Report.
An Other Regulated SBLC must report in writing to SBA on its interactions with other Federal Financial Institution Regulators or state banking regulator (e.g., the results of the safety and soundness examinations and any order issued against the Other Regulated SBLC), to the extent allowed by law.
(e)
Notification of change in status.
If, for any reason, an Other Regulated SBLC becomes no longer subject to regulation by a Federal Financial Institution Regulator or state banking regulator, the Other Regulated SBLC must immediately notify SBA in writing, and the exemption provided in § 120.1510 will immediately no longer apply.
(f)
Extension of timeframes.
SBA may in its discretion extend any timeframe imposed on the SBLC under this section if the SBLC can show good cause for any delay in meeting the time requirement. The SBLC may appeal this decision to the AA/CA.
(g)
Failure to satisfy requirements.
In the event that an SBLC fails to satisfy the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, then the exemption provided in § 120.1510 will not apply to the SBLC.
[73 FR 75521, Dec. 11, 2008]
§ 120.1540
Types of formal enforcement actions—Intermediaries participating in the Microloan Program.
Upon a determination that any ground set out in § 120.1425 exists, the D/OCRM may undertake, in his/her discretion (and with the involvement of the LOC as appropriate and consistent with its assigned responsibilities), one or more of the following formal enforcement actions against an Intermediary, and is not restricted from delegating as appropriate:
(a) S
uspension.
SBA may suspend an Intermediary's authority to participate in the Microloan Program, which may include, but is not limited to, the authority to make, service, liquidate, and/or litigate SBA microloans, and the imposition of a freeze on the Intermediary's MRF and LLRF accounts.
(b)
Immediate suspension.
SBA may suspend, effective immediately, an Intermediary's authority to participate in the Microloan Program, which may include, but is not limited to, the authority to make, service, liquidate, and/or litigate SBA microloans, and the imposition of an immediate freeze on the Intermediary's MRF and LLRF accounts. Section 120.1425(c)(6) sets forth the grounds for SBA Microloan Program immediate suspension of an Intermediary.
(c)
Revocation.
SBA may revoke an Intermediary's authority to participate in the Microloan Program which may include, but is not limited to:
(1) Removal from the program;
(2) Liquidation of the Intermediary's MRF and LLRF accounts by SBA, and application of the liquidated funds to any outstanding balance owed to SBA;
(3) Payment of outstanding debt to SBA by the Intermediary;
(4) Forfeiture or repayment of any unused grant funds by the Intermediary;
(5) Debarment of the organization from receipt of Federal funds until loan and grant repayments are met; and
(6) Surrender of possession of Intermediary's SBA microloan portfolio to SBA, with the microloan portfolio and all associated rights transferred on a permanent basis to SBA, in accordance with SBA's rights as a secured creditor.
(d)
Other actions.
Such other actions available under law.
[85 FR 14783, Mar. 16, 2020]
§ 120.1600
General procedures for formal enforcement actions against SBA Lenders, SBA Supervised Lenders, Other Regulated SBLCs, Management Officials, Other Persons, and Intermediaries.
(a)
In general.
Except as otherwise set forth for the formal enforcement actions listed in paragraphs (a)(6), (b), and (c) of this section and in § 120.465, SBA will follow the procedures listed in this section.
(1)
SBA's notice of formal enforcement action.
(i) When undertaking an immediate suspension under § 120.1500(a)(4), or prior to undertaking a formal enforcement action set forth in § 120.1500(a), (b), and (e) and § 120.1540, SBA will issue a written notice to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary identifying the proposed formal enforcement action or notifying it of an immediate suspension. The notice will set forth in reasonable detail the underlying facts and reasons for the proposed action or immediate suspension. If the notice is for a proposed or immediate suspension, SBA will also state the scope and term of the proposed or immediate suspension.
(ii) If a proposed formal enforcement action or immediate suspension is based upon information obtained from a third party other than the SBA Lender, Intermediary, or SBA, SBA's notice of proposed action or immediate suspension will provide copies of documentation received from such third party, or the name of the third party in case of oral information, unless SBA determines that there are compelling reasons not to provide such information. If compelling reasons exist, SBA will provide a summary of the information it received to the SBA Lender or Intermediary.
(2)
SBA Lender's or Intermediary's opportunity to object.
(i) An SBA Lender or Intermediary that desires to contest a proposed formal enforcement action or an immediate suspension must file, within 30 calendar days of its receipt of the notice or within some other term established by SBA in its notice, a written objection with the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority or other SBA official identified in the notice. Notice will be presumed to have been received within five days of the date of the notice unless the SBA Lender or Intermediary can provide compelling evidence to the contrary.
(ii) The objection must set forth in detail all grounds known to the SBA Lender or Intermediary to contest the
proposed action or immediate suspension and all mitigating factors, and must include documentation that the SBA Lender or Intermediary believes is most supportive of its objection. An SBA Lender or Intermediary must exhaust this administrative remedy in order to preserve its objection to a proposed formal enforcement action or an immediate suspension.
(iii) If an SBA Lender or Intermediary can show legitimate reasons as determined by SBA in SBA's discretion why it does not understand the reasons given by SBA in its notice of the action, the Agency will provide clarification. SBA will provide the requested clarification in writing to the SBA Lender or Intermediary or notify the SBA Lender or Intermediary in writing that SBA has determined that such clarification is not necessary. SBA, in its discretion, will further advise in writing whether the SBA Lender or Intermediary may have additional time to present its objection to the notice. Requests for clarification must be made to the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority in writing and received by SBA within the 30 day timeframe or the timeframe given by the notice for response.
(iv) An SBA Lender or Intermediary may request additional time to respond to SBA's notice if it can show that there are compelling reasons why it is not able to respond within the 30 day timeframe or the response timeframe given by the notice. If such requests are submitted to the Agency, SBA may, in its discretion, provide the SBA Lender or Intermediary with additional time to respond to the notice of proposed action or immediate suspension. Requests for additional time to respond must be made in writing to the appropriate Office of Capital Access official in accordance with Delegations of Authority or other official identified in the notice and received by SBA within the 30 day timeframe or the response timeframe given by the notice.
(v) Prior to the issuance of a final agency decision by SBA, if an SBA Lender or Intermediary can show that there is newly discovered material evidence which, despite the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's exercise of due diligence, could not have been discovered within the timeframe given by SBA to respond to a notice, or that there are compelling reasons beyond the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's control as to why it was not able to present a material fact or argument to SBA, and that the SBA Lender or Intermediary has been prejudiced by not being able to present such information, the SBA Lender or Intermediary may submit such information to SBA and request that the Agency consider such information in its final agency decision.
(3)
SBA's notice of final agency decision on a formal enforcement action where an SBA Lender or Intermediary filed objection to the proposed action or immediate suspension.
(i) If the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary files a timely written objection to a proposed formal enforcement action other than an immediate suspension in accordance with this section, SBA must issue a written notice of final agency decision to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary advising whether SBA is undertaking the proposed formal enforcement action and setting forth the grounds for the decision. SBA will issue such a notice of decision within 90 days of either receiving the objection or from when additional information is provided under paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section, whichever is later, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time.
(ii) If the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary files a timely written objection to a notice of immediate suspension, SBA must issue a written notice of final agency decision to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary within 30 days of receiving the objection advising whether SBA is continuing with the immediate suspension, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time. If the SBA Lender or Intermediary submits additional information to SBA (under paragraph (a)(2)(v) or (a)(3)(iii) of this section) after submitting its objection but before SBA issues its final agency decision, SBA must issue its final agency decision within 30 days of receiving such information, unless SBA provides notice that it requires additional time.
(iii) Prior to issuing a notice of decision, SBA in its discretion can request
additional information from the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary or other partiesand conduct any other investigation it deems appropriate. If SBA determines, in its discretion, to consider an untimely objection, it must issue a notice of final agency decision pursuant to this paragraph (a)(3).
(4)
SBA's notice of final agency decision on a formal enforcement action where no filed objection or untimely objection not considered.
If SBA chooses not to consider an untimely objection or if the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary fails to file a written objection to a proposed formal enforcement action or an immediate suspension, and if SBA continues to believe that such proposed formal enforcement action or immediate suspension is appropriate, SBA must issue a written notice of final agency decision to the affected SBA Lender or Intermediary that SBA is undertaking one or more of the proposed formal enforcement actions against the SBA Lender or Intermediary or that an immediate suspension of the SBA Lender or Intermediary will continue. Such a notice of final agency decision need not state any grounds for the action other than to reference the SBA Lender's or Intermediary's failure to file a timely objection, and represents the final agency decision.
(5)
Appeals.
An SBA Lender or Intermediary may appeal the final agency decision to the appropriate Federal district court. Alternatively, 7(a) Lenders may appeal such decisions (except for decisions against SBA Supervised Lenders that are covered by procedures in § 120.1600(b) or (c) or § 120.465) to SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (“OHA”) within 30 calendar days of the date of the decision, and in the event of such an appeal, OHA will issue its decision in accordance with part 134 of this title. The enforcement action will remain in effect pending resolution of the appeal, if any.
(6)
Receiverships of Certified Development Companies and/or other relief.
If SBA undertakes the appointment of a receiver for a Certified Development Company and/or injunctive or other equitable relief, paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section will not apply and SBA will follow the applicable procedures under Federal law to obtain such remedies and to enforce the Certified Development Company's consent and waiver in advance to those remedies.
(b)
Procedures for certain formal enforcement actions against SBA Supervised Lenders (except Other Regulated SBLCs) and, where applicable, Management Officials and Other Persons
—(1)
Suspension and revocation actions and cease and desist orders.
If SBA seeks to suspend or revoke loan program authority (including, the authority to make, service, liquidate, or litigate SBA loans), or issue a cease and desist order to an SBA Supervised Lender or, as applicable, Other Person, SBA will follow the procedures below in lieu of those in paragraph (a) of this section.
(i)
Show cause order and hearing.
The Administrator will serve upon the SBA Supervised Lender or Other Person an order to show cause why an order suspending or revoking the authority or why a cease and desist order should not be issued. The show cause order will contain a statement of the matters of fact and law asserted by SBA, as well as the legal authority and jurisdiction under which an administrative hearing will be held, and will set forth the place and time of the administrative hearing. The hearing will be conducted by an administrative law judge in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554-557, 15 U.S.C. 650, and applicable sections of part 134 of this chapter. The Administrative Law Judge will issue a recommended decision based on the record.
(ii)
Witnesses.
The party calling witnesses will pay the witness the same fees and mileage paid witnesses for their appearance in U.S. courts.
(iii)
Administrator finding and order issuance.
If after the administrative hearing, or the SBA Supervised Lender's or Other Person's waiver of the administrative hearing, the Administrator determines that the order should be issued, the Administrator will issue an order to suspend or revoke authority or a cease and desist order, as applicable. The order will include a statement of findings, the grounds and reasons, and will specify the order's effective date. SBA will serve the order on the SBA Supervised Lender or Other
Person. The Administrator may delegate the power to issue a cease and desist order or to suspend or revoke loan program authority only if the Administrator is unavailable and only to the Deputy Administrator.
(iv)
Judicial review.
The order constitutes a final agency action. The SBA Supervised Lender or Other Person will have 20 days from the order issuance date to file an appeal in the appropriate federal district court.
(2)
Immediate suspension or immediate cease and desist order.
If SBA undertakes an immediate suspension of authority to participate in the 7(a) loan program or immediate cease and desist order against an SBA Supervised Lender or, as applicable, Other Person, SBA will within two business days follow the procedures set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3)
Removal of Management Official.
If SBA undertakes the removal of a Management Official of an SBA Supervised Lender, SBA will follow the procedures below in lieu of those in paragraph (a) of this section.
(i)
Notice and hearing.
SBA will serve upon the Management Official and the SBA Supervised Lender written notice of intention to remove that includes a statement of the facts constituting the grounds and the date, time, and place for an administrative hearing. The administrative hearing will be held between 30 and 60 days from the date notice is served, unless an earlier or later date is set at the request of the Management Official for good cause shown or at the request of the Attorney General. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 554-557, 15 U.S.C. 650 and applicable sections of part 134 of this chapter. Failure of the Management Official to appear at the administrative hearing will constitute consent to the removal order. SBA will serve on the SBA Supervised Lender a copy of each notice that is served on a Management Official.
(ii)
Suspension from office or prohibition in participation, pending removal.
The suspension or prohibition will take effect upon service of intention to remove the Management Official or such subsequent time as the Administrator or his/her delegate deems appropriate and serves notice. It will remain in effect pending the completion of the administrative proceedings to remove and until such time as either SBA dismisses the charges in the removal notice or, if an order to remove or prohibit participation is issued, until the effective date of an order to remove or prohibit. In the case of suspension or prohibition following criminal charges, it may remain in effect until the information, indictment, or complaint is finally disposed of, or until the suspension is terminated by SBA or by order of a district court. A Management Official may appeal to the appropriate federal district court for a stay of the suspension or prohibition pending completion of the administrative hearing not later than 10 days from the suspension or prohibition's effective date.
(iii)
Decision.
SBA may issue the order of removal if the Management Official consents or is convicted of the criminal charges and the judgment is not subject to further judicial review (not including writ of habeas corpus), or if upon a record of a hearing, SBA finds that any of the notice grounds have been established. After the hearing, in the latter case, and within 30 days after SBA has notified the parties that the case has been submitted for final decision, SBA will render a decision (which includes findings of fact upon which the decision is predicated) and issue and serve an order upon each party to the proceeding. The decision will constitute final agency action.
(iv)
Effective date and judicial review.
The removal order will take effect 30 days after date of service upon the SBA Supervised Lender and the Management Official except in case of consent which will be effective at the time specified in the order or in case of removal for conviction on criminal charges the order will be effective upon removal order service on the SBA Supervised Lender and the Management Official. The order will remain effective and enforceable, except to the extent it is stayed, modified, terminated, or set aside by Administrator or a reviewing court. The adversely affected party will have 20 days from the order issuance date to seek judicial review in the appropriate federal district court.
(4)
Receiverships, transfer of assets and servicing activities.
If SBA undertakes
the appointment of a receiver for, or the transfer of assets or servicing rights of an SBA Supervised Lender and/or injunctive or other equitable relief, SBA will follow the applicable procedures under Federal law to obtain such remedies and to enforce the SBA Supervised Lender's consent and waiver in advance to those remedies.
(5)
Civil penalties for report filing failure.
If SBA seeks to impose civil penalties against an SBA Supervised Lender for failure to file a report in accordance with SBA regulations or written directive, SBA will follow the procedures set forth for enforcement actions in § 120.465.
(c)
Additional procedures for certain formal enforcement actions against SBLCs. Capital directive
—(1)
Notice of intent to issue capital directive.
SBA will notify an SBLC in writing of its intention to issue a directive. The notice will state:
(i) Reasons for issuance of the directive and
(ii) The proposed contents of the directive.
(2)
Response to notice.
(i) An SBLC may respond to the notice by stating why a capital directive should not be issued and/or by proposing alternative contents for the capital directive or seeking other appropriate relief. The response must include any information, mitigating circumstances, documentation, or other relevant evidence that supports its position. The response may include a plan for achieving the minimum capital requirement applicable to the SBLC. The response must be in writing and delivered to the SBA within 30 days after the date on which the SBLC received the notice. In its discretion, SBA may extend the time period for good cause. SBA may shorten the 30-day time period:
(A) When, in the opinion of SBA, the condition of the SBLC so requires, provided that the SBLC will be informed promptly of the new time period;
(B) With the consent of the SBLC; or
(C) When the SBLC already has advised SBA that it cannot or will not achieve its applicable minimum capital requirement.
(ii) Failure to respond within 30 days or such other time period as may be specified by SBA will constitute a waiver of any objections to the proposed capital directive.
(3)
Decision.
After the closing date of the SBLC's response period, or receipt of the SBLC's response, if earlier, SBA may seek additional information or clarification of the response. Thereafter, SBA will determine whether or not to issue a capital directive, and if one is to be issued, whether it should be as originally proposed or in modified form.
(4)
Issuance of a capital directive.
(i) A capital directive will be served by delivery to the SBLC. It will include, or be accompanied by, a statement of reasons for its issuance.
(ii) A capital directive is effective immediately upon its receipt by the SBLC, or upon such later date as may be specified therein, and will remain effective and enforceable until it is stayed, modified, or terminated by SBA.
(5)
Reconsideration based on change in circumstances.
Upon a change in circumstances, an SBLC may request SBA to reconsider the terms of its capital directive or may propose changes in the plan to achieve the SBLC's applicable minimum capital requirement. SBA also may take such action on its own initiative. SBA may decline to consider requests or proposals that are not based on a significant change in circumstances or are repetitive or frivolous. Pending a decision on reconsideration, the capital directive and plan will continue in full force and effect.
(6)
Relation to other administrative actions.
A capital directive may be issued in addition to, or in lieu of, any other action authorized by law, including cease and desist proceedings. SBA also may, in its discretion, take any action authorized by law, in lieu of a capital directive, in response to an SBLC's failure to achieve or maintain the applicable minimum capital requirement.
(7)
Appeals.
The capital directive constitutes a final agency action. An SBLC may appeal the final agency decision only in the appropriate federal district court.
[73 FR 75521, Dec. 11, 2008, as amended at 82 FR 39506, Aug. 21, 2017; 85 FR 14784, Mar. 16, 2020]

# Subpart J—Establishment of SBA Secondary Market Guarantee Program for First Lien Position 504 Loan Pools

# Source:
74 FR 56093, Oct. 30, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 120.1700
Definitions used in subpart J.
504 financing.
The loans made to a small business to fund a Project under the SBA's development company loan program authorized by Title V of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
Affiliate.
A person or entity SBA determines to be an affiliate of a Program Participant pursuant to the application of the principles and guidelines set forth in § 121.103 of this Title.
Central Servicing Agent or CSA.
The entity serving as SBA's central servicing agent for the Program.
Certified Development Company or CDC.
An entity that meets the definition of a Certified Development Company as defined in § 120.10 of this Part.
Current.
That no scheduled payment owed by an Obligor pursuant to a Pool Note is over 29 days past due.
First Lien Position 504 Loan.
The financing provided by the First Lien Position 504 lender that is part of the 504 project financing.
First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement.
The agreement, in the form approved by SBA, wherein entities agree to participate in the forming of a Pool under the Program, available at
http://www.sba.gov/aboutsba/sbaprograms/elending/index.html/.
Guide.
The First Lien Position 504 Loan Pooling Program Guide published by SBA which provides information applicable to the Program including, among other things, requirements relating to the formation of a Pool, available at
http://www.sba.gov/aboutsba/sbaprograms/elending/index.html/.
Liquidation Proceeds.
Cash, including insurance proceeds, proceeds of any foreclosed-on property disposition, revenues received with respect to the conservation and disposition of a foreclosed-on property or repossessed collateral, including any real property securing the Pool Loan, consisting of a commercial property or residential property and any improvements thereon, and any other amounts received in connection with the liquidation of the Pool Loan, whether through Seller's sale, foreclosure sale, any offset or workout, or otherwise.
Loan Interest.
The right to receive the owned portion of the principal balance of the Pool Loan together with interest thereon at a per annum rate in effect from time to time in accordance with the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement.
Maturity.
The maturity of the Loan Interest in the Pool that has the longest remaining term of any Loan Interest in the Pool. The maturity will change from time to time due to prepayment or default on Loan Interests in the Pool.
Ongoing Guarantee Fee.
An annual fee collected monthly and based on the percentage of the Pool Loan amount, pursuant to section 503(C)(3)(B)(ii) of the Recovery Act, to result in a cost of the loan guarantee of zero as determined under the Federal Credit Reform Act of 1990, as amended. The funds generated by the fee serve as a reserve to pay for program losses.
Obligor.
The obligor(s) under a Pool Note.
Pool.
The aggregate of Loan Interests formed into a single pool by the Pool Originator in accordance with the Program. The Pool is comprised of an unguaranteed portion and an SBA-guaranteed portion. The unguaranteed portion of the Pool backs the Pool Originator Receipt, and cannot be sold to Pool Investors. The SBA-guaranteed portion of the Pool backs the Pool Certificates sold to Pool Investors. The Seller's Loan Interest is not included in the Pool.
Pool Assembler.
An entity that meets the qualifications of a Pool Assembler as set forth in section 120.630 of this Part and has been approved as such by SBA.
Pool Certificate.
The document representing a beneficial fractional interest in the SBA-guaranteed portion of a Pool.
Pooled.
When one or more Loan Interests in a Pool Loan has been put into a Pool.
Pooling.
The transfer of one or more Loan Interests in a Pool Loan into a Pool.
Pool Investor.
An entity which holds a Pool Certificate in accordance with Program Rules and Regulations.
Pool Loan.
A loan that meets the Program eligibility requirements as set forth in § 120.1704 of this subpart J and has been pooled.
Pool Loan Receivables.
Pool Loan payments, prepayments, or collections made in connection with the Pool Loan by the Obligor pursuant to Pool Note or any other Pool Loan documents or agreements, or by another person or entity made on behalf of any such Pool Loan obligor, and Liquidation Proceeds.
Pool Note.
The document evidencing a Pool Loan.
Pool Originator.
An entity approved by SBA to pool Loan Interests under the Program.
Pool Originator Receipt.
The document evidencing the Pool Originator's retained ownership in a Pool it has formed under the Program.
Premier Certified Lenders Program.
The program defined in § 120.845 of this Part.
Program.
The program authorized by section 503 of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.
Program Participant.
An entity that executes the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement as Seller, Pool Originator, or Pool Investor, and any successors or assignees thereof.
Program Participant Associate.
(1) An officer, director, key employee, or holder of 20 percent or more of the value of a Program Participant's stock or debt instruments, or (2) Any individual in which one or more individuals referred to in paragraph (1) of this definition, or a spouse, or child, or sibling, or the spouse of any such individual, owns or controls at least 20 percent.
Program Preference.
Any arrangement giving the Seller, Pool Originator, or a Program Associate or Affiliate of Seller or Pool Originator, a preference or benefit of proportion greater than its Loan Interest as compared to Pool Originator, Pool Investor, or SBA relating to the making, servicing, or liquidation of the Loan with respect to such things as repayment, collateral, guarantees, control, maintenance of a compensating balance, purchase of a certificate of deposit or acceptance of a separate or companion loan, without SBA's consent. Seller's agreement to grant a Pool Loan's Obligor a deferment in return for receiving more collateral on a different loan owned by Seller is an example of a preference.
Program Rules and Regulations.
This subpart J, as may be amended from time to time by SBA (the Program Regulations), the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement, any other Program agreements signed by a Program Participant, if applicable, the Guide, the Recovery Act, and the provisions of subpart H governing Third Party Loans and Third Party Lenders.
Project.
A project as defined by § 120.802 of the Part.
SBA.
The United States Small Business Administration, an agency of the United States Government.
Seller.
An entity that has sold a Pool Loan to a Pool Originator to be Pooled and any successor entity that has executed the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guaranty Agreement pursuant to § 120.1707.
Seller's Pool Loan.
The Pool Loan sold to a Pool Originator pursuant to the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement.
Seller Receipt.
The document that evidences a Seller's Loan Interest.
Servicing Retention Amount.
The amount of a Pool Loan interest payment retained by Seller for servicing the Pool Loan that is payable and calculated pursuant to the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement.
Weighted Average Interest Rate.
The dollar-weighted average interest rate of a Pool Certificate calculated by multiplying the interest rate of each Loan Interest in the Pool by the ratio of that Loan Interest's current outstanding principal in the SBA-guaranteed portion of the Pool (that is, the portion of the Pool Loan backing the Pool Certificates) to the current aggregate or outstanding principal of each Loan Interest in the SBA-guaranteed portion of the Pool, and adding the sum of the resulting products. The
Pool Certificate interest rate will fluctuate over the life of the Pool as defaults, prepayments and normal repayments applicable to Loan Interests in the Pool occur.
Weighted Average Maturity.
The weighted average maturity of a Pool Certificate is a dollar weighted average maturity that is calculated by multiplying the remaining term, in months, of each Loan Interest in a Pool by the ratio of that Loan Interest's current outstanding pooled principal to the current aggregate outstanding pooled principal of all Loan Interests in the Pool, and adding the sum of the resulting products. The weighted average maturity of a Pool Certificate will fluctuate over the life of the Pool as Loan Interest defaults, prepayments and normal Loan Interest repayments occur.
§ 120.1701
Program purpose.
As authorized by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act), SBA establishes the Program to authorize an entity to apply for SBA's guarantee of Pools comprised of portions of First Lien Position 504 Loans backing Pool Certificates to be sold to Pool Investors. The purpose of the Program is to temporarily provide a federal guarantee for Pools of First Lien Position 504 Loans to facilitate the sale of such loans and increase the liquidity of the lenders holding the loans so that the lenders can use the sale proceeds to fund more such loans. The Program's authorization expires on September 23, 2012 and the Administrator may guarantee not more than $3,000,000,000 of pools under this authority pursuant to section 503(c)(B)(iii) of the Recovery Act, as amended by section 1119 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 2010.
[61 FR 3235, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 76 FR 63547, Oct. 12, 2011]
§ 120.1702
Program fee.
Ongoing Guarantee Fee.
The Ongoing Guarantee Fee is payable to SBA, and it is calculated and payable monthly from the amounts received in respect of interest on Loan Interests in the SBA-guaranteed portion of a Pool. This amount is set forth in the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement. This fee is used to pay program losses.
§ 120.1703
Qualifications to be a Pool Originator.
(a)
Application to become Pool Originator.
The application to become a Pool Originator is available from the SBA and can be found on SBA's website. In order to qualify as a Pool Originator, an entity must send the application to the SBA and certify that it is a Pool Assembler or it:
(1) Is regulated by the appropriate agency as defined in section 3(a)(34)(G) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(34)(G));
(2) Meets all financial and other applicable requirements of its regulatory authority and the Government Securities Act of 1986, as amended (Pub. L. 99-571, 100 Stat. 3208);
(3) Has the financial capability to originate acceptable pools consisting of eligible First Lien Position 504 Loans in sufficient quantity to support the issuance of Pool Certificates;
(4) Is in good standing with SBA (as the SBA determines), and is Satisfactory with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) if it is a national bank, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation if it is a bank not regulated by the OCC, the Financial Institutions Regulatory Authority if it is a member, the National Credit Union Administration if it is a credit union, as determined by SBA; and
(5) for any Pool Originator that is an SBA Lender, that the SBA Lender has satisfactory SBA performance, as determined by SBA in its sole discretion.
(b)
Approval by SBA.
An entity may not submit applications to form Pools to the CSA until SBA has approved its application to become a Pool Originator.
(c)
Conduct of business by Pool Originator.
An entity continues to qualify as a Pool Originator so long as it:
(1) Meets the eligibility standards in paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) Conducts its business in accordance with SBA regulations and accepted securities or banking industry practices, ethics, and standards;
(3) Maintains its books and records in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles or in accordance
with the guidelines of the regulatory body governing its activities; and
(4) Has not been suspended or terminated from the Program by SBA.
[74 FR 56093, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 39506, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.1704
Pool Loans eligible for Pooling.
(a)
General Pool Loan eligibility requirements.
For a First Lien Position 504 Loan to be eligible for Pooling it must:
(1) Be a loan that is:
(i) A Third Party Loan as defined in § 120.801(c)(3);
(ii) Made by a private sector lender acceptable to SBA in its sole discretion; and
(iii) Secured by a first lien on the Project Property as defined in § 120.801 of this chapter;
(2) Be part of a 504 financing that is comprised of only one Third Party Loan and one CDC 504 loan; the CDC 504 loan must be funded by a Debenture that was been sold on or after February 17, 2009;
(3) Be Current and have been Current for the six-month-period immediately prior to the date the Pool is formed or for the life of the Pool Loan, whichever time period is shorter;
(4) Have been made and closed in a commercially reasonable manner, consistent with prudent lending standards;
(5) Be part of a completed 504 financing, funded by a 504 debenture, which means that the Pool Loan must be fully disbursed and the debenture funding the related loan by a CDC must have been sold on or after February 17, 2009; and
(6) Not be:
(i) To a business deriving more than one-third of its gross annual revenue from legal gambling activities;
(ii) To a casino, gambling establishment, or casino hotel;
(iii) For financing the acquisition, construction or renovation of an aquarium, zoo, golf course, or swimming pool; or
(iv) To a business covered by a six-digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for casinos—713210 (“Casinos (Except Casino Hotels)”); casino hotels—721120 (“Casino Hotels”); other gambling institutions—713290 (“Other Gambling Industries”); golf courses—713910 (“Golf Courses and Country Clubs”); or aquariums and zoos—712130 (“Zoos and Botanical Gardens”).
(b)
SBA review of a Pool Loan prior to pool formation.
SBA has the right to review any Pool Loan before a Loan Interest in it is added to a Pool, and SBA may prohibit the Pool's formation as proposed based on SBA's review in SBA's sole discretion. In the event SBA decides to review Pool Loan documents related to a Loan Interest prior to the requested Pool formation, that Loan Interest may not be added to the Pool until SBA reviews and approves the Pool Loan for such purpose. Copies of Pool Loan documents related to underwriting and origination, and any other Pool Loan-related documents SBA may, in its sole discretion, request to review in writing, must be sent to SBA's Sacramento Pool Loan Processing Center. The Pool Originator must identify and SBA must review Pool Loan documents before a Loan Interest is added to a Pool if:
(1) The Pool Loan is to a business within NAICS code 713940 covering Fitness and Recreational Sports Centers; (If SBA determines that a Pool Loan has had any of its proceeds used for any of the restricted purposes listed above, the Pool Loan will be prohibited from being part of a Pool.)
(2) The Pool Loan was part of a 504 financing involving a 504 loan that was processed under SBA's Premier Certified Lenders Program; or
(3) The Project the Pool Loan financed included the refinancing of existing debt owed to the Seller or Third Party Lender (not including interim financing associated with the Project).
§ 120.1705
Pool formation requirements.
(a)
Initiation of Pool formation.
Only an entity approved by SBA to be a Pool Originator under the Program that continues to qualify to be a Pool Originator pursuant to this subpart may initiate the formation of a Pool. The Pool Originator creates the Pool subject to Program Rules and Regulations, including the parameters set forth in the Guide, and SBA approval.
(b)
Adjustment of Pool requirements.
SBA may adjust the Pool characteristics periodically based on program experience and market conditions and will publish a revised version of the Guide in the
Federal Register
to implement such adjustments. Any such adjustments shall not affect Pools formed prior to the adjustment.
(c)
When the Pool Originator is the Seller.
When a Pool Originator proposes to form a Pool involving a Pool Loan it owns, it must execute the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement as Pool Originator and as Seller and, consequently, will be subject to all applicable Program Rules and Regulations pertaining to both roles.
(d)
When the Pool Originator does not own the Pool Loan.
When a Pool Originator proposes to form a Pool involving a Pool Loan it does not own, it must purchase the Loan Interest it proposes to pool from a Seller that owns the whole Pool Loan and that has the servicing rights. The Pool Originator must purchase the Loan Interest and take it into inventory or settle the purchase of the Loan Interest through the CSA concurrently with the formation of the Pool. The entity selling the Loan Interest to the Pool Originator must execute the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement as Seller and, consequently, will be subject to all applicable Program Rules and Regulations pertaining to a Seller. The Pool Originator must also execute the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guaranty Agreement.
(e)
What CSA must receive prior to Pool formation.
Before the CSA may carry out its responsibilities relating to the formation of a Pool, it must receive:
(1) From the Pool Originator: A properly completed First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool application form, First Lien Position 504 Loan Guarantee Agreement, and any other documentation which SBA may require, if applicable; and
(2) All cost reimbursement due and payable to the CSA prior to Pool formation owed by the Participants participating in the formation of the Pool.
§ 120.1706
Pool Originator's retained interest in Pool.
The Pool Originator must retain an ownership interest in any Pool it has formed that is equal to at least 5% of the aggregate of the total outstanding principal balance of each Pool Loan with a Loan Interest in the Pool as calculated at the time of Pool formation. Such interest will decline with Loan Interest payments, prepayments, defaults and any other early termination. At Pool formation, the CSA will issue the Pool Originator a Pool Originator Receipt evidencing the Pool Originator's retained interest in the Pool. The Pool Originator may not sell, pledge, participate, or otherwise transfer its Pool Originator Receipt or any interest therein for the life of the Pool.
§ 120.1707
Seller's retained Loan Interest.
The Seller must retain a 15% or greater Loan Interest in each of its loans included in a Pool. At Pool formation, the CSA will issue the Seller a Seller Receipt evidencing the Seller's retained ownership in the Pool Loan. With SBA's written permission, the Seller may sell the Seller Receipt and Servicing Retention Amount in whole, but not in part, to a single entity at one time. The Seller may not sell less than 100% of the Seller Receipt and Servicing Retention Amount, and may not sell a participation interest in any portion of any of its Pooled loans. In addition, in order to complete such sale, Seller must have the purchaser of its rights to the Pool Loan execute an allonge to the Seller's First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement in a form acceptable to SBA, acknowledging and accepting all terms of the Seller's First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement, and deliver the executed original allonge and a copy of the corresponding First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement to the CSA. All Pool Loan payments related to a Seller Receipt and Servicing Retention Amount proposed for sale will be withheld by the CSA pending SBA acknowledgement of receipt of all executed documents required to complete the transfer.
[74 FR 56093, Oct. 30, 2009, as amended at 82 FR 39506, Aug. 21, 2017]
§ 120.1708
Pool Certificates.
(a)
SBA Guarantee of Pool Certificates.
SBA guarantees to a Pool Investor the timely payment of principal and interest installments and any prepayment or other recovery of principal to which the Pool Investor is entitled. If an Obligor misses a scheduled payment pursuant to the terms of the Pool Note underlying a Loan Interest backing a Pool Certificate, SBA, through the CSA, will make advances to maintain the schedule of interest and principal payments to the Pool Investor. If SBA makes such payments, it is subrogated fully to the rights satisfied by such payment.
(b)
SBA guarantee backed by full faith and credit.
SBA's guarantee of the Pool Certificate is backed by the full faith and credit of the United States.
(c)
SBA purchase of a Loan Interest.
SBA will determine whether to purchase a Loan Interest backing a Pool Certificate with an underlying Pool Note that is 60 days or more in arrears. SBA reserves the right to purchase a Loan Interest from a Pool at any time.
(d)
Self-liquidating.
A Pool Certificate represents a fractional beneficial interest in a Pool that is self-liquidating by Pool Loan Receivables and/or SBA Loan Interest payment or redemption.
(e)
Pool Certificate form.
The CSA prepares the Pool Certificate. SBA must approve the form and terms of the Pool Certificate.
(f)
Pool Certificate registration.
A Pool Certificate must be registered with the CSA.
(g)
Face amount of Pool Certificate.
The face amount of a Pool Certificate cannot be less than a minimum amount as specified in the Guide, and the dollar amount of Pool Certificates must be in increments which SBA will specify in the Guide (except for one Pool Certificate for each Pool). SBA may change these requirements based upon an analysis of market conditions and program experience, and will publish any such change in the
Federal Register.
(h)
Basis of payment for Pool Certificates.
All payments on a Pool Certificate are due pursuant to terms, conditions, and percentages set forth or referenced therein and are based on the unpaid principal balance of the Pool represented by the Pool Certificate. Any Pool Loan Receivables applicable to a Loan Interest in the SBA-guaranteed portion of a Pool will be passed through to the appropriate Pool Investors with the regularly scheduled payments to such Pool Investors.
(i)
Pool Certificate interest rate.
A Pool Certificate must have a Weighted Average Interest Rate.
(j)
Pool Certificate maturity.
A Pool Certificate must have a Maturity and a Weighted Average Maturity.
(k)
Early Pool Certificate redemption.
SBA, or the CSA on behalf of SBA, may redeem a Pool Certificate prior to its Maturity because of Obligor prepayment and/or SBA purchase of all Loan Interests in the Pool backing the Pool Certificate.
§ 120.1709
Transfers of Pool Certificates.
(a)
Transfer of Pool Certificates.
A Pool Certificate is transferable. A transfer of a Pool Certificate must comply with Article 8 of the Uniform Commercial Code of the State of New York. The seller may use any form of assignment acceptable to SBA and the CSA. The CSA may refuse to issue a Pool Certificate until it is satisfied that the documents of transfer are complete.
(b)
Transfer on CSA records.
In order for the transfer of a Pool Certificate to be effective, the CSA must reflect the transfer on its records.
(c)
Contents of letter of transmittal for Pool Certificate.
A letter of transmittal must accompany each Pool Certificate which a Pool Investor submits to the CSA for transfer. The Pool Investor must supply the following information in the letter:
(1) Pool number;
(2) Pool Certificate number;
(3) Name of purchaser of Pool Certificate;
(4) Address and tax identification number of the purchaser;
(5) Name, e-mail address and telephone number of the person handling or facilitating the transfer; and
(6) Instructions for the delivery of the new Pool Certificate.
(d)
CSA transfer cost recovery.
At the same time a Pool Investor submits a letter of transmittal for a Pool Certificate pursuant to this section, it must
send to the CSA sufficient funds to cover its cost for this service. The CSA will supply the transfer information to the Pool Investor.
§ 120.1710
Central servicing of the Program.
(a)
Pool Certificates and Receipts issued at Pool formation.
As part of its role as Central Servicing Agent for the Pool, at Pool formation, CSA issues a Seller Receipt to the Seller, a Pool Originator Receipt to the Pool Originator, and a Pool Certificate to each Pool Investor.
(b)
CSA fiscal transfer responsibilities.
All Pool Loan Receivables on a Pool Loan received by the CSA must be forwarded by it to pay the Servicing Retention Amount, Ongoing Guarantee Fee, Seller Receipt, Pool Originator Receipt, Pool Certificates, any SBA-purchased Loan Interest, and any other payment applicable to the Pooling of such Pooled Loan, in accordance with Program Rules and Regulations.
(c)
Administration of the Pool Certificates.
CSA must administer each Pool Certificate. It shall maintain a registry of Pool Investors and other information as SBA requires. CSA registers all Pool Certificates. This means it issues, transfers title to, and redeems them. It shall maintain a registry of Pool Investors and other information as SBA requires. In fulfilling its obligation to keep the central registry current, the CSA may, with SBA's approval, obtain any necessary information from the parties involved in the Program.
(d)
CSA Monthly Report.
CSA must provide SBA with a list, by Pool, of each Loan Interest with an underlying Pool Note that is 60 days or more in arrears on a monthly basis.
§ 120.1711
Suspension or termination of Program participation privileges.
(a)
Participant suspension or termination.
The SBA may suspend or terminate the privilege of a Participant, and/or any Associate or Affiliate of the Participant, to sell, purchase, broker, or deal in Pool Loans, Loan Interests, or Pool Certificates under the Program if any such Participant or its Associate or Affiliate has:
(1) Failed to comply materially with any requirement imposed by the Program Rules and Regulations or other SBA rules and regulations; or
(2) Made a material false statement or failed to disclose a material fact to SBA.
(b)
Additional rules for suspension or termination of Pool Originator.
In addition to the conditions set forth in paragraph (a) above, SBA may also suspend or terminate the Program participation privileges of a Pool Originator if the Pool Originator (and/or its Associates):
(1) Does not comply with any of the requirements in 120.1703(a) or (c);
(2) Has been revoked or suspended it from engaging in the securities business by its supervisory agency, or is under investigation for a practice which SBA considers, in its sole discretion, to be relevant to its fitness to participate in the Program;
(3) Has been indicted or otherwise formally charged with, or convicted of, a felony, or a misdemeanor which, in SBA's sole discretion, bears on its fitness to participate in the Program;
(4) Has received an adverse civil judgment that it has committed a breach of trust or a violation of a law or regulation protecting the integrity of business transactions or relationships; or
(5) Has been suspended or terminated as a Pool Assembler under 120.631.
(c)
Suspension procedures.
SBA may undertake suspension or enforcement actions under this section using the procedures set forth in § 120.1600(a).
§ 120.1712
Seller responsibilities with respect to Seller's Pool Loan.
Seller shall remain obligated for servicing and liquidating Seller's Pool Loan until the Pool Loan is repaid in full unless SBA provides written approval or notice to the contrary.
§ 120.1713
Seller's Pool Loan origination.
SBA is entitled to recover from the Seller losses incurred by SBA on its guarantee of a Pool if such losses resulted because Seller's Pool Loan was not made and closed in a commercially reasonable manner, consistent with prudent lending standards, and in accordance with any applicable Program Rules and Regulations.
§ 120.1714
Seller's Pool Loan servicing.
Subject to § 120.1718 of this subpart J, the Seller must service Seller's Pool Loan in a commercially reasonable manner, consistent with prudent lending standards, and in accordance with applicable Program Rules and Regulations. The Seller receives the Servicing Retention Amount for servicing the Seller's Pool Loan.
§ 120.1715
Seller's Pool Loan liquidation.
Subject to § 120.1718 of this subpart J, the Seller must liquidate and conduct debt collection litigation for Seller's Pool Loan in a prompt, cost-effective and commercially reasonable manner, consistent with prudent lending standards, in accordance with applicable Program Rules and Regulations, and with SBA approval of a liquidation plan and any litigation plan, and any amendment of either such a plan, if applicable.
§ 120.1716
Required SBA approval of servicing actions.
Seller shall not, without prior written consent of SBA, take the following actions with respect to Seller's Pool Loan:
(a) Make or consent to any substantial alteration in the terms (“substantial” includes, but is not limited to, any changes to the principal amount or interest rate);
(b) Accelerate the maturity;
(c) Sue; or
(d) Waive or release any claim. Guidance on other servicing actions, some of which may need prior SBA approval, is provided in the Guide.
§ 120.1717
Seller's Pool Loan deferments.
Without the prior written consent of SBA, Seller, at the request of Obligor, may grant one deferment of Obligor's scheduled payments for a continuous period not to exceed three months of past or future installments. Seller shall immediately notify CSA of any payment deferment and that notification shall include:
(a) The SBA Pool Loan number;
(b) The Obligor's name;
(c) The terms of such deferment;
(d) The date Obligor is to resume payment; and
(e) Reconfirmation of the basis of interest calculation (e.g. 30/360 or Actual Days/365).
§ 120.1718
SBA's right to assume Seller's responsibilities.
SBA may, in its sole discretion, undertake the servicing, liquidation and/or litigation of Seller's Pool Loan at any time and, in such event, Seller must take any steps necessary to facilitate the assumption by SBA of such responsibilities, which can be transferred by SBA at its discretion to a contractor, agent or other entity, and such steps shall include, among other things, providing or assigning to SBA any documents requested by SBA within 15 calendar days of Seller's receipt of such request. SBA will notify the Obligor of the change in servicing.
§ 120.1719
SBA's right to recover from Seller.
SBA is entitled to recover from Seller any monies paid on SBA's guarantee of a Pool Certificate backed in part by Seller's Pool Loan, plus interest, if SBA in its sole discretion determines that any of the following events has occurred:
(a) Seller's improper action or inaction has put SBA at risk;
(b) Seller has failed to disclose a material fact to SBA regarding a Seller's Pool Loan in a timely manner;
(c) Seller has misrepresented a material fact to SBA regarding Seller's Pool Loan;
(d) Seller has failed to comply materially with § 120.1720 of this subpart;
(e) SBA has received a written request from Seller to terminate the SBA's guarantee on the Loan Interest in Seller's Pool Loan;
(f) Seller has failed to comply materially with Program Rules and Regulations; or
(g) Seller has failed to make, close, service or liquidate Seller's Pool Loan in a prudent manner.
§ 120.1720
SBA's right to review Pool Loan documents.
In the event that SBA purchases a Loan Interest in Seller's Pool Loan, Seller must provide to SBA copies of
the Pool Loan collateral documents, Pool Loan underwriting documents, and any other documents SBA may require in writing within 15 calendar days of a written request from SBA (which SBA will review in connection with its efforts to determine if Seller is obligated to reimburse SBA pursuant to this subpart). A Seller's failure to provide the requested documentation may constitute a material failure to comply with the Program Rules and Regulations and may lead to an action for recovery under § 120.1719. SBA will also evaluate a Seller's continued participation in the Program and may restrict further sales under the Program until SBA determines that the Seller has provided sufficient documentation.
§ 120.1721
SBA's right to investigate.
SBA may undertake such investigation as it deems necessary to determine whether it is entitled to seek recovery from the Seller and Seller agrees to take whatever actions are necessary to facilitate such investigation.
§ 120.1722
SBA's offset rights.
SBA shall have the right to offset any amount owed by Lender to SBA, including, without limitation, an offset against CSA's obligation to pay Lender pursuant to any Section 504 First Mortgage Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement.
§ 120.1723
Pool Loan receivables received by Seller.
Any Pool Loan Receivables received by Seller in connection with obligations under Seller's Pool Loan must be forwarded by Seller to CSA within two business days of receipt of collected funds.
§ 120.1724
Servicing and liquidation expenses.
All ordinary and reasonable expenses of servicing and liquidating Seller's Pool Loan shall be paid by, or be recoverable from, Obligor, and all such ordinary and reasonable expenses incurred by Seller or SBA which are not recoverable from Obligor shall be shared ratably by Seller, SBA, and the Pool Originator pursuant to the applicable percentages set forth in the First Lien Position 504 Loan Pool Guarantee Agreement.
§ 120.1725
No Program Preference by Seller or Pool Originator.
The Seller and the Pool Originator must not establish a Program Preference, which is defined in 13 CFR 120.10.
§ 120.1726
Pool Certificates a Seller cannot purchase.
Neither a Seller, nor any of its Program Associates or Affiliates, may purchase a Pool Certificate that is backed by a Loan Interest in a Pool Loan that the Seller, or any of its Program Associates or Affiliates, originated or owned, and, in the event such purchase occurs, SBA's guarantee shall not be in effect with respect to any such Pool Certificate.
Pt. 121

# PART 121—SMALL BUSINESS SIZE REGULATIONS

# Subpart A—Size Eligibility Provisions and Standards

# Provisions of General Applicability
Sec.
121.101
What are SBA size standards?
121.102
How does SBA establish size standards?
121.103
How does SBA determine affiliation?
121.104
How does SBA calculate annual receipts?
121.105
How does SBA define “business concern or concern”?
121.106
How does SBA calculate number of employees?
121.107
How does SBA determine a concern's “primary industry”?
121.108
What are the penalties for misrepresentation of size status?
121.109
What is a small business status advisory opinion?
121.110
What must a concern do in order to be identified as a small business concern in any Federal procurement databases?

# Size Standards Used To Define Small Business Concerns
121.201
What size standards has SBA identified by North American Industry Classification System codes?

# Size Eligibility Requirements for SBA Financial Assistance
121.301
What size standards and affiliation principles are applicable to financial assistance programs?
121.302
When does SBA determine the size status of an applicant?
121.303
What size procedures are used by SBA before it makes a formal size determination?
121.304
What are the size requirements for refinancing an existing SBA loan?
121.305
What size eligibility requirements exist for obtaining financial assistance relating to particular procurements?

# Size Eligibility Requirements for Government Procurement
121.401
What procurement programs are subject to size determinations?
121.402
What size standards are applicable to Federal Government Contracting programs?
121.403
Are SBA size determinations and NAICS code designations binding on parties?
121.404
When is the size status of a business concern determined?
121.405
May a business concern self-certify its small business size status?
121.406
How does a small business concern qualify to provide manufactured products or other supply items under a small business set-aside, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone, WOSB or EDWOSB, or 8(a) contract?
121.407
What are the size procedures for multiple item procurements?
121.408
What are the size procedures for SBA's Certificate of Competency Program?
121.409
What size standard applies in an unrestricted procurement for Certificate of Competency purposes?
121.410
What are the size standards for SBA's Section 8(d) Subcontracting Program?
121.411
What are the size procedures for SBA's Section 8(d) Subcontracting Program?
121.412
What are the size procedures for partial small business set-asides?

# Size Eligibility Requirements for Sales or Lease of Government Property
121.501
What programs for sales or leases of Government property are subject to size determinations?
121.502
What size standards are applicable to programs for sales or leases of Government property?
121.503
Are SBA size determinations binding on parties?
121.504
When does SBA determine the size status of a business concern?
121.505
What is the effect of a self-certification?
121.506
What definitions are important for sales or leases of Government-owned timber?
121.507
What are the size standards and other requirements for the purchase of Government-owned timber (other than Special Salvage Timber)?
121.508
What are the size standards and other requirements for the purchase of Government-owned Special Salvage Timber?
121.509
What is the size standard for leasing of Government land for coal mining?
121.510
What is the size standard for leasing of Government land for uranium mining?
121.511
What is the size standard for buying Government-owned petroleum?
121.512
What is the size standard for stockpile purchases?

# Size Eligibility Requirements for the 8(
a

# ) Business Development Program
121.601
What is a small business for purposes of admission to SBA's 8(a) Business Development program?
121.602
At what point in time must a 8(a) BD applicant be small?
121.603
How does SBA determine whether a Participant is small for a particular 8(a) BD subcontract?
121.604
Are 8(a) BD Participants considered small for purposes of other SBA assistance?

# Size and Eligibility Requirements for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Programs
121.701
What SBIR and STTR programs are subject to size and eligibility determinations and what definitions are important?
121.702
What size and eligibility standards are applicable to the SBIR and STTR programs?
121.703
Are formal size determinations binding on parties?
121.704
When does SBA determine the size and eligibility status of a business concern?
121.705
Must a business concern self-certify its size and eligibility status?

# Size Eligibility Requirements for Paying Reduced Patent Fees
121.801
May patent fees be reduced if a concern is small?
121.802
What size standards are applicable to reduced patent fees programs?
121.803
Are formal size determinations binding on parties?
121.804
When does SBA determine the size status of a business concern?
121.805
May a business concern self-certify its size status?

# Size Eligibility Requirements for Compliance With Programs of Other Agencies
121.901
Can other Government agencies obtain SBA size determinations?
121.902
What size standards are applicable to programs of other agencies?
121.903
How may an agency use size standards for its programs that are different than those established by SBA?
121.904
When does SBA determine the size status of a business concern?

# Procedures for Size Protests and Requests for Formal Size Determinations
121.1001
Who may initiate a size protest or a request for formal size determination?
121.1002
Who makes a formal size determination?
121.1003
Where should a size protest be filed?
121.1004
What time limits apply to size protests?
121.1005
How must a protest be filed with the contracting officer?
121.1006
When will a size protest be referred to an SBA Government Contracting Area Office?
121.1007
Must a protest of size status relate to a particular procurement and be specific?
121.1008
What occurs after SBA receives a size protest or request for a formal size determination?
121.1009
What are the procedures for making the size determination?
121.1010
How does a concern become recertified as a small business?

# Appeals of Size Determinations and NAICS Code Designations
121.1101
Are formal size determinations subject to appeal?
121.1102
Are NAICS code designations subject to appeal?
121.1103
What are the procedures for appealing a NAICS code or size standard designation?

# Subpart B—Other Applicable Provisions

# Waivers of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for Classes of Products and Individual Contracts
121.1201
What is the Nonmanufacturer Rule?
121.1202
When will a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule be granted for a class of products?
121.1203
When will a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule be granted for an individual contract?
121.1204
What are the procedures for requesting and granting waivers?
121.1205
How is a list of previously granted class waivers obtained?
121.1206
How will potential offerors be notified of applicable waivers?
Appendix A to Part 121—Paycheck Protection Program Sample Addendum A

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 632, 634(b)(6), 636(a)(36), 662, and 694a(9).

# Source:
61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 121 appear at 72 FR 50039 and 50040, Aug. 30, 2007.

# Subpart A—Size Eligibility Provisions and Standards

# Provisions of General Applicability
§ 121.101
What are SBA size standards?
(a) SBA's size standards define whether a business entity is small and, thus, eligible for Government programs and preferences reserved for “small business” concerns. Size standards have been established for types of economic activity, or industry, generally under the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS).
(b) NAICS is described in the North American Industry Classification Manual-United States, which is available from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161; by calling 1(800) 553-6847 or 1(703) 605-6000; or via the Internet at
http://www.ntis.gov/products/naics.aspx.
The manual includes definitions for each industry, tables showing relationships between 1997 NAICS and 1987 SICs, and a comprehensive index. NAICS assigns codes to all economic activity within twenty broad sectors. Section 121.201 provides a full table of small business size standards matched to the U.S. NAICS industry codes. A full table matching a size standard with each NAICS Industry or U.S. Industry code is also published annually by SBA in the
Federal Register.
[65 FR 30840, May 15, 2000, as amended at 67 FR 52602, Aug. 13, 2002; 74 FR 46313, Sept. 9, 2009]
§ 121.102
How does SBA establish size standards?
(a) SBA considers economic characteristics comprising the structure of an industry, including degree of competition, average firm size, start-up costs and entry barriers, and distribution of
firms by size. It also considers technological changes, competition from other industries, growth trends, historical activity within an industry, unique factors occurring in the industry which may distinguish small firms from other firms, and the objectives of its programs and the impact on those programs of different size standard levels.
(b) As part of its review of a size standard, SBA will investigate if any concern at or below a particular standard would be dominant in the industry. SBA will take into consideration market share of a concern and other appropriate factors which may allow a concern to exercise a major controlling influence on a national basis in which a number of business concerns are engaged. Size standards seek to ensure that a concern that meets a specific size standard is not dominant in its field of operation.
(c) As part of its review of size standards, SBA's Office of Size Standards will examine the impact of inflation on monetary-based size standards (e.g., receipts, net income, assets) at least once every five years and submit a report to the Administrator or designee. If SBA finds that inflation has significantly eroded the value of the monetary-based size standards, it will issue a proposed rule to increase size standards.
(d) Please address any requests to change existing size standards or establish new ones for emerging industries to the Division Chief, Office of Size Standards, Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416.
(e) When SBA publishes a final rule in the
Federal Register
revising, modifying, or establishing a size standard, SBA will include in the final rule, an instruction that interested persons may file a petition for reconsideration of a revised, modified, or established size standard at SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) within 30 calendar days after publication of the final rule in accordance with 15 U.S.C. 632(a)(9) and part 134, subpart I of this chapter. The instruction will provide the mailing address, facsimile number, and email address of OHA.
(f) Within 14 calendar days after a petition for reconsideration of a size standard is filed, unless it appears OHA will dismiss the petition for reconsideration, SBA will publish a document in the
Federal Register
announcing the size standard or standards that have been challenged, the
Federal Register
citation of the final rule, the assigned OHA docket number, and the date of the close of record. The document will further state that interested parties may contact OHA to intervene in the dispute pursuant to § 134.906 of this chapter.
(g) Where OHA grants a petition for reconsideration of a size standard that had been revised or modified, OHA will remand the case to SBA's Office of Size Standards for further action in accordance with § 134.916(a) of this chapter.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 3045, Jan. 23, 2002; 82 FR 25506, June 2, 2017]
§ 121.103
How does SBA determine affiliation?
(a)
General Principles of Affiliation.
(1) Concerns and entities are affiliates of each other when one controls or has the power to control the other, or a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both. It does not matter whether control is exercised, so long as the power to control exists.
(2) SBA considers factors such as ownership, management, previous relationships with or ties to another concern, and contractual relationships, in determining whether affiliation exists.
(3) Control may be affirmative or negative. Negative control includes, but is not limited to, instances where a minority shareholder has the ability, under the concern's charter, by-laws, or shareholder's agreement, to prevent a quorum or otherwise block action by the board of directors or shareholders.
(4) Affiliation may be found where an individual, concern, or entity exercises control indirectly through a third party.
(5) In determining whether affiliation exists, SBA will consider the totality of the circumstances, and may find affiliation even though no single factor is sufficient to constitute affiliation.
(6) In determining the concern's size, SBA counts the receipts, employees, or other measure of size of the concern
whose size is at issue and all of its domestic and foreign affiliates, regardless of whether the affiliates are organized for profit.
(7) For SBA's Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs, the bases for affiliation are set forth in § 121.702.
(8) For applicants in SBA's Business Loan, Disaster Loan, and Surety Bond Guarantee Programs, the size standards and bases for affiliation are set forth in § 121.301.
(b)
Exceptions to affiliation coverage.
(1) Business concerns owned in whole or substantial part either by investment companies licensed, or by development companies qualifying, under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended, or by investment companies to which a Reinvestor SBIC (within the meaning of 13 CFR 107.720(a)(2)) has provided a meaningful percentage of Equity Capital are not considered affiliates of such investment companies or development companies.
(2)(i) Business concerns owned and controlled by Indian Tribes, Alaska Native Corporations (ANCs) organized pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601
et seq.
), Native Hawaiian Organizations (NHOs), Community Development Corporations (CDCs) authorized by 42 U.S.C. 9805, or wholly-owned entities of Indian Tribes, ANCs, NHOs, or CDCs are not considered affiliates of such entities.
(ii) Business concerns owned and controlled by Indian Tribes, ANCs, NHOs, CDCs, or wholly-owned entities of Indian Tribes, ANCs, NHOs, or CDCs, are not considered to be affiliated with other concerns owned by these entities because of their common ownership or common management. In addition, affiliation will not be found based upon the performance of common administrative services so long as adequate payment is provided for those services. Affiliation may be found for other reasons.
(A) Common administrative services which are subject to the exception to affiliation include, bookkeeping, payroll, recruiting, other human resource support, cleaning services, and other duties which are otherwise unrelated to contract performance or management and can be reasonably pooled or otherwise performed by a holding company, parent entity, or sister business concern without interfering with the control of the subject firm.
(B) Contract administration services include both services that could be considered “common administrative services” under the exception to affiliation and those that could not.
(
1
) Contract administration services that encompass actual and direct day-to-day oversight and control of the performance of a contract/project are not shared common administrative services, and would include tasks or functions such as negotiating directly with the government agency regarding proposal terms, contract terms, scope and modifications, project scheduling, hiring and firing of employees, and overall responsibility for the day-to-day and overall project and contract completion.
(
2
) Contract administration services that are administrative in nature may constitute administrative services that can be shared, and would fall within the exception to affiliation. These administrative services include tasks such as record retention not related to a specific contract (
e.g.,
employee time and attendance records), maintenance of databases for awarded contracts, monitoring for regulatory compliance, template development, and assisting accounting with invoice preparation as needed.
(C) Business development may include both services that could be considered “common administrative services” under the exception to affiliation and those that could not. Efforts at the holding company or parent level to identify possible procurement opportunities for specific subsidiary companies may properly be considered “common administrative services” under the exception to affiliation. However, at some point the opportunity identified by the holding company's or parent entity's business development efforts becomes concrete enough to assign to a subsidiary and at that point the subsidiary must be involved in the business development efforts for such opportunity. At the proposal or bid preparation stage of business development,
the appropriate subsidiary company for the opportunity has been identified and a representative of that company must be involved in preparing an appropriate offer. This does not mean to imply that one or more representatives of a holding company or parent entity cannot also be involved in preparing an offer. They may be involved in assisting with preparing the generic part of an offer, but the specific subsidiary that intends to ultimately perform the contract must control the technical and contract specific portions of preparing an offer. In addition, once award is made, employee assignments and the logistics for contract performance must be controlled by the specific subsidiary company and should not be performed at a holding company or parent entity level.
(3) Business concerns which are part of an SBA approved pool of concerns for a joint program of research and development or for defense production as authorized by the Small Business Act are not affiliates of one another because of the pool.
(4) Business concerns which lease employees from concerns primarily engaged in leasing employees to other businesses or which enter into a co-employer arrangement with a Professional Employer Organization (PEO) are not affiliated with the leasing company or PEO solely on the basis of a leasing agreement.
(5) For financial, management or technical assistance under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended, (an applicant is not affiliated with the investors listed in paragraphs (b)(5) (i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Venture capital operating companies, as defined in the U.S. Department of Labor regulations found at 29 CFR 2510.3-101(d);
(ii) Employee benefit or pension plans established and maintained by the Federal government or any state, or their political subdivisions, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, for the benefit of employees;
(iii) Employee benefit or pension plans within the meaning of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (29 U.S.C. 1001,
et seq.
);
(iv) Charitable trusts, foundations, endowments, or similar organizations exempt from Federal income taxation under section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 501(c));
(v) Investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended (1940 Act) (15 U.S.C. 80a-1,
et seq.
); and
(vi) Entities determined by SBA to be Traditional Investment Companies under 13 CFR 107.150(b)(2) and private funds exempt from registration under section 3(c)(1) or 3(c)(7) of the 1940 Act.
(6) A firm that has an SBA-approved mentor-protégé agreement authorized under § 125.9 of this chapter is not affiliated with its mentor or protégé firm solely because the protégé firm receives assistance from the mentor under the agreement. Similarly, a protégé firm is not affiliated with its mentor solely because the protégé firm receives assistance from the mentor under a federal mentor-protégé program where an exception to affiliation is specifically authorized by statute or by SBA under the procedures set forth in § 121.903. Affiliation may be found in either case for other reasons as set forth in this section.
(7) The member shareholders of a small agricultural cooperative, as defined in the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C. 1141j), are not considered affiliated with the cooperative by virtue of their membership in the cooperative.
(8) These exceptions to affiliation and any others set forth in § 121.702 apply for purposes of SBA's SBIR and STTR programs.
(9) In the case of a solicitation for a bundled contract or a Multiple Award Contract with a value in excess of the agency's substantial bundling threshold, a small business contractor may enter into a Small Business Teaming Arrangement with one or more small business subcontractors and submit an offer as a small business without regard to affiliation, so long as each team member is small for the size standard assigned to the contract or subcontract. The agency shall evaluate the offer in the same manner as other offers with due consideration of the capabilities of the subcontractors.
(10)(i) The relationship of a faith-based organization to another organization is not considered an affiliation with the other organization under this subpart if the relationship is based on a religious teaching or belief or otherwise constitutes a part of the exercise of religion. In addition, the eligibility criteria set forth in 15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)(D) are satisfied for any faith-based organization having not more than 500 employees (including individuals employed on a full-time, part-time, or other basis) that pays Federal payroll taxes using its own Internal Revenue Service Employer Identification Number (EIN) or that would support a deduction under the second sentence of 26 U.S.C. 512(b)(12) if the organization generated unrelated business taxable income. For purposes of this paragraph (b)(10), the term “faith-based organization” includes, but is not limited to, any organization associated with a church or convention or association of churches within the meaning of 26 U.S.C. 414(e)(3)(D). The term “organization” has the meaning given in 26 U.S.C. 414(m)(6)(A). The terms “church” and “convention or association of churches” have the same meaning that they have in 26 U.S.C. 414.
(ii) No specific process or filing is necessary to claim the benefit of the exemption in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section. In applying for a loan under the Paycheck Protection Program (PPP), a faith-based organization may make all necessary certifications with respect to common ownership or management or other eligibility criteria based upon affiliation, if the organization would be an eligible borrower but for application of SBA affiliation rules and if the organization falls within the terms of the exemption described in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section. If a faith-based organization indicates any relationship that may pertain to affiliation, such as ownership of, ownership by, or common management with any other organization, on or in connection with a loan application, and if the faith-based organization applying for a loan falls within the terms of the exemption described in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section with respect to that relationship, the faith-based organization may indicate on a separate sheet that it is entitled to the exemption. That sheet may be identified as addendum A, and no further listing of the other organization or description of the relationship to that organization is required. See appendix A to this part for a sample “Addendum A”, but the format need not be used as long as the substance is the same.
(c)
Affiliation based on stock ownership.
(1) A person (including any individual, concern or other entity) that owns, or has the power to control, 50 percent or more of a concern's voting stock, or a block of voting stock which is large compared to other outstanding blocks of voting stock, controls or has the power to control the concern.
(2) If two or more persons (including any individual, concern or other entity) each owns, controls, or has the power to control less than 50 percent of a concern's voting stock, and such minority holdings are equal or approximately equal in size, and the aggregate of these minority holdings is large as compared with any other stock holding, SBA presumes that each such person controls or has the power to control the concern whose size is at issue. This presumption may be rebutted by a showing that such control or power to control does not in fact exist.
(3) If a concern's voting stock is widely held and no single block of stock is large as compared with all other stock holdings, the concern's Board of Directors and CEO or President will be deemed to have the power to control the concern in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
(d)
Affiliation arising under stock options, convertible securities, and agreements to merge.
(1) In determining size, SBA considers stock options, convertible securities, and agreements to merge (including agreements in principle) to have a present effect on the power to control a concern. SBA treats such options, convertible securities, and agreements as though the rights granted have been exercised.
(2) Agreements to open or continue negotiations towards the possibility of a merger or a sale of stock at some later date are not considered “agreements in principle” and are thus not given present effect.
(3) Options, convertible securities, and agreements that are subject to conditions precedent which are incapable of fulfillment, speculative, conjectural, or unenforceable under state or Federal law, or where the probability of the transaction (or exercise of the rights) occurring is shown to be extremely remote, are not given present effect.
(4) An individual, concern or other entity that controls one or more other concerns cannot use options, convertible securities, or agreements to appear to terminate such control before actually doing so. SBA will not give present effect to individuals', concerns' or other entities' ability to divest all or part of their ownership interest in order to avoid a finding of affiliation.
(e)
Affiliation based on common management.
Affiliation arises where one or more officers, directors, managing members, or partners who control the board of directors and/or management of one concern also control the board of directors or management of one or more other concerns.
(f)
Affiliation based on identity of interest.
Affiliation may arise among two or more persons with an identity of interest. Individuals or firms that have identical or substantially identical business or economic interests (such as family members, individuals or firms with common investments, or firms that are economically dependent through contractual or other relationships) may be treated as one party with such interests aggregated. Where SBA determines that such interests should be aggregated, an individual or firm may rebut that determination with evidence showing that the interests deemed to be one are in fact separate.
(1) Firms owned or controlled by married couples, parties to a civil union, parents, children, and siblings are presumed to be affiliated with each other if they conduct business with each other, such as subcontracts or joint ventures or share or provide loans, resources, equipment, locations or employees with one another. This presumption may be overcome by showing a clear line of fracture between the concerns. Other types of familial relationships are not grounds for affiliation on family relationships.
(2) SBA may presume an identity of interest based upon economic dependence if the concern in question derived 70% or more of its receipts from another concern over the previous three fiscal years.
(i) This presumption may be rebutted by a showing that despite the contractual relations with another concern, the concern at issue is not solely dependent on that other concern, such as where the concern has been in business for a short amount of time and has only been able to secure a limited number of contracts or where the contractual relations do not restrict the concern in question from selling the same type of products or services to another purchaser.
(ii) A business concern owned and controlled by an Indian Tribe, ANC, NHO, CDC, or by a wholly-owned entity of an Indian Tribe, ANC, NHO, or CDC, is not considered to be affiliated with another concern owned by that entity based solely on the contractual relations between the two concerns.

# Example 1 to paragraph (f).
Firm A has been in business for 9 months and has two contracts. Contract 1 is with Firm B and is valued at $900,000 and Contract 2 is with Firm C and is valued at $200,000. Thus, Firm B accounts for over 70% of Firm A's receipts. Absent other connections between A and B, the presumption of affiliation between A and B is rebutted because A is a new firm.

# Example 2 to paragraph (f).
Firm A has been in business for five years and has approximately 200 contracts. Of those contracts, 195 are with Firm B. The value of Firm A's contracts with Firm B is greater than 70% of its revenue over the previous three years. Unless Firm A can show that its contractual relations with Firm B do not restrict it from selling the same type of products or services to another purchaser, SBA would most likely find the two firms affiliated.
(g)
Affiliation based on the newly organized concern rule.
Except as provided in § 124.109(c)(4)(iii), affiliation may arise where former or current officers, directors, principal stockholders, managing members, or key employees of one concern organize a new concern in the same or related industry or field of operation, and serve as the new concern's officers, directors, principal stockholders, managing members, or key employees, and the one concern is
furnishing or will furnish the new concern with contracts, financial or technical assistance, indemnification on bid or performance bonds, and/or other facilities, whether for a fee or otherwise. A concern may rebut such an affiliation determination by demonstrating a clear line of fracture between the two concerns. A “key employee” is an employee who, because of his/her position in the concern, has a critical influence in or substantive control over the operations or management of the concern.
(h)
Affiliation based on joint ventures.
A joint venture is an association of individuals and/or concerns with interests in any degree or proportion intending to engage in and carry out business ventures for joint profit over a two-year period, for which purpose they combine their efforts, property, money, skill, or knowledge, but not on a continuing or permanent basis for conducting business generally. This means that a specific joint venture generally may not be awarded contracts beyond a two-year period, starting from the date of the award of the first contract, without the partners to the joint venture being deemed affiliated for the joint venture. However, a joint venture may be issued an order under a previously awarded contract beyond the two-year period. Once a joint venture receives a contract, it may submit additional offers for a period of two years from the date of that first award. An individual joint venture may be awarded one or more contracts after that two-year period as long as it submitted an offer prior to the end of that two-year period. SBA will find joint venture partners to be affiliated, and thus will aggregate their receipts and/or employees in determining the size of the joint venture for all small business programs, where the joint venture submits an offer after two years from the date of the first award. The same two (or more) entities may create additional joint ventures, and each new joint venture may submit offers for a period of two years from the date of the first contract to the joint venture without the partners to the joint venture being deemed affiliates. At some point, however, such a longstanding inter-relationship or contractual dependence between the same joint venture partners may lead to a finding of general affiliation between and among them. SBA may also determine that the relationship between a prime contractor and its subcontractor is a joint venture pursuant to paragraph (h)(3) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (h), contract refers to prime contracts, novations of prime contracts, and any subcontract in which the joint venture is treated as a similarly situated entity as the term is defined in part 125 of this chapter.

# Example 1 to paragraph (h) introductory text.
Joint Venture AB receives a contract on April 2, year 1. Joint Venture AB may receive additional contracts through April 2, year 3. On June 6, year 2, Joint Venture AB submits an offer for Solicitation 1. On July 13, year 2, Joint Venture AB submits an offer for Solicitation 2. On May 27, year 3, Joint Venture AB is found to be the apparent successful offeror for Solicitation 1. On July 22, year 3, Joint Venture AB is found to be the apparent successful offeror for Solicitation 2. Even though the award of the two contracts emanating from Solicitations 1 and 2 would occur after April 2, year 3, Joint Venture AB may receive those awards without causing general affiliation between its joint venture partners because the offers occurred prior to the expiration of the two-year period.

# Example 2 to paragraph (h) introductory text.
Joint Venture XY receives a contract on August 10, year 1. It may receive two additional contracts through August 10, year 3. On March 19, year 3, XY receives its fifth contract. It receives no other contract awards through August 10, year 3 and has submitted no additional offers prior to August 10, year 3. Because two years have passed since the date of the first contract award, after August 10, year 3, XY cannot receive an additional contract award. The individual parties to XY must form a new joint venture if they want to seek and be awarded additional contracts as a joint venture.

# Example 3 to paragraph (h) introductory text.
Joint Venture XY receives a contract on December 15, year 1. On May 22, year 3 XY submits an offer for Solicitation S. On December 8, year 3, XY submits a novation package for contracting officer approval for Contract C. In January, year 4 XY is found to be the apparent successful offeror for Solicitation S and the relevant contracting officer seeks to novate Contract C to XY. Because both the offer for Solicitation S and the novation package for Contract C were submitted prior to December 15 year 3, both contract award relating to Solicitation S and novation of Contract C may occur without a finding of general affiliation.
(1)
Form of joint venture.
A joint venture: must be in writing; must do business under its own name and be identified as a joint venture in the System for Award Management (SAM) for the award of a prime contract or agreement; and may be in the form of a formal or informal partnership or exist as a separate limited liability company or other separate legal entity.
(i) If a joint venture exists as a formal separate legal entity, it cannot be populated with individuals intended to perform contracts awarded to the joint venture for any contract or agreement which is set aside or reserved for small business, unless all parties to the joint venture are similarly situated as that term is defined in part 125 of this chapter (
i.e.,
the joint venture may have its own separate employees to perform administrative functions, including one or more Facility Security Officer(s), but may not have its own separate employees to perform contracts awarded to the joint venture).
(ii) A populated joint venture that is not comprised entirely of similarly situated entities will be ineligible for any contract or agreement which is set aside or reserved for small business.
(iii) In determining the size of a populated joint venture (whether one involving similarly situated entities or not), SBA will aggregate the revenues or employees of all partners to the joint venture.
(2)
Size of joint ventures.
(i) A joint venture of two or more business concerns may submit an offer as a small business for a Federal procurement, subcontract or sale so long as each concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract. For a competitive 8(a) procurement, a joint venture between an 8(a) Participant and one or more other small business concerns (including two firms approved by SBA to be a mentor and protégé under § 125.9 of this chapter) must also meet the requirements of § 124.513(c) and (d) of this chapter as of the date of the final proposal revision for negotiated acquisitions and final bid for sealed bidding in order to be eligible for award.
(ii) Two firms approved by SBA to be a mentor and protégé under § 125.9 of this chapter may joint venture as a small business for any Federal government prime contract or subcontract, provided the protégé qualifies as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the procurement, and the joint venture meets the requirements of § 124.513 (c) and (d), § 125.8(b) and (c), § 128.402(c) and (d), § 126.616(c) and (d), or § 127.506(c) and (d) of this chapter, as appropriate. Except for sole source 8(a) awards, the joint venture must meet the requirements of § 124.513(c) and (d), § 125.8(b) and (c), § 125.18(b)(2) and (3), § 126.616(c) and (d), or § 127.506(c) and (d) of this chapter, as appropriate, as of the date of the final proposal revision for negotiated acquisitions and final bid for sealed bidding. For a sole source 8(a) award, the joint venture must demonstrate that it meets the requirements of § 124.513(c) and (d) prior to the award of the contract.
(3)
Ostensible subcontractors.
A contractor and its ostensible subcontractor are treated as joint venturers for size determination purposes. An ostensible subcontractor is a subcontractor that is not a similarly situated entity, as that term is defined in § 125.1 of this chapter, and performs primary and vital requirements of a contract, or of an order, or is a subcontractor upon which the prime contractor is unusually reliant. As long as each concern is small under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract (or the prime contractor is small if the subcontractor is the SBA-approved mentor to the prime contractor), the arrangement will qualify as a small business.
(i) All aspects of the relationship between the prime and subcontractor are considered, including, but not limited to, the terms of the proposal (such as contract management, transfer of the subcontractor's incumbent managers, technical responsibilities, and the percentage of subcontracted work), agreements between the prime and subcontractor (such as bonding assistance or the teaming agreement), whether the subcontractor is the incumbent contractor and is ineligible to submit a proposal because it exceeds the applicable size standard for that solicitation, and whether the prime contractor
relies solely on the subcontractor's experience because it lacks any relevant experience of its own. No one factor is determinative.
(ii) A prime contractor may use the experience and past performance of a subcontractor to enhance or strengthen its offer, including that of an incumbent contractor. It is only where that subcontractor will perform primary and vital requirements of a contract or order, or the prime contractor is unusually reliant on the subcontractor, that SBA will find the subcontractor to be an ostensible subcontractor.
(iii) In the case of a contract or order set-aside or reserved for small business for services, specialty trade construction or supplies, SBA will find that a small business prime contractor is performing the primary and vital requirements of the contract or order, and is not unduly reliant on one or more subcontractors that are not small businesses, where the prime contractor can demonstrate that it, together with any subcontractors that qualify as small businesses, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 125.6 of this chapter.
(iv) In a general construction contract, the primary and vital requirements of the contract are the management, supervision and oversight of the project, including coordinating the work of various subcontractors, not the actual construction work performed.
(4)
Receipts/employees attributable to joint venture partners.
For size purposes, a concern must include in its receipts its proportionate share of joint venture receipts. Proportionate receipts do not include proceeds from transactions between the concern and its joint ventures (e.g., subcontracts from a joint venture entity to joint venture partners) already accounted for in the concern's tax return. In determining the number of employees, a concern must include in its total number of employees its proportionate share of individuals employed by the joint venture. For the calculation of receipts, the appropriate proportionate share is the same percentage of receipts or employees as the joint venture partner's percentage share of the work performed by the joint venture. For a populated joint venture (where work is performed by the joint venture entity itself and not by the individual joint venture partners) the appropriate share is the same percentage as the joint venture partner's percentage ownership share in the joint venture. For the calculation of employees, the appropriate share is the same percentage of employees as the joint venture partner's percentage ownership share in the joint venture, after first subtracting any joint venture employee already accounted for in one of the partner's employee counts.
(5)
Facility security clearances.
A joint venture may be awarded a contract requiring a facility security clearance where either the joint venture itself or the individual partner(s) to the joint venture that will perform the necessary security work has (have) a facility security clearance.
(i) Where a facility security clearance is required to perform primary and vital requirements of a contract, the lead small business partner to the joint venture must possess the required facility security clearance.
(ii) Where the security portion of the contract requiring a facility security clearance is ancillary to the principal purpose of the procurement, the partner to the joint venture that will perform that work must possess the required facility security clearance.
(i)
Affiliation based on franchise and license agreements.
The restraints imposed on a franchisee or licensee by its franchise or license agreement relating to standardized quality, advertising, accounting format and other similar provisions, generally will not be considered in determining whether the franchisor or licensor is affiliated with the franchisee or licensee provided the franchisee or licensee has the right to profit from its efforts and bears the risk of loss commensurate with ownership. Affiliation may arise, however, through other means, such as common ownership, common management or excessive restrictions upon the sale of the franchise interest.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 121.103, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 121.103 were published at 89 FR 102485, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 121.104
How does SBA calculate annual receipts?
(a)
Receipts
means all revenue in whatever form received or accrued from whatever source, including from the sales of products or services, interest, dividends, rents, royalties, fees, or commissions, reduced by returns and allowances.Generally, receipts are considered “total income” (or in the case of a sole proprietorship “gross income”) plus “cost of goods sold” as these terms are defined and reported on Internal Revenue Service (IRS) tax return forms (such as Form 1120 for corporations; Form 1120S for S corporations; Form 1120, Form 1065 or Form 1040 for LLCs; Form 1065 for partnerships; Form 1040, Schedule F for farms; Form 1040, Schedule C for other sole proprietorships). Receipts do not include net capital gains or losses; taxes collected for and remitted to a taxing authority if included in gross or total income, such as sales or other taxes collected from customers and excluding taxes levied on the concern or its employees; proceeds from transactions between a concern and its domestic or foreign affiliates; and amounts collected for another by a travel agent, real estate agent, advertising agent, conference management service provider, freight forwarder or customs broker. For size determination purposes, the only exclusions from receipts are those specifically provided for in this paragraph. All other items, such as subcontractor costs, reimbursements for purchases a contractor makes at a customer's request, investment income, and employee-based costs such as payroll taxes, may not be excluded from receipts.
(1) The Federal income tax return and any amendments filed with the IRS on or before the date of self-certification must be used to determine the size status of a concern. SBA will not use tax returns or amendments filed with the IRS after the initiation of a size determination.
(2) When a concern has not filed a Federal income tax return with the IRS for a fiscal year which must be included in the period of measurement, SBA will calculate the concern's annual receipts for that year using any other available information, such as the concern's regular books of account, audited financial statements, or information contained in an affidavit by a person with personal knowledge of the facts.
(b)
Completed fiscal year
means a taxable year including any short year. “Taxable year” and “short year” have the meanings attributed to them by the IRS.
(c)
Period of measurement.
(1) Except for the Business Loan, Disaster Loan, Surety Bond Guarantee, and Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) Programs, annual receipts of a concern that has been in business for 5 or more completed fiscal years means the total receipts of the concern over its most recently completed 5 fiscal years divided by 5.
(2) Except for the Business Loan, Disaster Loan Programs, Surety Bond Guarantee, and SBIC Programs, annual receipts of a concern which has been in business for less than 5 complete fiscal years means the total receipts for the period the concern has been in business divided by the number of weeks in business, multiplied by 52.
(3) Except for the Business Loan, Disaster Loan, Surety Bond Guarantee, and SBIC Programs, where a concern has been in business 5 or more complete fiscal years but has a short year as one of the years within its period of measurement, annual receipts means the total receipts for the short year and the 4 full fiscal years divided by the total number of weeks in the short year and the 4 full fiscal years, multiplied by 52.
(4) For the Business Loan, Disaster Loan, Surety Bond Guarantee, and SBIC Programs, a concern that has been in business for three or more completed fiscal years may elect to calculate annual receipts using either the total receipts of the concern over its most recently completed 5 fiscal years divided by 5, or the total receipts of the concern over its most recently completed 3 fiscal years divided by 3. Annual receipts of a concern which has been in business for less than three complete fiscal years means the total receipts for the period the concern has
been in business divided by the number of weeks in business, multiplied by 52. Where a concern has been in business three or more complete fiscal years but has a short year as one of the years within its period of measurement, annual receipts means the total receipts for the short year and the two full fiscal years divided by the total number of weeks in the short year and the two full fiscal years, multiplied by 52. For the purposes of this subsection, the Business Loan Programs consist of the 7(a) Loan Program, the Microloan Program, the Intermediary Lending Pilot Program, and the Development Company Loan Program (“504 Loan Program”). The Disaster Loan Programs consist of Economic Injury Disaster Loans, Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loans, and Immediate Disaster Assistance Program loans.
(d)
Annual receipts of affiliates.
(1) The average annual receipts size of a business concern with affiliates is calculated by adding the average annual receipts of the business concern with the average annual receipts of each affiliate.
(2) If a concern has acquired an affiliate or been acquired as an affiliate during the applicable period of measurement or before the date on which it self-certified as small, the annual receipts used in determining size status includes the receipts of the acquired or acquiring concern. This aggregation applies for the entire period of measurement, not just the period after the affiliation arose. However, if a concern has acquired a segregable division of another business concern during the applicable period of measurement or before the date on which it self-certified as small, the annual receipts used in determining size status do not include the receipts of the acquired division prior to the acquisition.
(3) Except for the Business Loan and Disaster Loan Programs, if the business concern or an affiliate has been in business for a period of less than 5 years, the receipts for the fiscal year with less than a 12-month period are annualized in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. Receipts are determined for the concern and its affiliates in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section even though this may result in using a different period of measurement to calculate an affiliate's annual receipts.
(4) The annual receipts of a former affiliate are not included if affiliation ceased before the date used for determining size. This exclusion of annual receipts of such former affiliate applies during the entire period of measurement, rather than only for the period after which affiliation ceased. However, if a concern has sold a segregable division to another business concern during the applicable period of measurement or before the date on which it self-certified as small, the annual receipts used in determining size status will continue to include the receipts of the division that was sold.
(e) Unless otherwise defined in this section, all terms shall have the meaning attributed to them by the IRS.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 48604, Aug. 9, 2000; 69 FR 29203, May 21, 2004; 81 FR 34258, May 31, 2016; 84 FR 66578, Dec. 5, 2019; 87 FR 34120, June 6, 2022]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 121.104 were published at 89 FR 102485, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 121.105
How does SBA define “business concern or concern”?
(a)(1) Except for small agricultural cooperatives, a business concern eligible for assistance from SBA as a small business is a business entity organized for profit, with a place of business located in the United States, and which operates primarily within the United States or which makes a significant contribution to the U.S. economy through payment of taxes or use of American products, materials or labor.
(2) A small agricultural cooperative is an association (corporate or otherwise) acting pursuant to the provisions of the Agricultural Marketing Act (12 U.S.C.A. 1141j) whose size does not exceed the size standard established by SBA for other similar agricultural small business concerns. A small agricultural cooperative's member shareholders are not considered to be affiliates of the cooperative by virtue of their membership in the cooperative. However, a business concern or cooperative that does not qualify as small under this part may not be a member of a small agricultural cooperative.
(b) A business concern may be in the legal form of an individual proprietorship, partnership, limited liability company, corporation, joint venture, association, trust or cooperative, except that where the form is a joint venture there can be no more than 49 percent participation by foreign business entities in the joint venture.
(c) A firm will not be treated as a separate business concern if a substantial portion of its assets and/or liabilities are the same as those of a predecessor entity. In such a case, the annual receipts and employees of the predecessor will be taken into account in determining size.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 70 FR 51248, Aug. 30, 2005]
§ 121.106
How does SBA calculate number of employees?
(a) In determining a concern's number of employees, SBA counts all individuals employed on a full-time, part-time, or other basis. This includes employees obtained from a temporary employee agency, professional employee organization or leasing concern. SBA will consider the totality of the circumstances, including criteria used by the IRS for Federal income tax purposes, in determining whether individuals are employees of a concern. Volunteers (
i.e.
, individuals who receive no compensation, including no in-kind compensation, for work performed) are not considered employees.
(b) Where the size standard is number of employees, the method for determining a concern's size includes the following principles:
(1) The average number of employees of the concern is used (including the employees of its domestic and foreign affiliates) based upon numbers of employees for each of the pay periods for the preceding completed 24 calendar months.
(2) Part-time and temporary employees are counted the same as full-time employees.
(3) If a concern has not been in business for 24 months, the average number of employees is used for each of the pay periods during which it has been in business.
(4)(i) The average number of employees of a business concern with affiliates is calculated by adding the average number of employees of the business concern with the average number of employees of each affiliate. If a concern has acquired an affiliate or been acquired as an affiliate during the applicable period of measurement or before the date on which it self-certified as small, the employees counted in determining size status include the employees of the acquired or acquiring concern. Furthermore, this aggregation applies for the entire period of measurement, not just the period after the affiliation arose.
(ii) The employees of a former affiliate are not counted if affiliation ceased before the date used for determining size. This exclusion of employees of a former affiliate applies during the entire period of measurement, rather than only for the period after which affiliation ceased. However, if a concern has sold a segregable division to another business concern during the applicable period of measurement or before the date on which it self-certified as small, the employees used in determining size status will continue to include the employees of the division that was sold.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 29203, May 21, 2004; 84 FR 66579, Dec. 5, 2019; 87 FR 34120, June 6, 2022]
§ 121.107
How does SBA determine a concern's “primary industry”?
In determining the primary industry in which a concern or a concern combined with its affiliates is engaged, SBA considers the distribution of receipts, employees and costs of doing business among the different industries in which business operations occurred for the most recently completed fiscal year. SBA may also consider other factors, such as the distribution of patents, contract awards, and assets.
§ 121.108
What are the penalties for misrepresentation of size status?
(a)
Presumption of Loss Based on the Total Amount Expended.
In every contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant which is set aside, reserved, or otherwise classified as intended for award to small
business concerns, there shall be a presumption of loss to the United States based on the total amount expended on the contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant whenever it is established that a business concern other than a small business concern willfully sought and received the award by misrepresentation.
(b)
Deemed Certifications.
The following actions shall be deemed affirmative, willful and intentional certifications of small business size and status:
(1) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement reserved, set aside, or otherwise classified as intended for award to small business concerns.
(2) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement or cooperative research and development agreement which in any way encourages a Federal agency to classify the bid or proposal, if awarded, as an award to a small business concern.
(3) Registration on any Federal electronic database for the purpose of being considered for award of a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement, as a small business concern.
(c)
Signature Requirement.
Each offer, proposal, bid, or application for a Federal contract, subcontract, or grant shall contain a certification concerning the small business size and status of a business concern seeking the Federal contract, subcontract or grant. An authorized official must sign the certification on the same page containing the size status claimed by the concern.
(d)
Limitation of Liability.
Paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section may be determined not to apply in the case of unintentional errors, technical malfunctions, and other similar situations that demonstrate that a misrepresentation of size was not affirmative, intentional, willful or actionable under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. §§ 3729, et seq. A prime contractor acting in good faith should not be held liable for misrepresentations made by its subcontractors regarding the subcontractors' size. Relevant factors to consider in making this determination may include the firm's internal management procedures governing size representation or certification, the clarity or ambiguity of the representation or certification requirement, and the efforts made to correct an incorrect or invalid representation or certification in a timely manner. An individual or firm may not be held liable where government personnel have erroneously identified a concern as small without any representation or certification having been made by the concern and where such identification is made without the knowledge of the individual or firm.
(e)
Penalties for Misrepresentation.
(1)
Suspension or debarment.
The SBA suspension and debarment official or the agency suspension and debarment official may suspend or debar a person or concern for misrepresenting a firm's size status pursuant to the procedures set forth in 48 CFR subpart 9.4.
(2)
Civil Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3733, the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812 and any other applicable laws or regulations, including 13 CFR part 142.
(3)
Criminal Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe criminal penalties for knowingly misrepresenting the small business size status of a concern in connection with procurement programs pursuant to section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d), as amended, 18 U.S.C. 1001, 18 U.S.C. 287, and any other applicable laws. Persons or concerns are subject to criminal penalties for knowingly making false statements or misrepresentations to SBA for the purpose of influencing any actions of SBA pursuant to section 16(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(a), as amended, including failure to correct “continuing representations” that are no longer true.
(4)
Limitation on Liability.
An individual or business concern will not be subject to the penalties imposed under 15 U.S.C. 645(a) where it acted in good
faith reliance on a small business status advisory opinion accepted by SBA under § 121.109.
[78 FR 38816, June 28, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 7536, Feb. 11, 2015; 81 FR 31491, May 19, 2016]
§ 121.109
What is a small business status advisory opinion?
(a)
Defined.
A small business status advisory opinion is a written opinion issued by either a Small Business Development Center (SBDC) operating under part 130 of this chapter or a Procurement Technical Assistance Center (PTAC) operating under 10 U.S.C. chapter 142 which concludes that a firm is entitled to represent itself as a small business concern for purposes of federal government procurement opportunities.
(b)
Submission.
An SBDC or PTAC must submit a copy of each small business status advisory opinion it issues to the following Agency official for review: Associate General Counsel, Office of Procurement Law, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street SW., Washington, DC 20416 or by fax to (202) 205-6390 marked Attn: Small Business Status Advisory Opinion. A small business status advisory opinion must:
(1) Provide a written analysis explaining the reasoning underlying the SBDC or PTAC's determination that the covered concern, along with its affiliates, either does or does not exceed the size standard(s). This analysis must be dated and signed by an SBDC or PTAC business counselor or similarly qualified individual.
(2) Include, as an attachment, a completed copy of an SBA Form 355 for the covered concern and its affiliates.
(3) Include, as an attachment, copies of the evidence (such as payroll records, time sheets, federal income tax returns, etc.) provided by the covered concern to the SBDC or PTAC clearly documenting its annual receipts and/or number of employees as those terms are defined by §§ 121.104 and 121.106.
(c)
Review.
Unless a referral is made under paragraph (e) of this section, SBA will decide within 10 business days of receiving a small business status advisory opinion to accept or reject it based on its consistency with part 121. SBA will provide written notification of that decision to the SBDC or PTAC that issued the small business status advisory opinion as well as to the covered concern.
(d)
Reliance.
A concern that receives a small business status advisory opinion holding that it does not exceed the applicable size standard(s) may rely upon that determination for purposes of responding to Federal procurement opportunities from the date it is issued unless and until that advisory opinion is rejected by SBA in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section or the concern undergoes a significant change in its ownership, management, or other factors bearing on its status as a small business concern. However, the firm's size may be protested by interested parties in connection with a specific procurement.
(e)
Referral for size determination.
Nothing in this section precludes the Associate General Counsel, Office of Procurement Law from requesting a formal size determination for a concern that is the subject of a small business status advisory opinion pursuant to § 121.1001(b)(9).
(f)
Penalties for misrepresentation
—(1)
Suspension or debarment.
The SBA suspension and debarment official may suspend or debar a person or concern for misrepresenting a concern's size for purposes of obtaining a small business size status advisory opinion pursuant to the procedures set forth in 48 CFR subpart 9.4.
(2)
Civil penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3733, and under the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 331 U.S.C. 3801-3812, and any other applicable laws.
(3)
Criminal Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe criminal penalties for knowingly misrepresenting the small business size status of a concern in connection with procurement programs pursuant to section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d), as amended, 18 U.S.C. 1001, 18 U.S.C. 287, and any other applicable laws. Persons or concerns are subject to criminal penalties for knowingly making false statements or misrepresentations for the purpose of influencing any actions of SBA pursuant
to section 16(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(a), as amended, including failure to correct “continuing representations” that are no longer true.
[80 FR 7536, Feb. 11, 2015]
§ 121.110
What must a concern do in order to be identified as a small business concern in any Federal procurement databases?
(a) In order to be identified as a small business concern in the System for Award Management (SAM) database (or any successor thereto), a concern must certify its size in connection with specific size standards at least annually.
(b) If a firm identified as a small business concern in SAM fails to certify its size within one year of a size certification, the firm will not be listed as a small business concern in SAM, unless and until the firm recertifies its size.
[78 FR 38817, June 28, 2013. Redesignated at 80 FR 7536, Feb. 11, 2015]

# Size Standards Used To Define Small Business Concerns
§ 121.201
What size standards has SBA identified by North American Industry Classification System codes?
The size standards described in this section apply to all SBA programs unless otherwise specified in this part. The size standards themselves are expressed either in number of employees or annual receipts in millions of dollars, unless otherwise specified. The number of employees or annual receipts indicates the maximum allowed for a concern and its affiliates to be considered small.
Small Business Size Standards by NAICS Industry
NAICS codes
NAICS U.S. industry title
Size standards in millions of dollars
Size standards in number of employees
Sector 11—Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing and Hunting
Subsector 111—Crop Production
111110
Soybean Farming
$2.25
111120
Oilseed (except Soybean) Farming
$2.25
111130
Dry Pea and Bean Farming
$2.75
111140
Wheat Farming
$2.25
111150
Corn Farming
$2.5
111160
Rice Farming
$2.5
111191
Oilseed and Grain Combination Farming
$2.25
111199
All Other Grain Farming
$2.25
111211
Potato Farming
$4.25
111219
Other Vegetable (except Potato) and Melon Farming
$3.75
111310
Orange Groves
$4.0
111320
Citrus (except Orange) Groves
$4.25
111331
Apple Orchards
$4.5
111332
Grape Vineyards
$4.0
111333
Strawberry Farming
$5.5
111334
Berry (except Strawberry) Farming
$3.75
111335
Tree Nut Farming
$3.75
111336
Fruit and Tree Nut Combination Farming
$5.0
111339
Other Noncitrus Fruit Farming
$3.5
111411
Mushroom Production
$4.5
111419
Other Food Crops Grown Under Cover
$4.5
111421
Nursery and Tree Production
$3.25
111422
Floriculture Production
$3.75
111910
Tobacco Farming
$2.5
111920
Cotton Farming
$3.25
111930
Sugarcane Farming
$5.0
111940
Hay Farming
$2.5
111991
Sugar Beet Farming
$2.5
111992
Peanut Farming
$2.5
111998
All Other Miscellaneous Crop Farming
$2.5
Subsector 112—Animal Production and Aquaculture
112111
Beef Cattle Ranching and Farming
$2.5
112112
Cattle Feedlots
$22.0
112120
Dairy Cattle and Milk Production
$3.75
112210
Hog and Pig Farming
$4.0
112310
Chicken Egg Production
$19.0
112320
Broilers and Other Meat Type Chicken Production
$3.5
112330
Turkey Production
$3.75
112340
Poultry Hatcheries
$4.0
112390
Other Poultry Production
$3.75
112410
Sheep Farming
$3.5
112420
Goat Farming
$2.5
112511
Finfish Farming and Fish Hatcheries
$3.75
112512
Shellfish Farming
$3.75
112519
Other Aquaculture
$3.75
112910
Apiculture
$3.25
112920
Horse and Other Equine Production
$2.75
112930
Fur-Bearing Animal and Rabbit Production
$3.75
112990
All Other Animal Production
$2.75
Subsector 113—Forestry and Logging
113110
Timber Tract Operations
$19.0
113210
Forest Nurseries and Gathering of Forest Products
$20.5
113310
Logging
500
Subsector 114—Fishing, Hunting and Trapping
114111
Finfish Fishing
$25.0
114112
Shellfish Fishing
$14.0
114119
Other Marine Fishing
$11.5
114210
Hunting and Trapping
$8.5
Subsector 115—Support Activities for Agriculture and Forestry
115111
Cotton Ginning
$16.0
115112
Soil Preparation, Planting, and Cultivating
$9.5
115113
Crop Harvesting, Primarily by Machine
$13.5
115114
Postharvest Crop Activities (except Cotton Ginning)
$34.0
115115
Farm Labor Contractors and Crew Leaders
$19.0
115116
Farm Management Services
$15.5
115210
Support Activities for Animal Production
$11.0
115310
Support Activities for Forestry
$11.5
115310 (Exception 1)
Forest Fire Suppression
1
$34.0
1
115310 (Exception 2)
Fuels Management Services
1
$34.0
1
Sector 21—Mining, Quarrying, and Oil and Gas Extraction
Subsector 211—Oil and Gas Extraction
211120
Crude Petroleum Extraction
1,250
211130
Natural Gas Extraction
1,250
Subsector 212—Mining (except Oil and Gas)
212114
Surface Coal Mining
1,250
212115
Underground Coal Mining
1,500
212210
Iron Ore Mining
1,400
212220
Gold Ore and Silver Ore Mining
1,500
212230
Copper, Nickel, Lead, and Zinc Mining
1,400
212290
Other Metal Ore Mining
1,250
212311
Dimension Stone Mining and Quarrying
500
212312
Crushed and Broken Limestone Mining and Quarrying
750
212313
Crushed and Broken Granite Mining and Quarrying
850
212319
Other Crushed and Broken Stone Mining and Quarrying
550
212321
Construction Sand and Gravel Mining
500
212322
Industrial Sand Mining
750
212323
Kaolin, Clay, and Ceramic and Refractory Minerals Mining
650
212390
Other Nonmetallic Mineral Mining and Quarrying
600
Subsector 213—Support Activities for Mining
213111
Drilling Oil and Gas Wells
1,000
213112
Support Activities for Oil and Gas Operations
$47.0
213113
Support Activities for Coal Mining
$27.5
213114
Support Activities for Metal Mining
$41.0
213115
Support Activities for Nonmetallic Minerals (except Fuels)
$20.5
Sector 22—Utilities
Subsector 221—Utilities
221111
Hydroelectric Power Generation
750
221112
Fossil Fuel Electric Power Generation
950
221113
Nuclear Electric Power Generation
1,150
221114
Solar Electric Power Generation
500
221115
Wind Electric Power Generation
1,150
221116
Geothermal Electric Power Generation
250
221117
Biomass Electric Power Generation
550
221118
Other Electric Power Generation
650
221121
Electric Bulk Power Transmission and Control
950
221122
Electric Power Distribution
1,100
221210
Natural Gas Distribution
1,150
221310
Water Supply and Irrigation Systems
$41.0
221320
Sewage Treatment Facilities
$35.0
221330
Steam and Air-Conditioning Supply
$30.0
Sector 23—Construction
Subsector 236—Construction of Buildings
236115
New Single-family Housing Construction (Except For-Sale Builders)
$45.0
236116
New Multifamily Housing Construction (except For-Sale Builders)
$45.0
236117
New Housing For-Sale Builders
$45.0
236118
Residential Remodelers
$45.0
236210
Industrial Building Construction
$45.0
236220
Commercial and Institutional Building Construction
$45.0
Subsector 237—Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction
237110
Water and Sewer Line and Related Structures Construction
$45.0
237120
Oil and Gas Pipeline and Related Structures Construction
$45.0
237130
Power and Communication Line and Related Structures Construction
$45.0
237210
Land Subdivision
$34.0
237310
Highway, Street, and Bridge Construction
$45.0
237990
Other Heavy and Civil Engineering Construction
$45.0
237900 (Exception)
Dredging and Surface Cleanup Activities
2
$37.0
2
Subsector 238—Specialty Trade Contractors
238110
Poured Concrete Foundation and Structure Contractors
$19.0
238120
Structural Steel and Precast Concrete Contractors
$19.0
238130
Framing Contractors
$19.0
238140
Masonry Contractors
$19.0
238150
Glass and Glazing Contractors
$19.0
238160
Roofing Contractors
$19.0
238170
Siding Contractors
$19.0
238190
Other Foundation, Structure, and Building Exterior Contractors
$19.0
238210
Electrical Contractors and Other Wiring Installation Contractors
$19.0
238220
Plumbing, Heating, and Air-Conditioning Contractors
$19.0
238290
Other Building Equipment Contractors
$22.0
238310
Drywall and Insulation Contractors
$19.0
238320
Painting and Wall Covering Contractors
$19.0
238330
Flooring Contractors
$19.0
238340
Tile and Terrazzo Contractors
$19.0
238350
Finish Carpentry Contractors
$19.0
238390
Other Building Finishing Contractors
$19.0
238910
Site Preparation Contractors
$19.0
238990
All Other Specialty Trade Contractors
$19.0
238990 (Exception)
Building and Property Specialty Trade Services
13
$19.0
13
Sectors 31-33—Manufacturing
Subsector 311—Food Manufacturing
311111
Dog and Cat Food Manufacturing
1,250
311119
Other Animal Food Manufacturing
650
311211
Flour Milling
1,050
311212
Rice Milling
750
311213
Malt Manufacturing
500
311221
Wet Corn Milling and Starch Manufacturing
1,300
311224
Soybean and Other Oilseed Processing
1,250
311225
Fats and Oils Refining and Blending
1,100
311230
Breakfast Cereal Manufacturing
1,300
311313
Beet Sugar Manufacturing
1,150
311314
Cane Sugar Manufacturing
1,050
311340
Nonchocolate Confectionery Manufacturing
1,000
311351
Chocolate and Confectionery Manufacturing from Cacao Beans
1,250
311352
Confectionery Manufacturing from Purchased Chocolate
1,000
311411
Frozen Fruit, Juice, and Vegetable Manufacturing
1,100
311412
Frozen Specialty Food Manufacturing
1,250
311421
Fruit and Vegetable Canning
3
1,000
3
311422
Specialty Canning
1,400
311423
Dried and Dehydrated Food Manufacturing
750
311511
Fluid Milk Manufacturing
1,150
311512
Creamery Butter Manufacturing
750
311513
Cheese Manufacturing
1,250
311514
Dry, Condensed, and Evaporated Dairy Product Manufacturing
1,000
311520
Ice Cream and Frozen Dessert Manufacturing
1,000
311611
Animal (except Poultry) Slaughtering
1,150
311612
Meat Processed from Carcasses
1,000
311613
Rendering and Meat Byproduct Processing
750
311615
Poultry Processing
1,250
311710
Seafood Product Preparation and Packaging
750
311811
Retail Bakeries
500
311812
Commercial Bakeries
1,000
311813
Frozen Cakes, Pies, and Other Pastries Manufacturing
750
311821
Cookie and Cracker Manufacturing
1,250
311824
Dry Pasta, Dough, and Flour Mixes Manufacturing from Purchased Flour
850
311830
Tortilla Manufacturing
1,250
311911
Roasted Nuts and Peanut Butter Manufacturing
750
311919
Other Snack Food Manufacturing
1,250
311920
Coffee and Tea Manufacturing
1,000
311930
Flavoring Syrup and Concentrate Manufacturing
1,100
311941
Mayonnaise, Dressing, and Other Prepared Sauce Manufacturing
850
311942
Spice and Extract Manufacturing
650
311991
Perishable Prepared Food Manufacturing
700
311999
All Other Miscellaneous Food Manufacturing
700
Subsector 312—Beverage and Tobacco Product Manufacturing
312111
Soft Drink Manufacturing
1,400
312112
Bottled Water Manufacturing
1,100
312113
Ice Manufacturing
750
312120
Breweries
1,250
312130
Wineries
1,000
312140
Distilleries
1,100
312230
Tobacco Manufacturing
1,500
Subsector 313—Textile Mills
313110
Fiber, Yarn, and Thread Mills
1,250
313210
Broadwoven Fabric Mills
1,000
313220
Narrow Fabric Mills and Schiffli Machine Embroidery
550
313230
Nonwoven Fabric Mills
850
313240
Knit Fabric Mills
500
313310
Textile and Fabric Finishing Mills
1,000
313320
Fabric Coating Mills
1,000
Subsector 314—Textile Product Mills
314110
Carpet and Rug Mills
1,500
314120
Curtain and Linen Mills
750
314910
Textile Bag and Canvas Mills
500
314994
Rope, Cordage, Twine, Tire Cord, and Tire Fabric Mills
1,000
314999
All Other Miscellaneous Textile Product Mills
550
Subsector 315—Apparel Manufacturing
315120
Apparel Knitting Mills
850
315210
Cut and Sew Apparel Contractors
750
315250
Cut and Sew Apparel Manufacturing (except Contractors)
750
315990
Apparel Accessories and Other Apparel Manufacturing
600
Subsector 316—Leather and Allied Product Manufacturing
316110
Leather and Hide Tanning and Finishing
800
316210
Footwear Manufacturing
1,000
316990
Other Leather and Allied Product Manufacturing
500
Subsector 321—Wood Product Manufacturing
321113
Sawmills
550
321114
Wood Preservation
550
321211
Hardwood Veneer and Plywood Manufacturing
600
321212
Softwood Veneer and Plywood Manufacturing
1,250
321215
Engineered Wood Member Manufacturing
500
321219
Reconstituted Wood Product Manufacturing
750
321911
Wood Window and Door Manufacturing
1,000
321912
Cut Stock, Resawing Lumber, and Planing
500
321918
Other Millwork (including Flooring)
500
321920
Wood Container and Pallet Manufacturing
500
321991
Manufactured Home (Mobile Home) Manufacturing
1,250
321992
Prefabricated Wood Building Manufacturing
500
321999
All Other Miscellaneous Wood Product Manufacturing
500
Subsector 322—Paper Manufacturing
322110
Pulp Mills
1,050
322120
Paper Mills
1,250
322130
Paperboard Mills
1,250
322211
Corrugated and Solid Fiber Box Manufacturing
1,250
322212
Folding Paperboard Box Manufacturing
750
322219
Other Paperboard Container Manufacturing
1,000
322220
Paper Bag and Coated and Treated Paper Manufacturing
750
322230
Stationery Product Manufacturing
750
322291
Sanitary Paper Product Manufacturing
1,500
322299
All Other Converted Paper Product Manufacturing
500
Subsector 323—Printing and Related Support Activities
323111
Commercial Printing (except Screen and Books)
650
323113
Commercial Screen Printing
500
323117
Books Printing
1,250
323120
Support Activities for Printing
550
Subsector 324—Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing
324110
Petroleum Refineries
4
1,500
4
324121
Asphalt Paving Mixture and Block Manufacturing
500
324122
Asphalt Shingle and Coating Materials Manufacturing
1,100
324191
Petroleum Lubricating Oil and Grease Manufacturing
900
324199
All Other Petroleum and Coal Products Manufacturing
950
Subsector 325—Chemical Manufacturing
325110
Petrochemical Manufacturing
1,300
325120
Industrial Gas Manufacturing
1,200
325130
Synthetic Dye and Pigment Manufacturing
1,050
325180
Other Basic Inorganic Chemical Manufacturing
1,000
325193
Ethyl Alcohol Manufacturing
1,000
325194
Cyclic Crude, Intermediate, and Gum and Wood Chemical Manufacturing
1,250
325199
All Other Basic Organic Chemical Manufacturing
1,250
325211
Plastics Material and Resin Manufacturing
1,250
325212
Synthetic Rubber Manufacturing
1,000
325220
Artificial and Synthetic Fibers and Filaments Manufacturing
1,050
325311
Nitrogenous Fertilizer Manufacturing
1,050
325312
Phosphatic Fertilizer Manufacturing
1,350
325314
Fertilizer (Mixing Only) Manufacturing
550
325315
Compost Manufacturing
550
325320
Pesticide and Other Agricultural Chemical Manufacturing
1,150
325411
Medicinal and Botanical Manufacturing
1,000
325412
Pharmaceutical Preparation Manufacturing
1,300
325413
In-Vitro Diagnostic Substance Manufacturing
1,250
325414
Biological Product (except Diagnostic) Manufacturing
1,250
325510
Paint and Coating Manufacturing
1,000
325520
Adhesive Manufacturing
550
325611
Soap and Other Detergent Manufacturing
1,100
325612
Polish and Other Sanitation Good Manufacturing
900
325613
Surface Active Agent Manufacturing
1,100
325620
Toilet Preparation Manufacturing
1,250
325910
Printing Ink Manufacturing
750
325920
Explosives Manufacturing
750
325991
Custom Compounding of Purchased Resins
600
325992
Photographic Film, Paper, Plate, Chemical, and Copy Toner Manufacturing
1,500
325998
All Other Miscellaneous Chemical Product and Preparation Manufacturing
650
Subsector 326—Plastics and Rubber Products Manufacturing
326111
Plastics Bag and Pouch Manufacturing
750
326112
Plastics Packaging Film and Sheet (including Laminated) Manufacturing
1,000
326113
Unlaminated Plastics Film and Sheet (except Packaging) Manufacturing
750
326121
Unlaminated Plastics Profile Shape Manufacturing
600
326122
Plastics Pipe and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing
750
326130
Laminated Plastics Plate, Sheet (except Packaging), and Shape Manufacturing
650
326140
Polystyrene Foam Product Manufacturing
1,000
326150
Urethane and Other Foam Product (except Polystyrene) Manufacturing
750
326160
Plastics Bottle Manufacturing
1,250
326191
Plastics Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing
750
326199
All Other Plastics Product Manufacturing
750
326211
Tire Manufacturing (except Retreading)
5
1,500
5
326212
Tire Retreading
500
326220
Rubber and Plastics Hoses and Belting Manufacturing
800
326291
Rubber Product Manufacturing for Mechanical Use
750
326299
All Other Rubber Product Manufacturing
650
Subsector 327—Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing
327110
Pottery, Ceramics, and Plumbing Fixture Manufacturing
1,000
327120
Clay Building Material and Refractories Manufacturing
750
327211
Flat Glass Manufacturing
1,100
327212
Other Pressed and Blown Glass and Glassware Manufacturing
1,250
327213
Glass Container Manufacturing
1,250
327215
Glass Product Manufacturing Made of Purchased Glass
1,000
327310
Cement Manufacturing
1,000
327320
Ready-Mix Concrete Manufacturing
500
327331
Concrete Block and Brick Manufacturing
500
327332
Concrete Pipe Manufacturing
750
327390
Other Concrete Product Manufacturing
500
327410
Lime Manufacturing
1,050
327420
Gypsum Product Manufacturing
1,500
327910
Abrasive Product Manufacturing
900
327991
Cut Stone and Stone Product Manufacturing
500
327992
Ground or Treated Mineral and Earth Manufacturing
600
327993
Mineral Wool Manufacturing
1,500
327999
All Other Miscellaneous Nonmetallic Mineral Product Manufacturing
750
Subsector 331—Primary Metal Manufacturing
331110
Iron and Steel Mills and Ferroalloy Manufacturing
1,500
331210
Iron and Steel Pipe and Tube Manufacturing from Purchased Steel
1,000
331221
Rolled Steel Shape Manufacturing
1,000
331222
Steel Wire Drawing
1,000
331313
Alumina Refining and Primary Aluminum Production
1,300
331314
Secondary Smelting and Alloying of Aluminum
750
331315
Aluminum Sheet, Plate, and Foil Manufacturing
1,400
331318
Other Aluminum Rolling, Drawing, and Extruding
750
331410
Nonferrous Metal (except Aluminum) Smelting and Refining
1,000
331420
Copper Rolling, Drawing, Extruding, and Alloying
1,050
331491
Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum) Rolling, Drawing, and Extruding
900
331492
Secondary Smelting, Refining, and Alloying of Nonferrous Metal (except Copper and Aluminum)
850
331511
Iron Foundries
1,000
331512
Steel Investment Foundries
1,050
331513
Steel Foundries (except Investment)
700
331523
Nonferrous Metal Die-Casting Foundries
700
331524
Aluminum Foundries (except Die-Casting)
550
331529
Other Nonferrous Metal Foundries (except Die-Casting)
500
Subsector 332—Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing
332111
Iron and Steel Forging
750
332112
Nonferrous Forging
950
332114
Custom Roll Forming
600
332117
Powder Metallurgy Part Manufacturing
550
332119
Metal Crown, Closure, and Other Metal Stamping (except Automotive)
500
332215
Metal Kitchen Cookware, Utensil, Cutlery, and Flatware (except Precious) Manufacturing
1,000
332216
Saw Blade and Handtool Manufacturing
750
332311
Prefabricated Metal Building and Component Manufacturing
750
332312
Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing
500
332313
Plate Work Manufacturing
750
332321
Metal Window and Door Manufacturing
750
332322
Sheet Metal Work Manufacturing
500
332323
Ornamental and Architectural Metal Work Manufacturing
500
332410
Power Boiler and Heat Exchanger Manufacturing
750
332420
Metal Tank (Heavy Gauge) Manufacturing
750
332431
Metal Can Manufacturing
1,500
332439
Other Metal Container Manufacturing
600
332510
Hardware Manufacturing
750
332613
Spring Manufacturing
600
332618
Other Fabricated Wire Product Manufacturing
500
332710
Machine Shops
500
332721
Precision Turned Product Manufacturing
500
332722
Bolt, Nut, Screw, Rivet, and Washer Manufacturing
600
332811
Metal Heat Treating
750
332812
Metal Coating, Engraving (except Jewelry and Silverware), and Allied Services to Manufacturers
600
332813
Electroplating, Plating, Polishing, Anodizing and Coloring
500
332911
Industrial Valve Manufacturing
750
332912
Fluid Power Valve and Hose Fitting Manufacturing
1,000
332913
Plumbing Fixture Fitting and Trim Manufacturing
1,000
332919
Other Metal Valve and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing
750
332991
Ball and Roller Bearing Manufacturing
1,250
332992
Small Arms Ammunition Manufacturing
1,300
332993
Ammunition (except Small Arms) Manufacturing
1,500
332994
Small Arms, Ordnance, and Ordnance Accessories Manufacturing
1,000
332996
Fabricated Pipe and Pipe Fitting Manufacturing
550
332999
All Other Miscellaneous Fabricated Metal Product Manufacturing
750
Subsector 333—Machinery Manufacturing
6
333111
Farm Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing
1,250
333112
Lawn and Garden Tractor and Home Lawn and Garden Equipment Manufacturing
1,500
333120
Construction Machinery Manufacturing
1,250
333131
Mining Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing
900
333132
Oil and Gas Field Machinery and Equipment Manufacturing
1,250
333241
Food Product Machinery Manufacturing
500
333242
Semiconductor Machinery Manufacturing
1,500
333243
Sawmill, Woodworking, and Paper Machinery Manufacturing
550
333248
All Other Industrial Machinery Manufacturing
750
333310
Commercial and Service Industry Machinery Manufacturing
1,000
333413
Industrial and Commercial Fan and Blower and Air Purification Equipment Manufacturing
500
333414
Heating Equipment (except Warm Air Furnaces) Manufacturing
500
333415
Air-Conditioning and Warm Air Heating Equipment and Commercial and Industrial Refrigeration Equipment Manufacturing
1,250
333511
Industrial Mold Manufacturing
500
333514
Special Die and Tool, Die Set, Jig and Fixture Manufacturing
500
333515
Cutting Tool and Machine Tool Accessory Manufacturing
500
333517
Machine Tool Manufacturing
500
333519
Rolling Mill and Other Metalworking Machinery Manufacturing
500
333611
Turbine and Turbine Generator Set Units Manufacturing
1,500
333612
Speed Changer, Industrial High-Speed Drive, and Gear Manufacturing
750
333613
Mechanical Power Transmission Equipment Manufacturing
750
333618
Other Engine Equipment Manufacturing
1,500
333912
Air and Gas Compressor Manufacturing
1,000
333914
Measuring, Dispensing, and Other Pumping Equipment Manufacturing
750
333921
Elevator and Moving Stairway Manufacturing
1,000
333922
Conveyor and Conveying Equipment Manufacturing
500
333923
Overhead Traveling Crane, Hoist, and Monorail System Manufacturing
1,250
333924
Industrial Truck, Tractor, Trailer, and Stacker Machinery Manufacturing
900
333991
Power-Driven Hand Tool Manufacturing
950
333992
Welding and Soldering Equipment Manufacturing
1,250
333993
Packaging Machinery Manufacturing
600
333994
Industrial Process Furnace and Oven Manufacturing
500
333995
Fluid Power Cylinder and Actuator Manufacturing
800
333996
Fluid Power Pump and Motor Manufacturing
1,250
333998
All Other Miscellaneous General Purpose Machinery Manufacturing
700
Subsector 334—Computer and Electronic Product Manufacturing
6
334111
Electronic Computer Manufacturing
1,250
334112
Computer Storage Device Manufacturing
1,250
334118
Computer Terminal and Other Computer Peripheral Equipment Manufacturing
1,000
334210
Telephone Apparatus Manufacturing
1,250
334220
Radio and Television Broadcasting and Wireless Communications Equipment Manufacturing
1,250
334290
Other Communications Equipment Manufacturing
800
334310
Audio and Video Equipment Manufacturing
750
334412
Bare Printed Circuit Board Manufacturing
750
334413
Semiconductor and Related Device Manufacturing
1,250
334416
Capacitor, Resistor, Coil, Transformer, and Other Inductor Manufacturing
550
334417
Electronic Connector Manufacturing
1,000
334418
Printed Circuit Assembly (Electronic Assembly) Manufacturing
750
334419
Other Electronic Component Manufacturing
750
334510
Electromedical and Electrotherapeutic Apparatus Manufacturing
1,250
334511
Search, Detection, Navigation, Guidance, Aeronautical, and Nautical System and Instrument Manufacturing
1,350
334512
Automatic Environmental Control Manufacturing for Residential, Commercial, and Appliance Use
650
334513
Instruments and Related Products Manufacturing for Measuring, Displaying, and Controlling Industrial Process Variables
750
334514
Totalizing Fluid Meter and Counting Device Manufacturing
850
334515
Instrument Manufacturing for Measuring and Testing Electricity and Electrical Signals
750
334516
Analytical Laboratory Instrument Manufacturing
1,000
334517
Irradiation Apparatus Manufacturing
1,200
334519
Other Measuring and Controlling Device Manufacturing
600
334610
Manufacturing and Reproducing Magnetic and Optical Media
1,250
Subsector 335—Electrical Equipment, Appliance and Component Manufacturing
6
335131
Residential Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing
750
335132
Commercial, Industrial, and Institutional Electric Lighting Fixture Manufacturing
600
335139
Electric Lamp Bulb and Other Lighting Equipment Manufacturing
1,250
335210
Small Electrical Appliance Manufacturing
1,500
335220
Major Household Appliance Manufacturing
1,500
335311
Power, Distribution, and Specialty Transformer Manufacturing
800
335312
Motor and Generator Manufacturing
1,250
335313
Switchgear and Switchboard Apparatus Manufacturing
1,250
335314
Relay and Industrial Control Manufacturing
750
335910
Battery Manufacturing
1,250
335921
Fiber Optic Cable Manufacturing
1,000
335929
Other Communication and Energy Wire Manufacturing
1,000
335931
Current-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing
600
335932
Noncurrent-Carrying Wiring Device Manufacturing
1,000
335991
Carbon and Graphite Product Manufacturing
900
335999
All Other Miscellaneous Electrical Equipment and Component Manufacturing
600
Subsector 336—Transportation Equipment Manufacturing
6
336110
Automobile and Light Duty Motor Vehicle Manufacturing
1,500
336120
Heavy Duty Truck Manufacturing
1,500
336211
Motor Vehicle Body Manufacturing
1,000
336212
Truck Trailer Manufacturing
1,000
336213
Motor Home Manufacturing
1,250
336214
Travel Trailer and Camper Manufacturing
1,000
336310
Motor Vehicle Gasoline Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing
1,050
336320
Motor Vehicle Electrical and Electronic Equipment Manufacturing
1,000
336330
Motor Vehicle Steering and Suspension Components (except Spring) Manufacturing
1,000
336340
Motor Vehicle Brake System Manufacturing
1,250
336350
Motor Vehicle Transmission and Power Train Parts Manufacturing
1,500
336360
Motor Vehicle Seating and Interior Trim Manufacturing
1,500
336370
Motor Vehicle Metal Stamping
1,000
336390
Other Motor Vehicle Parts Manufacturing
1,000
336411
Aircraft Manufacturing
1,500
336412
Aircraft Engine and Engine Parts Manufacturing
1,500
336413
Other Aircraft Parts and Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing
7
1,250
7
336414
Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Manufacturing
1,300
336415
Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Propulsion Unit and Propulsion Unit Parts Manufacturing
1,250
336419
Other Guided Missile and Space Vehicle Parts and Auxiliary Equipment Manufacturing
1,050
336510
Railroad Rolling Stock Manufacturing
1,500
336611
Ship Building and Repairing
1,300
336612
Boat Building
1,000
336991
Motorcycle, Bicycle, and Parts Manufacturing
1,050
336992
Military Armored Vehicle, Tank, and Tank Component Manufacturing
1,500
336999
All Other Transportation Equipment Manufacturing
1,000
Subsector 337—Furniture and Related Product Manufacturing
337110
Wood Kitchen Cabinet and Countertop Manufacturing
750
337121
Upholstered Household Furniture Manufacturing
1,000
337122
Nonupholstered Wood Household Furniture Manufacturing
750
337126
Household Furniture (except Wood and Upholstered) Manufacturing
950
337127
Institutional Furniture Manufacturing
500
337211
Wood Office Furniture Manufacturing
1,000
337212
Custom Architectural Woodwork and Millwork Manufacturing
500
337214
Office Furniture (except Wood) Manufacturing
1,100
337215
Showcase, Partition, Shelving, and Locker Manufacturing
500
337910
Mattress Manufacturing
1,000
337920
Blind and Shade Manufacturing
1,000
Subsector 339—Miscellaneous Manufacturing
339112
Surgical and Medical Instrument Manufacturing
1,000
339113
Surgical Appliance and Supplies Manufacturing
800
339114
Dental Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing
750
339115
Ophthalmic Goods Manufacturing
1,000
339116
Dental Laboratories
500
339910
Jewelry and Silverware Manufacturing
700
339920
Sporting and Athletic Goods Manufacturing
750
339930
Doll, Toy, and Game Manufacturing
700
339940
Office Supplies (except Paper) Manufacturing
750
339950
Sign Manufacturing
500
339991
Gasket, Packing, and Sealing Device Manufacturing
600
339992
Musical Instrument Manufacturing
1,000
339993
Fastener, Button, Needle, and Pin Manufacturing
750
339994
Broom, Brush, and Mop Manufacturing
750
339995
Burial Casket Manufacturing
1,000
339999
All Other Miscellaneous Manufacturing
550
Sector 42—Wholesale Trade
(These NAICS codes shall not be used to classify Government acquisitions for supplies. They also shall not be used by Federal Government contractors when subcontracting for the acquisition for supplies. The applicable manufacturing NAICS code shall be used to classify acquisitions for supplies. A Wholesale Trade or Retail Trade business concern submitting an offer or a quote on a supply acquisition is categorized as a nonmanufacturer and deemed small if it has 500 or fewer employees and meets the requirements of 13 CFR 121.406.)
Subsector 423—Merchant Wholesalers, Durable Goods
423110
Automobile and Other Motor Vehicle Merchant Wholesalers
250
423120
Motor Vehicle Supplies and New Parts Merchant Wholesalers
200
423130
Tire and Tube Merchant Wholesalers
200
423140
Motor Vehicle Parts (Used) Merchant Wholesalers
125
423210
Furniture Merchant Wholesalers
100
423220
Home Furnishing Merchant Wholesalers
100
423310
Lumber, Plywood, Millwork, and Wood Panel Merchant Wholesalers
150
423320
Brick, Stone, and Related Construction Material Merchant Wholesalers
150
423330
Roofing, Siding, and Insulation Material Merchant Wholesalers
225
423390
Other Construction Material Merchant Wholesalers
100
423410
Photographic Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
200
423420
Office Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
200
423430
Computer and Computer Peripheral Equipment and Software Merchant Wholesalers
250
423440
Other Commercial Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
100
423450
Medical, Dental, and Hospital Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
200
423460
Ophthalmic Goods Merchant Wholesalers
175
423490
Other Professional Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
150
423510
Metal Service Centers and Other Metal Merchant Wholesalers
200
423520
Coal and Other Mineral and Ore Merchant Wholesalers
200
423610
Electrical Apparatus and Equipment, Wiring Supplies, and Related Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
200
423620
Household Appliances, Electric Housewares, and Consumer Electronics Merchant Wholesalers
225
423690
Other Electronic Parts and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
250
423710
Hardware Merchant Wholesalers
150
423720
Plumbing and Heating Equipment and Supplies (Hydronics) Merchant Wholesalers
200
423730
Warm Air Heating and Air-Conditioning Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
175
423740
Refrigeration Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
125
423810
Construction and Mining (except Oil Well) Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
250
423820
Farm and Garden Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
125
423830
Industrial Machinery and Equipment Merchant Wholesalers
100
423840
Industrial Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
125
423850
Service Establishment Equipment and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
125
423860
Transportation Equipment and Supplies (except Motor Vehicle) Merchant Wholesalers
175
423910
Sporting and Recreational Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
100
423920
Toy and Hobby Goods and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
175
423930
Recyclable Material Merchant Wholesalers
125
423940
Jewelry, Watch, Precious Stone, and Precious Metal Merchant Wholesalers
125
423990
Other Miscellaneous Durable Goods Merchant Wholesalers
100
Subsector 424—Merchant Wholesalers, Nondurable Goods
424110
Printing and Writing Paper Merchant Wholesalers
225
424120
Stationery and Office Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
150
424130
Industrial and Personal Service Paper Merchant Wholesalers
150
424210
Drugs and Druggists' Sundries Merchant Wholesalers
250
424310
Piece Goods, Notions, and Other Dry Goods Merchant Wholesalers
100
424340
Footwear Merchant Wholesalers
200
424350
Clothing and Clothing Accessories Merchant Wholesalers
150
424410
General Line Grocery Merchant Wholesalers
250
424420
Packaged Frozen Food Merchant Wholesalers
200
424430
Dairy Product (except Dried or Canned) Merchant Wholesalers
200
424440
Poultry and Poultry Product Merchant Wholesalers
150
424450
Confectionery Merchant Wholesalers
225
424460
Fish and Seafood Merchant Wholesalers
100
424470
Meat and Meat Product Merchant Wholesalers
150
424480
Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Merchant Wholesalers
100
424490
Other Grocery and Related Products Merchant Wholesalers
250
424510
Grain and Field Bean Merchant Wholesalers
200
424520
Livestock Merchant Wholesalers
125
424590
Other Farm Product Raw Material Merchant Wholesalers
175
424610
Plastics Materials and Basic Forms and Shapes Merchant Wholesalers
150
424690
Other Chemical and Allied Products Merchant Wholesalers
175
424710
Petroleum Bulk Stations and Terminals
225
424720
Petroleum and Petroleum Products Merchant Wholesalers (except Bulk Stations and Terminals)
200
424810
Beer and Ale Merchant Wholesalers
200
424820
Wine and Distilled Alcoholic Beverage Merchant Wholesalers
250
424910
Farm Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
200
424920
Book, Periodical, and Newspaper Merchant Wholesalers
200
424930
Flower, Nursery Stock, and Florists' Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
100
424940
Tobacco Product and Electronic Cigarette Merchant Wholesalers
250
424950
Paint, Varnish, and Supplies Merchant Wholesalers
150
424990
Other Miscellaneous Nondurable Goods Merchant Wholesalers
100
Subsector 425—Wholesale Trade Agents and Brokers
425120
Wholesale Trade Agents and Brokers
125
Sector 44-45—Retail Trade
(These NAICS codes shall not be used to classify Government acquisitions for supplies. They also shall not be used by Federal Government contractors when subcontracting for the acquisition for supplies. The applicable manufacturing NAICS code shall be used to classify acquisitions for supplies. A Wholesale Trade or Retail Trade business concern submitting an offer or a quote on a supply acquisition is categorized as a nonmanufacturer and deemed small if it has 500 or fewer employees and meets the requirements of 13 CFR 121.406.)
Subsector 441—Motor Vehicle and Parts Dealers
441110
New Car Dealers
200
441120
Used Car Dealers
$30.5
441210
Recreational Vehicle Dealers
$40.0
441222
Boat Dealers
$40.0
441227
Motorcycle, ATV, and All Other Motor Vehicle Dealers
$40.0
441330
Automotive Parts and Accessories Retailers
$28.5
441340
Tire Dealers
$25.5
Subsector 444—Building Material and Garden Equipment and Supplies Dealers
444110
Home Centers
$47.0
444120
Paint and Wallpaper Retailers
$34.0
444140
Hardware Retailers
$16.5
444180
Other Building Material Dealers
$25.0
444230
Outdoor Power Equipment Retailers
$9.5
444240
Nursery, Garden Center, and Farm Supply Retailers
$21.5
Subsector 445—Food and Beverage Stores
445110
Supermarkets and Other Grocery Retailers (except Convenience Retailers)
$40.0
445131
Convenience Retailers
$36.5
445132
Vending Machine Operators
$21.0
445230
Fruit and Vegetable Retailers
$9.0
445240
Meat Retailers
$9.0
445250
Fish and Seafood Retailers
$9.0
445291
Baked Goods Retailers
$16.0
445292
Confectionery and Nut Retailers
$19.5
445298
All Other Specialty Food Retailers
$10.0
445320
Beer, Wine, and Liquor Retailers
$10.0
Subsector 449—Furniture, Home Furnishings, Electronics, and Appliance Retailers
449110
Furniture Retailers
$25.0
449121
Floor Covering Retailers
$9.0
449122
Window Treatment Retailers
$11.5
449129
All Other Home Furnishings Retailers
$33.5
449210
Electronics and Appliance Retailers
$40.0
Subsector 455—General Merchandise Retailers
455110
Department Stores
$40.0
455211
Warehouse Clubs and Supercenters
$47.0
455219
All Other General Merchandise Retailers
$40.0
Subsector 456—Health and Personal Care Retailers
456110
Pharmacies and Drug Retailers
$37.5
456120
Cosmetics, Beauty Supplies, and Perfume Retailers
$34.0
456130
Optical Goods Retailers
$29.5
456191
Food (Health) Supplement Retailers
$22.5
456199
All Other Health and Personal Care Retailers
$9.5
Subsector 457—Gasoline Stations and Fuel Dealers
457110
Gasoline Stations with Convenience Stores
$36.5
457120
Other Gasoline Stations
$33.5
457210
Fuel Dealers
100
Subsector 458—Clothing, Clothing Accessories, Shoe, and Jewelry Retailers
458110
Clothing and Clothing Accessories Retailers
$47.0
458210
Shoe Retailers
$34.0
458310
Jewelry Retailers
$20.5
458320
Luggage and Leather Goods Retailers
$38.0
Subsector 459—Sporting Goods, Hobby, Musical Instrument, Book, and Miscellaneous Retailers
459110
Sporting Goods Retailers
$26.5
459120
Hobby, Toy, and Game Retailers
$35.0
459130
Sewing, Needlework, and Piece Goods Retailers
$34.0
459140
Musical Instrument and Supplies Retailers
$22.5
459210
Book Retailers and News Dealers
$36.0
459310
Florists
$9.0
459410
Office Supplies and Stationery Retailers
$40.0
459420
Gift, Novelty, and Souvenir Retailers
$13.5
459510
Used Merchandise Retailers
$14.0
459910
Pet and Pet Supplies Retailers
$32.0
459920
Art Dealers
$16.5
459930
Manufactured (Mobile) Home Dealers
$19.0
459991
Tobacco, Electronic Cigarette, and Other Smoking Supplies Retailers
$11.5
459999
All Other Miscellaneous Retailers
$11.5
Sectors 48-49—Transportation and Warehousing
Subsector 481—Air Transportation
481111
Scheduled Passenger Air Transportation
1,500
481112
Scheduled Freight Air Transportation
1,500
481211
Nonscheduled Chartered Passenger Air Transportation
1,500
481212
Nonscheduled Chartered Freight Air Transportation
1,500
481219
Other Nonscheduled Air Transportation
$25.0
Subsector 482—Rail Transportation
482111
Line-Haul Railroads
1,500
482112
Short Line Railroads
1,500
Subsector 483—Water Transportation
483111
Deep Sea Freight Transportation
1,050
483112
Deep Sea Passenger Transportation
1,500
483113
Coastal and Great Lakes Freight Transportation
800
483114
Coastal and Great Lakes Passenger Transportation
550
483211
Inland Water Freight Transportation
1,050
483212
Inland Water Passenger Transportation
550
Subsector 484—Truck Transportation
484110
General Freight Trucking, Local
$34.0
484121
General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance, Truckload
$34.0
484122
General Freight Trucking, Long-Distance, Less Than Truckload
$43.0
484210
Used Household and Office Goods Moving
$34.0
484220
Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Local
$34.0
484230
Specialized Freight (except Used Goods) Trucking, Long-Distance
$34.0
Subsector 485—Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation
485111
Mixed Mode Transit Systems
$29.0
485112
Commuter Rail Systems
$47.0
485113
Bus and Other Motor Vehicle Transit Systems
$32.5
485119
Other Urban Transit Systems
$37.5
485210
Interurban and Rural Bus Transportation
$32.0
485310
Taxi and Ridesharing Services
$19.0
485320
Limousine Service
$19.0
485410
School and Employee Bus Transportation
$30.0
485510
Charter Bus Industry
$19.0
485991
Special Needs Transportation
$19.0
485999
All Other Transit and Ground Passenger Transportation
$19.0
Subsector 486—Pipeline Transportation
486110
Pipeline Transportation of Crude Oil
1,500
486210
Pipeline Transportation of Natural Gas
$41.5
486910
Pipeline Transportation of Refined Petroleum Products
1,500
486990
All Other Pipeline Transportation
$46.0
Subsector 487—Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation
487110
Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Land
$20.5
487210
Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Water
$14.0
487990
Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation, Other
$25.0
Subsector 488—Support Activities for Transportation
488111
Air Traffic Control
$40.0
488119
Other Airport Operations
$40.0
488190
Other Support Activities for Air Transportation
$40.0
488210
Support Activities for Rail Transportation
$34.0
488310
Port and Harbor Operations
$47.0
488320
Marine Cargo Handling
$47.0
488330
Navigational Services to Shipping
$47.0
488390
Other Support Activities for Water Transportation
$47.0
488410
Motor Vehicle Towing
$9.0
488490
Other Support Activities for Road Transportation
$18.0
488510
Freight Transportation Arrangement
10
$20.0
10
488510 (Exception)
Non-Vessel Owning Common Carriers and Household Goods Forwarders
$34.0
488991
Packing and Crating
$34.0
488999
All Other Support Activities for Transportation
$25.0
Subsector 491—Postal Service
491110
Postal Service
$9.0
Subsector 492—Couriers and Messengers
492110
Couriers and Express Delivery Services
1,500
492210
Local Messengers and Local Delivery
$34.0
Subsector 493—Warehousing and Storage
493110
General Warehousing and Storage
$34.0
493120
Refrigerated Warehousing and Storage
$36.5
493130
Farm Product Warehousing and Storage
$34.0
493190
Other Warehousing and Storage
$36.5
Sector 51—Information
Subsector 512—Motion Picture and Sound Recording Industries
512110
Motion Picture and Video Production
$40.0
512120
Motion Picture and Video Distribution
$39.0
512131
Motion Picture Theaters (except Drive-Ins)
$47.0
512132
Drive-In Motion Picture Theaters
$12.5
512191
Teleproduction and Other Postproduction Services
$39.0
512199
Other Motion Picture and Video Industries
$28.5
512230
Music Publishers
900
512240
Sound Recording Studios
$11.0
512250
Record Production and Distribution
900
512290
Other Sound Recording Industries
$22.5
Subsector 513—Publishing Industries
513110
Newspaper Publishers
1,000
513120
Periodical Publishers
1,000
513130
Book Publishers
1,000
513140
Directory and Mailing List Publishers
1,000
513191
Greeting Card Publishers
1,000
513199
All Other Publishers
1,000
513210
Software Publishers
15
$47.0
15
Subsector 516—Broadcasting and Content Providers
516110
Radio Broadcasting Stations
$47.0
516120
Television Broadcasting Stations
$47.0
516210
Media Streaming Distribution Services, Social Networks, and Other Media Networks and Content Providers
$47.0
Subsector 517—Telecommunications
517111
Wired Telecommunications Carriers
1,500
517112
Wireless Telecommunications Carriers (except Satellite)
1,500
517121
Telecommunications Resellers
1,500
517122
Agents for Wireless Telecommunications Services
1,500
517410
Satellite Telecommunications
$44.0
517810
All Other Telecommunications
$40.0
Subsector 518—Computing Infrastructure Providers, Data Processing, Web Hosting, and Related Services
518210
Computing Infrastructure Providers, Data Processing, Web Hosting, and Related Services
$40.0
Subsector 519—Web Search Portals, Libraries, Archives, and Other Information Services
519210
Libraries and Archives
$21.0
519290
Web Search Portals and All Other Information Services
1,000
Sector 52—Finance and Insurance
Subsector 522—Credit Intermediation and Related Activities
522110
Commercial Banking
8
$850 million in assets
8
522130
Credit Unions
8
$850 million in assets
8
522180
Savings Institutions and Other Depository Credit Intermediation
8
$850 million in assets
8
522210
Credit Card Issuing
8
$850 million in assets
8
522220
Sales Financing
$47.0
522291
Consumer Lending
$47.0
522292
Real Estate Credit
$47.0
522299
International, Secondary Market, and All Other Nondepository Credit Intermediation
$47.0
522310
Mortgage and Nonmortgage Loan Brokers
$15.0
522320
Financial Transactions Processing, Reserve, and Clearinghouse Activities
$47.0
522390
Other Activities Related to Credit Intermediation
$28.5
Subsector 523—Securities, Commodity Contracts, and Other Financial Investments and Related Activities
523150
Investment Banking and Securities Intermediation
$47.0
523160
Commodity Contracts Intermediation
$41.5
523210
Securities and Commodity Exchanges
$47.0
523910
Miscellaneous Intermediation
$47.0
523940
Portfolio Management and Investment Advice
$47.0
523991
Trust, Fiduciary and Custody Activities
$47.0
523999
Miscellaneous Financial Investment Activities
$47.0
Subsector 524—Insurance Carriers and Related Activities
524113
Direct Life Insurance Carriers
$47.0
524114
Direct Health and Medical Insurance Carriers
$47.0
524126
Direct Property and Casualty Insurance Carriers
1,500
524127
Direct Title Insurance Carriers
$47.0
524128
Other Direct Insurance (except Life, Health and Medical) Carriers
$47.0
524130
Reinsurance Carriers
$47.0
524210
Insurance Agencies and Brokerages
$15.0
524291
Claims Adjusting
$25.0
524292
Pharmacy Benefit Management and Other Third Party Administration of Insurance and Pension Funds
$45.5
524298
All Other Insurance Related Activities
$30.5
Subsector 525—Funds, Trusts and Other Financial Vehicles
525110
Pension Funds
$40.0
525120
Health and Welfare Funds
$40.0
525190
Other Insurance Funds
$40.0
525910
Open-End Investment Funds
$40.0
525920
Trusts, Estates, and Agency Accounts
$40.0
525990
Other Financial Vehicles
$40.0
Sector 53—Real Estate and Rental and Leasing
Subsector 531—Real Estate
531110
Lessors of Residential Buildings and Dwellings
9
$34.0
9
531120
Lessors of Nonresidential Buildings (except Miniwarehouses)
9
$34.0
9
531130
Lessors of Miniwarehouses and Self-Storage Units
9
$34.0
9
531190
Lessors of Other Real Estate Property
9
$34.0
9
531210
Offices of Real Estate Agents and Brokers
10
$15.0
10
531311
Residential Property Managers
$12.5
531312
Nonresidential Property Managers
$19.5
531320
Offices of Real Estate Appraisers
$9.5
531390
Other Activities Related to Real Estate
$19.5
Subsector 532—Rental and Leasing Services
532111
Passenger Car Rental
$47.0
532112
Passenger Car Leasing
$47.0
532120
Truck, Utility Trailer, and RV (Recreational Vehicle) Rental and Leasing
$47.0
532210
Consumer Electronics and Appliances Rental
$47.0
532281
Formal Wear and Costume Rental
$25.0
532282
Video Tape and Disc Rental
$35.0
532283
Home Health Equipment Rental
$41.0
532284
Recreational Goods Rental
$9.0
532289
All Other Consumer Goods Rental
$12.5
532310
General Rental Centers
$9.0
532411
Commercial Air, Rail, and Water Transportation Equipment Rental and Leasing
$45.5
532412
Construction, Mining and Forestry Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing
$40.0
532420
Office Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing
$40.0
532490
Other Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment Rental and Leasing
$40.0
Subsector 533—Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible Assets (except Copyrighted Works)
533110
Lessors of Nonfinancial Intangible Assets (except Copyrighted Works)
$47.0
Sector 54—Professional, Scientific and Technical Services
Subsector 541—Professional, Scientific and Technical Services
541110
Offices of Lawyers
$15.5
541191
Title Abstract and Settlement Offices
$19.5
541199
All Other Legal Services
$20.5
541211
Offices of Certified Public Accountants
$26.5
541213
Tax Preparation Services
$25.0
541214
Payroll Services
$39.0
541219
Other Accounting Services
$25.0
541310
Architectural Services
$12.5
541320
Landscape Architectural Services
$9.0
541330
Engineering Services
$25.5
541330 (Exception 1)
Military and Aerospace Equipment and Military Weapons
$47.0
541330 (Exception 2)
Contracts and Subcontracts for Engineering Services Awarded Under the National Energy Policy Act of 1992
$47.0
541330 (Exception 3)
Marine Engineering and Naval Architecture
$47.0
541340
Drafting Services
$9.0
541350
Building Inspection Services
$11.5
541360
Geophysical Surveying and Mapping Services
$28.5
541370
Surveying and Mapping (except Geophysical) Services
$19.0
541380
Testing Laboratories and Services
$19.0
541410
Interior Design Services
$9.0
541420
Industrial Design Services
$17.0
541430
Graphic Design Services
$9.0
541490
Other Specialized Design Services
$13.5
541511
Custom Computer Programming Services
$34.0
541512
Computer Systems Design Services
$34.0
541513
Computer Facilities Management Services
$37.0
541519
Other Computer Related Services
$34.0
541519 (Exception)
Information Technology Value Added Resellers
18
150
18
541611
Administrative Management and General Management Consulting Services
$24.5
541612
Human Resources Consulting Services
$29.0
541613
Marketing Consulting Services
$19.0
541614
Process, Physical Distribution and Logistics Consulting Services
$20.0
541618
Other Management Consulting Services
$19.0
541620
Environmental Consulting Services
$19.0
541690
Other Scientific and Technical Consulting Services
$19.0
541713
Research and Technology in Nanotechnology
11
1,000
11
541714
Research and Technology in Biotechnology (except Nanobiotechnology)
11
1,000
11
541715
Research and Development in the Physical, Engineering, and Life Sciences (except Nanotechnology and Biotechnology)
11
11
1,000
541715 (Exception 1)
Aircraft, Aircraft Engine and Engine Parts
11
11
1,500
541715 (Exception 2)
Other Aircraft Parts and Auxiliary Equipment
11
11
1,250
541715 (Exception 3)
Guided Missiles and Space Vehicles, Their Propulsion Units and Propulsion Parts
11
11
1,300
541720
Research and Development in the Social Sciences and Humanities
$28.0
541810
Advertising Agencies
10
$25.5
10
541820
Public Relations Agencies
$19.0
541830
Media Buying Agencies
$32.5
541840
Media Representatives
$21.0
541850
Indoor and Outdoor Display Advertising
$34.5
541860
Direct Mail Advertising
$22.0
541870
Advertising Material Distribution Services
$28.5
541890
Other Services Related to Advertising
$19.0
541910
Marketing Research and Public Opinion Polling
$22.5
541921
Photography Studios, Portrait
$16.0
541922
Commercial Photography
$9.0
541930
Translation and Interpretation Services
$22.5
541940
Veterinary Services
$10.0
541990
All Other Professional, Scientific and Technical Services
$19.5
Sector 55—Management of Companies and Enterprises
Subsector 551—Management of Companies and Enterprises
551111
Offices of Bank Holding Companies
$38.5
551112
Offices of Other Holding Companies
$45.5
Sector 56—Administrative and Support and Waste Management and Remediation Services
Subsector 561—Administrative and Support Services
561110
Office Administrative Services
$12.5
561210
Facilities Support Services
12
$47.0
12
561311
Employment Placement Agencies
$34.0
561312
Executive Search Services
$34.0
561320
Temporary Help Services
$34.0
561330
Professional Employer Organizations
$41.5
561410
Document Preparation Services
$19.0
561421
Telephone Answering Services
$19.0
561422
Telemarketing Bureaus and Other Contact Centers
$25.5
561431
Private Mail Centers
$19.0
561439
Other Business Service Centers (including Copy Shops)
$26.5
561440
Collection Agencies
$19.5
561450
Credit Bureaus
$41.0
561491
Repossession Services
$19.0
561492
Court Reporting and Stenotype Services
$19.0
561499
All Other Business Support Services
$21.5
561510
Travel Agencies
10
$25.0
10
561520
Tour Operators
10
$25.0
10
561591
Convention and Visitors Bureaus
$25.0
561599
All Other Travel Arrangement and Reservation Services
$32.5
561611
Investigation and Personal Background Check Services
$25.0
561612
Security Guards and Patrol Services
$29.0
561613
Armored Car Services
$43.0
561621
Security Systems Services (except Locksmiths)
$25.0
561622
Locksmiths
$25.0
561710
Exterminating and Pest Control Services
$17.5
561720
Janitorial Services
$22.0
561730
Landscaping Services
$9.5
561740
Carpet and Upholstery Cleaning Services
$8.5
561790
Other Services to Buildings and Dwellings
$9.0
561910
Packaging and Labeling Services
$19.5
561920
Convention and Trade Show Organizers
10
$20.0
10
561990
All Other Support Services
$16.5
Subsector 562—Waste Management and Remediation Services
562111
Solid Waste Collection
$47.0
562112
Hazardous Waste Collection
$47.0
562119
Other Waste Collection
$47.0
562211
Hazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal
$47.0
562212
Solid Waste Landfill
$47.0
562213
Solid Waste Combustors and Incinerators
$47.0
562219
Other Nonhazardous Waste Treatment and Disposal
$47.0
562910
Remediation Services
$25.0
562910 (Exception)
Environmental Remediation Services
14
14
1,000
562920
Materials Recovery Facilities
$25.0
562991
Septic Tank and Related Services
$9.0
562998
All Other Miscellaneous Waste Management Services
$16.5
Sector 61—Educational Services
Subsector 611—Educational Services
611110
Elementary and Secondary Schools
$20.0
611210
Junior Colleges
$32.5
611310
Colleges, Universities and Professional Schools
$34.5
611410
Business and Secretarial Schools
$20.5
611420
Computer Training
$16.0
611430
Professional and Management Development Training
$15.0
611511
Cosmetology and Barber Schools
$13.0
611512
Flight Training
$34.0
611513
Apprenticeship Training
$11.5
611519
Other Technical and Trade Schools
$21.0
611519 (Exception)
Job Corps Centers
16
$47.0
16
611610
Fine Arts Schools
$9.0
611620
Sports and Recreation Instruction
$9.0
611630
Language Schools
$20.5
611691
Exam Preparation and Tutoring
$12.5
611692
Automobile Driving Schools
$10.0
611699
All Other Miscellaneous Schools and Instruction
$16.5
611710
Educational Support Services
$24.0
Sector 62—Health Care and Social Assistance
Subsector 621—Ambulatory Health Care Services
621111
Offices of Physicians (except Mental Health Specialists)
$16.0
621112
Offices of Physicians, Mental Health Specialists
$13.5
621210
Offices of Dentists
$9.0
621310
Offices of Chiropractors
$9.0
621320
Offices of Optometrists
$9.0
621330
Offices of Mental Health Practitioners (except Physicians)
$9.0
621340
Offices of Physical, Occupational and Speech Therapists and Audiologists
$12.5
621391
Offices of Podiatrists
$9.0
621399
Offices of All Other Miscellaneous Health Practitioners
$10.0
621410
Family Planning Centers
$19.0
621420
Outpatient Mental Health and Substance Abuse Centers
$19.0
621491
HMO Medical Centers
$44.5
621492
Kidney Dialysis Centers
$47.0
621493
Freestanding Ambulatory Surgical and Emergency Centers
$19.0
621498
All Other Outpatient Care Centers
$25.5
621511
Medical Laboratories
$41.5
621512
Diagnostic Imaging Centers
$19.0
621610
Home Health Care Services
$19.0
621910
Ambulance Services
$22.5
621991
Blood and Organ Banks
$40.0
621999
All Other Miscellaneous Ambulatory Health Care Services
$20.5
Subsector 622—Hospitals
622110
General Medical and Surgical Hospitals
$47.0
622210
Psychiatric and Substance Abuse Hospitals
$47.0
622310
Specialty (except Psychiatric and Substance Abuse) Hospitals
$47.0
Subsector 623—Nursing and Residential Care Facilities
623110
Nursing Care Facilities (Skilled Nursing Facilities)
$34.0
623210
Residential Intellectual and Developmental Disability Facilities
$19.0
623220
Residential Mental Health and Substance Abuse Facilities
$19.0
623311
Continuing Care Retirement Communities
$34.0
623312
Assisted Living Facilities for the Elderly
$23.5
623990
Other Residential Care Facilities
$16.0
Subsector 624—Social Assistance
624110
Child and Youth Services
$15.5
624120
Services for the Elderly and Persons with Disabilities
$15.0
624190
Other Individual and Family Services
$16.0
624210
Community Food Services
$19.5
624221
Temporary Shelters
$13.5
624229
Other Community Housing Services
$19.0
624230
Emergency and Other Relief Services
$41.5
624310
Vocational Rehabilitation Services
$15.0
624410
Child Care Services
$9.5
Sector 71—Arts, Entertainment and Recreation
Subsector 711—Performing Arts, Spectator Sports and Related Industries
711110
Theater Companies and Dinner Theaters
$25.0
711120
Dance Companies
$18.0
711130
Musical Groups and Artists
$15.0
711190
Other Performing Arts Companies
$34.0
711211
Sports Teams and Clubs
$47.0
711212
Racetracks
$47.0
711219
Other Spectator Sports
$16.5
711310
Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports and Similar Events with Facilities
$40.0
711320
Promoters of Performing Arts, Sports and Similar Events without Facilities
$22.0
711410
Agents and Managers for Artists, Athletes, Entertainers and Other Public Figures
$17.5
711510
Independent Artists, Writers, and Performers
$9.0
Subsector 712—Museums, Historical Sites and Similar Institutions
712110
Museums
$34.0
712120
Historical Sites
$13.0
712130
Zoos and Botanical Gardens
$34.0
712190
Nature Parks and Other Similar Institutions
$19.5
Subsector 713—Amusement, Gambling and Recreation Industries
713110
Amusement and Theme Parks
$47.0
713120
Amusement Arcades
$9.0
713210
Casinos (except Casino Hotels)
$34.0
713290
Other Gambling Industries
$40.0
713910
Golf Courses and Country Clubs
$19.0
713920
Skiing Facilities
$35.0
713930
Marinas
$11.0
713940
Fitness and Recreational Sports Centers
$17.5
713950
Bowling Centers
$12.5
713990
All Other Amusement and Recreation Industries
$9.0
Sector 72—Accommodation and Food Services
Subsector 721—Accommodation
721110
Hotels (except Casino Hotels) and Motels
$40.0
721120
Casino Hotels
$40.0
721191
Bed-and-Breakfast Inns
$9.0
721199
All Other Traveler Accommodation
$9.0
721211
RV (Recreational Vehicle) Parks and Campgrounds
$10.0
721214
Recreational and Vacation Camps (except Campgrounds)
$9.0
721310
Rooming and Boarding Houses, Dormitories, and Workers' Camps
$14.0
Subsector 722—Food Services and Drinking Places
722310
Food Service Contractors
$47.0
722320
Caterers
$9.0
722330
Mobile Food Services
$9.0
722410
Drinking Places (Alcoholic Beverages)
$9.0
722511
Full-Service Restaurants
$11.5
722513
Limited-Service Restaurants
$13.5
722514
Cafeterias, Grill Buffets, and Buffets
$34.0
722515
Snack and Nonalcoholic Beverage Bars
$22.5
Sector 81—Other Services (Except Public Administration)
Subsector 811—Repair and Maintenance
811111
General Automotive Repair
$9.0
811114
Specialized Automotive Repair
$9.0
811121
Automotive Body, Paint and Interior Repair and Maintenance
$9.0
811122
Automotive Glass Replacement Shops
$17.5
811191
Automotive Oil Change and Lubrication Shops
$11.0
811192
Car Washes
$9.0
811198
All Other Automotive Repair and Maintenance
$10.0
811210
Electronic and Precision Equipment Repair and Maintenance
$34.0
811310
Commercial and Industrial Machinery and Equipment (except Automotive and Electronic) Repair and Maintenance
$12.5
811411
Home and Garden Equipment Repair and Maintenance
$9.0
811412
Appliance Repair and Maintenance
$19.0
811420
Reupholstery and Furniture Repair
$9.0
811430
Footwear and Leather Goods Repair
$9.0
811490
Other Personal and Household Goods Repair and Maintenance
$9.0
Subsector 812—Personal and Laundry Services
812111
Barber Shops
$9.5
812112
Beauty Salons
$9.5
812113
Nail Salons
$9.0
812191
Diet and Weight Reducing Centers
$27.5
812199
Other Personal Care Services
$9.0
812210
Funeral Homes and Funeral Services
$12.5
812220
Cemeteries and Crematories
$25.0
812310
Coin-Operated Laundries and Drycleaners
$13.0
812320
Drycleaning and Laundry Services (except Coin-Operated)
$8.0
812331
Linen Supply
$40.0
812332
Industrial Launderers
$47.0
812910
Pet Care (except Veterinary) Services
$9.0
812921
Photofinishing Laboratories (except One-Hour)
$29.5
812922
One-Hour Photofinishing
$19.0
812930
Parking Lots and Garages
$47.0
812990
All Other Personal Services
$15.0
Subsector 813—Religious, Grantmaking, Civic, Professional and Similar Organizations
813110
Religious Organizations
$13.0
813211
Grantmaking Foundations
$40.0
813212
Voluntary Health Organizations
$34.0
813219
Other Grantmaking and Giving Services
$47.0
813311
Human Rights Organizations
$34.0
813312
Environment, Conservation and Wildlife Organizations
$19.5
813319
Other Social Advocacy Organizations
$18.0
813410
Civic and Social Organizations
$9.5
813910
Business Associations
$15.5
813920
Professional Organizations
$23.5
813930
Labor Unions and Similar Labor Organizations
$16.5
813940
Political Organizations
$14.0
813990
Other Similar Organizations (except Business, Professional, Labor, and Political Organizations)
$13.5
Sector 92—Public Administration
17
(Small business size standards are not established for this sector. Establishments in the Public Administration sector are Federal, state, and local government agencies which administer and oversee government programs and activities that are not performed by private establishments.)

# Footnotes
1.
NAICS code 115310
—Support Activities for Forestry: Forest Fire Suppression and Fuels Management Services are two components of Support Activities for Forestry. Forest Fire Suppression includes establishments which provide services to fight forest fires. These firms usually have fire-fighting crews and equipment. Fuels Management Services firms provide services to clear land of hazardous materials that would fuel forest fires. The treatments used by these firms may include prescribed fire, mechanical removal, establishing fuel breaks, thinning, pruning, and piling.
2.
NAICS code 237990
—Dredging: To be considered small for purposes of Government procurement, a firm or its similarly situated subcontractors must perform at least 40 percent of the volume dredged with their own equipment or equipment owned by another small dredging concern.
3.
NAICS code 311421
—For purposes of Government procurement for food canning and preserving, the standard of 1,000 employees excludes agricultural labor as defined in 3306(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 3306(k).
4.
NAICS code 324110
—To qualify as small for purposes of Government procurement, the petroleum refiner, including its affiliates, must be a concern that has either no more than 1,500 employees or no more than 200,000 barrels per calendar day total Operable Atmospheric Crude Oil Distillation capacity. Capacity includes all domestic and foreign affiliates, all owned or leased facilities, and all facilities under a processing agreement or an arrangement such as an exchange agreement or a throughput. To qualify under the capacity size standard, the
firm, together with its affiliates, must be primarily engaged in refining crude petroleum into refined petroleum products. A firm's “primary industry” is determined in accordance with 13 CFR 121.107.
5.
NAICS code 326211
—For Government procurement, a firm is small for bidding on a contract for pneumatic tires within Census NAICS Product Classification codes 3262111 and 3262113, provided that:
(a) The value of tires within Census NAICS Product Classification codes 3262111 and 3262113 that it manufactured in the United States during the previous calendar year is more than 50 percent of the value of its total worldwide manufacture,
(b) The value of pneumatic tires within Census NAICS Product Classification codes 3262111 and 3262113 comprising its total worldwide manufacture during the preceding calendar year was less than 5 percent of the value of all such tires manufactured in the United States during that period, and
(c) The value of the principal product that it manufactured, produced, or sold worldwide during the preceding calendar year is less than 10 percent of the total value of such products manufactured or otherwise produced or sold in the United States during that period.
6.
NAICS Subsectors 333, 334, 335
and
336
—For rebuilding machinery or equipment on a factory basis, or equivalent, use the NAICS code for a newly manufactured product. Concerns performing major rebuilding or overhaul activities do not necessarily have to meet the criteria for being a “manufacturer” although the activities may be classified under a manufacturing NAICS code. Ordinary repair services or preservation are not considered rebuilding.
7.
NAICS code 336413
—Contracts for the rebuilding or overhaul of aircraft ground support equipment on a contract basis are classified under NAICS code 336413.
8.
NAICS Codes 522110, 522130, 522180, and 522210
—A financial institution's assets are determined by averaging the assets reported on its four quarterly financial statements for the preceding year. “Assets” for the purposes of this size standard means the assets defined according to the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council 041 call report form for NAICS codes 522110, 522180, and 522210 and the National Credit Union Administration 5300 call report form for NAICS code 522130.
9.
NAICS codes 531110, 531120, 531130, and 531190
—Leasing of Building Space to the Federal Government by Owners: For Government procurement, a size standard of $47 million in gross receipts applies to the owners of building space leased to the Federal Government. The standard does not apply to an agent.
10.
NAICS codes 488510 (excluding the exception), 531210, 541810, 561510, 561520 and 561920
—As measured by total revenues, but excluding funds received in trust for an unaffiliated third party, such as bookings or sales subject to commissions. The commissions received are included as revenue.
11.
NAICS code 541713, 541714
, and
541715
—
(a) Research and Development” means laboratory or other physical research and development. It does not include economic, educational, engineering, operations, systems, or other nonphysical research; or computer programming, data processing, commercial and/or medical laboratory testing.
(b) For research and development contracts requiring the delivery of a manufactured product, the appropriate size standard is that of the manufacturing industry.
(c) For purposes of the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Transfer Technology (STTR) programs, the term “research” or “research and development” means any activity which is (A) a systematic, intensive study directed toward greater knowledge or understanding of the subject studied; (B) a systematic study directed specifically toward applying new knowledge to meet a recognized need; or (C) a systematic application of knowledge toward the production of useful materials, devices, and systems or methods, including design, development, and improvement of prototypes and new processes to meet specific requirements. See 15 U.S.C. 638(e)(5) and section 3 of the SBIR and STTR policy directives available at
www.sbir.gov.
For size eligibility requirements for the SBIR and STTR programs, see § 121.702 of this part.
(d) “Research and Development” for guided missiles and space vehicles includes evaluations and simulation, and other services requiring thorough knowledge of complete missiles and spacecraft.
12.
NAICS code 561210
—Facilities Support Services:
(a) If one or more activities of Facilities Support Services as defined in paragraph (b) (below in this footnote) can be identified with a specific industry and that industry accounts for 50 percent or more of the value of an entire procurement, then the proper classification of the procurement is that of the specific industry, not Facilities Support Services.
(b) “Facilities Support Services” requires the performance of three or more separate activities in the areas of services or specialty trade contractors industries. If services are performed, these service activities must each be in a separate NAICS industry. If the procurement requires the use of specialty trade contractors (plumbing, painting, plastering, carpentry, etc.), all such specialty trade contractors activities are considered a single activity and classified as “Building and Property Specialty Trade Services.” Since “Building and Property
Specialty Trade Services” is only one activity, two additional activities of separate NAICS industries are required for a procurement to be classified as “Facilities Support Services.”
13.
NAICS code 238990
—Building and Property Specialty Trade Services: If a procurement requires the use of multiple specialty trade contractors (
i.e.,
plumbing, painting, plastering, carpentry, etc.), and no specialty trade accounts for 50 percent or more of the value of the procurement, all such specialty trade contractors activities are considered a single activity and classified as Building and Property Specialty Trade Services.
14.
NAICS 562910
—Environmental Remediation Services:
(a) For SBA assistance as a small business concern in the industry of Environmental Remediation Services, other than for Government procurement, a concern must be engaged primarily in furnishing a range of services for the remediation of a contaminated environment to an acceptable condition including, but not limited to, preliminary assessment, site inspection, testing, remedial investigation, feasibility studies, remedial design, containment, remedial action, removal of contaminated materials, storage of contaminated materials and security and site closeouts. If one of such activities accounts for 50 percent or more of a concern's total revenues, employees, or other related factors, the concern's primary industry is that of the particular industry and not the Environmental Remediation Services Industry.
(b) For purposes of classifying a Government procurement as Environmental Remediation Services, the general purpose of the procurement must be to restore or directly support the restoration of a contaminated environment (such as, preliminary assessment, site inspection, testing, remedial investigation, feasibility studies, remedial design, remediation services, containment, removal of contaminated materials, storage of contaminated materials or security and site closeouts), although the general purpose of the procurement need not necessarily include remedial actions. Also, the procurement must be composed of activities in three or more separate industries with separate NAICS codes or, in some instances (
e.g.,
engineering), smaller sub-components of NAICS codes with separate, distinct size standards. These activities may include, but are not limited to, separate activities in industries such as: Heavy Construction; Specialty Trade Contractors; Engineering Services; Architectural Services; Management Consulting Services; Hazardous and Other Waste Collection; Remediation Services, Testing Laboratories; and Research and Development in the Physical, Engineering and Life Sciences. If any activity in the procurement can be identified with a separate NAICS code, or component of a code with a separate distinct size standard, and that industry accounts for 50 percent or more of the value of the entire procurement, then the proper size standard is the one for that particular industry, and not the Environmental Remediation Service size standard.
15.
NAICS code 513210
—For purposes of Government procurement, the purchase of software subject to potential waiver of the nonmanufacturer rule pursuant to § 121.1203(d) should be classified under this NAICS code.
16.
NAICS code 611519
—Job Corps Centers. For classifying a Federal procurement, the purpose of the solicitation must be for the management and operation of a U.S. Department of Labor Job Corps Center. The activities involved include admissions activities, life skills training, educational activities, comprehensive career preparation activities, career development activities, career transition activities, as well as the management and support functions and services needed to operate and maintain the facility. For SBA assistance as a small business concern, other than for Federal Government procurements, a concern must be primarily engaged in providing the services to operate and maintain Federal Job Corps Centers.
17.
NAICS Sector 92
—Small business size standards are not established for this sector. Establishments in the Public Administration sector are Federal, State, and local government agencies which administer and oversee government programs and activities that are not performed by private establishments. Concerns performing operational services for the administration of a government program are classified under the NAICS private sector industry based on the activities performed. Similarly, procurements for these types of services are classified under the NAICS private sector industry that best describes the activities to be performed. For example, if a government agency issues a procurement for law enforcement services, the requirement would be classified using one of the NAICS industry codes under 56161, Investigation, Guard, and Armored Car Services.
18.
NAICS code 541519
—An Information Technology Value Added Reseller (ITVAR) provides a total solution to information technology acquisitions by providing multi-vendor hardware and software along with significant value added services. Significant value added services consist of, but are not limited to, configuration consulting and design, systems integration, installation of multi-vendor computer equipment, customization of hardware or software, training, product technical support, maintenance, and end user support. For purposes of Government procurement, an information technology procurement classified under this exception and 150-employee size standard must consist of at least 15% and not more
than 50% of value added services, as measured by the total contract price. In addition, the offeror must comply with the manufacturing performance requirements, or comply with the non-manufacturer rule by supplying the products of small business concerns, unless SBA has issued a class or contract specific waiver of the non-manufacturer rule. If the contract consists of less than 15% of value added services, then it must be classified under a NAICS manufacturing industry. If the contract consists of more than 50% of value added services, then it must be classified under the NAICS industry that best describes the predominate service of the procurement.
[65 FR 30840, May 15, 2000]

# Editorial Notes:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 121.201, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Size Eligibility Requirements For SBA Financial Assistance
§ 121.301
What size standards and affiliation principles are applicable to financial assistance programs?
The Small Business Act defines a small business concern as one which is independently owned and operated, and which is not dominant in its field of operation. SBA interprets this statutory definition to require, in certain circumstances, the inclusion of other entities (“Affiliates”) owned by the applicant or an owner of the applicant in determining the size of the applicant.
(a) For Business Loans (other than for 7(a) Business Loans) and for Disaster Loans (other than physical disaster loans), an applicant business concern must satisfy two criteria:
(1) The size of the applicant alone (without affiliates) must not exceed the size standard designated for the industry in which the applicant is primarily engaged; and
(2) The size of the applicant combined with its affiliates must not exceed the size standard designated for either the primary industry of the applicant alone or the primary industry of the applicant and its affiliates, which ever is higher. These size standards are set forth in § 121.201.
(b) For 7(a) Business Loans and Development Company programs, an applicant business concern must meet one of the following standards:
(1) The same standards applicable under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Including its affiliates, tangible net worth not in excess of $20 million, and average net income after Federal income taxes (excluding any carry over losses) for the preceding two completed fiscal years not in excess of $6.5 million.
(i) If the applicant is not required by law to pay State (and local, if any) income taxes at the enterprise level, multiply its net income by the marginal State income tax rate (or by the combined State and local income tax rates, as applicable) that would have applied if it were a taxable corporation.
(ii) Multiply the applicant's net income, less any deduction for State and local income taxes calculated under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, by the marginal Federal income tax rate that would have applied if the applicant were a taxable corporation.
(iii) Sum the results obtained in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(c) For the Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) program, an applicant must meet one of the following standards:
(1) The same standards applicable under paragraph (a) of this section; or
(2) Including its affiliates, tangible net worth not in excess of $24 million, and average net income after Federal income taxes (excluding any carry-over losses) for the preceding two completed fiscal years not in excess of $8 million. If the applicant is not required by law to pay Federal income taxes at the enterprise level, but is required to pass income through to its shareholders, partners, beneficiaries, or other equitable owners, the applicant's “net income after Federal income taxes” will be its net income reduced by an amount computed as follows:
(i) If the applicant is not required by law to pay State (and local, if any) income taxes at the enterprise level, multiply its net income by the marginal State income tax rate (or by the combined State and local income tax rates, as applicable) that would have applied if it were a taxable corporation.
(ii) Multiply the applicant's net income, less any deduction for State and local income taxes calculated under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, by the marginal Federal income tax rate that would have applied if the applicant were a taxable corporation.
(iii) Add the results obtained in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section.
(d) For Surety Bond Guarantee assistance—a business concern, combined with its affiliates, must meet the size standard for the primary industry in which such business concern, combined with its affiliates, is engaged.
(e) The applicable size standards for purposes of SBA's financial assistance programs, excluding the Surety Bond Guarantee assistance program, are increased by 25 percent whenever the applicant agrees to use all of the financial assistance within a labor surplus area. The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL) issues the Labor Surplus Area (LSA) list on a fiscal year basis on its website at
www.dol.gov/agencies/eta/lsa.
(f)
Affiliation.
Any of the circumstances described below establishes affiliation for applicants of SBA's Business Loan, Disaster Loan, and Surety Bond Programs. For this rule, the Business Loan Programs consist of the 7(a) Loan Program (Direct and Guaranteed Loans), the Microloan Program, the Intermediary Lending Pilot Program, and the Development Company Loan Program (“504 Loan Program”). The Disaster Loan Programs consist of Physical Disaster Business Loans, Economic Injury Disaster Loans, Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loans, and Immediate Disaster Assistance Program loans. The following principles apply for the Business Loan, Disaster Loan, and Surety Bond Guarantee Programs:
(1)
Ownership.
(i) When the Applicant owns more than 50 percent of another business, the Applicant and the other business are affiliated.
(ii) When a business owns more than 50 percent of an Applicant, the business that owns the Applicant is affiliated with the Applicant. Additionally, if the business entity owner that owns more than 50 percent of the Applicant also owns more than 50 percent of another business that operates in the same 3-digit NAICS subsector as the Applicant, then the business entity owner, the other business and the Applicant are all affiliated.
(iii) When an individual owns more than 50 percent of the Applicant and the individual also owns more than 50 percent of another business entity that operates in the same 3-digit NAICS subsector as the Applicant, the Applicant and the individual owner's other business entity are affiliated.
(iv) When the Applicant does not have an owner that owns more than 50 percent of the Applicant, if an owner of 20 percent or more of the Applicant is a business that operates in the same 3-digit NAICS subsector as the Applicant, the Applicant and the owner are affiliated.
(v) When the Applicant does not have an owner that owns more than 50 percent of the Applicant, if an owner of 20 percent or more of the Applicant also owns more than 50 percent of another business entity that operates in the same 3-digit NAICS subsector as the Applicant, the Applicant and the owner's other business entity are affiliated.
(vi) Ownership interests of spouses and minor children must be combined when determining amount of ownership interest.
(vii) When determining the percentage of ownership that an individual owns in a business, SBA considers the pro rata ownership of entities. For example, John Smith, Jane Doe, and Jane Doe, Inc., each own an interest in the Applicant. Jane Doe owns 15 percent of the Applicant, and she also owns 100 percent of Jane Doe, Inc. Jane Doe, Inc. owns 50 percent of the Applicant. SBA considers Jane Doe to own 65 percent of the Applicant.
(2)
Stock options, convertible securities, and agreements to merge.
(i) For purposes of this subparagraph, SBA considers stock options, convertible securities, and agreements to merge (including agreements in principle) to have a present effect on the ownership of the entity. SBA treats such options, convertible securities, and agreements as though the rights granted have been exercised.
(ii) Agreements to open or continue negotiations towards the possibility of a merger or a sale of stock at a later
date are not considered “agreements in principle” and are thus not given present effect.
(iii) Options, convertible securities, and agreements that are subject to conditions precedent which are incapable of fulfillment, speculative, conjectural, or unenforceable under state or Federal law, or where the probability of the transaction (or exercise of the rights) occurring is shown to be extremely remote, are not given present effect.
(iv) SBA will not give present effect to individuals', concerns', or other entities' ability to divest all or part of their ownership interest to avoid a finding of affiliation.
(3)
Determining the concern's size.
In determining the concern's size, SBA counts the receipts, employees (see § 121.201), or the alternate size standard (if applicable) of the concern whose size is at issue and all of its domestic and foreign affiliates, regardless of whether the affiliates are organized for profit.
(4)
Exceptions to affiliation.
For exceptions to affiliation, see § 121.103(b).
(g) For COVID-19 Economic Injury Disaster (COVID EIDL) loans, an “affiliated business” or “affiliate” is a business in which an eligible entity has an equity interest or right to profit distributions of not less than 50 percent, or in which an eligible entity has the contractual authority to control the direction of the business, provided that such affiliation shall be determined as of any arrangements or agreements in existence as of January 31, 2020. For exceptions to affiliation, see § 121.103(b).
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 66 FR 30648, June 7, 2001; 67 FR 3056, Jan. 23, 2002; 69 FR 29204, May 21, 2004; 70 FR 69047, 69052, Nov. 14, 2005; 70 FR 72594, Dec. 6, 2005; 71 FR 62208, Oct. 24, 2006; 73 FR 41254, July 18, 2008; 74 FR 20580, May 5, 2009; 74 FR 36110, July 22, 2009; 75 FR 48550, Aug. 11, 2010; 79 FR 33669, June 12, 2014; 79 FR 71296, Dec. 2, 2014; 81 FR 41428, June 27, 2016; 85 FR 7651, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80588, Dec. 14, 2020; 86 FR 50218, Sept. 8, 2021; 87 FR 69154, Nov. 17, 2022; 88 FR 21086, Apr. 10, 2023; 89 FR 11712, Feb. 15, 2024]
§ 121.302
When does SBA determine the size status of an applicant?
(a) The size status of an applicant for SBA financial assistance is determined as of the date the application for financial assistance is accepted for processing by SBA, except for applications under the Preferred Lenders Program (PLP), the Disaster Loan program, the SBIC program, and the New Markets Venture Capital (NMCV) program.
(b) For the Preferred Lenders Program, size is determined as of the date of approval of the loan by the Preferred Lender.
(c) For disaster loan assistance (other than physical disaster loans), size status is determined as of the date the disaster commenced, as set forth in the Disaster Declaration. For pre-disaster mitigation loans, size status is determined as of the date SBA accepts a complete Pre-Disaster Mitigation Small Business Loan Application for processing. Refer to § 123.408 of this chapter to find out what SBA considers to be a complete Pre-Disaster Mitigation Small Business Loan Application.
(d) For financial assistance from an SBIC licensee or an NMVC company, size is determined as of the date a concern's application is accepted for processing by the SBIC or the NMVC company.
(e) Changes in size after the applicable date when size is determined will not disqualify an applicant for assistance.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 48276, Sept. 3, 1999; 67 FR 11880, Mar. 15, 2002; 67 FR 62337, Oct. 7, 2002; 69 FR 29204, May 21, 2004; 70 FR 72594, Dec. 6, 2005; 73 FR 41254, July 18, 2008; 75 FR 48550, Aug. 11, 2010; 79 FR 33669, June 12, 2014; 85 FR 7652, Feb. 10, 2020; 85 FR 80589, Dec. 14, 2020]
§ 121.303
What size procedures are used by SBA before it makes a formal size determination?
(a) A concern that submits an application for financial assistance is deemed to have certified that it is small under the applicable size standard. SBA may question the concern's status based on information supplied in the application or from any other source.
(b) A small business investment company, a development company, a surety bond company, or a preferred lender may accept as true the size information provided by an applicant, unless credible evidence to the contrary is apparent.
(c) Size is initially considered by the individual with final financial assistance authority. This is not a formal size determination. A formal determination may be requested prior to a denial of eligibility based on size.
(d) An applicant may request a formal size determination when assistance has been denied for size ineligibility. Except for disaster loan eligibility, a request for a formal size determination must be made to the Government Contracting Area Director serving the area in which the headquarters of the applicant is located, regardless of the location of the parent company or affiliates. For disaster loan assistance, the request for a size determination must be made to the Area Director for the Disaster Area Office which denied the assistance.
(e) There are no time limitations for making a formal size determination for purposes of financial assistance. The official making the formal size determination must provide a copy of the determination to the applicant, to the requesting SBA official, and to other interested SBA program officials.
§ 121.304
What are the size requirements for refinancing an existing SBA loan?
(a) A concern that applies to refinance an existing SBA loan or guarantee will be considered small for the refinancing even though its size has increased since the date of the original financing to exceed its applicable size standard, provided that:
(1) The increase in size is due to natural growth (as distinguished from merger, acquisition or similar management action); and
(2) SBA determines that refinancing is necessary to protect the Government's financial interest.
(b) If a concern's size has increased other than by natural growth, the concern and its affiliates must be small at the time the application for refinancing is accepted for processing by SBA.
§ 121.305
What size eligibility requirements exist for obtaining financial assistance relating to particular procurements?
A concern qualified as small for a particular procurement, including an 8(a) subcontract, is small for financial assistance directly and primarily relating to the performance of the particular procurement.

# Size Eligibility Requirements for Government Procurement
§ 121.401
What procurement programs are subject to size determinations?
The rules set forth in §§ 121.401 through 121.412 apply to all Federal procurement programs for which status as a small business is required or advantageous, including the small business set-aside program, SBA's Certificate of Competency program, SBA's 8(a) Business Development program, SBA's HUBZone program, the Women Owned Small Business (WOSB) Federal Contract Program, SBA's Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business program, the Small Business Subcontracting program, and the Federal Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) program.
[75 FR 62280, Oct. 7, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 26200, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.402
What size standards are applicable to Federal Government Contracting programs?
(a) A concern must not exceed the size standard for the NAICS code specified in the solicitation. The contracting officer must specify the size standard in effect on the date the solicitation is issued. If SBA amends the size standard and it becomes effective before the date initial offers (including price) are due, the contracting officer may amend the solicitation and use the new size standard.
(b) The procuring agency contracting officer, or authorized representative, designates the proper NAICS code and corresponding size standard in a solicitation, selecting the single NAICS code which best describes the principal purpose of the product or service being acquired. Except for multiple award contracts as set forth in paragraph (c) of this section, every solicitation, including a request for quotations, must contain only one NAICS code and only one corresponding size standard.
(1) Primary consideration is given to the industry descriptions in the U.S. NAICS Manual, the product or service
description in the solicitation and any attachments to it, the relative value and importance of the components of the procurement making up the end item being procured, and the function of the goods or services being purchased.
(2) A procurement is generally classified according to the component which accounts for the greatest percentage of contract value. Acquisitions for supplies must be classified under the appropriate manufacturing or supply NAICS code, not under a Wholesale Trade or Retail Trade NAICS code. A concern that submits an offer or quote for a contract, order, or subcontract where the NAICS code assigned to the contract, order, or subcontract is one for supplies, and furnishes a product it did not itself manufacture or produce, is categorized as a nonmanufacturer and deemed small if it has 500 or fewer employees and meets the requirements of § 121.406(b).
(c)
Multiple Award Contracts
(
see
definition at § 125.1).
(1) For a Multiple Award Contract, the contracting officer must:
(i) Assign the solicitation a single NAICS code and corresponding size standard which best describes the principal purpose of the acquisition as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, only if the NAICS code will also best describe the principal purpose of each order to be placed under the Multiple Award Contract; or
(ii) Divide the solicitation into discrete categories (such as Contract Line Item Numbers (CLINs), Special Item Numbers (SINs), Sectors, Functional Areas (FAs), or the equivalent), and assign each discrete category the single NAICS code and corresponding size standard that best describes the principal purpose of the goods or services to be acquired under that category (CLIN, SIN, Sector, FA or equivalent) as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. A concern must meet the applicable size standard for each category (CLIN, SIN, Sector, FA or equivalent) for which it seeks an award as a small business concern.
(2)(i) The contracting officer must assign a single NAICS code for each order issued against a Multiple Award Contract. The NAICS code assigned to an order must be a NAICS code included in the underlying Multiple Award Contract. When placing an order under a Multiple Award Contract with multiple NAICS codes, the contracting officer must assign the NAICS code and corresponding size standard that best describes the principal purpose of each order. In cases where an agency can issue an order against multiple SINs with different NAICS codes, the contracting officer must select the single NAICS code that best represents the acquisition. If the NAICS code corresponding to the principal purpose of the order is not contained in the underlying Multiple Award Contract, the contracting officer may not use the Multiple Award Contract to issue that order.
(ii) With respect to an order issued against a multiple award contract, an agency will receive small business credit for goaling only if the business concern awarded the order has represented its status as small for the underlying multiple award contract for the same NAICS code as that assigned to the order, provided recertification has not been required or occurred for the contract or order.
(d) The NAICS code assigned to a procurement and its corresponding size standard is final unless timely appealed to SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA), or unless SBA assigns an NAICS code or size standard as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) When a NAICS code designation or size standard in a solicitation is unclear, incomplete, missing, or prohibited, SBA may clarify, complete, or supply a NAICS code designation or size standard, as appropriate, in connection with a formal size determination or size appeal.
(f) Any offeror or other interested party adversely affected by an NAICS code designation or size standard designation may appeal the designations to OHA under part 134 of this chapter.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 30863, May 15, 2000; 69 FR 29205, May 21, 2004; 75 FR 61604, Oct. 6, 2010; 76 FR 5683, Feb. 2, 2011; 76 FR 8252, Feb. 11, 2011; 78 FR 61130, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34259, May 31, 2016; 85 FR 66180, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 121.403
Are SBA size determinations and NAICS code designations binding on parties?
Formal size determinations and NAICS code designations made by authorized SBA officials are binding upon the parties. Opinions otherwise provided by SBA officials to contracting officers or others are advisory in nature, and are not binding or appealable.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 30863, May 15, 2000]
§ 121.404
When is the size status of a business concern determined?
(a)
Time of size.
SBA determines the size status of a concern, including its affiliates, as of the date the concern submits a written self-certification that it is small to the procuring activity as part of its initial offer or response which includes price.
(1)
Multiple award contracts.
With respect to Multiple Award Contracts, orders issued against a Multiple Award Contract, and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued against a Multiple Award Contract:
(i)
Single NAICS.
If a single NAICS code is assigned as set forth in § 121.402(c)(1)(i), SBA determines size status for the underlying Multiple Award Contract at the time of initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation), which includes price, based upon the size standard set forth in the solicitation for the Multiple Award Contract, unless the concern was required to recertify under paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
(A)
Unrestricted Multiple Award Contracts.
For an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract, if a business concern (including a joint venture) is small at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is small for goaling purposes for each order issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests a size recertification for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement. Except for orders and Blanket Purchase Agreements issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contract, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract is set-aside exclusively for small business (
i.e.,
small business set-aside, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned small business), a concern must recertify its size status and qualify as a small business at the time it submits its initial offer, which includes price, for the particular order or Blanket Purchase Agreement. However, where the underlying Multiple Award Contract has been awarded to a pool of concerns for which small business status is required, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under that Multiple Award Contract is set-aside exclusively for concerns in the small business pool, concerns need not recertify their status as small business concerns (unless a contracting officer requests size certifications with respect to a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement).
(B)
Set-aside Multiple Award Contracts.
Except as set forth in § 124.503(i)(1)(iv) for sole source 8(a) orders, for a Multiple Award Contract that is set aside or reserved for small business (
i.e.,
small business set-aside, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned small business), if a business concern (including a joint venture) is small at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for the Multiple Award Contract, it is small for each order or Blanket Purchase Agreement issued against the contract, unless a contracting officer requests a size recertification for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement.
(ii)
Multiple NAICS.
If multiple NAICS codes are assigned as set forth in § 121.402(c)(1)(ii), SBA determines size status at the time a business concern submits its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation) which includes price for a Multiple Award Contract based upon the size standard set forth for each discrete category (
e.g.,
CLIN, SIN, Sector, FA or equivalent) for which the business concern submits an offer and represents that it qualifies as small for the Multiple Award Contract, unless the business concern was required to recertify under paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. If the business concern (including a joint venture) submits an offer for the entire Multiple
Award Contract, SBA will determine whether it meets the size standard for each discrete category (CLIN, SIN, Sector, FA or equivalent).
(A)
Unrestricted Multiple Award Contracts.
For an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract, if a business concern (including a joint venture) is small at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for discrete categories on the Multiple Award Contract, it is small for goaling purposes for each order issued against any of those categories, unless a contracting officer requests a size recertification for a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement. Except for orders or Blanket Purchase Agreements issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contract, if an order or Blanket Purchase Agreement for a discrete category under an unrestricted Multiple Award Contract is set-aside exclusively for small business (
i.e.,
small business set, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned small business), a concern must recertify its size status and qualify as a small business at the time it submits its initial offer, which includes price, for the particular order or Agreement. However, where the underlying Multiple Award Contract for discrete categories has been awarded to a pool of concerns for which small business status is required, if an order or a Blanket Purchase Agreement under that Multiple Award Contract is set-aside exclusively for concerns in the small business pool, concerns need not recertify their status as small business concerns (unless a contracting officer requests size certifications with respect to a specific order or Blanket Purchase Agreement).
(B)
Set-aside Multiple Award Contracts.
Except as set forth in § 124.503(i)(1)(iv) for sole source 8(a) orders, for a Multiple Award Contract that is set aside or reserved for small business (
i.e.,
small business set-aside, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned small business), if a business concern (including a joint venture) is small at the time of offer and contract-level recertification for discrete categories on the Multiple Award Contract, it is small for each order or Agreement issued against any of those categories, unless a contracting officer requests a size recertification for a specific order or Blanket Purchase.
(iii) SBA will determine size at the time of initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation), which includes price, for an order or Agreement issued against a Multiple Award Contract if the contracting officer requests a new size certification for the order or Agreement.
(iv) For a Multiple Award Contract, where concerns are not required to submit price as part of the offer for the contract, size for the contract will be determined as of the date of initial offer, which may not include price. Size for set-aside orders will be determined in accordance with subparagraphs (i)(A), (i)(B), (ii)(A), or (ii)(B), as appropriate.
(2)
Agreements.
With respect to “Agreements” including Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs) (except for BPAs issued against a GSA Schedule Contract), Basic Agreements, Basic Ordering Agreements, or any other Agreement that a contracting officer sets aside or reserves awards to any type of small business, a concern must qualify as small at the time of its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation), which includes price, for the Agreement. Because an Agreement is not a contract, the concern must also qualify as small for each order issued pursuant to the Agreement in order to be considered small for the order and for an agency to receive small business goaling credit for the order.
(b)
Eligibility for SBA programs.
A concern applying to be certified as a Participant in SBA's 8(a) Business Development program (under part 124, subpart A, of this chapter), as a HUBZone small business (under part 126 of this chapter), or as a women-owned small business concern (under part 127 of this chapter) must qualify as a small business for its primary industry classification as of the date of its application and, where applicable, the date the SBA program office requests a formal size determination in connection with a concern that otherwise appears eligible for program certification.
(c)
Certificates of competency.
The size status of an applicant for a Certificate of Competency (COC) relating to an unrestricted procurement is determined as of the date of the concern's application for the COC.
(d)
Nonmanufacturer rule, ostensible subcontractor rule, and joint venture agreements.
Compliance with the nonmanufacturer rule set forth in § 121.406(b)(1), the ostensible subcontractor rule set forth in § 121.103(h)(3), and the joint venture agreement requirements in § 124.513(c) and (d), § 125.8(b) and (c), § 128.402(c) and (d), § 126.616(c) and (d), or § 127.506(c) and (d) of this chapter, as appropriate, is determined as of the date of the final proposal revision for negotiated acquisitions and final bid for sealed bidding.
(e)
Subcontracting.
For subcontracting purposes, a concern must qualify as small as of the date that it certifies that it is small for the subcontract. The applicable size standard is that which is set forth in § 121.410 and which is in effect at the time the concern self-certifies that it is small for the subcontract. A prime contractor may rely on the self-certification of subcontractor provided it does not have a reason to doubt the concern's self-certification.
(f)
Two-step procurements.
For purposes of architect-engineering, design/build or two-step sealed bidding procurements, a concern must qualify as small as of the date that it certifies that it is small as part of its initial bid or proposal (which may or may not include price).
(g)
Effect of size certification and recertification.
A concern that represents itself as a small business and qualifies as small at the time it submits its initial offer (or other formal response to a solicitation) which includes price is generally considered to be a small business throughout the life of that contract. Similarly, a concern that represents itself as a small business and qualifies as small after a required recertification under paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is generally considered to be a small business throughout the life of that contract. Where a concern grows to be other than small, the procuring agency may exercise options and still count the award as an award to a small business, except that a required recertification as other than small under paragraph (g)(1), (2), or (3) of this section changes the firm's status for future options and orders. The following exceptions apply to this paragraph (g):
(1) Within 30 days of an approved contract novation, a contractor must recertify its small business size status to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it is other than small. If the contractor is other than small, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its small business goals.
(2)(i) In the case of a merger, acquisition, or sale which results in a change in controlling interest under § 121.103, where contract novation is not required, the contractor must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final, recertify its small business size status to the procuring agency, or inform the procuring agency that it is other than small. If the contractor is other than small, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its small business goals. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new size status.
(ii) Recertification is required:
(A) When a concern, or an affiliate of the concern, acquires or is acquired by another concern;
(B) From both the acquired concern and the acquiring concern if each has been awarded a contract as a small business; and
(C) In the context of a joint venture that has been awarded a contract or order as a small business, from any partner to the joint venture that has been acquired, is acquiring, or has merged with another business entity.
(iii) If the merger, sale or acquisition occurs after offer but prior to award, the offeror must recertify its size to the contracting officer prior to award. If the merger, sale or acquisition (including agreements in principle) occurs within 180 days of the date of an offer relating to the award of a contract, order or agreement and the offeror is unable to recertify as small, it will not
be eligible as a small business to receive the award of the contract, order or agreement. If the merger, sale or acquisition (including agreements in principal) occurs more than 180 days after the date of an offer, award can be made, but it will not count as an award to small business.
(iv) Recertification is not required when the ownership of a concern that is at least 51% owned by an entity (
i.e.,
tribe, Alaska Native Corporation, or Community Development Corporation) changes to or from a wholly-owned business concern of the same entity, as long as the ultimate owner remains that entity.

# Example 1 to paragraph (g)(2)(iii).
Indian Tribe X owns 100% of small business ABC. ABC wins an award for a small business set-aside contract. In year two of contract performance, X changes the ownership of ABC so that X owns 100% of a holding company XYZ, Inc., which in turn owns 100% of ABC. This restructuring does not require ABC to recertify its status as a small business because it continues to be 100% owned (indirectly rather than directly) by Indian Tribe X.
(3) For the purposes of contracts (including Multiple Award Contracts) with durations of more than five years (including options), a contracting officer must request that a business concern recertify its small business size status no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the contract, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option thereafter. If the contractor certifies that it is other than small, the agency can no longer count the options or orders issued pursuant to the contract towards its small business prime contracting goals. A contracting officer may also request size recertification, as he or she deems appropriate, prior to the 120-day point in the fifth year of a long-term multiple award contract. The agency and the contractor must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract databases to reflect the new size status.
(i) A business concern that certified itself as other than small, either initially or prior to an option being exercised, may recertify itself as small for a subsequent option period if it meets the applicable size standard.
(ii) Re-certification does not change the terms and conditions of the contract. The limitations on subcontracting, non-manufacturer and subcontracting plan requirements in effect at the time of contract award remain in effect throughout the life of the contract. However, a contracting officer may require a subcontracting plan if a prime contractor's size status changes from small to other than small as a result of a size recertification.
(iii) A request for a size re-certification shall include the size standard in effect at the time of re-certification that corresponds to the NAICS code that that was initially assigned to the contract.
(iv) A contracting officer must assign a NAICS code and size standard to each order under a long-term contract. The NAICS code and size standard assigned to an order must correspond to a NAICS code and size standard assigned to the underlying long-term contract and must be assigned in accordance with §§ 121.402(b) and (c). A concern will be considered small for that order only if it certified itself as small under the same or lower size standard.
(v) Where the contracting officer explicitly requires concerns to recertify their size status in response to a solicitation for an order, SBA will determine size as of the date the concern submits its self-representation as part of its response to the solicitation for the order.
(4) The requirements in paragraphs (g)(1), (2), and (3) of this section apply to Multiple Award Contracts. However, if the Multiple Award Contract was set-aside for small businesses, partially set-aside for small businesses, or reserved for small business, then in the case of a contract novation, or merger or acquisition where no novation is required, where the resulting contractor is now other than small, the agency cannot count any new or pending orders issued pursuant to the contract, from that point forward, towards its small business goals. This includes set-asides, partial set-asides, and reserves for 8(a) BD Participants, certified HUBZone small business concerns, SDVO SBCs, and ED/WOSBs.
(5) If during contract performance a subcontractor that is not a similarly situated entity performs primary and
vital requirements of a contract, the contractor and its ostensible subcontractor will be treated as joint venturers.
See
§ 121.103(h)(3).
(6) Where a joint venture must recertify its small business size status under paragraph (g), the joint venture can recertify as small where all parties to the joint venture qualify as small at the time of recertification, or the protégé small business in a still active mentor-protégé joint venture qualifies as small at the time of recertification. A joint venture can recertify as small even though the date of recertification occurs more than two years after the joint venture received its first contract award (
i.e.,
recertification is not considered a new contract award under § 121.103(h)).
(h)
Follow-on contracts.
A follow-on or renewal contract is a new contracting action. As such, size is determined as of the date the concern submits a written self-certification that it is small to the procuring agency as part of its initial offer including price for the follow-on or renewal contract.
[69 FR 29205, May 21, 2004, as amended at 71 FR 19813, Apr. 18, 2006; 71 FR 66443, Nov. 15, 2006; 76 FR 5683, Feb. 2, 2011; 76 FR 8252, Feb. 11, 2011; 78 FR 42403, July 16, 2013; 78 FR 38817, June 28, 2013; 78 FR 61131, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34259, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48578, July 25, 2016; 83 FR 12851, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019; 84 FR 65661, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66180, Oct. 16, 2020; 85 FR 72917, Nov. 16, 2020; 86 FR 2959, Jan. 14, 2021; 86 FR 10732, Feb. 23, 2021; 86 FR 38538, July 22, 2021; 87 FR 73412, Nov. 29, 2022; 88 FR 26200, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 121.404 were published at 89 FR 102485, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 121.405
May a business concern self-certify its small business size status?
(a) A concern must self-certify it is small under the size standard specified in the solicitation, or as clarified, completed or supplied by SBA pursuant to § 121.402(d).
(b) A contracting officer may accept a concern's self-certification as true for the particular procurement involved in the absence of a written protest by other offerors or other credible information which causes the contracting officer or SBA to question the size of the concern.
(c) Procedures for protesting the self-certification of an offeror are set forth in §§ 121.1001 through 121.1009.
§ 121.406
How does a small business concern qualify to provide manufactured products or other supply items under a small business set-aside, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone, WOSB or EDWOSB, or 8(a) contract?
(a)
General.
In order to qualify as a small business concern for a small business set-aside, service-disabled veteran-owned small business set-aside or sole source contract, HUBZone set-aside or sole source contract, WOSB or EDWOSB set-aside or sole source contract, 8(a) set-aside or sole source contract, partial set-aside, or set aside of an order against a multiple award contract to provide manufactured products or other supply items, an offeror must either:
(1) Be the manufacturer or producer of the end item being procured (and the end item must be manufactured or produced in the United States); or
(2) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (b), (c) or (d) of this section as a nonmanufacturer, a kit assembler or a supplier under Simplified Acquisition Procedures.
(b)
Nonmanufacturers.
(1) A firm may qualify as a small business concern for a requirement to provide manufactured products or other supply items as a nonmanufacturer if it:
(i) Does not exceed 500 employees (or 150 employees for the Information Technology Value Added Reseller exception to NAICS Code 541519, which is found at § 121.201, footnote 18);
(ii) Is primarily engaged in the retail or wholesale trade and normally sells the type of item being supplied;
(iii) Takes ownership or possession of the item(s) with its personnel, equipment or facilities in a manner consistent with industry practice; and
(iv) Will supply the end item of a small business manufacturer, processor or producer made in the United States, or obtains a waiver of such requirement pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(2) For size purposes, there can be only one manufacturer of the end item being acquired. The manufacturer is
the concern which, with its own facilities, performs the primary activities in transforming inorganic or organic substances, including the assembly of parts and components, into the end item being acquired. The end item must possess characteristics which, as a result of mechanical, chemical or human action, it did not possess before the original substances, parts or components were assembled or transformed. The end item may be finished and ready for utilization or consumption, or it may be semifinished as a raw material to be used in further manufacturing. Firms which perform only minimal operations upon the item being procured do not qualify as manufacturers of the end item. Firms that add substances, parts, or components to an existing end item to modify its performance will not be considered the end item manufacturer where those identical modifications can be performed by and are available from the manufacturer of the existing end item:
(i) SBA will evaluate the following factors in determining whether a concern is the manufacturer of the end item:
(A) The proportion of total value in the end item added by the efforts of the concern, excluding costs of overhead, testing, quality control, and profit;
(B) The importance of the elements added by the concern to the function of the end item, regardless of their relative value; and
(C) The concern's technical capabilities; plant, facilities and equipment; production or assembly line processes; packaging and boxing operations; labeling of products; and product warranties.
(ii) Firms that provide computer and other information technology equipment primarily consisting of component parts (such as motherboards, video cards, network cards, memory, power supplies, storage devices, and similar items) who install components totaling less than 50% of the value of the end item are generally not considered the manufacturer of the end item.
(3) The nonmanufacturer rule applies only to procurements that have been assigned a manufacturing or supply NAICS code, or the Information Technology Value Added Resellers (ITVAR) exception to NAICS code 541519. The nonmanufacturer rule does not apply to contracts that have been assigned a service (except for the ITVAR exception to NAICS code 541519), construction, or specialty trade construction NAICS code.
(4) The nonmanufacturer rule applies only to the supply component of a requirement classified as a manufacturing, supply, or ITVAR contract. If a requirement is classified as a service contract, but also has a supply component, the nonmanufacturer rule does not apply to the supply component of the requirement. The rental of an item(s) is a service and should be treated as such in the application of the nonmanufacturer rule and the limitation on subcontracting.

# Example 1 to paragraph (b)(4).
A procuring agency seeks to acquire computer integration and maintenance services. Included within that requirement, the agency also seeks to acquire some computer hardware. If the procuring agency determines that the principal nature of the procurement is services and classifies the procurement as a services procurement, the nonmanufacturer rule does not apply to the computer hardware portion of the requirement. This means that while a contractor must meet the applicable performance of work requirement set forth in § 125.6 for the services portion of the contract, the contractor does not have to supply the computer hardware of a small business manufacturer.

# Example 2 to paragraph (b)(4).
A procuring agency seeks to acquire computer hardware, as well as computer integration and maintenance services. If the procuring agency determines that the principal nature of the procurement is for supplies and classifies the procurement as a supply procurement, the nonmanufacturer rule applies to the computer hardware portion of the requirement. A firm seeking to qualify as a small business nonmanufacturer must supply the computer hardware manufactured by a small business. Because the requirement is classified as a supply contract, the contractor does not have to meet the performance of work requirement set forth in § 125.6 for the services portion of the contract.
(5) The Administrator or designee may waive the requirement set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section under the following two circumstances:
(i) The contracting officer has determined that no small business manufacturer or processor reasonably can be expected to offer a product meeting the
specifications (including period for performance) required by a particular solicitation and SBA reviews and accepts that determination; or
(ii) SBA determines that no small business manufacturer or processor of the product or class of products is available to participate in the Federal procurement market.
(6) The two waiver possibilities identified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section are called “individual” and “class” waivers respectively, and the procedures for requesting and granting them are contained in § 121.1204.
(7) SBA's waiver of the nonmanufacturer rule means that the firm can supply the product of any size business without regard to the place of manufacture. However, SBA's waiver of the nonmanufacturer rule has no effect on requirements external to the Small Business Act which involve domestic sources of supply, such as the Buy American Act or the Trade Agreements Act.
(c) The limitations on subcontracting (performance of work) requirements, the ostensible subcontracting rule, and the nonmanufacturer rule do not apply to small business set-aside acquisitions with an estimated value between the micro-purchase threshold and the simplified acquisition threshold (as both terms are defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101).
(d)
Multiple item acquisitions.
(1) If at least 50% of the estimated contract value is composed of items that are manufactured by small business concerns, then a waiver of the nonmanufacturer rule is not required. There is no requirement that each and every item acquired in a multiple-item procurement be manufactured by a small business.
(2) If more than 50% of the estimated contract value is composed of items manufactured by other than small concerns, then a waiver is required. SBA may grant a contract specific waiver for one or more items in order to ensure that at least 50% of the value of the products to be supplied by the nonmanufacturer comes from domestic small business manufacturers or are subject to a waiver.
(3) If a small business is both a manufacturer of item(s) and a nonmanufacturer of other item(s), the manufacturer size standard should be applied.
(e) These requirements do not apply to small business concern subcontractors.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996; 61 FR 7986, Mar. 1, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 30863, May 15, 2000; 69 FR 29205, May 21, 2004; 76 FR 8252, Feb. 11, 2011; 78 FR 61132, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 4469, Jan. 26, 2016; 81 FR 34259, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48579, July 25, 2016; 83 FR 12851, Mar. 26, 2018; 84 FR 65661, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66182, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26201, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.407
What are the size procedures for multiple item procurements?
If a procurement calls for two or more specific end items or types of services with different size standards and the offeror may submit an offer on any or all end items or types of services, the offeror must meet the size standard for each end item or service item for which it submits an offer. If the procurement calls for more than one specific end item or type of service and an offeror is required to submit an offer on all items, the offeror may qualify as a small business for the procurement if it meets the size standard of the item which accounts for the greatest percentage of the total contract value.
§ 121.408
What are the size procedures for SBA's Certificate of Competency Program?
(a) A firm which applies for a COC must file an “Application for Small Business Size Determination” (SBA Form 355). If the initial review of SBA Form 355 indicates the applicant, including its affiliates, is small for purposes of the COC program, SBA will process the application for COC. If the review indicates the applicant, including its affiliates is other than small SBA will initiate a formal size determination as set forth in § 121.1001(b)(3)(ii). In such a case, SBA will not further process the COC application until a formal size determination is made.
(b) A concern is ineligible for a COC if a formal SBA size determination finds the concern other than small.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 81 FR 34259, May 31, 2016]
§ 121.409
What size standard applies in an unrestricted procurement for Certificate of Competency purposes?
For the purpose of receiving a Certificate of Competency in an unrestricted procurement, the applicable size standard is that corresponding to the NAICS code set forth in the solicitation. The offeror need not be the manufacturer of any of the items acquired.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 30863, May 15, 2000; 81 FR 34259, May 31, 2016]
§ 121.410
What are the size standards for SBA's Section 8(d) Subcontracting Program?
For subcontracting purposes pursuant to sections 8(d) of the Small Business Act, a concern is small for subcontracts which relate to Government procurements if it does not exceed the size standard for the NAICS code that the prime contractor believes best describes the product or service being acquired by the subcontract. However, subcontracts for engineering services awarded under the National Energy Policy Act of 1992 have the same size standard as Military and Aerospace Equipment and Military Weapons under NAICS code 541330.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 30863, May 15, 2000; 69 FR 29205, May 21, 2004; 74 FR 46313, Sept. 9, 2009]
§ 121.411
What are the size procedures for SBA's Section 8(d) Subcontracting Program?
(a) Prime contractors may rely on the information contained in the System for Award Management (SAM) (or any successor system or equivalent database maintained or sanctioned by SBA) as an accurate representation of a concern's size and ownership characteristics for purposes of maintaining a small business source list.
(b) Even if a concern is on a small business source list, it must still qualify and self-certify as a small business at the time it submits its offer as a section 8(d) subcontractor. Prime contractors (or subcontractors) may accept paper self-certifications as to size and socioeconomic status or a subcontractor's electronic self-certification as to size or socioeconomic status, if the solicitation for the subcontract contains a clause which provides that the subcontractor verifies by submission of the offer that the size or socioeconomic representations and certifications are accurate and complete. Electronic submission may include any method acceptable to the prime contractor (or subcontractor) including, but not limited to, size representations and certifications made in SAM (or any successor system) and electronic conveyance of subcontractor certifications in prime contractor systems in connection with an offer for a subcontract. Prime contractors or subcontractors may not require the use of SAM (or any successor system) for purposes of representing size or socioeconomic status in connection with a subcontract.
(c) Upon determination of the successful subcontract offeror for a competitive subcontract over the simplified acquisition threshold, but prior to award, the prime contractor must inform each unsuccessful subcontract offeror in writing of the name and location of the apparent successful offeror.
(d) The self-certification of a concern subcontracting or proposing to subcontract under section 8(d) of the Small Business Act may be protested by the contracting officer, the prime contractor, the appropriate SBA official or any other interested party.
(e)
Presumption of Loss Based on the Total Amount Expended.
In every contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant which is set aside, reserved, or otherwise classified as intended for award to small business concerns, there shall be a presumption of loss to the United States based on the total amount expended on the contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, cooperative research and development agreement, or grant whenever it is established that a business concern other than a small business concern willfully sought and received the award by misrepresentation.
(f)
Deemed Certifications.
The following actions shall be deemed affirmative, willful and intentional certifications of small business size and status:
(1) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement reserved, set aside, or otherwise classified as intended for award to small business concerns.
(2) Submission of a bid, proposal, application or offer for a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement or cooperative research and development agreement which in any way encourages a Federal agency to classify the bid or proposal, if awarded, as an award to a small business concern.
(3) Registration on any Federal electronic database for the purpose of being considered for award of a Federal grant, contract, subcontract, cooperative agreement, or cooperative research and development agreement, as a small business concern.
(g)
Signature Requirement.
Each offer, proposal, bid, or application for a Federal contract, subcontract, or grant shall contain a certification concerning the small business size and status of a business concern seeking the Federal contract, subcontract or grant. An authorized official must sign the certification on the same page containing the size status claimed by the concern.
(h)
Limitation of Liability.
Paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section may be determined not to apply in the case of unintentional errors, technical malfunctions, and other similar situations that demonstrate that a misrepresentation of size was not affirmative, intentional, willful or actionable under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. §§ 3729, et seq. A prime contractor acting in good faith should not be held liable for misrepresentations made by its subcontractors regarding the subcontractors' size. Relevant factors to consider in making this determination may include the firm's internal management procedures governing size representation or certification, the clarity or ambiguity of the representation or certification requirement, and the efforts made to correct an incorrect or invalid representation or certification in a timely manner. An individual or firm may not be held liable where government personnel have erroneously identified a concern as small without any representation or certification having been made by the concern and where such identification is made without the knowledge of the individual or firm.
(i)
Penalties for Misrepresentation.
(1)
Suspension or debarment.
The SBA suspension and debarment official or the agency suspension and debarment official may suspend or debar a person or concern for misrepresenting a firm's size status pursuant to the procedures set forth in 48 CFR subpart 9.4.
(2)
Civil Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe penalties under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C. 3729-3733, the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C. 3801-3812 and any other applicable laws or regulations, including 13 CFR part 142.
(3)
Criminal Penalties.
Persons or concerns are subject to severe criminal penalties for knowingly misrepresenting the small business size status of a concern in connection with procurement programs pursuant to section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d), as amended, 18 U.S.C. 1001, 18 U.S.C. 287, and any other applicable laws. Persons or concerns are subject to criminal penalties for knowingly making false statements or misrepresentations to SBA for the purpose of influencing any actions of SBA pursuant to section 16(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(a), as amended, including failure to correct “continuing representations” that are no longer true.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 29205, May 21, 2004; 78 FR 42403, July 16, 2013; 78 FR 38817, June 28, 2013; 79 FR 29661, May 23, 2014; 81 FR 31491, May 19, 2016; 81 FR 94250, Dec. 23, 2016; 88 FR 26201, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.412
What are the size procedures for partial small business set-asides?
A firm is required to meet size standard requirements only for the small business set-aside portion of a procurement, and is not required to qualify as a small business for the unrestricted portion.

# Size Eligibility Requirements for Sales or Lease of Government Property
§ 121.501
What programs for sales or leases of Government property are subject to size determinations?
Sections 121.501 through 121.512 apply to small business size determinations for the purpose of the sale or lease of Government property, including the Timber Sales Program, the Special Salvage Timber Sales Program, and the sale of Government petroleum, coal and uranium.
§ 121.502
What size standards are applicable to programs for sales or leases of Government property?
(a) Unless otherwise specified in this part—
(1) A concern primarily engaged in manufacturing is small for sales or leases of Government property if it does not exceed 500 employees;
(2) A concern not primarily engaged in manufacturing is small for sales or leases of Government property if it has annual receipts not exceeding $9 million.
(b) Size status for such sales and leases is determined by the primary industry of the applicant business concern.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 3056, Jan. 23, 2002; 70 FR 72594, Dec. 6, 2005; 73 FR 41254, July 18, 2008; 79 FR 33669, June 12, 2014; 84 FR 34281, July 18, 2019; 87 FR 69154, Nov. 17, 2022]
§ 121.503
Are SBA size determinations binding on parties?
Formal size determinations based upon a specific Government sale or lease, or made in response to a request from another Government agency under § 121.901, are binding upon the parties. Other SBA opinions provided to contracting officers or others are only advisory, and are not binding or appealable.
§ 121.504
When does SBA determine the size status of a business concern?
SBA determines the size status of a concern (including its affiliates) as of the date the concern submits a written self-certification that it is small to the Government as part of its initial offer including price where there is a specific sale or lease at issue, or as set forth in § 121.903 if made in response to a request of another Government agency.
§ 121.505
What is the effect of a self-certification?
(a) A contracting officer may accept a concern's self-certification as true for the particular sale or lease involved, in the absence of a written protest by other offerors or other credible information which would cause the contracting officer or SBA to question the size of the concern.
(b) Procedures for protesting the self-certification of an offeror are set forth in §§ 121.1001 through 121.1009.
§ 121.506
What definitions are important for sales or leases of Government-owned timber?
(a)
Computation of Market Share
means the small business share, expressed as a percentage for a market area, based on the purchase by small business over the preceding 5-year period. The computation is done every five years.
(b)
Forest product industry
means logging, wood preserving, and the manufacture of lumber and wood related products such as veneer, plywood, hardboard, particle board, or wood pulp, and of products of which lumber or wood related products are the principal raw materials.
(c)
Integrated Resource Timber Contracts
means contracts that combine product removal and service work when the value of included timber exceeds the value of services.
(d)
Logging of timber
means felling and bucking, yarding, and/or loading. It does not mean hauling.
(e)
Manufacture of logs
means, at a minimum, breaking down logs into rough cuts of the finished product.
(f)
Sell
means, in addition to its usual and customary meaning, the exchange of sawlogs for sawlogs on a product-for-product basis with or without monetary adjustment, and an indirect transfer, such as the sale of the assets of a concern after it has been awarded one or more set-aside sales of timber.
(g)
Significant logging of timber
means that a concern uses its own employees
to perform at least two of the following: felling and bucking, yarding, and loading.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 26201, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.507
What are the size standards and other requirements for the purchase of Government-owned timber (other than Special Salvage Timber)?
(a) To be small for purposes of the sale of Government-owned timber (other than Special Salvage Timber) a concern must:
(1) Be primarily engaged in the logging or forest products industry;
(2) Not exceed 500 employees, taking into account its affiliates; and
(3) If it does not intend at the time of the offer to resell the timber—
(i) Agree that it will manufacture the logs with its own facilities or those of another business which meets the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section;
(ii) Agree that if it eventually resells the timber, it will resell no more than 30% of the sawtimber volume to other businesses which do not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and
(iii) Agree that if it becomes acquired or controlled by a business which does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, it will require as a condition of the acquisition or change of control that the acquiring or controlling business resell at least 70% of the sawtimber volume to businesses which do meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; or
(4) If it intends at the time of offer to resell the timber—
(i) Agree that it will not sell more than 30% of such timber (50% of such timber if the concern is an Alaskan business) to a business which does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section; and
(ii) Agree that if it becomes acquired or controlled by a business which does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, it will require as a condition of the acquisition or change of control that the acquiring or controlling business resell at least 70% of the sawtimber volume (or at least 50% of the sawtimber volume, if it is an Alaskan business) to businesses which meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(b) For a period of three years following the date upon which a concern purchases timber under a small business set-aside (other than through the Special Salvage Timber Sale program), it must maintain a record of:
(1) The name, address and size status of every concern to which it sells the timber or sawlogs; and
(2) The species, grades and volumes of sawlogs sold.
(c) For a period of three years following the date upon which a concern purchases timber, it must by contract require all small business repurchasers of the sawlogs or timber it purchased under the small business set-aside to maintain the records described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) The Director of Government Contracting may waive one or more of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section in limited circumstances where conditions make the requirement(s) impractical or prohibitive. A request for waiver must be made to the Director of Government Contracting and contain facts, arguments, and any appropriate supporting documentation as to why a waiver should be granted.
(e) Sawtimber volume from Integrated Resource Timber Contracts shall be included in the Computation of Market Share and set-aside trigger.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 26201, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.508
What are the size standards and other requirements for the purchase of Government-owned Special Salvage Timber?
(a) In order to purchase Government-owned Special Salvage Timber from the United States Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management as a small business, a concern must:
(1) Be primarily engaged in the logging or forest product industry;
(2) Have, together with its affiliates, no more than twenty-five employees during any pay period for the last twelve months; and
(3) If it does not intend at the time of offer to resell the timber—
(i) Agree that it will manufacture a significant portion of the logs with its own employees; and
(ii) Agree that it will log the timber only with its own employees or with employees of another business which is eligible for award of a Special Salvage Timber sales contract; or
(4) If it intends at the time of offer to resell the timber, agree that it will perform a significant portion of timber logging with its own employees and that it will subcontract the remainder of the timber logging to a concern which is eligible for award of a Special Salvage Timber sales contract.
§ 121.509
What is the size standard for leasing of Government land for coal mining?
A concern is small for this purpose if it:
(a) Together with its affiliates, does not have more than 250 employees;
(b) Maintains management and control of the actual mining operations of the tract; and
(c) Agrees that if it subleases the Government land, it will be to another small business, and that it will require its sublessors to agree to the same.
§ 121.510
What is the size standard for leasing of Government land for uranium mining?
A concern is small for this purpose if it, together with its affiliates, does not have more than 100 employees.
§ 121.511
What is the size standard for buying Government-owned petroleum?
A concern is small for this purpose if it is primarily engaged in petroleum refining and meets the size standard for a petroleum refining business.
§ 121.512
What is the size standard for stockpile purchases?
A concern is small for this purpose if:
(a) It is primarily engaged in the purchase of materials which are not domestic products; and
(b) Its annual receipts, together with its affiliates, do not exceed $76.5 million.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 3056, Jan. 23, 2002; 70 FR 72594, Dec. 6, 2005; 73 FR 41254, July 18, 2008; 79 FR 33669, June 12, 2014; 84 FR 34281, July 18, 2019; 87 FR 69154, Nov. 17, 2022]

# Size Eligibility Requirements for the 8(
a

# ) Business Development Program
§ 121.601
What is a small business for purposes of admission to SBA's 8(a) Business Development program?
An applicant must not exceed the size standard corresponding to its primary industry classification in order to qualify for admission to SBA's 8(a) Business Development Program.
[69 FR 29205, May 21, 2004]
§ 121.602
At what point in time must a 8(a) BD applicant be small?
A 8(a) BD applicant must be small for its primary industry at the time SBA certifies it for admission into the program.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 29206, May 21, 2004]
§ 121.603
How does SBA determine whether a Participant is small for a particular 8(a) BD subcontract?
(a)
Self certification by Participant.
A 8(a) BD Participant must certify that it qualifies as a small business under the NAICS code assigned to a particular 8(a) BD subcontract as part of its initial offer including price to the procuring agency. The Participant also must submit a copy of its offer, including its self-certification as to size, to the appropriate SBA district office at the same time it submits the offer to the procuring agency.
See
§ 121.404 for the time at which size is determined for, and § 121.406 for the applicability of the nonmanufacturer rule to, 8(a) BD procurements.
(b)
Verification of size by SBA.
Within 30 days of its receipt of a Participant's size self-certification for a particular 8(a) BD subcontract, the SBA district office serving the geographic area in which the Participant's principal office is located will review the Participant's self-certification and determine if it is
small for purposes of that subcontract. The SBA district office will review the Participant's most recent financial statements and other relevant data and then notify the Participant of its decision.
(c)
Changes in size between date of self-certification and date of award.
(1) Where SBA verifies that the selected Participant is small for a particular procurement, subsequent changes in size up to the date of award, except those due to merger with or acquisition by another business concern, will not affect the firm's size status for that procurement.
(2) Where a Participant has merged with or been acquired by another business concern between the date of its self-certification and the date of award, the concern must recertify its size status, and SBA must verify the new certification before award can occur.
(3) Recertification is not required when the ownership of a concern that is at least 51% owned by an entity (
i.e.,
tribe, Alaska Native Corporation, or Community Development Corporation) changes to or from a wholly-owned business concern of the same entity, as long as the ultimate owner remains that entity.
(d)
Finding Participant to be other than small.
(1) A Participant may request a formal size determination (pursuant to §§ 121.1001 through 121.1009) with the SBA Government Contracting Area Office serving the geographic area in which the principal office of the Participant is located within 5 working days of its receipt of notice from the SBA district office that it is not small for a particular 8(a) BD subcontract.
(2) Where the Participant does not timely request a formal size determination, SBA may accept the procurement in support of another Participant, or may rescind its acceptance of the offer for the 8(a) BD program, as appropriate.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 30863, May 15, 2000; 69 FR 29206, May 21, 2004; 85 FR 66182, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 121.604
Are 8(a) BD Participants considered small for purposes of other SBA assistance?
A concern which SBA determines to be a small business for the award of a 8(a) BD subcontract will be considered to have met applicable size eligibility requirements of other SBA programs where that assistance directly and primarily relates to the performance of the 8(a) BD subcontract in question.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 29206, May 21, 2004]

# Size and Eligibility Requirements for the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Programs
§ 121.701
What SBIR and STTR programs are subject to size and eligibility determinations and what definitions are important?
(a) These sections apply to SBA's SBIR and STTR programs, 15 U.S.C. 638.
(b)
Definitions
—(1)
Funding agreement officer
means a contracting officer, a grants officer, or a cooperative agreement officer.
(2)
Funding agreement
means any contract, grant or cooperative agreement entered into between any Federal agency and any small business for the purposes of the SBIR or STTR program.
(3)
Hedge fund
has the meaning given that term in section 13(h)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(2)). The hedge fund must have a place of business located in the United States and be created or organized in the United States, or under the law of the United States or of any State.
(4)
Portfolio company
means any company that is owned in whole or part by a venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm.
(5)
Private equity firm
has the meaning given the term “private equity fund” in section 13(h)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1851(h)(2)). The private equity firm must have a place of business located in the United States and be created or organized in the United States, or under the law of the United States or of any State.
(6)
Venture capital operating company
means an entity described in § 121.103(b)(5)(i), (v), or (vi). The venture capital operating company must have a place of business located in the United
States and be created or organized in the United States, or under the law of the United States or of any State.
[77 FR 76225, Dec. 27, 2012]
§ 121.702
What size and eligibility standards are applicable to the SBIR and STTR programs?
To be eligible for award of funding agreements in SBA's SBIR and STTR programs, a business concern must meet the requirements below at the time of award of an SBIR or STTR Phase I or Phase II funding agreement:
(a)
Ownership and control for the SBIR program.
(1) An SBIR awardee must:
(i) Be a concern which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States), other small business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States), an Indian tribe, ANC or NHO (or a wholly owned business entity of such tribe, ANC or NHO), or any combination of these;
(ii) Be a concern which is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, private equity firms, or any combination of these (for agencies electing to use the authority in 15 U.S.C. 638(dd)(1)); or
(iii) Be a joint venture in which each entity to the joint venture must meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section. A joint venture that includes one or more concerns that meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section must comply with § 121.705(b) concerning registration and proposal requirements.
(2) No single venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm may own more than 50% of the concern unless that single venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm qualifies as a small business concern that is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States.
(3) If an Employee Stock Ownership Plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.
(4) If a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.
(b)
Ownership and control for the STTR program.
(1) An STTR awardee must:
(i) Be a concern which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by one or more individuals (who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States), other small business concerns (each of which is more than 50% directly owned and controlled by individuals who are citizens or permanent resident aliens of the United States), an Indian tribe, ANC or NHO (or a wholly owned business entity of such tribe, ANC or NHO), or any combination of these; or
(ii) Be a joint venture in which each entity to the joint venture must meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
(2) If an Employee Stock Ownership Plan owns all or part of the concern, each stock trustee and plan member is considered an owner.
(3) If a trust owns all or part of the concern, each trustee and trust beneficiary is considered an owner.
(c)
Size and affiliation.
An SBIR or STTR awardee, together with its affiliates, must not have more than 500 employees. Concerns and entities are affiliates of each other when one controls or has the power to control the other, or a third party or parties controls or has the power to control both. It does not matter whether control is exercised, so long as the power to control exists. For the purposes of the SBIR and STTR programs, the following bases of affiliation apply:
(1)
Affiliation based on ownership.
For determining affiliation based on equity ownership, a concern is an affiliate of an individual, concern, or entity that owns or has the power to control more than 50 percent of the concern's voting equity. However, SBA may find a concern an affiliate of an individual, concern, or entity that owns or has the power to control 40% or more of the voting equity based upon the totality of circumstances. If no individual, concern, or entity is found to control, SBA will deem the Board of Directors to be in control of the concern.
(2)
Affiliation arising under stock options, convertible securities, and agreements to merge.
In determining size, SBA considers stock options, convertible securities, and agreements to merge (including agreements in principle) to have a present effect on the power to control a concern. SBA treats such options, convertible securities, and agreements as though the rights granted have been exercised.
(i) Agreements to open or continue negotiations towards the possibility of a merger or a sale of stock at some later date are not considered “agreements in principle” and are thus not given present effect.
(ii) Options, convertible securities, and agreements that are subject to conditions precedent which are incapable of fulfillment, speculative, conjectural, or unenforceable under state or Federal law, or where the probability of the transaction (or exercise of the rights) occurring is shown to be extremely remote, are not given present effect.
(iii) An individual, concern or other entity that controls one or more other concerns cannot use options, convertible securities, or agreements to appear to terminate such control before actually doing so. SBA will not give present effect to individuals', concerns' or other entities' ability to divest all or part of their ownership interest in order to avoid a finding of affiliation.
(3)
Affiliation based on common management.
Affiliation arises where the CEO or President of a concern (or other officers, managing members, or partners who control the management of the concern) also controls the management of one or more other concerns. Affiliation also arises where a single individual, concern, or entity that controls the board of directors of one concern also controls the board of directors or management of one or more other concerns.
(4)
Affiliation based on identity of interest.
Affiliation may arise among two or more persons (including any individual, concern or other entity) with an identity of interest. An individual, concern or entity may rebut a determination of identity of interest with evidence showing that the interests deemed to be one are in fact separate.
(i) SBA may presume an identity of interest between family members with identical or substantially identical business or economic interests (such as where the family members operate concerns in the same or similar industry in the same geographic area).
(ii) SBA may presume an identity of interest based upon economic dependence if the SBIR/STTR awardee relies upon another concern or entity for 70% or more of its receipts.
(iii) An SBIR or STTR awardee is not affiliated with a portfolio company of a venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm, solely on the basis of one or more shared investors, though affiliation may be found for other reasons.
(5)
Affiliation based on the newly organized concern rule.
Affiliation may arise where former or current officers, directors, principal stockholders, managing members, general partners, or key employees of one concern organize a new concern in the same or related industry or field of operation, and serve as the new concern's officers, directors, principal stockholders, managing members, general partners, or key employees, and the one concern is furnishing or will furnish the new concern with contracts, financial or technical assistance, indemnification on bid or performance bonds, and/or other facilities, whether for a fee or otherwise. A concern may rebut such an affiliation determination by demonstrating a clear line of fracture between the two concerns. A “key employee” is an employee who, because of his/her position in the concern, has a critical influence in or substantive control over the operations or management of the concern. A concern will be considered “new” for the purpose of this rule if it has been actively operating continuously for less than one year.
(6)
Size requirement for joint ventures.
Two or more small business concerns may submit an application as a joint venture. The joint venture will qualify as small as long as each concern is small under the size standard for the SBIR program, found at § 121.702(c), or the joint venture meets the exception at § 121.103(h)(3)(ii) for two firms approved to be a mentor and protégé
under SBA's All Small Mentor-Protégé Program.
(7)
Affiliation based on the ostensible subcontractor rule.
A concern and its ostensible subcontractor are treated as joint venturers. As such, they are affiliates for size determination purposes and must meet the ownership and control requirements applicable to joint ventures. An ostensible subcontractor is a subcontractor or subgrantee that performs primary and vital requirements of a funding agreement (
i.e.,
those requirements associated with the principal purpose of the funding agreement), or a subcontractor or subgrantee upon which the concern is unusually reliant. All aspects of the relationship between the concern and subcontractor are considered, including, but not limited to, the terms of the proposal (such as management, technical responsibilities, and the percentage of subcontracted work) and agreements between the concern and subcontractor or subgrantee (such as bonding assistance or the teaming agreement). To determine whether a subcontractor performs primary and vital requirements of a funding agreement, SBA will consider whether the concern's proposal complies with the performance requirements of the SBIR or STTR program.
(8)
Affiliation based on license agreements.
SBA will consider whether there is a license agreement concerning a product or trademark which is critical to operation of the licensee. The license agreement will not cause the licensor to be affiliated with the licensee if the licensee has the right to profit from its efforts and bears the risk of loss. Affiliation may arise, however, through other means, such as common ownership or common management.
(9)
Exception to affiliation for portfolio companies.
If a venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm that is determined to be affiliated with an awardee is a minority investor in the awardee, the awardee is not affiliated with a portfolio company of the venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm, unless:
(i) The venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firm owns a majority of the portfolio company; or
(ii) The venture capital operating company, hedge fund, or private equity firms holds a majority of the seats of the board of directors of the portfolio company.
(10)
Totality of the circumstances.
In determining whether affiliation exists, SBA may consider the totality of the circumstances, and may find affiliation even though no single factor is sufficient to constitute affiliation.
(11)
Exception to affiliation for certain investment companies.
There is an exception to affiliation for Small Business Investment Companies (SBICs) that invest in SBIR or STTR awardees, in accordance with 13 CFR 121.103(b)(1).
(d)
Calculating ownership and control.
SBA will review the small business' equity ownership on a fully diluted basis for purposes of determining ownership, control and affiliation in the SBIR and STTR programs. This means that SBA will consider the total number of shares or equity that would be outstanding if all possible sources of conversion were exercised, including, but not limited to: Outstanding common stock or equity, outstanding preferred stock (on a converted to common basis) or equity, outstanding warrants (on an as exercised and converted to common basis), outstanding options and options reserved for future grants, and any other convertible securities on an as converted to common basis.
[77 FR 76225, Dec. 27, 2012; 78 FR 11745, Feb. 20, 2013, as amended at 81 FR 34259, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48579, July 25, 2016; 81 FR 71983, Oct. 19, 2016; 85 FR 66182, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26201, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 121.702 were published at 89 FR 102486, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 121.703
Are formal size determinations binding on parties?
Size determinations by authorized SBA officials are formal actions based upon a specific funding agreement, and are binding upon the parties. Other SBA opinions provided to funding agreement officers or others, are only advisory, and are not binding or appealable.
§ 121.704
When does SBA determine the size and eligibility status of a business concern?
(a) The size and eligibility status of a concern for the purpose of a funding agreement award under the SBIR and STTR programs is determined at the time of award for both Phase I and Phase II SBIR and STTR awards, or on the date of the request for a size determination, if an award is pending.
(b) A concern that qualified as a small business at the time it receives an SBIR or STTR funding agreement is considered a small business throughout the life of that specific funding agreement. Where a concern grows to be other than small, the funding agreement agency may exercise the options on the award that is a contract, grant or cooperative agreement or issue a continuation on a grant or cooperative agreement and still count the award as an award to a small business under the SBIR or STTR program. However, the following exceptions apply:
(1) In the case of a merger or acquisition, the awardee must, within 30 days of the transaction becoming final (or the approved funding agreement novation if a novation is required), recertify its small business size status to the funding agreement agency or inform the funding agreement agency that it is other than small. If the awardee is other than small, the agency can no longer fund the options or issue a continuation pursuant to the funding agreement, from that point forward, with SBIR or STTR funds. Funding agreement novations for reasons other than a merger or acquisition do not necessarily require re-certification. The funding agreement agency and the awardee must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract and grant databases to reflect the new size status from that point forward.
(2) For the purposes of SBIR and STTR funding agreements with durations of more than five years, a funding agreement officer must request that a business concern re-certify its small business size status no more than 120 days prior to the end of the fifth year of the funding agreement, and no more than 120 days prior to exercising any option or issuing any continuation. If the awardee certifies that it is other than small, the funding agreement agency can no longer fund the options or issue a continuation pursuant to the funding agreement with SBIR or STTR funds. The funding agreement agency and the awardee must immediately revise all applicable Federal contract and grant databases to reflect the new size status from that point forward.
(c) Re-certification does not change the terms and conditions of the funding agreement. The requirements in effect at the time of award remain in effect throughout the life of the funding agreement.
(d) A request for a size re-certification shall include the size standard in effect at the time of re-certification.
[77 FR 76226, Dec. 27, 2012]
§ 121.705
Must a business concern self-certify its size and eligibility status?
(a) A business concern must self-certify that it meets the eligibility requirements set forth in § 121.702 for a Phase I or Phase II SBIR or STTR funding agreement.
(b) A business concern that is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms and a joint venture where one or more parties to the joint venture is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms must be registered with SBA as of the date it submits its initial proposal (or other formal response) to a Phase I or Phase II SBIR announcement or solicitation. The concern must indicate in any SBIR proposal or application that it is registered with SBA as majority-owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms.
(c) A small business concern that did not meet the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section at the time of its SBIR proposal or application must notify the funding agreement officer if, on the date of award, the concern is more than 50% owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms.
(1) The concern is still eligible to receive the award if it becomes majority-
owned by multiple venture capital operating companies, hedge funds, or private equity firms after the time it submitted its initial proposal (or other formal response) to a Phase I or Phase II SBIR announcement or solicitation if the agency makes the award on or after the date that is 9 months from the end of the period for submitting applications under the SBIR solicitation.
(2) This small business, known as a covered small business concern, would have to certify that it meets the requirements of the SBIR program set forth in §§ 121.702(a)(1)(ii) or 121.702(a)(1)(iii), and 121.702(a)(2) and 121.702(c) at the time of award of the funding agreement.
(d) A funding agreement officer may accept a concern's self-certification as true for the particular funding agreement involved in the absence of a written protest or other credible information which would cause the funding agreement officer or SBA to question the size or eligibility of the concern.
(e) Procedures for protesting an awardee's self-certification are set forth in §§ 121.1001 through 121.1009. In adjudicating a protest, SBA may address both the size status and eligibility of the SBIR or STTR awardee.
[77 FR 76227, Dec. 27, 2012]

# Size Eligibility Requirements for Paying Reduced Patent Fees
§ 121.801
May patent fees be reduced if a concern is small?
These sections apply to size status for the purpose of paying reduced patent fees authorized by Pub. L. 97-247, 96 Stat. 317. The eligibility requirements for independent inventors and nonprofit organizations for the purpose of paying reduced patent fees are set forth in regulations of the Patent and Trademark Office of the Department of Commerce, 37 CFR 1.9, 1.27, 1.28.
§ 121.802
What size standards are applicable to reduced patent fees programs?
A concern eligible for reduced patent fees is one:
(a) Whose number of employees, including affiliates, does not exceed 500 persons; and
(b) Which has not assigned, granted, conveyed, or licensed (and is under no obligation to do so) any rights in the invention to any person who made it and could not be classified as an independent inventor, or to any concern which would not qualify as a non-profit organization or a small business concern under this section.
§ 121.803
Are formal size determinations binding on parties?
Size determinations by authorized SBA officials are formal actions, based upon a specific patent application pursuant to the rules of the Patent and Trademark Office, Department of Commerce, and are binding upon the parties. Other SBA opinions provided to patent applicants or others are only advisory, and are not binding or appealable.
§ 121.804
When does SBA determine the size status of a business concern?
Size status is determined as of the date of the patent applicant's written verification of size.
§ 121.805
May a business concern self-certify its size status?
(a) A concern verifies its size status with its submission of its patent application.
(b) Any attempt to establish small size status improperly (fraudulently, through gross negligence, or otherwise) may result in remedial action by the Patent and Trademark Office.
(c) In the absence of credible information indicating otherwise, the Patent and Trademark Office may accept the verification by the concern as a small business as true.
(d) Questions concerning the size verification are resolved initially by the Patent and Trademark Office. If not verified as small, the applicant may request a formal SBA size determination.

# Size Eligibility Requirements for Compliance With Programs of Other Agencies
§ 121.901
Can other Government agencies obtain SBA size determinations?
Upon request by another Government agency, SBA will provide a size determination, under SBA rules, standards and procedures, for its use in determining compliance with small business requirements of its statutes, regulations or programs.
§ 121.902
What size standards are applicable to programs of other agencies?
SBA size standards.
The size standards for compliance with programs of other agencies are those for SBA programs which are most comparable to the programs of such other agencies, unless the agency and SBA agree otherwise.
[67 FR 13716, Mar. 26, 2002]
§ 121.903
How may an agency use size standards for its programs that are different than those established by SBA?
(a) Federal agencies or departments promulgating regulations relating to small businesses usually use SBA size criteria. In limited circumstances, if they decide the SBA size standard is not suitable for their programs, then agency heads may establish a more appropriate small business definition for the exclusive use in such programs, but only when:
(1) The size standard will determine:
(i) The size of a manufacturing concern by its average number of employees based on the preceding 24 calendar months, determined according to § 121.106;
(ii) The size of a services concern by its average annual receipts over a period of at least 5 years, determined according to § 121.104;
(iii) The size of other concerns on data over a period of at least 5 years, determined according to § 121.104; or,
(iv) Other factors approved by SBA;
(2) The agency has consulted in writing with SBA's Division Chief, office of Size Standards at least fourteen (14) calendar days before publishing the proposed rule which is part of the rulemaking process. The written consultation will include:
(i) What size standard the agency contemplates using;
(ii) To what agency program it will apply;
(iii) How the agency arrived at this particular size standard for this program; and,
(iv) Why SBA's existing size standards do not satisfy the program requirements;
(3) The agency proposes the size standard for public comment pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553;
(4) The agency provides a copy of the proposed rule, when it publishes it for public comment as part of the rulemaking process, to SBA's Division Chief, Office of Size Standards; and
(5) SBA's Administrator approves the size standard before the agency adopts a final rule or otherwise prescribes the size standard for its use. The agency's request for the SBA Administrator's approval must include:
(i) Copies of all comments on the proposed size standard received in response to the proposed rule;
(ii) A separate written justification for the intended size standard;
(iii) A copy of the intended final rule if available at that time, or a copy of the intended final rule and preamble prior to its publication; and
(iv) Other information SBA may request in connection with the request.
(b) When approving any size standard established pursuant to this section, SBA's Administrator will ensure that the size standard varies from industry to industry to the extent necessary to reflect the differing characteristics of the various industries, and consider other relevant factors.
(c) Where the agency head is developing a size standard for the sole purpose of performing a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis pursuant to section 601(3) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the department or agency may, after consultation with the SBA Office of Advocacy, establish a size standard different from SBA's which is more appropriate for such analysis.
[67 FR 13716, Mar. 26, 2002, as amended at 84 FR 66579, Dec. 5, 2019; 87 FR 34120, June 6, 2022]
§ 121.904
When does SBA determine the size status of a business concern?
For compliance with programs of other agencies, SBA will base its size determination on the size of the concern as of the date set forth in the request of the other agency.
[67 FR 13716, Mar. 26, 2002]

# Procedures for Size Protests and Requests for Formal Size Determinations
§ 121.1001
Who may initiate a size protest or request a formal size determination?
(a)
Size Status Protests.
(1) For SBA's Small Business Set-Aside Program, including the Property Sales Program, or any instance in which a procurement or order has been restricted to or reserved for small businesses or a particular group of small businesses (including a partial set-aside), the following entities may file a size protest in connection with a particular procurement, sale or order:
(i) Any offeror that the contracting officer has not eliminated from consideration for any procurement-related reason, such as non-responsiveness, technical unacceptability or outside of the competitive range;
(ii) The contracting officer;
(iii) The SBA Government Contracting Area Director having responsibility for the area in which the headquarters of the protested offeror is located, regardless of the location of a parent company or affiliates, the Director, Office of Government Contracting, or the Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law; and
(iv) Other interested parties. Other interested parties include large businesses where only one concern submitted an offer for the specific procurement in question. A concern found to be other than small in connection with the procurement is not an interested party unless there is only one remaining offeror after the concern is found to be other than small.
(2) For competitive 8(a) contracts, the following entities may protest:
(i) Any offeror that the contracting officer has not eliminated from consideration for any procurement related reason, such as non-responsiveness, technical unacceptability or outside of the competitive range;
(ii) The contracting officer; or
(iii) The SBA District Director, or designee, in either the district office serving the geographical area in which the procuring activity is located or the district office that services the apparent successful offeror, the Associate Administrator for Business Development, or the Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law.
(3) For SBA's Subcontracting Program, the following entities may protest:
(i) The prime contractor;
(ii) The contracting officer;
(iii) Other potential subcontractors;
(iv) The responsible SBA Government Contracting Area Director or the Director, Office of Government Contracting, or the SBA's Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law; and
(v) Other interested parties.
(4) For SBA's Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program, the following entities may protest:
(i) An offeror or applicant for that solicitation;
(ii) The funding agreement officer; and
(iii) The responsible SBA Government Contracting Area Director; the Director, Office of Government Contracting; the Associate Administrator, Investment Division, or the Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law.
(5) For the Department of Defense's Small Disadvantaged Business (SDB) Program, and any other similar program of another Federal agency, the following entities may file a protest in connection with a particular SDB procurement:
(i) Any offeror for the specific SDB requirement whom the contracting officer has not eliminated for reasons unrelated to size;
(ii) The contracting officer; and
(iii) The responsible SBA Area Director for Government Contracting, the SBA Director, Office of Government Contracting, or the SBA Associate Administrator for Business Development;
(6) For SBA's HUBZone program, the following entities may protest in connection with a particular HUBZone procurement:
(i) Any offeror for a specific HUBZone set-aside contract that the contracting officer has not eliminated from consideration for any procurement-related reason, such as non-responsiveness, technical unacceptability or outside of the competitive range;
(ii) Any concern that submitted an offer in full and open competition and its opportunity for award will be affected by a price evaluation preference given acertified HUBZone small business concern;
(iii) The contracting officer; and
(iv) The SBA Director, Office of HUBZone, or designee, or the SBA Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law.
(7) For any unrestricted Government procurement in which a business concern has represented itself as a small business concern, the following entities may protest in connection with a particular procurement:
(i) Any offeror;
(ii) The contracting officer; and
(iii) The responsible SBA Government Contracting Area Director, the Director, Office of Government Contracting, the Associate Administrator for Business Development, or the Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law.
(8) For SBA's Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Concern program, the following entities may protest in connection with a particular service-disabled veteran-owned procurement:
(i) Any offeror for a specific service-disabled veteran-owned small business set-aside contract that the contracting officer has not eliminated from consideration for any procurement-related reason, such as non-responsiveness, technical unacceptability or outside of the competitive range;
(ii) The contracting officer;
(iii) The SBA Government Contracting Area Director; and
(iv) The Director, Office of Government Contracting, or designee, or the Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law.
(9) For SBA's WOSB Federal Contracting Program, the following entities may protest:
(i) Any offeror for a specific contract set aside for WOSBs or WOSBs owned by one or more women who are economically disadvantaged (EDWOSB) that the contracting officer has not eliminated from consideration for any procurement-related reason, such as non-responsiveness, technical unacceptability or outside of the competitive range;
(ii) The contracting officer;
(iii) The SBA Government Contracting Area Director; and
(iv) The Director, Office of Government Contracting, or designee, or the Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law.
(b)
Request for Size Determinations.
(1) For SBA's Financial Assistance Programs, the following entities may request a formal size determination:
(i) The applicant for assistance; and
(ii) The SBA official with authority to take final action on the assistance requested. That official may also request the appropriate Government Contracting Area Office to determine whether affiliation exists between an applicant for financial assistance and one or more other entities for purposes of determining whether the applicant would exceed the loan limit amount imposed by § 120.151 of this chapter.
(iii) The SBA Associate Administrator for Investment or designee may request a formal size determination for any purpose relating to the SBIC program (
see
part 107 of this chapter) or the NMVC program (
see
part 108 of this chapter). A formal size determination includes a request to determine whether or not affiliation exists between two or more entities for any purpose relating to the SBIC program.
(2) For SBA's 8(a) BD program:
(i) Concerning initial or continued 8(a) BD eligibility, the following entities may request a formal size determination:
(A) The 8(a) BD applicant concern or Participant; or
(B) The Director of the Division of Program Certification and Eligibility or the Associate Administrator for Business Development.
(ii) Concerning individual sole source and competitive 8(a) contract awards where SBA cannot verify the eligibility of the apparent successful offeror because SBA finds the concern to be other than small, the following entities may request a formal size determination:
(A) The Participant nominated for award of the particular sole source contract, or found to be ineligible for a competitive 8(a) contract due to its size;
(B) The SBA program official with authority to execute the 8(a) contract or, where applicable, the procuring activity contracting officer who has been delegated SBA's 8(a) contract execution functions; or
(C) The SBA District Director in the district office that services the Participant, the Associate Administrator for Business Development, or the Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law.
(3) For SBA's Certificate of Competency Program, the following entities may request a formal size determination:
(i) The offeror who has applied for a COC; and
(ii) The responsible SBA Government Contracting Area Director or the Director, Office of Government Contracting.
(4) For SBA's sale or lease of government property, the following entities may request a formal size determination:
(i) The responsible SBA Government Contracting Area Director or the Director, Office of Government Contracting; and
(ii) Authorized officials of other Federal agencies administering a property sales program.
(5) For eligibility to pay reduced patent fees, the following entities may request a formal size determination:
(i) The applicant for the reduced patent fees; and
(ii) The Patent and Trademark Office.
(6) For purposes of determining compliance with small business requirements of another Government agency program not otherwise specified in this section, an official with authority to administer the program involved may request a formal size determination.
(7) In connection with initial or continued eligibility for the WOSB program, the following may request a formal size determination:
(i) The applicant or WOSB/EDWOSB; or
(ii) The Director of Government Contracting or the Deputy Director, Program and Resource Management, for the Office of Government Contracting.
(8) In connection with initial or continued eligibility for the HUBZone program, the following may request a formal size determination:
(i) The applicant or certified HUBZone small business concern; or
(ii) The Director, Office of HUBZone, or designee.
(9) For other purposes related to protecting the integrity of the Federal procurement process, including validating that firms listed in the System for Award Management database are small, the Government Contracting Area Director or the Director, Office of Government Contracting may initiate a formal size determination when sufficient information exists that calls into question a firm's small business status. The current date will be used to determine size, and SBA will initiate the process to remove from the database the small business designation of any firm found to be other than small.
(10) For purposes of the small business mentor-protégé program authorized pursuant to § 125.9 of this chapter (based on its status as a small business for its primary or identified secondary NAICS code), the business concern seeking to be a protégé or SBA may request a formal size determination.
(11) For purposes of determining compliance with small business requirements for firms relying upon small business status advisory opinions, the Associate General Counsel, Office of Procurement Law may request a formal size determination. Additionally, any firm that is the subject of a small business status advisory opinion holding that it is other than small may request a formal size determination.
(12) In connection with eligibility for the SDVO program, the following may request a formal size determination:
(i) The SDVO business concern; or
(ii) The Director of Government Contracting or designee.
(13) The SBA Inspector General may request a formal size determination with respect to any of the programs identified in paragraph (b) of this section.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 31907, June 11, 1998; 63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998; 69 FR 25266, May 5, 2004; 69 FR 29206, May 21, 2004; 69 FR 29420, May 24, 2004; 69 FR 44461, July 26, 2004; 73 FR 56947, Oct. 1, 2008; 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 75 FR 62280, Oct. 7, 2010; 76 FR 8253, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 76227, Dec. 27, 2012; 78 FR 61132, Oct. 2, 2013; 80 FR 7536, Feb. 11, 2015; 81 FR 34259, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48579, July 25, 2016; 84 FR 65239, Nov. 26, 2019; 85 FR 66182, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26202, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 121.1001 were published at 89 FR 102486, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 121.1002
Who makes a formal size determination?
The responsible Government Contracting Area Director or designee makes all formal size determinations in response to either a size protest or a request for a formal size determination, with the exception of size determinations for purposes of the Disaster Loan Program, which will be made by the Disaster Area Office Director or designee responsible for the area in which the disaster occurred.
§ 121.1003
Where should a size protest be filed?
A protest involving a government procurement or sale must be filed with the contracting officer for the procurement or sale, who must forward the protest to the SBA Government Contracting Area Office serving the area in which the headquarters of the protested concern is located, regardless of the location of any parent company or affiliates.
§ 121.1004
What time limits apply to size protests?
(a)
Protests by entities other than contracting officers or SBA
—(1)
Sealed bids or sales (including protests on partial set-asides and reserves of Multiple Award Contracts and set-asides of orders against Multiple Award Contracts).
(i) A protest must be received by the contracting officer prior to the close of business on the 5th day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after bid opening for
(A) The contract;
(B) An order issued against a Multiple Award Contract if the contracting officer requested a new size certification in connection with that order; or
(C) Except for orders or Blanket Purchase Agreements issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contract, an order or Blanket Purchase Agreement set aside for small business (
i.e.,
small business set-aside, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned small business) where the underlying Multiple Award Contract was awarded on an unrestricted basis.
(ii) Where the identified low bidder is determined to be ineligible for award, a protest of any other identified low bidder must be received prior to the close of business on the 5th day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after the contracting officer has notified interested parties of the identity of that low bidder.
(2)
Negotiated procurement (including protests on partial set-asides and reserves of Multiple Award Contracts and set-asides of orders against Multiple Award Contracts).
A protest must be received by the contracting officer prior to the close of business on the 5th day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after the contracting officer has notified the protestor of the identity of the prospective awardee for
(i) The contract; or
(ii) An order issued against a Multiple Award Contract if the contracting officer requested a size recertification in connection with that order; or
(iii) Except for orders or Blanket Purchase Agreements issued under any Federal Supply Schedule contract, an order or Blanket Purchase Agreement set-aside for small business (
i.e.,
small business set-aside, 8(a) small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, or women-owned small business) where the underlying Multiple Award Contract was awarded on an unrestricted basis without a reserve.
(3)
Long-Term Contracts.
For contracts with durations greater than five years (including options), including all existing long-term contracts, Multi-agency contracts, Governmentwide Acquisition Contracts and Multiple Award Contracts:
(i) Protests regarding size certifications made for contracts must be received by the contracting officer prior to the close of business on the 5th day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after receipt of notice (including notice received in writing, orally, or via electronic posting) of the identity of the prospective awardee or award.
(ii) Protests regarding size certifications made for an option period must be received by the contracting officer prior to the close of business on the 5th day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after receipt of notice (including notice received in writing, orally, or via electronic posting) of the size certification made by the protested concern.
(A) A contracting officer is not required to terminate a contract where a concern is found to be other than small pursuant to a size protest concerning a size certification made for an option period.
(B) [Reserved]
(iii) Protests relating to size certifications made in response to a contracting officer's request for size certifications in connection with an individual order must be received by the contracting officer prior to the close of business on the 5th day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after receipt of notice (including notice received in writing, orally, or via electronic posting) of the identity of the prospective awardee or award.
(4)
Electronic notification of award.
Where notification of award is made electronically, such as posting on the Internet under Simplified Acquisition Procedures, a protest must be received by the contracting officer before close of business on the fifth day, exclusive of Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays, after the electronic posting.
(5)
No notice of award.
Where there is no requirement for written pre-award notice or notice of award, or where the contracting officer has failed to provide written notification of award, the 5-day protest period will commence upon oral notification by the contracting officer or authorized representative or another means (such as public announcements or other oral communications) of the identity of the apparent successful offeror.
(b)
Protests by contracting officers, funding agreement officers or SBA.
The time limitations in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to contracting officers, funding agreement officers or SBA, and they may file protests before or after awards, except to the extent set forth in paragraph (e) of this section, including for purposes of the SBIR and STTR programs. Notwithstanding paragraph (e), for purposes of the SBIR and STTR programs the funding agreement officer or SBA may file a protest in anticipation of an award.
(c)
Effect of contract award.
A timely filed protest applies to the procurement in question even though a contracting officer awarded the contract prior to receipt of the protest.
(d)
Untimely protests.
A protest received after the allotted time limits must still be forwarded to SBA. SBA will dismiss untimely protests.
(e)
Premature protests.
A protest filed by any party, including the contracting officer, before bid opening or notification to offerors of the selection of the apparent successful offer will be dismissed as premature.
(f)
Apparent successful offeror.
A party with standing, as set forth in § 121.1001(a), may file a protest only against an apparent successful offeror or an offeror in line to receive an award.
(g)
Bid protest corrective action.
SBA will generally dismiss any size protest relating to an initial apparent successful offeror where an agency decides to reevaluate offers as a corrective action in response to a FAR subpart 33.1 bid protest.
(1) SBA will complete the size determination where the procuring agency makes a written request to SBA within two business days of the agency informing SBA of the corrective action and demonstrates that the corrective action will not result in a change of the apparent successful offeror, unless
the protest involves size issues determined as of the date of final proposal revision per § 121.404(d).
(2) When the apparent successful offeror is announced after reevaluation, interested parties will again have the opportunity to protest the size of the new or same apparent successful offeror within five business days after such notification.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 29206, May 21, 2004; 71 FR 66444, Nov. 15, 2006; 77 FR 76227, Dec. 27, 2012; 78 FR 61132, Oct. 2, 2013; 85 FR 66182, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26202, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.1005
How must a protest be filed with the contracting officer?
A protest must be delivered to the contracting officer by hand, telegram, mail, facsimile, Federal Express or other overnight delivery service, e-mail, or telephone. If a protest is made by telephone, the contracting officer must later receive a confirming letter either within the 5-day period in § 121.1004(a)(1) or postmarked no later than one day after the date of the telephone protest.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 29206, May 21, 2004]
§ 121.1006
When will a size protest be referred to an SBA Government Contracting Area Office?
(a) A contracting officer who receives a protest (other than from SBA) must forward the protest promptly to the SBA Government Contracting Area Office serving the area in which the headquarters of the offeror is located.
(b) A contracting officer's referral must contain the following information:
(1) The protest and any accompanying materials;
(2) A copy of the self-certification as to size;
(3) Identification of the applicable size standard;
(4) A copy of the solicitation;
(5) Identification of the date of bid opening or notification provided to unsuccessful offerors;
(6) The date on which the protest was received; and
(7) A complete address and point of contact for the protested concern.
§ 121.1007
Must a protest of size status relate to a particular procurement and be specific?
(a)
Particular procurement.
A protest challenging the size of a concern which does not pertain to a particular procurement or sale will not be acted on by SBA.
(b)
A protest must include specific facts.
A protest must be sufficiently specific to provide reasonable notice as to the grounds upon which the protested concern's size is questioned. Some basis for the belief or allegation stated in the protest must be given. A protest merely alleging that the protested concern is not small or is affiliated with unnamed other concerns does not specify adequate grounds for the protest. No particular form is prescribed for a protest. Where materials supporting the protest are available, they should be submitted with the protest.
(c)
Non-specific protests will be dismissed.
Protests which do not contain sufficient specificity will be dismissed by SBA. The following are examples of allegation specificity:

# Example 1:
An allegation that concern X is large because it employs more than 500 employees (where 500 employees is the applicable size standard) without setting forth a basis for the allegation is non-specific.

# Example 2:
An allegation that concern X is large because it exceeds the 500 employee size standard (where 500 employees is the applicable size standard) because a higher employment figure was published in publication Y is sufficiently specific.

# Example 3:
An allegation that concern X is affiliated with concern Y without setting forth any basis for the allegation is non-specific.

# Example 4:
An allegation that concern X is affiliated with concern Y because Mr. A is the majority shareholder in both concerns is sufficiently specific.

# Example 5:
An allegation that concern X has revenues in excess of $5 million (where $5 million is the applicable size standard) without setting forth a basis for the allegation is non-specific.

# Example 6:
An allegation that concern X exceeds the size standard (where the applicable size standard is $5 million) because it received Government contracts in excess of $5 million last year is sufficiently specific.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 69 FR 29206, May 21, 2004]
§ 121.1008
What occurs after SBA receives a size protest or request for a formal size determination?
(a) When SBA receives a size protest, the SBA Area Director for Government Contracting, or designee, will notify the contracting officer, the protested concern, and the protestor that the protest has been received. If the protest pertains to a requirement involving SBA's HUBZone program, the Area Director will also notify the D/HUB of the protest. If the protest pertains to a requirement set aside for WOSBs or EDWOSBs, the Area Director will also notify SBA's Director for Government Contracting of the protest. If the protest pertains to a requirement involving SBA's SBIR or STTR programs, the Area Director will also notify the Associate Administrator, Investment Division. If the protest involves the size status of an SDB concern (see part 124, subpart B of this chapter) the Area Director will notify SBA's Associate Administrator for Business Development. If the protest pertains to a requirement that has been reserved for competition among eligible 8(a) BD program participants, the Area Director will notify the SBA district office servicing the 8(a) concern whose size status has been protested. SBA will provide a copy of the protest to the protested concern together with SBA Form 355, Application for Small Business Size Determination, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by any overnight delivery service that provides proof of receipt. SBA will ask the protested concern to complete the form and respond to the allegations in the protest.
(b) When SBA receives a request for a formal size determination in accord with § 121.1001(b), SBA will provide a blank copy of SBA Form 355 to the concern whose size is at issue.
(c) The protested concern or concern whose size is at issue must return the completed SBA Form 355 and all other requested information to SBA within 3 working days from the date of receipt of the blank form from SBA. SBA has discretion to grant an extension of time to file the form. The firm must attach to the completed SBA Form 355 its answers to the allegations contained in the protest, where applicable, together with any supporting material.
(d) If a concern whose size status is at issue fails to submit a completed SBA Form 355, responses to the allegations of the protest, or other requested information within the time allowed by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may presume that disclosure of the information required by the form or other missing information would demonstrate that the concern is other than a small business. A concern whose size status is at issue must furnish information about its alleged affiliates to SBA, despite any third party claims of privacy or confidentiality, because SBA will not disclose information obtained in the course of a size determination except as permitted by Federal law.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 31908, June 11, 1998; 69 FR 29207, May 21, 2004; 73 FR 56948, Oct. 1, 2008; 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 75 FR 62280, Oct. 7, 2010; 77 FR 76227, Dec. 27, 2012]
§ 121.1009
What are the procedures for making the size determination?
(a)
Time frame for making size determination.
(1) After receipt of a protest or a request for a formal size determination, if no protest is pending under FAR subpart 33.1, the SBA Area Office will issue a formal size determination within 15 business days, if possible;
(2) If a protest is pending under FAR subpart 33.1, the SBA Area Office will suspend processing a valid, timely and specific size protest. Once the procuring agency, GAO or the Court of Federal Claims issues a decision under FAR subpart 33.1, the SBA Area Office will recommence the size determination process.
(i) If the FAR subpart 33.1 decision denies the protest, SBA will issue a formal size determination within 15 business days of the decision, if possible.
(ii) If the decision results in a cancellation of the award or change of the apparent successful offeror, SBA will dismiss the size protest as moot.
(iii) If the decision requires re-evaluation of offers or other corrective action but the award is not cancelled, SBA will continue to suspend processing the protest.
(A) If after re-evaluation or other corrective action occurs the protested
concern remains the apparent successful offeror, SBA will issue a formal size determination within 15 business days after notification of the apparent successful offeror, if possible.
(B) If after re-evaluation or other corrective action occurs a different apparent successful offeror is identified, SBA will dismiss the size protest as moot. Interested parties may file a timely size protest with respect to the newly identified apparent successful offeror after the notification of award.
(3) The contracting officer may award a contract after receipt of a protest if the contracting officer determines in writing that an award must be made to protect the public interest. Notwithstanding such a determination, the provisions of paragraph (g) of this section apply to the procurement in question.
(4) If SBA does not issue its determination in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section (or request an extension that is granted), the contracting officer may award the contract if he or she determines in writing that there is an immediate need to award the contract and that waiting until SBA makes its determination will be disadvantageous to the Government. Notwithstanding such a determination, the provisions of paragraph (g) of this section apply to the procurement in question.
(b)
Basis for determination.
The size determination will be based primarily on the information supplied by the protestor or the entity requesting the size determination and that provided by the concern whose size status is at issue. The determination, however, may also be based on grounds not raised in the protest or request for size determination. SBA may use other information and may make requests for additional information to the protestor, the concern whose size status is at issue and any alleged affiliates, or other parties.
(c)
Burden of persuasion.
The concern whose size is under consideration has the burden of establishing its small business size.
(d)
Weight of evidence.
SBA will give greater weight to specific, signed, factual evidence than to general, unsupported allegations or opinions. In the case of refusal or failure to furnish requested information within a required time period, SBA may assume that disclosure would be contrary to the interests of the party failing to make disclosure.
(e)
Formal size determination.
The SBA will base its formal size determination upon the record, including reasonable inferences from the record, and will state in writing the basis for its findings and conclusions.
(f)
Notification of determination.
SBA will promptly notify the contracting officer, the protester, and the protested concern. SBA will send the notification by verifiable means, which may include facsimile, electronic mail, or overnight delivery service.
(g)
Results of an SBA Size Determination.
(1) A contracting officer may award a contract to a protested concern after the SBA Area Office has determined either that the protested concern is an eligible small business or has dismissed all protests against it. If OHA subsequently overturns the Area Office's determination or dismissal, the contracting officer may apply the OHA decision to the procurement in question.
(2) A contracting officer shall not award a contract to a protested concern that the Area Office has determined is not an eligible small business for the procurement in question.
(i) If a contracting officer receives such a determination after contract award, and no OHA appeal has been filed, the contracting officer shall terminate the award.
(ii) If a timely OHA appeal is filed after contract award, the contracting officer must consider whether performance can be suspended until an appellate decision is rendered.
(iii) If OHA affirms the size determination finding the protested concern ineligible, the contracting officer shall either terminate the contract or not exercise the next option.
(3) The contracting officer must update the Federal Procurement Data System and other procurement reporting databases to reflect the final agency size decision (the formal size determination if no appeal is filed or the appellate decision).
(4) Once SBA has determined that a concern is other than small for purposes of a particular procurement, the concern cannot later become eligible for the procurement by reducing its size.
(5) A concern determined to be other than small under a particular size standard is ineligible for any procurement or any assistance authorized by the Small Business Act or the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 which requires the same or a lower size standard, unless SBA recertifies the concern to be small pursuant to § 121.1010 or OHA reverses the adverse size determination. After an adverse size determination, a concern cannot self-certify as small under the same or lower size standard unless it is first recertified as small by SBA. If a concern does so, it may be in violation of criminal laws, including section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d). If the concern has already certified itself as small under the same or a smaller size standard on a pending procurement or on an application for SBA assistance, the concern must immediately inform the contracting officer or responsible official of the adverse size determination.
(i) Not later than two days after the date on which SBA issues a final size determination finding a business concern to be other than small, such concern must update its size status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system).
(ii) If a business concern fails to update its size status in the System for Award Management (or any successor system) in response to an adverse size determination, SBA will make such update within two days of the business's failure to do so.
(h)
Limited reopening of size determinations.
SBA may, in its sole discretion, reopen a formal size determination to correct an error or mistake, provided it is within the appeal period and no appeal has been filed with OHA. Once the agency has issued a final decision (either a formal size determination that is not timely appealed or an appellate decision), SBA cannot re-open the size determination.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 47245, July 18, 2002; 69 FR 29207, May 21, 2004; 76 FR 5683, Feb. 2, 2011; 78 FR 38818, June 28, 2013; 88 FR 26202, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.1010
How does a concern become recertified as a small business?
(a) A concern may request SBA to recertify it as small at any time by filing an application for recertification with the Government Contracting Area Office responsible for the area in which the headquarters of the applicant is located, regardless of the location of parent companies or affiliates. No particular form is prescribed for the application; however, the request for recertification must be accompanied by a current completed SBA Form 355 and any other information sufficient to show a significant change in its ownership, management, or other factors bearing on its status as a small concern.
(b) Recertification will not be required nor will the prohibition against future self-certification apply if the adverse SBA size determination is based solely on a finding of affiliation due to a joint venture (e.g., ostensible subcontracting) limited to a particular Government procurement or property sale, or is based on an ineligible manufacturer where the eligible small business bidder or offeror is a nonmanufacturer on a particular Government procurement.
(c) A denial of an application for recertification is a formal size determination and may be reviewed by OHA at the discretion of that office.
(d) The granting of an application for recertification has future effect only. While it is a formal size determination, notice of recertification is required to be given only to the applicant.

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 121.1010 were published at 89 FR 102487, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Appeals of Size Determinations and NAICS Code Designations
§ 121.1101
Are formal size determinations subject to appeal?
(a) Appeals from formal size determinations may be made to OHA. Unless
an appeal is made to OHA, the size determination made by a SBA Government Contracting Area Office or Disaster Area Office is the final decision of the agency. The procedures for appealing a formal size determination to OHA are set forth in part 134 of this chapter. The OHA appeal is an administrative remedy that must be exhausted before judicial review of a formal size determination may be sought in a court.
(b) OHA will review all timely appeals of size determinations.
[69 FR 29207, May 21, 2004, as amended at 76 FR 5683, Feb. 2, 2011]
§ 121.1102
Are NAICS code designations subject to appeal?
A NAICS code designation made by a procuring activity contracting officer may be appealed to OHA. The procedures governing OHA appeals are set forth in part 134 of this chapter. The OHA appeal is an administrative remedy that must be exhausted before judicial review of a NAICS code designation may be sought in a court.
[67 FR 47245, July 18, 2002]
§ 121.1103
What are the procedures for appealing a NAICS code or size standard designation?
(a)(1) Any interested party adversely affected by a NAICS code designation may appeal the designation to OHA. An interested party would include a business concern seeking to change the NAICS code designation in order to be considered a small business for the challenged procurement, regardless of whether the procurement is reserved for small businesses or unrestricted. The only exception is that, for a sole source contract reserved under SBA's 8(a) Business Development program (
see
part 124 of this chapter), only SBA's Associate Administrator for Business Development may appeal the NAICS code designation.
(2) A NAICS code appeal may include an appeal involving the applicable size standard, such as where more than one size standard corresponds to the selected NAICS code, or a question relating to the size standard in effect at the time the solicitation was issued or amended.
(b) The contracting officer's determination of the applicable NAICS code is final unless appealed as follows:
(1) An appeal from a contracting officer's NAICS code or size standard designation must be served and filed within 10 calendar days after the issuance of the solicitation or amendment affecting the NAICS code or size standard. However, SBA may file a NAICS code appeal at any time before offers are due. OHA will summarily dismiss an untimely NAICS code appeal.
(2)(i) The appeal petition must be in writing and must be sent to the Office of Hearings
Appeals, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Suite 5900, Washington, DC 20416.
(ii) There is no required format for a NAICS code appeal, but an appeal must include the following information: the solicitation or contract number; the name, address, and telephone number of the contracting officer; a full and specific statement as to why the NAICS code designation is erroneous, and argument in support thereof; and the name, address and telephone number of the appellant or its attorney.
(3) The appellant must serve the appeal petition upon the contracting officer who assigned the NAICS code to the acquisition and SBA's Office of General Counsel, Associate General Counsel for Procurement Law, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416.
(c)
Procedure after a NAICS code appeal is filed and served.
(1) Upon receipt of the service copy of a NAICS code appeal, the contracting officer shall:
(i) Stay the date for the closing of receipt of offers;
(ii) Advise the public, by amendment to the solicitation or other method, of the existence of the NAICS code appeal and the procedures and deadline for interested parties to file and serve arguments concerning the appeal;
(iii) Send a copy of (or an electronic link to) the entire solicitation, including amendments, to OHA;
(iv) File and serve any response to the appeal prior to the close of the record; and
(v) Inform OHA of any amendments, actions or developments concerning the procurement in question.
(2) Upon receipt of a NAICS code appeal, OHA shall:
(i) Notify the appellant, the contracting officer, the SBA and any other known party of the date OHA received the appeal and the date the record will close; and
(ii) Conduct the appeal in accordance with part 134 of this chapter.
(3) Any interested party may file and serve its response to the NAICS code appeal.
[69 FR 29207, May 21, 2004; 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 5683, Feb. 2, 2011; 78 FR 61132, Oct. 2, 2013; 85 FR 66183, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Subpart B—Other Applicable Provisions

# Waivers of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for Classes of Products and Individual Contracts
§ 121.1201
What is the Nonmanufacturer Rule?
The Nonmanufacturer Rule is set forth in § 121.406(b).
§ 121.1202
When will a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule be granted for a class of products?
(a) A waiver for a class of products (class waiver) will be granted when there are no small business manufacturers or processors available to participate in the Federal market for that class of products.
(b)
Federal market
means acquisitions by the Federal Government from offerors located in the United States, or such smaller area as SBA designates if it concludes that the class of products is not supplied on a national basis.
(1) When considering the appropriate market area for a product, SBA presumes that the entire United States is the relevant Federal market, unless it is clearly demonstrated that a class of products cannot be procured on a national basis. This presumption may be particularly difficult to overcome in the case of manufactured products, since such items typically have a market area encompassing the entire United States.
(2) When considering geographic segmentation of a Federal market, SBA will not necessarily use market definitions dependent on airline radius, political, or SBA regional boundaries. Market areas typically follow established transportation routes rather than jurisdictional borders. SBA examines the following factors, among others, in cases where geographic segmentation for a class of products is urged:
(i) Whether perishability affects the area in which the product can practically be sold;
(ii) Whether transportation costs are high as a proportion of the total value of the product so as to limit the economic distribution of the product;
(iii) Whether there are legal barriers to transportation of the item;
(iv) Whether a fixed, well-delineated boundary exists for the purported market area and whether this boundary has been stable over time; and
(v) Whether a small business, not currently selling in the defined market area, could potentially enter the market from another area and supply the market at a reasonable price.
(c)
Available to participate
in the context of the Federal market means that contractors exist that have been awarded or have performed a contract to supply a specific class of products to the Federal Government within 24 months from the date of the request for waiver, either directly or through a dealer, or who have submitted an offer on a solicitation for that class of products within that time frame.
(d)
Class of products
is an individual subdivision within an NAICS Industry Number as established by the Office of Management and Budget in the NAICS Manual.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 30863, May 15, 2000]
§ 121.1203
When will a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule be granted for an individual contract?
(a) Where appropriate, SBA will generally grant waivers for an individual contract or order prior to the issuance of a solicitation, or, where a solicitation has been issued, when the contracting officer provides all potential offerors additional time to respond.
(b) SBA may grant a waiver after contract award, where the contracting
officer has determined that the modification is within the scope of the contract and the agency followed the regulations prior to issuance of the solicitation and properly and timely requested a waiver for any other items under the contract, where required.

# Example to paragraph (b):
The Government seeks to buy spare parts to fix Item A. After conducting market research, the government determines that Items B, C, and D that are being procured may be eligible for waivers and requests and receives waivers from SBA for those items prior to issuing the solicitation. After the contract is awarded, the Government determines that it will need additional spare parts to fix Item A. The Government determines that adding the additional parts as a modification to the original contract is within scope. The contracting officer believes that one of the additional parts is also eligible for a waiver from SBA, and requests the waiver at the time of the modification. If all other criteria are met, SBA would grant the waiver, even though the contract has already been awarded.
(c) An individual waiver for an item in a solicitation will be approved when the SBA Director, Office of Government Contracting, reviews and accepts a contracting officer's determination that no small business manufacturer or processor can reasonably be expected to offer a product meeting the specifications of a solicitation, including the period of performance.
(d) An individual waiver applies only to the contract for which it is granted and does not apply to modifications outside the scope of the contract or other procurement actions (e.g., follow-on or bridge contracts).
(e) An individual waiver in connection with a long-term contract (
i.e.,
a contract with a duration of longer than five years, including options) cannot exceed five years. A procuring agency may seek a new waiver for an additional five years if, after conducting market research, it demonstrates that there are no available small business manufacturers and that a waiver remains appropriate.
(f) For a multiple item procurement, except those described in § 121.406(d)(1), a waiver must be sought and granted for each item that the procuring agency believes no small business manufacturer or processor can reasonably be expected to offer a product meeting the specifications of the solicitation and which will bring the total value of items to be procured from small business or subject to a waiver to at least 50% of the estimated value of the contract.
(1) SBA's waiver applies only to the specific item(s) identified, not to the entire contract.
(2) The estimated aggregate value of all items manufactured by small business and those subject to a waiver must equal at least 50% of the value of the contract. A contracting officer need not seek a waiver for each item for which the procuring agency believes no small business manufacturer or processor can reasonably be expected to offer a product meeting the specifications of the solicitation.
(3) When a contracting officer seeks a waiver for an individual item, the term “item” can be a specific broad identifying thing (e.g., all spare parts related to aircraft X), but cannot be so broad as to have no real identification (e.g., all medical supplies).
(g)
Waivers for the purchase of software.
(1) SBA may grant an individual waiver for the procurement of software provided that the software being sought is an item that is of a type customarily used by the general public or by non-governmental entities for purposes other than governmental purposes, and the item:
(i) Has been sold, leased, or licensed to the general public, or has been offered for sale, lease, or license to the general public;
(ii) Is sold in substantial quantities in the commercial marketplace; and
(iii) Is offered to the Government, without modification, in the same form in which it is sold in the commercial marketplace.
(2) If the value of services provided related to the purchase of a supply item that meets the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section exceeds the value of the item itself, the procurement should be identified as a service procurement, even if the services are provided as part of the same license, lease, or sale terms. If a contracting officer cannot make a determination of the value of services being provided, SBA will assume that the value of the services is greater than
the value of items or supplies, and will not grant a waiver.
(3) Subscription services, remote hosting of software, data, or other applications on servers or networks of a party other than the U.S. Government are considered by SBA to be services and not the procurement of a supply item. Therefore SBA will not grant waivers of the nonmanufacturer rule for these types of services.
[81 FR 34260, May 31, 2016, as amended at 88 FR 26203, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.1204
What are the procedures for requesting and granting waivers?
(a)
Waivers for classes of products.
(1) SBA may, at its own initiative, examine a class of products for possible waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule.
(2) Any interested person, business, association, or Federal agency may submit a request for a waiver for a particular class of products. Requests should be addressed or hand-carried to the Director, Office of Government Contracting, Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street SW., Washington, DC 20416.
(3) Requests for a waiver of a class of products need not be in any particular form, but should include a statement of the class of products to be waived, the applicable NAICS code, and detailed information on the efforts made to identify small business manufacturers or processors for the class.
(4) If SBA decides that there are small business manufacturers or processors in the Federal procurement market, it will deny the request for waiver, issue notice of the denial, and provide the names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the sources found. If SBA does not initially confirm the existence of small business manufacturers or processors in the Federal market, it will:
(i) Publish notices in the Commerce Business Daily and the
Federal Register
seeking information on small business manufacturers or processors, announcing a notice of intent to waive the Nonmanufacturer Rule for that class of products and affording the public a 15-day comment period; and
(ii) If no small business sources are identified, publish a notice in the
Federal Register
stating that no small business sources were found and that a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for that class of products has been granted.
(5) An expedited procedure for issuing a class waiver may be used for emergency situations, but only if the contracting officer provides a determination to the Director, Office of Government Contracting that the procurement is proceeding under the authority of FAR § 6.302-2 (48 CFR 6.302-2) for “unusual and compelling urgency,” or provides a determination materially the same as one of unusual and compelling urgency. Under the expedited procedure, if a small business manufacturer or processor is not identified by a PASS search, the SBA will grant the waiver for the class of products and then publish a notice in the
Federal Register.
The notice will state that a waiver has been granted, and solicit public comment for future procurements.
(6) The decision by the Director, Office of Government Contracting to grant or deny a waiver is the final decision by the Agency.
(7) A waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for classes of products has no specific time limitation. SBA will, however, periodically review existing class waivers to the Nonmanufacturer Rule to determine if small business manufacturers or processors have become available to participate in the Federal market for the waived classes of products and the waiver should be terminated.
(i) Upon SBA's receipt of evidence that a small business manufacturer or processor exists in the Federal market for a waived class of products, the waiver will be terminated by the Director, Office of Government Contracting. This evidence may be discovered by SBA during a periodic review of existing waivers or may be brought to SBA's attention by other sources.
(ii) SBA will announce its intent to terminate a waiver for a class of products through the publication of a notice in the
Federal Register,
asking for comments regarding the proposed termination.
(iii) Unless public comment reveals that no small business manufacturer or processor in fact exists for the class of
products in question, SBA will publish a final Notice of Termination in the
Federal Register.
(b)
Individual waivers for specific solicitations.
(1) A contracting officer's request for a waiver of the Nonmanufacturer Rule for specific solicitations need not be in any particular form, but must, at a minimum, include:
(i) A definitive statement of each specific item sought to be waived and justification as to why the specific item is required;
(ii) The proposed solicitation number, NAICS code, dollar amount of the procurement, dollar amount of the item(s) for which a waiver is sought, and a brief statement of the procurement history;
(iii) A determination by the contracting officer that no small business manufacturer or processor reasonably can be expected to offer a product or products meeting the specifications (including period of performance) required by a particular solicitation. For a multiple item procurement, a contracting officer must determine that no small business manufacturer or processor reasonably can be expected to offer each item for which a waiver is sought. Include a narrative describing market research and supporting documentation; and
(iv) For contracts or orders expected to exceed $500,000, a copy of the Statement of Work.
(2) Unless an agency has justified a brand-name acquisition, the market research conducted to support the waiver request should be tailored to attract the attention of potential small business manufacturers or processors, not resellers or distributors.
(3) Requests should be addressed to the Director, Office of Government Contracting, Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416.
(4) SBA will examine the contracting officer's determination and any other information it deems necessary to make an informed decision on the individual waiver request.
(i) If SBA's research verifies that no small business manufacturers or processors exist for the item, the Director, Office of Government Contracting will grant an individual, one-time waiver.
(ii) If a small business manufacturer or processor is found for the product in question, the Director, Office of Government Contracting will deny the request.
(iii) Where an agency requests a waiver for multiple items, SBA may grant a waiver for all items requested, deny a waiver for all items requested, or grant a waiver for some but not all of the items requested. SBA's determination will specifically identify the items for which a waiver is granted, and the procuring agency must then identify the specific items for which the waiver applies in its solicitation.
(iv) The Director, Office of Government Contracting's decision to grant or deny a waiver request represents the final agency decision by SBA.
(5) A nonmanufacturer rule waiver for a specific solicitation expires one year after SBA's determination to grant the waiver. This means that contract award must occur within one year of the date SBA granted the waiver. Where a contract is not awarded within one year, the procuring agency must come back to SBA with revised market research requesting that the waiver (or waivers in the case of a multiple item procurement) be extended.
[61 FR 3286, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 65 FR 30863, May 15, 2000; 78 FR 61132, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34260, May 31, 2016; 88 FR 26203, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.1205
How is a list of previously granted class waivers obtained?
A list of classes of products for which waivers for the Nonmanufacturer Rule have been granted is maintained in SBA Web site at:
https://www.sba.gov/document/support-non-manufacturer-rule-class-waiver-list
A list of such waivers may also be obtained by contacting the Office of Government Contracting, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416, or the nearest SBA Government Contracting Area Office.
[69 FR 29208, May 21, 2004, as amended at 74 FR 46313, Sept. 9, 2009; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 121.1206
How will potential offerors be notified of applicable waivers?
(a) Contracting officers must provide written notification to potential
offerors of any waivers being applied to a specific acquisition, whether it is a class waiver or a contract specific waiver. This notification must be provided at the time a solicitation is issued. If the notification is provided after a solicitation is issued, the contracting officer must provide potential offerors a reasonable amount of additional time to respond to the solicitation.
(b) If a contracting officer does not provide notice, and additional reasonable time for responses when required, then the waiver cannot be applied to the solicitation. This applies to both class waivers and individual waivers.
[81 FR 34260, May 31, 2016]
Pt. 121, App. A

# Appendix A to Part 121—Paycheck Protection Program Sample Addendum A
[Sample]

# ADDENDUM A
✓ The Applicant claims an exemption from all SBA affiliation rules applicable to Paycheck Protection Program loan eligibility because the Applicant has made a reasonable, good faith determination that the Applicant qualifies for a religious exemption under 13 CFR 121.103(b)(10), which says that “[t]he relationship of a faith-based organization to another organization is not considered an affiliation with the other organization . . . if the relationship is based on a religious teaching or belief or otherwise constitutes a part of the exercise of religion.”
[85 FR 20821, Apr. 15, 2020]
Pt. 123

# PART 123—DISASTER LOAN PROGRAM

# Subpart A—Overview
Sec.
123.1
What do these rules cover?
123.2
What are disaster loans and disaster declarations?
123.3
How are disaster declarations made?
123.4
What is a disaster area and why is it important?
123.5
What kinds of loans are available?
123.6
What does SBA look for when considering a disaster loan applicant?
123.7
Are there restrictions on how disaster loans can be used?
123.8
Does SBA charge any fees for obtaining a disaster loan?
123.9
What happens if I don't use loan proceeds for the intended purpose?
123.10
What happens if I cannot use my insurance proceeds to make repairs?
123.11
Does SBA require collateral for any of its disaster loans?
123.12
Are books and records required?
123.13
What happens if my loan application is denied?
123.14
How does the Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act of 1990 apply?
123.15
What if I change my mind?
123.16
How are loans administered and serviced?
123.17
Do other Federal requirements apply?
123.18
Can I request an increase in the amount of a physical disaster loan?
123.19
May I request an increase in the amount of an economic injury loan?
123.20
How long do I have to request an increase in the amount of a physical disaster loan or an economic injury loan?
123.21
What is a mitigation measure?
123.22
Severability.

# Subpart B—Home Disaster Loans
123.100
Am I eligible to apply for a home disaster loan?
123.101
When am I not eligible for a home disaster loan?
123.102
What circumstances would justify my relocating?
123.103
What happens if I am forced to move from my home?
123.104
What interest rate will I pay on my home disaster loan?
123.105
How much can I borrow with a home disaster loan and what limits apply on use of funds and repayment terms?
123.106
What is eligible refinancing?
123.107
How much can I borrow for post-disaster mitigation for my home?
123.108
How do the SBA disaster loan program and the FEMA grant programs interact?

# Subpart C—Physical Disaster Business Loans
123.200
Am I eligible to apply for a physical disaster business loan?
123.201
When am I not eligible to apply for a physical disaster business loan?
123.202
How much can my business borrow with a physical disaster business loan?
123.203
What interest rate will my business pay on a physical disaster business loan and what are the repayment terms?
123.204
How much can your business borrow for post-disaster mitigation?

# Subpart D—Economic Injury Disaster Loans
123.300
Is my business eligible to apply for an economic injury disaster loan?
123.301
When would my business not be eligible to apply for an economic injury disaster loan?
123.302
What is the interest rate on an economic injury disaster loan?
123.303
How can my business spend my economic injury disaster loan?
123.304
Is there a limit on the maximum loan amount to a single corporate group for COVID EIDL Loans?
Subpart E [Reserved]

# Subpart F—Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loans
123.500
Definitions.
123.501
Under what circumstances is your business eligible to be considered for a Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan?
123.502
Under what circumstances is your business ineligible to be considered for a Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan?
123.503
When can you apply for a Military Reservist EIDL?
123.504
How do you apply for a Military Reservist EIDL?
123.505
What if you are both an essential employee and the owner of the small business and you started active service before applying for a Military Reservist EIDL?
123.506
How much can you borrow under the Military Reservist EIDL Program?
123.507
Under what circumstances will SBA consider waiving the $2 million loan limit?
123.508
How can you use Military Reservist EIDL funds?
123.509
What can't you use Military Reservist EIDL funds for?
123.510
What if you don't use your Military Reservist EIDL funds as authorized?
123.511
How will SBA disburse Military Reservist EIDL funds?
123.512
What is the interest rate on a Military Reservist EIDL?
123.513
Does SBA require collateral on its Military Reservist EIDL?
Subpart G [Reserved]

# Subpart H—Immediate Disaster Assistance Program
123.700
What is the Immediate Disaster Assistance Program?
123.701
What is the application procedure for an IDAP loan?
123.702
What are the eligibility requirements for an IDAP loan?
123.703
What are the terms of an IDAP loan?
123.704
Are there restrictions on how IDAP loan funds may be used?
123.705
Are there any fees associated with IDAP loans?
123.706
What are the requirements for IDAP lenders?

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 632, 634(b)(6), 636(b), 636(d), 657n, and 9009.

# Source:
61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—Overview
§ 123.1
What do these rules cover?
This part covers the disaster loan programs authorized under the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 636(b), (d), and (f); and 15 U.S.C. 657n. Since SBA cannot predict the occurrence or magnitude of disasters, it reserves the right to change the rules in this part, without advance notice, by publishing interim emergency regulations in the
Federal Register.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 60597, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 123.2
What are disaster loans and disaster declarations?
SBA offers low interest, fixed rate loans to disaster victims, enabling them to repair or replace property damaged or destroyed in declared disasters. It also offers such loans to affected small businesses to help them recover from economic injury caused by such disasters. SBA also offers interim guaranteed disaster loans, in participation with financial institutions, to affected small businesses (“IDAP loans”). Disaster declarations are official notices recognizing that specific geographic areas have been damaged by floods and other acts of nature, riots, civil disorders, or industrial accidents such as oil spills. These disasters are sudden events which cause severe physical damage, and do not include slower physical occurrences such as shoreline erosion or gradual land settling. However,
for purposes of economic injury disaster loans only,
they do include droughts and below average water levels in the Great Lakes or on any body of water in the United States that supports commerce by small businesses. Sudden events that cause substantial economic injury may be disasters even if they do not cause physical damage to a victim's property. Past examples include ocean conditions causing significant displacement (major ocean currents) or closure (toxic algae blooms) of customary fishing waters, as well as contamination of food or
other products for human consumption from unforeseeable and unintended events beyond the control of the victims.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 75409, Dec. 15, 2007; 75 FR 60597, Oct. 1, 2010; 81 FR 67903, Oct. 3, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 123.2 were published at 89 FR 91538, Nov. 20, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 123.3
How are disaster declarations made?
(a) There are seven ways in which disaster declarations are issued which make SBA disaster loans possible:
(1) The President declares a Major Disaster and authorizes Federal Assistance, including individual assistance (Assistance to Individuals and Households Program).
(2) If the President declares a Major Disaster limited to public assistance only, a private nonprofit facility which provides non-critical services under guidelines of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) must first apply to SBA for disaster loan assistance for such non-critical services before it could seek grant assistance from FEMA.
(3) SBA makes a physical disaster declaration, based on the occurrence of at least a minimum amount of physical damage to buildings, machinery, equipment, inventory, homes and other property. Such damage usually must meet the following tests:
(i) In any county or other smaller political subdivision of a State or U.S. possession, at least 25 homes or 25 businesses, or a combination of at least 25 homes, businesses, or other eligible institutions, each sustain uninsured losses of 40 percent or more of the estimated fair replacement value or pre-disaster fair market value of the damaged property, whichever is lower; or
(ii) In any such political subdivision, at least three businesses each sustain uninsured losses of 40 percent or more of the estimated fair replacement value or pre-disaster fair market value of the damaged property, whichever is lower, and, as a direct result of such physical damage, 25 percent or more of the work force in their community would be unemployed for at least 90 days; and
(iii) The Governor of the State in which the disaster occurred submits a written request to SBA for a physical disaster declaration by SBA (OMB Approval No. 3245-0121). This request should be delivered to the Disaster Assistance Field Operations Center serving the jurisdiction within 60 days of the date of the disaster. The addresses, phone numbers, and jurisdictions served by the field operations centers are published in the
Federal Register.
(4) SBA makes an economic injury disaster declaration in response to a determination of a natural disaster by the Secretary of Agriculture.
(5) SBA makes an economic injury declaration in reliance on a state certification that at least five small business concerns in a disaster area have suffered substantial economic injury as a result of the disaster and are in need of financial assistance not otherwise available on reasonable terms. The state certification must be signed by the Governor, must specify the county or counties or other political subdivision in which the disaster occurred, and must be delivered (with supporting documentation) to the Disaster Assistance Field Operations Center serving the jurisdiction within 120 days of the disaster occurrence. When a Governor certifies with respect to a drought or to below average water levels, the supporting documentation must include findings which show that conditions during the incident period meet or exceed the U.S. Drought Monitor (USDM) standard of “severe” (Intensity level D-2 to D-4). The USDM may be found at
http://drought.unl.edu/dm/monitor.
With respect to below average water levels, the supplementary information accompanying the certification must include findings which establish long-term average water levels based on recorded historical data, show that current water levels are below long-term average levels, and demonstrate that economic injury has occurred as a direct result of the low water levels. Not later than 30 days after SBA receives a certification by a Governor, it shall respond in writing with its decision and its reasons.
(6) SBA makes a physical disaster declaration in a rural area (rural disaster declaration) upon request from the Governor of the State or the Chief Executive of the Indian tribal government in which the rural area is located. Rural area means any county or other political subdivision of a State, the District of Columbia, or a territory or possession of the United States that is designated as a rural area by the Bureau of the Census. The following conditions must be met:
(i) The President has declared a Major Disaster for the rural area, but has not authorized individual assistance; and
(ii) Any home, small business concern, private nonprofit organization, or small agricultural cooperative in the rural area has incurred significant damage. Significant damage means uninsured losses of 40 percent or more of the estimated fair replacement value or pre-disaster fair market value of the damaged property, whichever is lower.
(7) SBA makes an economic injury disaster declaration in response to a determination of an emergency involving Federal primary responsibility by the President.
(b) SBA publishes notice of any disaster declaration in the
Federal Register.
The published notice will identify the kinds of assistance available, the date and nature of the disaster, and the deadline and location for filing loan applications. Additionally, SBA will use the local media to inform potential loan applicants where to obtain loan applications and otherwise to assist victims in applying for disaster loans. SBA will accept applications after the announced deadline only when SBA determines that the late filing resulted from substantial causes beyond the control of the applicant.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 64 FR 13667, Mar. 22, 1999; 67 FR 64518, Oct. 21, 2002; 71 FR 63676, Oct. 31, 2006; 71 FR 75409, Dec. 15, 2006; 73 FR 54675, Sept. 23, 2008; 81 FR 67903, Oct. 3, 2016; 88 FR 24109, Apr. 19, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 123.3 were published at 89 FR 91538, Nov. 20, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 123.4
What is a disaster area and why is it important?
Each disaster declaration defines the geographical areas affected by the disaster. Only those victims located in the declared disaster area are eligible to apply for SBA disaster loans. When the President declares a major disaster, the Federal Emergency Management Agency defines the disaster area. In major disasters, economic injury disaster loans and IDAP loans may be made for victims in contiguous counties or other political subdivisions, provided, however that with respect to major disasters which authorize public assistance only, SBA shall not make economic injury disaster or IDAP loans in counties contiguous to the disaster area. Except for rural disaster declarations (as defined in § 123.3), disaster declarations issued by SBA include contiguous counties for both physical, economic injury and, in some cases IDAP assistance. Rural disaster declarations do not include assistance for contiguous counties. Contiguous counties or other political subdivisions are those land areas which abut the land area of the declared disaster area without geographic separation other than by a minor body of water, not to exceed one mile between the land areas of such counties. When SBA issues an economic injury disaster declaration in response to a determination of an emergency involving Federal primary responsibility by the President, the disaster area shall include each State or subdivision thereof (including counties) included in the President's emergency determination.
[88 FR 24109, Apr. 19, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 123.4 were published at 89 FR 91538, Nov. 20, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 123.5
What kinds of loans are available?
(a)
Disaster loans authorized under Section 7(b).
SBA offers four kinds of disaster loans as authorized by Section 7(b) of the Small Business Act: Physical disaster home loans, physical disaster business loans, economic injury disaster business loans, and Military Reservist EIDL loans. SBA makes these loans directly or in participation
with a financial institution. If a disaster loan authorized under Section 7(b) is made in participation with a financial institution, SBA's share in that loan may not exceed 90 percent.
(b)
IDAP loans.
SBA also offers IDAP loans as authorized by Section 42 of the Small Business Act. SBA makes these interim guaranteed disaster loans to small businesses only in participation with a financial institution. SBA's share in an IDAP loan is equal to 85 percent.
[75 FR 60597, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 123.6
What does SBA look for when considering a disaster loan applicant?
There must be reasonable assurance that you can repay your loan based on SBA's analysis of your credit or your personal or business cash flow, and you must also have satisfactory character. SBA will not make a loan to you if repayment depends upon the sale of collateral through foreclosure or any other disposition of assets owned by you. SBA is prohibited by statute from making a loan to you if you are engaged in the production or distribution of any product or service that has been determined to be obscene by a court.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 79 FR 22862, Apr. 25, 2014]
§ 123.7
Are there restrictions on how disaster loans can be used?
You must use disaster loans to restore or replace your primary home (including a mobile home used as a primary residence) and your personal or business property as nearly as possible to their condition before the disaster occurred, and within certain limits, to protect damaged or destroyed real property from possible future disasters.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 39340, June 16, 2023]
§ 123.8
Does SBA charge any fees for obtaining a disaster loan?
SBA does not charge points, closing, or servicing fees on any disaster loan authorized under Section 7(b). You will be responsible for payment of any closing costs owed to third parties on these loans, such as recording fees and title insurance premiums. If your loan is made under Section 7(b) in participation with a financial institution, SBA will charge a guarantee fee to the financial institution, which then may recover the guarantee fee from you. SBA does not charge a guarantee fee for an IDAP loan made under Section 42.
[75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 123.9
What happens if I don't use loan proceeds for the intended purpose?
(a) For disaster loans authorized under Section 7(b), when SBA approves each application, it issues a loan authorization which specifies the amount of the loan, repayment terms, any collateral requirements, and the permitted use of loan proceeds. If you wrongfully misapply the proceeds of a disaster loan authorized under Section 7(b), you will be liable to SBA for one and one-half times the proceeds disbursed to you as of the date SBA learns of your wrongful misapplication. Wrongful misapplication means the willful use of any loan proceeds without SBA approval contrary to the loan authorization. If you fail to use loan proceeds for authorized purposes for 60 days or more after receiving a loan disbursement check, such non-use also is considered a wrongful misapplication of the proceeds.
(b) If SBA learns that you may have misapplied your loan proceeds from a disaster loan authorized under Section 7(b), SBA will notify you at your last known address, by certified mail, return receipt requested. You will be given at least 30 days to submit to SBA evidence that you have not misapplied the loan proceeds or that you have corrected any such misapplication. Any failure to respond in time will be considered an admission that you misapplied the proceeds. If SBA finds a wrongful misapplication, it will cancel any undisbursed loan proceeds, call the loan, and begin collection measures to collect your outstanding loan balance and the civil penalty.
(c) If you misapply loan proceeds of any disaster loan under this Part, including an IDAP loan, you may face criminal prosecution or civil or administrative action.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 123.10
What happens if I cannot use my insurance proceeds to make repairs?
If you must pay insurance proceeds to the holder of a recorded lien or encumbrance against your damaged property instead of using them to make repairs, you may apply to SBA for the full amount needed to make such repairs. If you voluntarily pay insurance proceeds to a recorded lienholder, your loan eligibility is reduced by the amount of the voluntary payment.
§ 123.11
Does SBA require collateral for any of its disaster loans?
(a) When collateral is not required:
(1)
Economic injury disaster loans.
SBA generally will not require the borrower to pledge collateral to secure an economic injury disaster loan of $50,000 or less.
(2)
Physical disaster home and physical disaster business loans.
(i) For Major Disasters declared under § 123.3(a)(1) or (2), SBA generally will not require the borrower to pledge collateral to secure a physical disaster home or physical disaster business loan of $50,000 or less.
(ii) For SBA-declared disasters under § 123.3(a)(3) or (6), SBA generally will not require the borrower to pledge collateral to secure a physical disaster home or physical disaster business loan of $14,000 or less.
(3)
IDAP loans.
Collateral requirements for IDAP loans are set forth in Subpart H of this part.
(4)
Military Reservist EIDL.
For the purposes of the Military Reservist EIDL only, as described in section 123.513, SBA will not generally require that you pledge collateral to secure a loan of $50,000 or less.
(b) For loans larger than the amounts outlined in paragraph (a) of this section, you will be required to provide available collateral, as determined by SBA, such as a lien on the damaged or replacement property and/or a security interest in business assets.
(c) Sometimes a borrower, including affiliates as defined in part 121 of this title, will have more than one loan after a single disaster. In deciding whether collateral is required, SBA will add up all physical disaster loans to see if they exceed the applicable unsecured threshold outlined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and all economic injury disaster loans to see if they exceed $50,000.
(d) SBA will not decline a loan if you lack a particular amount of collateral as long as it is reasonably sure that you can repay your loan. If you refuse to pledge available collateral when requested by SBA, however, SBA may decline or cancel your loan.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 54675, Sept. 23, 2008; 75 FR 14332, Mar. 25, 2010; 75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010; 79 FR 22862, Apr. 25, 2014; 81 FR 67903, Oct. 3, 2016; 88 FR 39340, June 16, 2023; 89 FR 59831, July 24, 2024]
§ 123.12
Are books and records required?
You must retain complete records of all transactions financed with your SBA loan proceeds, including copies of all contracts and receipts, for a period of 3 years after you receive your final disbursement of loan proceeds. If you have a physical disaster business or economic injury loan, you must also maintain current and accurate books of account, including financial and operating statements, insurance policies, and tax returns. You must retain applicable books and records for 3 years after your loan matures including any extensions, or from the date when your loan is paid in full, whichever occurs first. You must make available to SBA or other authorized government personnel upon request all such books and records for inspection, audit, and reproduction during normal business hours and you must also permit SBA and any participating financial institution to inspect and appraise your assets. (OMB Approval No. 3245-0110.)
§ 123.13
What happens if my loan application is denied?
(a) If SBA denies your loan application, SBA will notify you in writing and set forth the specific reasons for the denial. Any applicant whose request for a loan is declined for reasons other than size (not being a small business) has the right to present information to overcome the reason or reasons for the decline and to request reconsideration in writing.
(b) Any decline due to size can only be appealed as set forth in part 121 of this chapter.
(c) Any request for reconsideration must be received by SBA's Disaster Assistance Processing and Disbursement Center (DAPDC) within six months of the date of the decline notice. After six months, a new loan application is required.
(d) A request for reconsideration must contain all significant new information that you rely on to overcome SBA's denial of your original loan application.
(e) If SBA declines your application a second time, you have the right to appeal in writing to the Director, Disaster Assistance Processing and Disbursement Center (DAPDC) or the Director's designee(s). All appeals must be received by the processing center within 30 days of the decline action. Your request must state that you are appealing, and must give specific reasons why the decline action should be reversed.
(f) The decision of the Director, DAPDC or the Director's designee(s), is final unless:
(1) The Director, DAPDC or the Director's designee(s), does not have the authority to approve the requested loan;
(2) The Director, DAPDC or the Director's designee(s), refers the matter to the SBA Associate Administrator for Disaster Assistance (AA/DA);
(3) The AA/DA, upon a showing of special circumstances, requests that the Director, DAPDC or the Director's designee(s), forward the matter to him or her for final consideration; or
(4) The SBA Administrator, solely within the Administrator's discretion, chooses to review the matter and make the final decision. Such discretionary authority of the Administrator does not create additional rights of appeal on the part of an applicant not otherwise specified in SBA regulations.
(g) This section does not apply to IDAP loans.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 71 FR 63676, Oct. 31, 2006; 75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010; 81 FR 67903, Oct. 3, 2016; 86 FR 50219, Sept. 8, 2021; 88 FR 39340, June 16, 2023]
§ 123.14
How does the Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act of 1990 apply?
(a) Under the Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act of 1990 (28 U.S.C. 3201(e)), a debtor who owns property which is subject to an outstanding judgment lien for a debt owed to the United States generally is not eligible to receive a disaster loan. The SBA Associate Administrator for Disaster Assistance, or designee, may waive this restriction as to disaster loans (except IDAP loans) upon a demonstration of good cause. Good cause means a written representation by you under oath which convinces SBA that:
(1) The declared disaster was a major contributing factor to the delinquency which led to the judgment lien, regardless of when the original debt was incurred; or
(2) The disaster directly prevented you from fulfilling the terms of an agreement with SBA or any other Federal Government entity to satisfy its pre-disaster judgment lien; in this situation, the judgment creditor must certify to SBA that you were complying with the agreement to satisfy the judgment lien when the disaster occurred; or
(3) Other circumstances exist which would justify a waiver.
(b) The waiver determination by the Associate Administrator for Disaster Assistance, or designee, is a final, non-appealable decision. The granting of a waiver does not include loan approval; a waiver recipient must then follow normal loan application procedures.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 123.15
What if I change my mind?
If SBA required you to pledge collateral for your loan, you may change your mind and rescind your loan pursuant to the Consumer Credit Protection Act, 15 U.S.C. 1601, and Regulation Z of the Federal Reserve Board, 12 CFR part 226. Your note and any collateral documents signed by you will be canceled upon your return of all loan proceeds
and your payment of any interest accrued. This provision does not apply to IDAP loans.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 123.16
How are loans administered and serviced?
(a) If you obtained your disaster loan from a participating lender, that lender is responsible for closing and servicing your loan. If you obtained your loan directly from SBA, your loan will be closed and serviced by SBA. The SBA rules on servicing are found in Subpart H of this part and part 120 of this chapter.
(b) If you are unable to pay your SBA loan installments in a timely manner for reasons substantially beyond your control, you may request that SBA suspend your loan payments, extend your maturity, or both.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010]
§ 123.17
Do other Federal requirements apply?
As a condition of disbursement, you must be in compliance with certain requirements relating to flood insurance, earthquake hazards, coastal barrier islands, and child support obligations, as set forth in §§ 120.170 through 120.172, 120.174 and 120.175 of this chapter.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 87 FR 38910, June 30, 2022]
§ 123.18
Can I request an increase in the amount of a physical disaster loan?
(a) Generally, SBA will consider your request for an increase in your loan if you can show that the eligible cost of repair or replacement of damages increased because of events occurring after the loan approval that were beyond your control. An eligible cost is one which is related to the disaster for which SBA issued the original loan. For example, if you discover hidden damage within a reasonable time after SBA approved your original disaster loan and before repair, renovation, or reconstruction is complete, you may request an increase. Or, if applicable building code requirements were changed since SBA approved your original loan, you may request an increase in your loan amount.
(b) For all disasters occurring on or after November 25, 2015, you may also request an increase in your loan if you suffered substantial economic damage or substantial risks to health or safety as a result of malfeasance in connection with the repair or replacement of real property or business machinery and equipment for which SBA made a disaster loan. See § 123.105 for limits on home loan amounts and § 123.202 for limits on business loan amounts. Malfeasance may include, but is not limited to, nonperformance of all or any portion of the work for which a contractor was paid, work that does not meet acceptable standards, or use of substandard materials.
[63 FR 15072, Mar. 30, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 67903, Oct. 3, 2016]
§ 123.19
May I request an increase in the amount of an economic injury loan?
SBA will consider your request for an increase in the loan amount if you can show that the increase is essential for your business to continue and is based on events occurring after SBA approved your original loan which were beyond your control. For example, delays may have occurred beyond your control which prevent you from resuming your normal business activity in a reasonable time frame. Your request for an increase in the loan amount must be related to the disaster for which the SBA economic injury disaster loan was originally made.
[63 FR 15072, Mar. 30, 1998]
§ 123.20
How long do I have to request an increase in the amount of a physical disaster loan or an economic injury loan?
(a) You should request a loan increase as soon as possible after you discover the need for the increase, but not later than two years after SBA approved your physical disaster or economic injury loan. After two years, the SBA Associate Administrator for Disaster Assistance (AA/DA) may waive this limitation after finding extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances.
(b) For physical disaster loan increases requested under § 123.18(b) as a result of malfeasance, the request must be received not later than two years after the date of final disbursement.
[63 FR 15073, Mar. 30, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 67903, Oct. 3, 2016]
§ 123.21
What is a mitigation measure?
A mitigation measure is something done for the purpose of protecting property and occupants against disaster related damage. You may implement mitigation measures after a disaster occurs (post-disaster) to protect against recurring disaster related damage, or before a disaster occurs (pre-disaster) to protect against future disaster related damage. Examples of mitigation measures include building retaining walls, sea walls, grading and contouring land, elevating flood prone structures, relocating utilities, constructing a safe room or similar storm shelter (if such safe room or similar storm shelter is constructed in accordance with applicable standards issued by the Federal Emergency Management Agency), or retrofitting structures to protect against high winds, earthquakes, flood, wildfires, or other physical disasters. Section 123.107 specifically addresses post-disaster mitigation for home disaster loans, and § 123.204 specifically addresses post-disaster mitigation for businesses.
[67 FR 62337, Oct. 7, 2002, as amended at 81 FR 67903, Oct. 3, 2016; 85 FR 12864, Mar. 5, 2020]
§ 123.22
Severability.
Any provision of this part held to be invalid or unenforceable as applied to any person, entity, or circumstance shall be construed so as to continue to give the maximum effect to such provision as permitted by law, including as applied to persons or entities not similarly situated or to dissimilar circumstances, unless such holding is that the provision of this part is invalid and unenforceable in all circumstances, in which event the provision shall be severable from the remainder of this part and shall not affect the remainder thereof.
[89 FR 34102, Apr. 30, 2024]

# Subpart B—Home Disaster Loans
§ 123.100
Am I eligible to apply for a home disaster loan?
(a) You are eligible to apply for a home disaster loan if you:
(1) Own and occupy your primary residence and have suffered a physical loss to your primary residence, personal property, or both; or
(2) Do not own your primary residence, but have suffered a physical loss to your personal property. Family members sharing a residence are eligible if they are not dependents of the owners of the residence.
(b) Losses may be claimed only by the owners of the property at the time of the disaster, and all such losses will be verified by SBA. SBA will consider beneficial ownership as well as legal title (for real or personal property) in determining who suffered the loss.
§ 123.101
When am I not eligible for a home disaster loan?
You are not eligible for a home disaster loan if:
(a) You have been convicted, during the past year, of a felony during and in connection with a riot or civil disorder or other declared disaster;
(b) You acquired voluntarily more than a 50 percent ownership interest in the damaged property after the disaster, and no contract of sale existed at the time of the disaster;
(c) Your damaged property can be repaired or replaced with the proceeds of insurance, gifts or other compensation, including condemnation awards (with one exception), these amounts must either be deducted from the amount of the claimed losses or, if received after SBA has approved and disbursed a loan, must be paid to SBA as principal payments on your loan. You must notify SBA of any such recoveries collected after receiving an SBA disaster loan. The one exception applies to amounts received under the Individuals and Household Program of the Federal Emergency Management Agency solely to meet an emergency need pending processing of an SBA loan. In such an event, you must repay the financial assistance with SBA loan proceeds if it was used for purposes also eligible for an SBA loan;
(d) SBA determines that you assumed the risk (for example, by not maintaining flood insurance as required by an earlier SBA disaster loan when the current loss is also due to flood);
(e) Your damaged property is a secondary home (although if you rented the property out before the disaster and the property would not constitute a “residence” under the provisions of Section 280A of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 280A), you may be eligible for a physical disaster business loan);
(f) Your damaged property is the type of vehicle normally used for recreational purposes, such as motorhomes, aircraft, and boats;
(g) Your damaged property consists of cash or securities;
(h) The replacement value of your damaged personal property is extraordinarily high and not easily verified, such as the value of antiques, artworks, or hobby collections;
(i) You or other principal owners of the damaged property are currently incarcerated, serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed upon adjudication of guilty;
(j) Your only interest in the damaged property is in the form of a security interest, mortgage, or deed of trust;
(k) The damaged building, including contents, was newly constructed or substantially improved on or after February 9, 1989, and (without a significant business justification) is located seaward of mean high tide or entirely in or over water; or
(l) You voluntarily decide to relocate outside the business area in which the disaster has occurred, and there are no special or unusual circumstances leading to your decision (business area means the municipality which provides general governmental services to your damaged home or, if not located in a municipality, the county or equivalent political entity in which your damaged home is located).
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 64519, Oct. 21, 2002; 89 FR 34102, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 123.102
What circumstances would justify my relocating?
SBA may approve a loan if you intend to relocate outside the business area in which the disaster has occurred if your relocation is caused by such special or unusual circumstances as:
(a) Demonstrable risk that the business area will suffer future disasters;
(b) A change in employment status (such as loss of job, transfer, lack of adequate job opportunities within the business area or scheduled retirement within 18 months after the disaster occurs);
(c) Medical reasons; or
(d) Special family considerations which necessitate a move outside of the business area.
§ 123.103
What happens if I am forced to move from my home?
If you must relocate inside or outside the business area because local authorities will not allow you to repair your damaged property, SBA considers this to be a total loss and a mandatory relocation. In this case, your loan would be an amount that SBA considers sufficient to replace your residence at your new location, plus funds to cover losses of personal property and eligible refinancing.
§ 123.104
What interest rate will I pay on my home disaster loan?
If you can obtain credit elsewhere, your interest rate is set by a statutory formula, but will not exceed eight (8) percent per annum. If you cannot obtain credit elsewhere, your interest rate is one-half the statutory rate, but will not exceed four (4) percent per annum. Generally, credit elsewhere means that SBA believes you could obtain financing from non-Federal sources on reasonable terms subsequent to the declaration of a disaster. SBA may include the use of credit score to make this determination. If you cannot obtain credit elsewhere, you also may be able to borrow from SBA to refinance existing recorded liens against your damaged real property.
[89 FR 59831, July 24, 2024]
§ 123.105
How much can I borrow with a home disaster loan and what limits apply on use of funds and repayment terms?
(a) There are limits on how much money you can borrow for particular
purposes. The limits in effect for disasters occurring on or after June 16, 2023 are as follows.
(1) $100,000 for repair or replacement of household and personal effects;
(2) $500,000 for repair or replacement of a primary residence (including upgrading in order to meet minimum standards of safety and decency or current building code requirements);
(3) $500,000 for eligible refinancing purposes;
(4) 20 percent of the verified loss (not including refinancing or malfeasance), before deduction of compensation from other sources, up to a maximum of $500,000 for post-disaster mitigation (see § 123.107); and
(5) $500,000 for eligible malfeasance, pursuant to § 123.18.
(b) You may not use loan proceeds to repay any debts on personal property, secured or unsecured, unless you incurred those debts as a direct result of the disaster.
(c) SBA determines the loan maturity and repayment terms based on your needs and your ability to pay. Generally, you will pay monthly installments of principal and interest, beginning twelve months from the date of the initial disbursement. SBA will consider other payment terms if you have seasonal or fluctuating income. The maximum maturity for a home disaster loan is 30 years. There is no penalty for prepayment of disaster loans.
(d) The SBA Administrator may increase the home loan lending limits within paragraph (a) of this section under an individual disaster declaration based on appropriate economic indicators for the region(s) in which the disaster occurred. SBA will publish any increased lending limit for an individual disaster declaration in the
Federal Register
.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 14332, Mar. 25, 2010; 81 FR 67903, Oct. 3, 2016; 88 FR 39340, June 16, 2023]
§ 123.106
What is eligible refinancing?
(a) If your home (primary residence) is totally destroyed or substantially damaged, and you do not have credit elsewhere, SBA may allow you to borrow money to refinance recorded liens or encumbrances on your home. Your home is totally destroyed or substantially damaged if it has suffered uninsured or otherwise uncompensated damage which, at the time of the disaster, is either:
(1) 40 percent or more of the home's market value or replacement cost at the time of the disaster, including land value, whichever is less; or
(2) 50 percent or more of its market value or replacement cost at the time of the disaster, not including land value, whichever is less.
(b) Your home disaster loan for refinancing existing liens or encumbrances cannot exceed an amount equal to the lesser of $500,000, or the physical damage to your primary residence. Any refinancing amount will be reduced to the extent such lien or encumbrance is satisfied by insurance or otherwise.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 88 FR 39341, June 16, 2023]
§ 123.107
How much can I borrow for post-disaster mitigation for my home?
For mitigation measures implemented after a disaster has occurred, you can request that the approved home disaster loan amount be increased by the lesser of the cost of the mitigation measure, or up to 20 percent of the verified loss (before deducting compensation from other sources), to a maximum of $500,000.
[75 FR 14332, Mar. 25, 2010, as amended at 88 FR 39341, June 16, 2023]
§ 123.108
How do the SBA disaster loan program and the FEMA grant programs interact?
After a Presidential disaster declaration is made, you may be eligible for disaster assistance, including grant assistance, from the Federal Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) Federal Assistance to Individuals and Households Program (IHP). After you register with FEMA for disaster assistance, FEMA will consider you for IHP assistance, which includes housing assistance grants to repair or replace your damaged primary residence and temporary housing assistance (including rental assistance) to assist you temporarily with a place to live, and assistance with personal property, medical, dental and funeral expenses.
FEMA may also refer you to SBA to apply for loan assistance to help repair or rebuild your home and/or to replace personal property destroyed during the disaster. If SBA is unable to approve your loan application, or if you have damage in excess of the SBA loan amount, SBA may refer you, on a timely basis, to FEMA for IHP grant consideration to assist with your unmet personal property and transportation needs. If you are approved for the SBA disaster loan and you have received grant assistance that duplicates the damage covered by the SBA loan, such grant assistance must be deducted from your loan eligibility as described in section 123.101(c) of the regulations. All grant decisions are made by FEMA. Additionally, if additional disaster assistance is available from state, local or other agencies, SBA may refer you to the appropriate agency for consideration.
[75 FR 7546, Feb. 22, 2010]

# Subpart C—Physical Disaster Business Loans
§ 123.200
Am I eligible to apply for a physical disaster business loan?
(a) Almost any business concern or charitable or other non-profit entity whose real or tangible personal property is damaged in a declared disaster area is eligible to apply for a physical disaster business loan. Your business may be a sole proprietorship, partnership, corporation, limited liability company, or other legal entity recognized under State law. Your business' size (average annual receipts or number of employees) is not taken into consideration in determining your eligibility for a physical disaster business loan. If your damaged business occupied rented space at the time of the disaster, and the terms of your business' lease require you to make repairs to your business' building, you may have suffered a physical loss and can apply for a physical business disaster loan to repair the property. In all other cases, the owner of the building is the eligible loan applicant.
(b) Damaged vehicles, of the type normally used for recreational purposes, such as motorhomes, aircraft, and boats, may be repaired or replaced with SBA loan proceeds if you can submit evidence that the damaged vehicles were used in your business at the time of the disaster.
§ 123.201
When am I not eligible to apply for a physical disaster business loan?
(a) You are not eligible for a physical disaster business loan if your business is an agricultural enterprise or if you (or any principal of the business) fit into any of the categories in § 123.101. Agricultural enterprise means a business primarily engaged in the production of food and fiber, ranching and raising of livestock, aquaculture and all other farming and agriculture-related industries.
(b) Sometimes a damaged business entity (whether in the form of a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or sole proprietorship) is engaged in both agricultural enterprise and a non-agricultural business venture. If the agricultural enterprise part of your business entity has suffered a physical disaster, that enterprise is not eligible for SBA physical disaster assistance. If the non-agricultural business venture of your entity has suffered physical disaster damage, that part of your business operation would be eligible for SBA physical disaster assistance. If both the agricultural enterprise part and the non-agricultural business venture have incurred physical disaster damage, only the non-agricultural business venture of your business entity would be eligible for SBA physical disaster assistance.
(c) If your business is going to relocate voluntarily outside the business area in which the disaster occurred, you are not eligible for a physical disaster business loan. If, however, the relocation is due to uncontrollable or compelling circumstances, SBA will consider the relocation to be involuntary and eligible for a loan. Such circumstances may include, but are not limited to:
(1) The elimination or substantial decrease in the market for your products or services, as a consequence of the disaster;
(2) A change in the demographics of your business area within 18 months
prior to the disaster, or as a result of the disaster, which makes it uneconomical to continue operations in your business area;
(3) A substantial change in your cost of doing business, as a result of the disaster, which makes the continuation of your business in the business area not economically viable;
(4) Location of your business in a hazardous area such as a special flood hazard area or an earthquake-prone area;
(5) A change in the public infrastructure in your business area which occurred within 18 months or as a result of the disaster that would result in substantially increased expenses for your business in the business area;
(6) Your implementation of decisions adopted and at least partially implemented within 18 months prior to the disaster to move your business out of the business area; and
(7) Other factors which undermine the economic viability of your business area.
(d) You are not eligible if your business is engaged in any illegal activity.
(e) You are not eligible if you are a government owned entity (except for a business owned or controlled by a Native American tribe).
(f) You are not eligible if your business presents live performances of a prurient sexual nature or derives directly or indirectly more than
de minimis
gross revenue through the sale of products or services, or the presentation of any depictions or displays, of a prurient sexual nature.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 62 FR 35337, July 1, 1997; 63 FR 46644, Sept. 2, 1998]
§ 123.202
How much can my business borrow with a physical disaster business loan?
(a) Disaster business loans, including both physical disaster and economic injury loans to the same borrower, together with its affiliates, cannot exceed the lesser of the uncompensated physical loss and economic injury or $2 million. Physical disaster loans may include amounts to meet current building code requirements. If your business is a major source of employment, SBA may waive the $2 million limitation. A major source of employment is a business concern that has one or more locations in the disaster area, on or after the date of the disaster, which:
(1) Employed 10 percent or more of the entire work force within the commuting area of a geographically identifiable community (no larger than a county), provided that the commuting area does not extend more than 50 miles from such community; or
(2) Employed 5 percent of the work force in an industry within the disaster area and, if the concern is a non-manufacturing concern, employed no less than 50 employees in the disaster area, or if the concern is a manufacturing concern, employed no less than 150 employees in the disaster area; or
(3) Employed no less than 250 employees within the disaster area.
(b) SBA will consider waiving the $2 million loan limit for a major source of employment only if:
(1) Your damaged location or locations are out of business or in imminent danger of going out of business as a result of the disaster, and a loan in excess of $2 million is necessary to reopen or keep open the damaged locations in order to avoid substantial unemployment in the disaster area; and
(2) You have used all reasonably available funds from your business, its affiliates and its principal owners (20% or greater ownership interest) and all available credit elsewhere (as described in § 123.104) to alleviate your physical damage and economic injury.
(c) Physical disaster business borrowers may request refinancing of liens on both damaged real property and machinery and equipment. Such amount shall be reduced to the extent such lien or encumbrance is satisfied by insurance or otherwise. Your business property must be totally destroyed or substantially damaged, which means:
(1) 40 percent or more of the aggregate value (lesser of market value or replacement cost at the time of the disaster) of the damaged real property (including land) and damaged machinery and equipment; or
(2) 50 percent or more of the aggregate value (lesser of market value or replacement cost at the time of the disaster) of the damaged real property
(excluding land) and damaged machinery and equipment.
(d) The SBA Administrator may increase the $2 million loan limit for disaster business physical and economic injury loans under an individual disaster declaration based on appropriate economic indicators for the region(s) in which the disaster occurred. SBA will publish the increased loan amount in the
Federal Register.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 46644, Sept. 2, 1998; 75 FR 14332, Mar. 25, 2010; 88 FR 39341, June 16, 2023]
§ 123.203
What interest rate will my business pay on a physical disaster business loan and what are the repayment terms?
(a) SBA will announce interest rates with each disaster declaration. If your business, together with its affiliates and principal owners, has credit elsewhere, your interest rate is set by a statutory formula, but will not exceed 8 percent per annum. If you do not have credit elsewhere, your interest rate will not exceed 4 percent per annum. The maturity of your loan depends upon your repayment ability, but cannot exceed seven years if you have credit elsewhere.
(b) Generally, you will pay monthly installments of principal and interest, beginning twelve months from the date of the initial disbursement. SBA will consider other payment terms if you have seasonal or fluctuating income. There is no penalty for prepayment for disaster loans.
(c) For certain disaster business physical and economic injury loans, an additional payment, based on a percentage of net earnings, will be required to reduce the balance of the loan. This additional payment will not be required until 5 years after repayment begins.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 75 FR 14333, Mar. 25, 2010; 77 FR 12157, Feb. 29, 2012; 88 FR 39341, June 16, 2023]
§ 123.204
How much can your business borrow for post-disaster mitigation?
For mitigation measures implemented after a disaster has occurred, you can request an increase in the approved physical disaster business loan by the lesser of the cost of the mitigation measure, or up to 20 percent of the verified loss, before deducting compensation from other sources, to repair or replace your damaged business.
[75 FR 14333, Mar. 25, 2010]

# Subpart D—Economic Injury Disaster Loans
§ 123.300
Is my business eligible to apply for an economic injury disaster loan?
(a) If your business is located in a declared disaster area, and suffered substantial economic injury as a direct result of a declared disaster, you are eligible to apply for an economic injury disaster loan.
(1) Substantial economic injury is such that a business concern is unable to meet its obligations as they mature or to pay its ordinary and necessary operating expenses.
(2) Loss of anticipated profits or a drop in sales is not considered substantial economic injury for this purpose.
(b) Economic injury disaster loans are available only if you were a small business (as defined in part 121 of this chapter) or a private non-profit organization when the declared disaster commenced, you and your affiliates and principal owners (20% or more ownership interest) have used all reasonably available funds, and you are unable to obtain credit elsewhere (see § 123.104).
(c) Eligible businesses do not include agricultural enterprises, but do include—
(1) Small nurseries affected by a drought disaster designated by the Secretary of Agriculture (nurseries are commercial establishments deriving 50 percent or more of their annual receipts from the production and sale of ornamental plants and other nursery products, including, but not limited to, bulbs, florist greens, foliage, flowers, flower and vegetable seeds, shrubbery, and sod);
(2) Small agricultural cooperatives;
(3) Producer cooperatives; and
(4) Small aquaculture enterprises.
(d) An eligible private non-profit organization is a non-governmental agency or entity that currently has:
(1) An effective ruling letter from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service, granting tax exemption under sections
510(c), (d), or (e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or
(2) Satisfactory evidence from the State that the non-revenue producing organization or entity is a non-profit one organized or doing business under State law.
(e) COVID-19 Economic Injury Disaster (COVID EIDL) loans are available if, as of the date of application, you:
(1) Are a business, including an agricultural cooperative, aquaculture enterprise, nursery, or producer cooperative (but excluding all other agricultural enterprises), that is small under SBA Size Standards (as defined in part 121 of this chapter);
(2) Are an individual who operates under a sole proprietorship, with or without employees, or as an independent contractor;
(3) Are a private non-profit organization that is a non-governmental agency or entity that currently has an effective ruling letter from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) granting tax exemption under sections 501(c), (d), or (e) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954, or satisfactory evidence from the State that the non-revenue-producing organization or entity is a non-profit one organized or doing business under State law, or a faith-based organization;
(4) Are a business, cooperative, agricultural enterprise, Employee Stock Ownership Plan (as defined in 15 U.S.C. 632), or tribal small business concern (as described in 15 U.S.C. 657a(b)(2)(C)), with not more than 500 employees; or
(5) Are a business that is assigned a North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code beginning with 61, 71, 72, 213, 3121, 315, 448, 451, 481, 485, 487, 511, 512, 515, 532, or 812, employs not more than 500 employees per physical location, and together with affiliates has no more than 20 locations.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 67 FR 11880, Mar. 15, 2002; 70 FR 72595, Dec. 6, 2005; 73 FR 41254, July 18, 2008; 75 FR 14333, Mar. 25, 2010; 76 FR 63547, Oct. 12, 2011; 86 FR 50219, Sept. 8, 2021]
§ 123.301
When would my business not be eligible to apply for an economic injury disaster loan?
Your business is not eligible for an economic disaster loan if you (or any principal of the business) fit into any of the categories in §§ 123.101 and 123.201, or if your business is:
(a) Engaged in lending, multi-level sales distribution, speculation, or investment (except for real estate investment with property held for rental when the disaster occurred);
(b) A non-profit or charitable concern, other than a private non-profit organization;
(c) [Reserved]
(d) Not a small business concern; or
(e) Deriving more than one-third of gross annual revenue from legal gambling activities;
(f) A loan packager which earns more than one-third of its gross annual revenue from packaging SBA loans;
(g) Principally engaged in teaching, instructing, counseling, or indoctrinating religion or religious beliefs, whether in a religious or secular setting; or
(h) Primarily engaged in political or lobbying activities.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 63 FR 46644, Sept. 2, 1998; 75 FR 14333, Mar. 25, 2010; 88 FR 39341, June 16, 2023]
§ 123.302
What is the interest rate on an economic injury disaster loan?
Your economic injury loan will have an interest rate of 4 percent per annum or less.
§ 123.303
How can my business spend my economic injury disaster loan?
(a) You can only use the loan proceeds for working capital necessary to carry your concern until resumption of normal operations and for expenditures necessary to alleviate the specific economic injury, but not to exceed that which the business could have provided had the injury not occurred. COVID EIDL loan proceeds also may be used to make debt payments including monthly payments, payment of deferred interest, and pre-payments on any business debts, except pre-payments are not permitted on any loans owned by a Federal agency (including SBA) or a Small Business Investment Company licensed under the Small Business Investment Act.
(b) Loan proceeds may not be used to:
(1) Refinance indebtedness which you incurred prior to the disaster event;
(2) Except for COVID EIDL loan proceeds, make payments on loans owned by a Federal agency (including SBA) or a Small Business Investment Company licensed under the Small Business Investment Act;
(3) Pay, directly or indirectly, any obligations resulting from a federal, state or local tax penalty as a result of negligence or fraud, or any non-tax criminal fine, civil fine, or penalty for non-compliance with a law, regulation, or order of a federal, state, regional, or local agency or similar matter;
(4) Repair physical damage; or
(5) Pay dividends or other disbursements to owners, partners, officers or stockholders, except for reasonable remuneration directly related to their performance of services for the business.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 86 FR 50219, Sept. 8, 2021]
§ 123.304
Is there a limit on the maximum loan amount to a single corporate group for COVID EIDL Loans?
Entities that are part of a single corporate group shall in no event receive more than $10,000,000 of COVID EIDL loans in the aggregate. For purposes of this limit, entities are part of a single corporate group if they are majority owned, directly or indirectly, by a common parent.
[86 FR 50219, Sept. 8, 2021]
Subpart E—[Reserved]

# Subpart F—Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loans

# Source:
66 FR 38530, July 25, 2001, unless otherwise noted.
§ 123.500
Definitions.
The following terms have the same meaning wherever they are used in this subpart:
(a)
Essential employee
is an individual (whether or not an owner of a small business) whose managerial or technical expertise is critical to the successful day-to-day operations of a small business.
(b)
Military reservist
is a member of a reserve component of the Armed Forces ordered to active service.
(c)
Active service
has the meaning given in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(3):
(1) Service on active duty; or
(2) Full-time National Guard duty.
(d)
Principal owner
is a person or entity which owns 20 percent or more of the small business.
(e)
Substantial economic injury
means an economic harm to the small business such that it cannot:
(1) Meet its obligations as they mature,
(2) Pay its ordinary and necessary operating expenses, or
(3) Market, produce or provide a product or service ordinarily marketed, produced or provided by the business. Loss of anticipated profits or a drop in sales is not considered substantial economic injury for this purpose.
[66 FR 38530, July 25, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 24109, Apr. 19, 2023]
§ 123.501
Under what circumstances is your business eligible to be considered for a Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan?
Your business is eligible to apply for a Military Reservist EIDL if:
(a) It is a small business as defined in 13 CFR part 121 when the essential employee was called to active service,
(b) The owner of the business is a military reservist and an essential employee or the business employs a military reservist who is an essential employee,
(c) The essential employee has been called-up to active service for a period of more than 30 consecutive days,
(d) The business has suffered or is likely to suffer substantial economic injury as a result of the absence of the essential employee, and
(e) You and your affiliates and principal owners (20% or more ownership interest) have used all reasonably available funds, and you are unable to obtain credit elsewhere (see § 123.104).
[66 FR 38530, July 25, 2001, as amended at 67 FR 64519, Oct. 21, 2002; 88 FR 24109, Apr. 19, 2023]
§ 123.502
Under what circumstances is your business ineligible to be considered for a Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan?
Your business is ineligible for a Military Reservist EIDL if it, together with its affiliates, is subject to any of the following conditions:
(a) Any of your business' principal owners has been convicted, during the past year, of a felony during and in connection with a riot or civil disorder;
(b) You have assumed the risk associated with employing the military reservist, as determined by SBA (for example, hiring the “essential employee” after the employee has received call-up orders or been notified that they are imminent);
(c) Any of your business' principal owners is currently incarcerated, serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed upon adjudication of guilty;
(d) Your business is an agricultural enterprise. Agricultural enterprise means a business primarily engaged in the production of food and fiber, ranching and raising of livestock, aquaculture and all other farming and agriculture-related industries. (See 13 CFR 121.107, “How does SBA determine a concern's primary industry?”) Sometimes a business is engaged in both agricultural and non-agricultural business activities. If the primary business activity of the business is not an agricultural enterprise, it may apply for a Military Reservist EIDL, but loan proceeds may not be used, directly or indirectly, for the benefit of the agricultural enterprises;
(e) Your business is engaged in any illegal activity;
(f) Your business is a government owned entity (except for a business owned or controlled by a Native American tribe);
(g) Your business presents live performances of a prurient sexual nature or derives directly or indirectly more than an insignificant gross revenue through the sale of products or services, or through the presentation of any depictions or displays, of a prurient sexual nature;
(h) Your business is engaged in lending, multi-level sales distribution, speculation, or investment (except for real estate investment with property held for commercial rental);
(i) Your business is a non-profit or charitable concern;
(j) [Reserved]
(k) Your business is not a small business concern;
(l) Your business derives more than one-third of its gross annual revenue from legal gambling activities;
(m) Your business is a loan packager which earns more than one-third of its gross annual revenue from packaging SBA loans;
(n) Your business' principal activity is teaching, instructing, counseling, or indoctrinating religion or religious beliefs, whether in a religious or secular setting; or
(o) Your business' principal activity is political or lobbying activities.
[66 FR 38530, July 25, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 39341, June 16, 2023; 89 FR 34102, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 123.503
When can you apply for a Military Reservist EIDL?
Your small business can apply for a Military Reservist EIDL any time beginning on the date your essential employee receives notice of expected call-up and ending one year after the date the essential employee is discharged or released from active service. The Associate Administrator for Disaster Assistance (AA/DA) or designee may extend the one year limit by no more then one additional year after finding extraordinary or unforeseeable circumstances.
[73 FR 54675, Sept. 23, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 24110, Apr. 19, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 123.503 were published at 89 FR 91539, Nov. 20, 2024, effective Jan. 21, 2025.
§ 123.504
How do you apply for a Military Reservist EIDL?
To apply for a Military Reservist EIDL you must complete a SBA Military Reservist EIDL application package (SBA Form 5R and supporting documentation
can be obtained through SBA's Disaster Area Office
) including:
(a) A copy of the essential employee's official call-up orders for active service showing the date of call-up, and, if known, the date of release from active service. For an essential employee who
expects to be called up and who has not received official call-up orders, the application shall include the notice of the expected call-up including, if known, the expected date of call-up and expected date of release from active service;
(b) A statement from the business owner that the reservist is essential to the successful day-to-day operations of the business (detailing the employee's duties and responsibilities and explaining why these duties and responsibilities can't be completed in the essential employee's absence);
(c) A certification by the essential employee supporting that he or she concurs with the business owner's statement as described in paragraph (b) of this section;
(d) A written explanation and financial estimate of how the call-up of the essential employee has or will result in economic injury to your business;
(e) The steps your business is taking to alleviate the economic injury; and
(f) The business owners' certification that the essential employee will be offered the same or a similar job upon the employee's return from active service.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 54675, Sept. 23, 2008; 88 FR 24110, Apr. 19, 2023]
§ 123.505
What if you are both an essential employee and the owner of the small business and you started active service before applying for a Military Reservist EIDL?
If you are both an essential employee and the owner of the small business and you started active service before applying for an Military Reservist EIDL, a person who has a power of attorney with the authority to borrow and make other related commitments on your behalf, may complete and submit the EIDL loan application package for you.
[66 FR 38530, July 25, 2001, as amended at 88 FR 24110, Apr. 19, 2023]
§ 123.506
How much can you borrow under the Military Reservist EIDL Program?
You can borrow an amount equal to the substantial economic injury you have suffered or are likely to suffer until normal operations resume as a result of the absence of one or more essential employees called to active service, up to a maximum of $2 million.
[73 FR 54675, Sept. 23, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 24110, Apr. 19, 2023]
§ 123.507
Under what circumstances will SBA consider waiving the $2 million loan limit?
SBA will consider waiving the $2 million limit if you can certify to the following conditions and SBA approves of such certification based on the information supplied in your application:
(a) Your small business is a major source of employment. A major source of employment is a business concern that, on or after the date of the disaster:
(1) Employs 10 percent or more of the work force within the commuting area of the geographically identifiable community (no larger than a county) in which the business employing the essential employee is located, provided that the commuting area does not extend more than 50 miles from such community; or
(2) Employs 5 percent of the work force in an industry within such commuting area and, if the small business is a non-manufacturing small business, employs no less than 50 employees in the same commuting area, or if the small business is a manufacturing small business, employs no less than 150 employees in the commuting area; or
(3) Employs no less than 250 employees within such commuting area;
(b) Your small business is in imminent danger of going out of business as a result of one or more essential employees being called up to active service for a period of more than 30 consecutive days, and a loan in excess of $2 million is necessary to reopen or keep open the small business; and
(c) Your small business has used all reasonably available funds from the small business, its affiliates, its principal owners and all available credit elsewhere (as described in § 123.104) to
alleviate the small business' economic injury.
[61 FR 3304, Jan. 31, 1996, as amended at 73 FR 54675, Sept. 23, 2008; 75 FR 14333, Mar. 25, 2010; 88 FR 24109, Apr. 19, 2023; 89 FR 59831, July 24, 2024]
§ 123.508
How can you use Military Reservist EIDL funds?
Your small business can use Military Reservist EIDL to:
(a) Meet obligations as they mature,
(b) Pay ordinary and necessary operating expenses, or
(c) Enable the business to market, produce or provide products or services ordinarily marketed, produced, or provided by the business, which cannot be done as a result of the essential employee's military call-up.
§ 123.509
What can't you use Military Reservist EIDL funds for?
Your small business can not use Military Reservist EIDL funds for purposes described in § 123.303(b) (See § 123.303, “ How can my business spend my economic injury disaster loan?”).
§ 123.510
What if you don't use your Military Reservist EIDL funds as authorized?
If your small business does not use Military Reservist EIDL funds as authorized by § 123.508, then § 123.9 applies (See § 123.9, “What happens if I don't use loan proceeds for the intended purpose?”).
§ 123.511
How will SBA disburse Military Reservist EIDL funds?
Funds will be disbursed only after the essential employee has been called to active service, and you have provided a copy of the essential employee's official call-up orders for active service showing the date of the call-up. SBA will disburse your funds in quarterly installments (unless otherwise specified in your loan authorization agreement) based on a continued need as demonstrated by comparative financial information. On or about 30 days before your scheduled fund disbursement, SBA will request ordinary and usual financial statements (including balance sheets and profit and loss statements). Based on this information, SBA will assess your continued need for disbursements under this program. Upon making such assessment, SBA will notify you of the status of future disbursements.
[73 FR 54675, Sept. 23, 2008, as amended at 88 FR 24110, Apr. 19, 2023]
§ 123.512
What is the interest rate on a Military Reservist EIDL?
The interest rate on a Military Reservist EIDL will be 4 percent per annum or less. SBA will publish the interest rate quarterly in the
Federal Register.
§ 123.513
Does SBA require collateral on its Military Reservist EIDL?
SBA will not generally require you to pledge collateral to secure a Military Reservist EIDL of $50,000 or less. For loans larger than $50,000, you will be required to provide available collateral such as a lien on business property, a security interest in personal property, or both. SBA will not decline a loan if you do not have a particular amount of collateral so long as SBA is reasonably sure that you can repay the loan. If you refuse to pledge the available collateral when requested by SBA, however, SBA may decline or cancel your loan.
[73 FR 54675, Sept. 23, 2008]
Subpart G—[Reserved]

# Subpart H—Immediate Disaster Assistance Program

# Source:
75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 123.700
What is the Immediate Disaster Assistance Program?
(a) The Immediate Disaster Assistance Program (IDAP) is a guaranteed disaster loan program for small businesses that have suffered physical damage or economic injury due to a Declared Disaster. An IDAP loan is an interim loan in an amount not to exceed $25,000 made by an IDAP Lender to meet the immediate business needs of an IDAP Borrower while approval of long-term financing from a Disaster Loan is pending with SBA.
(b)
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, the terms below are defined as follows:
Contiguous Counties
means the counties or other political subdivisions identified in the IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration as abutting the Primary Counties.
Credit Elsewhere
means that the IDAP Borrower is able to address disaster losses using available personal or business resources or access to nonfederal lending sources at reasonable rates and terms.
Declared Disaster
is a disaster event for which an IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration has been issued.
Declared Disaster Area
means the Primary Counties and the Contiguous Counties identified for a particular Declared Disaster.
Disaster Loan
means a disaster loan authorized by Section 7(b) of the Small Business Act.
IDAP Borrower
is the obligor of an IDAP loan.
IDAP Lender
is a financial institution participating in the IDAP loan program, subject to the requirements of this subpart.
IDAP Loan Program Requirements
are requirements imposed upon an IDAP Lender by statute, SBA regulations, any agreement the IDAP Lender has executed with SBA, SBA SOPs, SBA procedural guidance, official SBA notices and forms applicable to the IDAP loan program, and loan authorizations, as such requirements are issued and revised by SBA from time to time.
IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration
means a Major Disaster Declaration, SBA Administrative Disaster Declaration or SBA EIDL-Only Disaster Declaration in which SBA has indicated that IDAP loans are available.
Initial Period
is the IDAP loan repayment period that begins upon the initial disbursement of an IDAP loan and ends upon (i) full repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan; (ii) SBA notice to the IDAP Lender of decline of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan Application; or (iii) receipt by the IDAP Lender of partial repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan; provided that if the IDAP loan has not been fully disbursed at such time, the Initial Period shall not end until the IDAP loan is fully disbursed.
Major Disaster Declaration
means a disaster declaration issued under § 123.3(a)(1) of this part.
Other Recoveries
are other compensation for disaster losses and include, but are not limited to: Proceeds of policies of insurance or other indemnifications; grants or other reimbursement (including loans) from government agencies or private organizations; claims for civil liability against other individuals, organizations or governmental entities; gifts; condemnation awards; and salvage (including any sale or re-use) of items of disaster-damaged property. If an IDAP Borrower has voluntarily paid insurance recoveries to a recorded lienholder, the amount paid is considered to be Other Recoveries.
Primary Counties
means the counties or other political subdivisions identified in the IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration as having been adversely affected by the disaster.
SBA Administrative Disaster Declaration
means a disaster declaration issued under § 123.3(a)(3) of this part.
SBA EIDL-Only Disaster Declaration
means a disaster declaration issued under § 123.3(a)(5) of this part.
Substantial Economic Injury
exists when a business concern is unable to meet its obligations as they mature or to pay its ordinary and necessary operating expenses. Loss of anticipated profits or a drop in sales is not considered substantial economic injury.
Term Period
is the repayment period that begins following:
(i) SBA notice to the IDAP Lender of decline of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan application;
(ii) Receipt by the IDAP Lender of partial repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan; or
(iii) Final disbursement of the IDAP loan, whichever is later, and ends when the IDAP loan is repaid in full.
§ 123.701
What is the application procedure for an IDAP loan?
A prospective IDAP Borrower must apply to an IDAP Lender for an IDAP loan by the application deadline for
prospective IDAP Borrowers established by SBA in the IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration. If the IDAP Lender approves the application, it must submit a request for IDAP loan approval to SBA by the application deadline for IDAP Lenders established by SBA in the IDAP-Eligible Disaster Declaration. SBA will issue an approval or a decline of the IDAP Lender's request within 36 hours of receipt by SBA. A prospective IDAP Borrower will receive notice of approval or decline of its loan application from the IDAP Lender. Notice of decline will include the reasons. If an IDAP loan is approved, a loan authorization will be issued.
§ 123.702
What are the eligibility requirements for an IDAP loan?
(a)
Eligible IDAP applicants.
To be eligible for an IDAP loan, an applicant business must meet all of the requirements set forth below. The applicant business must:
(1) Be located within a Declared Disaster Area;
(2) Have eligible disaster losses as follows:
(i) For a Major Disaster Declaration, if located in a Primary County, have sustained damage to real or business personal property in the Declared Disaster or, if located in a Primary or Contiguous County, have sustained Substantial Economic Injury as a direct result of the Declared Disaster; or
(ii) For an SBA Administrative Disaster Declaration, have sustained damage to real or business personal property in the Declared Disaster or sustained Substantial Economic Injury as a direct result of the Declared Disaster; or
(iii) For an SBA EIDL-Only Disaster Declaration, have sustained Substantial Economic Injury as a direct result of the Declared Disaster;
(3) Have been a small business concern under the size requirements applicable to disaster loan assistance under part 121 of this chapter (including affiliates) when the Declared Disaster commenced;
(4) Together with affiliates and principal owners, not have Credit Elsewhere;
(5) Apply to SBA for a Disaster Loan within the applicable deadline and before any disbursement of the IDAP loan; and
(6) Be creditworthy and demonstrate reasonable assurance of repayment of the IDAP loan.
(b)
Ineligible IDAP applicants.
An applicant business is not eligible for an IDAP loan if it is:
(1) A non-profit or charitable concern;
(2) A business that was not a small business concern under the size requirements of part 121 of this chapter (including affiliates) when the Declared Disaster commenced;
(3) A consumer or marketing cooperative;
(4) Deriving more than one-third of gross annual revenue from legal gambling activities or a business whose purpose for being is gambling regardless of its ability to meet the one-third criteria established for otherwise eligible concerns;
(5) A loan packager which earns more than one-third of its gross annual revenue from packaging SBA loans;
(6) Principally engaged in teaching, instructing, counseling, or indoctrinating religion or religious beliefs, whether in a religious or secular setting;
(7) Primarily engaged in political or lobbying activities;
(8) A private club or business that limits the number of memberships for reasons other than capacity;
(9) Presents live performances of a prurient sexual nature or derives directly or indirectly more than
de minimis
gross revenue through the sale of products or services, or the presentation of any depictions or displays, of a prurient sexual nature;
(10) Engaged in the production or distribution of any product or service that has been determined to be obscene by a court;
(11) Engaged in any illegal activity;
(12) A government owned entity (except for a business owned or controlled by a Native American tribe);
(13) A business in which the IDAP Lender or any of its Associates (as defined in § 120.10) owns an equity interest;
(14) Primarily engaged in subdividing real property into lots and developing it for resale on its own account;
(15) Engaged in lending, multi-level sales distribution, speculation, or investment (except for real estate investment with property held for rental when the Declared Disaster occurred);
(16) Delinquent on any Federal obligation, including but not limited to any Federal loans, contracts, grants, student loans or taxes, or has a judgment lien for a Federal debt against its property;
(17) Located in a Special Flood Hazard Area (SFHA), as designated by the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and has not maintained required flood insurance on its business property (regardless of the type of disaster);
(18) Located in a SFHA within a non-participating community or a community under sanction;
(19) Located in a building that was newly constructed or substantially improved on or after February 9, 1989, and is currently located seaward of mean high tide or entirely in or over water;
(20) Located in a Coastal Barrier Resource Area (COBRA);
(21) A business that had a substantial change of ownership (more than 50 percent) after the Declared Disaster and no contract of sale existed prior to that time;
(22) A business that was established after the Declared Disaster;
(23) Relocating out of the Declared Disaster Area;
(24) Primarily engaged in the production of food and fiber, ranching and raising of livestock, aquaculture and all other farming and agriculture-related industries (except for a nursery deriving less than 50 percent of annual receipts from the production and sale of ornamental plants and other nursery products, a small agricultural cooperative or a small producer cooperative); or
(25) A sole proprietorship, unincorporated association, partnership or limited liability company in which a Member of Congress (or a household member) has an ownership interest.
(c)
Character requirements.
An applicant business is not eligible for an IDAP loan if any Associate (as defined in § 120.10) of the applicant business:
(1) is currently incarcerated, serving a sentence of imprisonment imposed upon adjudication of guilty, or is presently under indictment;
(2) Is at least a 50 percent or more owner of applicant business, and is more than 60 days delinquent on any obligation to pay child support arising under an administrative order, court order, repayment agreement between the holder and a custodial parent, or repayment agreement between the holder and a state agency providing child support enforcement services;
(3) Is an undocumented (illegal) alien; or
(4) Is delinquent on any Federal obligation, including but not limited to any Federal loans, contracts, grants, student loans or taxes.
[75 FR 60598, Oct. 1, 2010, as amended at 89 FR 34102, Apr. 30, 2024]
§ 123.703
What are the terms of an IDAP loan?
(a)
Guaranty percentage.
The SBA guaranteed share of an IDAP loan is 85%.
(b)
Maximum loan size.
(1) If the amount of an IDAP Borrower's disaster losses is $25,000 or less, the principal amount of an IDAP loan must not exceed the amount of disaster losses minus Other Recoveries.
(2) If the amount of an IDAP Borrower's disaster losses is more than $25,000, the principal amount of an IDAP loan must not exceed $25,000 minus Other Recoveries.
(c)
Disbursement.
The disbursement period for an IDAP loan is generally up to 30 days from the date of SBA approval of the IDAP loan. If the IDAP Lender is notified before disbursement of the IDAP loan that the IDAP Borrower has received Other Recoveries, the IDAP Lender must decrease the approved amount of the IDAP loan by the amount of the Other Recoveries. If the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan is approved, SBA will contact the IDAP Lender when SBA is ready to disburse the Disaster Loan. Upon receipt of such notification by SBA, the IDAP Lender must cancel any remaining undisbursed amount of the IDAP loan.
(d)
Repayment
—(1)
Initial Period.
During the Initial Period, an IDAP Borrower will pay interest only on the disbursed principal balance of the IDAP loan. If SBA approves the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan application, SBA will require that the IDAP loan be repaid first from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan. If the IDAP Borrower receives Other Recoveries during the Initial Period, the IDAP Borrower must, in accordance with § 123.703(h), remit the Other Recoveries to the IDAP Lender, and the IDAP Lender will apply the Other Recoveries to the IDAP loan. If the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan application is declined or if the amount of the approved Disaster Loan is insufficient to repay the IDAP loan in full, the remaining balance of the IDAP loan will be repaid during the Term Period as described in paragraph (2). The Initial Period ends upon (i) full repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan; (ii) SBA notice to the IDAP Lender of decline of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan Application; or (iii) receipt by the IDAP Lender of partial repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan; provided that if the IDAP loan has not been fully disbursed at such time, the Initial Period shall not end until the IDAP loan is fully disbursed. If an IDAP Borrower withdraws an application for a Disaster Loan, fails to close on an approved Disaster Loan or if the approved Disaster Loan is cancelled, the IDAP loan is immediately due and payable by the IDAP Borrower.
(2)
Term Period.
If SBA declines the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan application or the approved amount of the Disaster Loan is insufficient to repay the IDAP loan in full, the IDAP Borrower must pay principal and interest on the IDAP loan, with the IDAP loan balance to be fully amortized over a period that is at least 10 years from the date of final disbursement of the IDAP loan, but no more than 25 years from the date of final disbursement. The Term Period begins in the first month following SBA notice to the IDAP Lender of decline of the IDAP Borrower's Disaster Loan application, receipt by the IDAP Lender of partial repayment of the IDAP loan from the proceeds of the Disaster Loan, or final disbursement of the IDAP loan, whichever is later. Balloon payments are not permitted. The IDAP Borrower may prepay all or a portion of the principal during the life of the loan without penalty. If the IDAP Borrower receives Other Recoveries during the Term Period, the IDAP Borrower must, in accordance with § 123.703(h), remit the Other Recoveries to the IDAP Lender, and the IDAP Lender will apply the Other Recoveries to the IDAP loan.
(e)
Interest rate
—(1)
Initial Period.
The maximum interest rate an IDAP Lender may charge an IDAP Borrower during the Initial Period will be published by SBA in the
Federal Register
from time to time. This rate must be a fixed rate.
(2)
Term Period.
The maximum interest rate an IDAP Lender may charge an IDAP Borrower during the Term Period will be published in the
Federal Register
from time to time. The IDAP Lender may charge either a fixed or a variable rate during the Term Period.
(f)
Number of IDAP loans per small business.
No small business (including affiliates) may obtain more than one IDAP loan per Declared Disaster. The provisions of § 120.151 do not apply to IDAP loans.
(g)
Personal guarantees.
Holders of at least a 20 percent ownership interest in the IDAP Borrower must guarantee the IDAP loan.
(h)
Agreement to remit Other Recoveries.
IDAP Borrowers must promptly notify the IDAP Lender of the receipt of Other Recoveries, and must promptly remit the proceeds of Other Recoveries to the IDAP Lender. The IDAP Lender must apply the Other Recoveries to the IDAP loan balance. SBA does not require any additional collateral for IDAP loans.
§ 123.704
Are there restrictions on how IDAP loan funds may be used?
(a) IDAP loan proceeds may only be used for the following purposes:
(1) For a Major Disaster Declaration:
(i) If the IDAP Borrower is located in a Primary County, to restore or replace the IDAP Borrower's real or business personal property to its condition before the Declared Disaster occurred and/or for working capital necessary to
carry the IDAP Borrower until resumption of normal operations and for expenditures necessary to alleviate the specific economic injury, but not to exceed that which the IDAP Borrower could have provided had the injury not occurred; or
(ii) If the IDAP Borrower is located in a Contiguous County, for working capital necessary to carry the IDAP Borrower until resumption of normal operations and for expenditures necessary to alleviate the specific economic injury, but not to exceed that which the IDAP Borrower could have provided had the injury not occurred.
(2) For an SBA Administrative Disaster Declaration, if the IDAP Borrower is located in either a Primary County or a Contiguous County, to restore or replace the IDAP Borrower's real or business personal property to its condition before the Declared Disaster occurred and/or for working capital necessary to carry the IDAP Borrower until resumption of normal operations and for expenditures necessary to alleviate the specific economic injury, but not to exceed that which the IDAP Borrower could have provided had the injury not occurred.
(3) For an SBA EIDL-Only Disaster Declaration, if the IDAP Borrower is located in either a Primary County or a Contiguous County, for working capital necessary to carry the IDAP Borrower until resumption of normal operations and for expenditures necessary to alleviate the specific economic injury, but not to exceed that which the IDAP Borrower could have provided had the injury not occurred.
(b) IDAP loan proceeds may not be used to:
(1) Refinance or repay indebtedness incurred prior to the Declared Disaster (other than regularly due installments);
(2) Make payments on loans owned by another federal agency (including SBA) or a Small Business Investment Company licensed under the Small Business Investment Act;
(3) Pay, directly or indirectly, any obligations resulting from a federal, state or local tax penalty as a result of negligence or fraud, or any non-tax criminal fine, civil fine, or penalty for non-compliance with a law, regulation, or order of a federal, state, regional, or local agency or similar matter;
(4) Pay dividends, bonuses or other disbursements to owners, partners, officers or stockholders, except for reasonable remuneration directly related to their performance of services for the business;
(5) Make repairs on a building rented by the IDAP Borrower if the IDAP Borrower's lease does not require the IDAP Borrower to make such repairs;
(6) Make repairs to a condominium unit owned by the IDAP Borrower;
(7) Replace landscaping in excess of $5,000 unless the disaster damaged landscaping fulfilled a functional need or contributed toward the generation of business;
(8) Repair or replace property not located within the Declared Disaster Area at the time of the Declared Disaster;
(9) Repay stockholder/Associate loans, except where the funds were injected on an interim basis as a result of the Declared Disaster and non-repayment would cause undue hardship to the stockholder/Associate;
(10) Expand facilities or acquire fixed assets, except for replacement of disaster-damaged fixed assets;
(11) Pay for contractor malfeasance;
(12) Replace damaged property that consists of cash or securities;
(13) Replace damaged property if the replacement value is extraordinarily high and not easily verified, such as the value of antiques, artworks or hobby collections; or
(14) Repair or replace damaged property where the IDAP Borrower's only interest is in the form of a security interest, mortgage or deed of trust.
§ 123.705
Are there any fees associated with IDAP loans?
(a)
IDAP Lender Fees.
An IDAP Lender must not impose any fees or direct costs on an IDAP Borrower, except for the following allowed fees or direct costs:
(1) The reasonable direct costs of liquidation;
(2) A late payment fee not to exceed 5 percent of the scheduled IDAP loan payment; and
(3) An application fee not to exceed $250. Notwithstanding the provisions of
13 CFR 103.5, no compensation agreement is required for the application fee. If an undisbursed IDAP loan is cancelled pursuant to § 123.703(c), the IDAP Lender may retain the application fee.
(b)
SBA Fees.
SBA will not impose any guarantee fees on an IDAP Lender making an IDAP loan.
(c)
Prohibition on paid loan packagers, referral agents or brokers.
Other than the application fee set forth in (a)(3) of this section, no IDAP Lender or third party may charge an IDAP Borrower a fee to assist in the preparation of an IDAP loan application or application materials. No third party may charge an IDAP Borrower or an IDAP Lender a referral fee or broker's fee in connection with an IDAP loan.
§ 123.706
What are the requirements for IDAP Lenders?
(a)
IDAP Lenders.
An IDAP Lender must be a 7(a) Lender (as defined in § 120.10). Notwithstanding the provisions of § 120.470(a), a Small Business Lending Company (SBLC) that is a 7(a) Lender may make IDAP loans. An IDAP Lender must sign a supplemental Loan Guarantee Agreement for the IDAP loan program. An IDAP Lender must comply and maintain familiarity with the IDAP Loan Program Requirements, as such requirements are revised from time to time. IDAP Loan Program Requirements in effect at the time that an IDAP Lender takes an action in connection with a particular IDAP loan govern that specific action. With respect to their activities in the IDAP loan program, IDAP Lenders are subject to the requirements of §§ 120.140 (What ethical requirements apply to participants?), 120.197 (Notifying SBA's Office of Inspector General of suspected fraud), 120.400 (Loan Guarantee Agreements), 120.410 (Requirements for all participating Lenders), 120.411 (Preferences), 120.412 (Other services Lenders may provide Borrowers), and 120.413 (Advertisement of relationship with SBA) of this chapter. An IDAP Lender and its contractor(s) are independent contractors that are responsible for their own actions with respect to an IDAP loan. SBA has no responsibility or liability for any claim by an IDAP Borrower, guarantor or other party alleging injury as a result of any allegedly wrongful action taken by an IDAP Lender or an employee, agent or contractor of an IDAP Lender.
(b)
Delegated authority.
An IDAP loan must be processed, serviced and liquidated under an IDAP Lender's delegated authority provided by the supplemental Loan Guarantee Agreement for the IDAP loan program. Non-delegated processing is not available for the IDAP loan program. An IDAP Lender is responsible for all IDAP loan decisions regarding eligibility (including size) and creditworthiness. In determining creditworthiness, an IDAP Lender must use the existing practices and procedures that the IDAP Lender uses for its non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans of a similar size. The IDAP Lender's existing practices and procedures must be appropriate and generally accepted, proven and prudent credit evaluation processes and procedures, which may include credit scoring, and must ensure that there is reasonable assurance of repayment. In disbursing the IDAP loan, the IDAP Lender must use the same disbursement procedures and documentation as it uses for its similarly sized non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. An IDAP Lender is also responsible for confirming that all IDAP loan processing, closing, servicing and liquidation decisions are correct and that all IDAP Loan Program Requirements have been followed.
(c)
IDAP Lender reporting.
An IDAP Lender must report on its IDAP loans in accordance with requirements established by SBA from time to time.
(d)
Servicing.
Each IDAP Lender must service all of its IDAP loans in accordance with the existing practices and procedures that the IDAP Lender uses for its non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. In all circumstances, such practices and procedures must be commercially reasonable and consistent with prudent lending standards and in accordance with IDAP Loan Program Requirements. SBA's prior written consent is required for servicing actions that may have significant exposure implications for SBA. SBA may require written notice of other servicing actions it considers necessary for portfolio management purposes.
(e)
Liquidations.
Each IDAP Lender must be responsible for liquidating its defaulted IDAP loans. IDAP loans will be liquidated in accordance with the existing practices and procedures that the IDAP Lender uses for its non-SBA guaranteed commercial loans. In all circumstances, such practices and procedures must be commercially reasonable and consistent with prudent lending standards and in accordance with IDAP Loan Program Requirements. IDAP loans with
de minimis
value may, at the IDAP Lender's request and with SBA's approval, be liquidated by SBA or its agent(s). Significant liquidation actions taken on IDAP loans must be documented. The reimbursement of IDAP Lender liquidation expenses is limited to the amount of the recovery on the IDAP loan.
(f)
Purchase requests.
An IDAP Lender may request SBA to purchase the guaranteed portion of an IDAP loan when there has been an uncured payment default exceeding 60 days or when the IDAP Borrower has declared bankruptcy. IDAP loans are subject to the 7(a) loan program requirements of §§ 120.520 (Purchase of 7(a) loan guarantees), 120.521 (What interest rate applies after SBA purchases its guaranteed portion?), 120.522 (Payment of accrued interest to the Lender or Registered Holder when SBA purchases the guaranteed portion), 120.523 (What is the “earliest uncured payment default”?), 120.524 (When is SBA released from liability on its guarantee?), 120.542 (Payment by SBA of legal fees and other expenses) and 120.546 (Loan asset sales) of this chapter.
(g)
Prohibition on secondary market sales, securitizations, loan participations and loan sales.
An IDAP Lender may not sell the guaranteed portion of an IDAP loan in the secondary market, securitize the unguaranteed portion of an IDAP loan, participate any portion of an IDAP loan with another lender, or sell all of its interest in an IDAP loan.
(h)
Loan pledges.
An IDAP Lender may pledge an IDAP loan subject to the 7(a) loan program requirements of §§ 120.434 and 120.435 of this chapter.
(i)
Oversight.
All IDAP Lenders are subject to the supervision and enforcement provisions applicable to 7(a) Lenders in part 120, subpart I of this chapter (§§ 120.1000 through 120.1600). In addition, an IDAP Lender that is an SBA Supervised Lender (as defined in § 120.10) is subject to the requirements of §§ 120.460 through 120.490, as applicable.
Pt. 124

# PART 124—8(a) BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT/SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS STATUS DETERMINATIONS

# Subpart A—8(a) Business Development

# Provisions of General Applicability
Sec.
124.1
What is the purpose of the 8(a) Business Development program?
124.2
What length of time may a business participate in the 8(a) BD program?
124.3
What definitions are important in the 8(a) BD program?
124.4
What restrictions apply to fees for applicant and Participant representatives?

# Eligibility Requirements for Participation in the 8(
a

# ) Business Development Program
124.101
What are the basic requirements a concern must meet for the 8(a) BD program?
124.102
What size business is eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program?
124.103
Who is socially disadvantaged?
124.104
Who is economically disadvantaged?
124.105
What does it mean to be unconditionally owned by one or more disadvantaged individuals?
124.106
When do disadvantaged individuals control an applicant or Participant?
124.107
What is potential for success?
124.108
What other eligibility requirements apply for individuals or businesses?
124.109
Do Indian tribes and Alaska Native Corporations have any special rules for applying to and remaining eligible for the 8(a) BD program?
124.110
Do Native Hawaiian Organizations (NHOs) have any special rules for applying to and remaining eligible for the 8(a) BD program?
124.111
Do Community Development Corporations (CDCs) have any special rules for applying to and remaining eligible for the 8(a) BD program?
124.112
What criteria must a business meet to remain eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program?

# Applying to the 8(
a

# ) BD Program
124.201
May any business submit an application?
124.202
How must an application be filed?
124.203
What must a concern submit to apply to the 8(a) BD program?
124.204
How does SBA process applications for 8(a) BD program admission?
124.205
Can an applicant ask SBA to reconsider SBA's initial decision to decline its application?
124.206
What appeal rights are available to an applicant that has been denied admission?
124.207
Can an applicant reapply for admission to the 8(a) BD program?

# Exiting the 8(
a

# ) BD Program
124.300
What are the ways a business may leave the 8(a) BD program?
124.302
What is graduation and what is early graduation?
124.303
What is termination?
124.304
What are the procedures for early graduation and termination?
124.305
What is suspension and how is a Participant suspended from the 8(a) BD program?

# Business Development
124.401
Which SBA field office services a Participant?
124.402
How does a Participant develop a business plan?
124.403
How is a business plan updated and modified?
124.404
What business development assistance is available to Participants during the two stages of participation in the 8(a) BD program?
124.405
How does a Participant obtain Federal Government surplus property?

# Contractual Assistance
124.501
What general provisions apply to the award of 8(a) contracts?
124.502
How does an agency offer a procurement to SBA for award through the 8(a) BD program?
124.503
How does SBA accept a procurement for award through the 8(a) BD program?
124.504
What circumstances limit SBA's ability to accept a procurement for award as an 8(a) contract, and when can a requirement be released from the 8(a) BD program?
124.505
When will SBA appeal the terms or conditions of a particular 8(a) contract or a procuring activity decision not to use the 8(a) BD program?
124.506
At what dollar threshold must an 8(a) procurement be competed among eligible Participants?
124.507
What procedures apply to competitive 8(a) procurements?
124.508
How is an 8(a) contract executed?
124.509
What are non-8(a) business activity targets?
124.510
What limitations on subcontracting apply to an 8(a) contract?
124.511
How is fair market price determined for an 8(a) contract?
124.512
Delegation of contract administration to procuring agencies.
124.513
Under what circumstances can a joint venture be awarded an 8(a) contract?
124.514
Exercise of 8(a) options and modifications.
124.515
Can a Participant change its ownership or control and continue to perform an 8(a) contract, and can it transfer performance to another firm?
124.516
[Reserved]
124.517
Can the eligibility or size of a Participant for award of an 8(a) contract be questioned?
124.518
How can an 8(a) contract be terminated before performance is completed?
124.519
Are there any dollar limits on the amount of 8(a) contracts that a Participant may receive?
124.520
Can 8(a) BD Program Participants participate in SBA's Mentor-Protégé program?
124.521
What are the requirements for representing 8(a) status, and what are the penalties for misrepresentation?

# Miscellaneous Reporting Requirements
124.601
What reports does SBA require concerning parties who assist Participants in obtaining federal contracts?
124.602
What kind of annual financial statement must a Participant submit to SBA?
124.603
What reports regarding the continued business operations of former Participants does SBA require?
124.604
Report of benefits for firms owned by Tribes, NNCs, NHOs and CDCs.

# Management and Technical Assistance Program
124.701
What is the purpose of the 7(j) management and technical assistance program?
124.702
What types of assistance are available through the 7(j) program?
124.703
Who is eligible to receive 7(j) assistance?
124.704
What additional management and technical assistance is reserved exclusively for concerns eligible to receive 8(a) contracts?

# Subpart B—Eligibility, Certification, and Protests Relating to Federal Small Disadvantaged Business Programs
124.1001
What is a Small Disadvantaged Business?
124.1002
Reviews and protests of SDB status.

# Authority:
15 U.S.C. 634(b)(6), 636(j), 637(a), 637(d), 644, 42 U.S.C. 9815; and Pub. L. 99-661, 100 Stat. 3816; Sec. 1207, Pub. L. 100-656, 102 Stat. 3853; Pub. L. 101-37, 103 Stat. 70; Pub. L.
101-574, 104 Stat. 2814; Sec. 8021, Pub. L. 108-87, 117 Stat. 1054; and Sec. 330, Pub. L. 116-260.

# Source:
63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 124 appear at 72 FR 50040, Aug. 30, 2007, and 76 FR 8253, Feb. 11, 2011.

# Subpart A—8(a) Business Development

# Provisions of General Applicability
§ 124.1
What is the purpose of the 8(a) Business Development program?
Sections 8(a) and 7(j) of the Small Business Act authorize a Minority Small Business and Capital Ownership Development program (designated the 8(a) Business Development or “8(a) BD” program for purposes of the regulations in this part). The purpose of the 8(a) BD program is to assist eligible small disadvantaged business concerns compete in the American economy through business development.
§ 124.2
What length of time may a business participate in the 8(a) BD program?
(a) Except as set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, a Participant receives a program term of nine years from the date of SBA's approval letter certifying the concern's admission to the program. The Participant must maintain its program eligibility during its tenure in the program and must inform SBA of any changes that would adversely affect its program eligibility. The nine-year program term may be shortened only by termination, early graduation (including voluntary early graduation) or voluntary withdrawal as provided for in this subpart.
(b) Pursuant to section 330 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021, and section 869 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021, a small business concern participating the 8(a) BD program on March 13, 2020, may elect to extend such participation by a period of one year from the end of its program term, regardless of whether it previously elected to suspend participation in the program under the procedures set forth in § 124.305(h)(1)(iii).
(1) Unless expressly declined in writing, SBA will extend a Participant's program term by one year if the concern was a Participant in the 8(a) BD program on March 13, 2020, and continued its participation through January 13, 2021. Declines of such extension must be submitted to: Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Business Development, Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20416, or email to
8aQuestions@sba.gov.
(2) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section any concern that was a Participant in the 8(a) BD program on March 13, 2020, but graduated or otherwise left the program before January 13, 2021 may elect to be readmitted to the 8(a) BD program for the period of time equal to one year from the date of the original expiration of the concern's program term. A concern seeking to be readmitted to the 8(a) BD program must notify SBA of its intent to be readmitted no later than March 15, 2021.

# Example 1 to paragraph (b)(2) introductory text.
Business Concern A was a Participant in the 8(a) BD program on September 9, 2020, and its program term expired on November 25, 2020. On January 28, 2021, Business Concern A notified SBA of its election to be readmitted to the 8(a) BD program under the process outlined in this paragraph (b)(2). Business Concern A would be eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program until November 25, 2021.
(i) All requests for readmittance must be submitted to: Associate Administrator, Office of Business Development, Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street SW, Washington, DC 20416, or email to
8aQuestions@sba.gov.
(ii) As part of a concern's notification to SBA of its intent to be readmitted to the 8(a) BD program, the concern must certify that it continues to meet the applicable 8(a) BD program eligibility requirements as set forth in §§ 124.101 through 124.111. SBA may, in its discretion, request information or documentation to assess whether the concern meets the eligibility criteria for readmittance.
(iii) Business concerns that were Participants in the 8(a) BD program on March 13, 2020, but were terminated or early graduated by SBA or elected to voluntarily withdraw or early graduate
in lieu of termination are not eligible to extend their program terms.
(iv) The readmittance of a business concern owned and controlled by a tribe, ANC, NHO, or CDC to the 8(a) BD program under this paragraph (b)(2) will be disregarded for purposes of the ownership restrictions applicable to Participants owned by a tribe, ANC, NHO, or CDC as set forth in §§ 124.109(c)(3)(ii), 124.110(e), and 124.111(d). The date to commence the two-year waiting period for the tribe, ANC, NHO, or CDC to own another business concern in the 8(a) BD program with the same primary NAICS code as the readmitted concern will not be readjusted with the firm's readmittance.
[86 FR 2532, Jan. 13, 2021]
§ 124.3
What definitions are important in the 8(a) BD program?
Alaska Native
, as defined by the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602), means a citizen of the United States who is a person of one-fourth degree or more Alaskan Indian (including Tsimshian Indians not enrolled in the Metlaktla Indian Community), Eskimo, or Aleut blood, or a combination of those bloodlines. The term includes, in the absence of proof of a minimum blood quantum, any citizen whom a Native village or Native group regards as an Alaska Native if their father or mother is regarded as an Alaska Native.
Alaska Native Corporation or ANC
means any Regional Corporation, Village Corporation, Urban Corporation, or Group Corporation organized under the laws of the State of Alaska in accordance with the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601,
et seq.
)
Bona fide place of business,
for purposes of 8(a) construction procurements, means a location where a Participant regularly maintains an office within the appropriate geographical boundary which employs at least one individual who works at least 20 hours per week at that location. The term does not include construction trailers or other temporary construction sites.
Community Development Corporation or CDC
means a nonprofit organization responsible to residents of the area it serves which has received financial assistance under 42 U.S.C. 9805,
et seq.
Concern
is defined in part 121 of this title.
Days
means calendar days unless otherwise specified.
Day-to-day operations
of a firm means the marketing, production, sales, and administrative functions of the firm.
Follow-on requirement or contract.
The determination of whether a particular requirement or contract is a follow-on includes consideration of whether the scope has changed significantly, requiring meaningful different types of work or different capabilities; whether the magnitude or value of the requirement has changed by at least 25 percent for equivalent periods of performance; and whether the end user of the requirement has changed. As a general guide, if the procurement satisfies at least one of these three conditions, it may be considered a new requirement. However, meeting any one of these conditions is not dispositive that a requirement is new. In particular, the 25 percent rule cannot be applied rigidly in all cases. Conversely, if the requirement satisfies none of these conditions, it is considered a follow-on procurement.
Immediate family member
means father, mother, husband, wife, son, daughter, brother, sister, grandfather, grandmother, grandson, granddaughter, father-in-law, and mother-in-law.
Indian tribe
means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community of Indians, including any ANC, which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians, or is recognized as such by the State in which the tribe, band, nation, group, or community resides.
See
definition of “tribally-owned concern.”
NAICS code
means North American Industry Classification System code.
Native Hawaiian
means any individual whose ancestors were natives, prior to 1778, of the area which now comprises the State of Hawaii.
Native Hawaiian Organization
means any community service organization serving Native Hawaiians in the State
of Hawaii which is a not-for-profit organization chartered by the State of Hawaii, is controlled by Native Hawaiians, and whose business activities will principally benefit such Native Hawaiians.
Negative control
is defined in part 121 of this title.
Non-disadvantaged individual
means any individual who does not claim disadvantaged status, does not qualify as disadvantaged, or upon whose disadvantaged status an applicant or Participant does not rely in qualifying for 8(a) BD program participation.
Participant
means a small business concern admitted to participate in the 8(a) BD program.
Primary industry classification
means the six digit North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code designation which best describes the primary business activity of the 8(a) BD applicant or Participant. The NAICS code designations are described in the North American Industry Classification System book published by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget. SBA utilizes § 121.107 of this chapter in determining a firm's primary industry classification. A Participant may change its primary industry classification where it can demonstrate to SBA by clear evidence that the majority of its total revenues during a three-year period have evolved from one NAICS code to another.
Principal place of business
means the business location where the individuals who manage the concern's day-to-day operations spend most working hours and where top management's business records are kept. If the offices from which management is directed and where the business records are kept are in different locations, SBA will determine the principal place of business for program purposes.
Program year
means a 12-month period of an 8(a) BD Participant's program participation. The first program year begins on the date that the concern is certified to participate in the 8(a) BD program and ends one year later. Each subsequent program year begins on the Participant's anniversary of program certification and runs for one 12-month period.
Regularly maintains an office
means conducting business activities as an on-going business concern from a fixed location on a daily basis. The best evidence of the regular maintenance of an office is documentation that shows that third parties routinely transact business with a Participant at a location within a particular geographical area. Such evidence includes lease agreements, payroll records, advertisements, bills, correspondence, and evidence that the Participant has complied with all local requirements concerning registering, licensing, or filing with the State or County where the place of business is located. Although a firm would generally be required to have a license to do business in a particular location in order to “regularly maintain an office” there, the firm would not be required to have an additional construction license or other specific type of license in order to regularly maintain an office.
Same or similar line of business
means business activities within the same four-digit “Industry Group” of the NAICS Manual as the primary industry classification of the applicant or Participant. The phrase “same business area” is synonymous with this definition.
Self-marketing
of a requirement occurs when a Participant identifies a requirement that has not been committed to the 8(a) BD program and, through its marketing efforts, causes the procuring activity to offer that specific requirement to the 8(a) BD program on the Participant's behalf. A firm which identifies and markets a requirement which is subsequently offered to the 8(a) BD program as an open requirement or on behalf of another Participant has not “self-marketed” the requirement within the meaning of this part.
Tribally-owned concern
means any concern at least 51 percent owned by an Indian tribe as defined in this section.
Unconditional ownership
means ownership that is not subject to conditions precedent, conditions subsequent, executory agreements, voting trusts, restrictions on or assignments of voting rights, or other arrangements causing or potentially causing ownership benefits to go to another (other than after
death or incapacity). The pledge or encumbrance of stock or other ownership interest as collateral, including seller-financed transactions, does not affect the unconditional nature of ownership if the terms follow normal commercial practices and the owner retains control absent violations of the terms.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8253, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 28237, May 14, 2012; 85 FR 66183, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.3 were published at 89 FR 102487, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.4
What restrictions apply to fees for applicant and Participant representatives?
(a) The compensation received by any packager, agent or representative of an 8(a) applicant or Participant for assisting the applicant in obtaining 8(a) certification or for assisting the Participant in obtaining 8(a) contracts, or any other assistance to support program participation, must be reasonable in light of the service(s) performed by the packager, agent or representative.
(b) In assisting a Participant obtain one or more 8(a) contracts, a packager, agent or representative cannot receive a fee that is a percentage of the gross contract value.
(c) For good cause, the AA/BD may initiate proceedings to suspend or revoke a packager's, agent's or representative's privilege to assist applicants obtain 8(a) certification, assist Participants obtain 8(a) contracts, or any other assistance to support program participation. Good cause is defined in § 103.4 of these regulations.
(1) The AA/BD may send a show cause letter requesting the agent or representative to demonstrate why the agent or representative should not be suspended or proposed for revocation, or may immediately send a written notice suspending or proposing revocation, depending upon the evidence in the administrative record. The notice will include a discussion of the relevant facts and the reason(s) why the AA/BD believes that good cause exists.
(2) Unless the AA/BD specifies a different time in the notice, the agent or representative must respond to the notice within 30 days of the date of the notice with any facts or arguments showing why good cause does not exist. The agent or representative may request additional time to respond, which the AA/BD may grant in his or her discretion.
(3) After considering the agent's or representative's response, the AA/BD will issue a final determination, setting forth the reasons for this decision and, if a suspension continues to be effective or a revocation is implemented, the term of the suspension or revocation.
(d) The AA/BD may refer a packager, agent, or other representative to SBA's Suspension and Debarment Official for possible Government-wide suspension or debarment where appropriate, including where it appears that the packager, agent or representative assisted an applicant to or Participant in the 8(a) BD program submit information to SBA that the packager, agent or representative knew was false or materially misleading.
[76 FR 8253, Feb. 11, 2011]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.4 were published at 89 FR 102487, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Eligibility Requirements for Participation in the 8(
a

# ) Business Development Program
§ 124.101
What are the basic requirements a concern must meet for the 8(a) BD program?
Generally, a concern meets the basic requirements for admission to the 8(a) BD program if it is a small business which is unconditionally owned and controlled by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals who are of good character and citizens of and residing in the United States, and which demonstrates potential for success.
[76 FR 8254, Feb. 11, 2011]
§ 124.102
What size business is eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program?
(a)(1) An applicant concern must qualify as a small business concern as defined in part 121 of this title. The applicable size standard is the one for its primary industry classification. The
rules for calculating the size of a tribally-owned concern, a concern owned by an Alaska Native Corporation, a concern owned by a Native Hawaiian Organization, or a concern owned by a Community Development Corporation are additionally affected by §§ 124.109, 124.110, and 124.111, respectively.
(2) In order to remain eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program after certification, a firm must generally remain small for its primary industry classification, as adjusted during the program. SBA may graduate a Participant prior to the expiration of its program term where the firm exceeds the size standard corresponding to its primary NAICS code, as adjusted, for three successive program years, unless the firm demonstrates that through its growth and development its primary industry is changing, pursuant to the criteria described in 13 CFR 121.107, to a related secondary NAICS code that is contained in its most recently approved business plan. The firm's business plan must contain specific targets, objectives, and goals for its continued growth and development under its new primary industry.
(b) If 8(a) BD program officials determine that a concern may not qualify as small, they may deny an application for 8(a) BD program admission or may request a formal size determination under part 121 of this title.
(c) A concern whose application is denied due to size by SBA may request a formal size determination with the SBA Government Contracting Area Office serving the geographic area in which the principal office of the business is located under part 121 of this chapter. Where the SBA Government Contracting Area Office determines that an applicant qualifies as a small business concern for the size standard corresponding to its primary NAICS code:
(1) The AA/BD will certify the concern as eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program if size was the only reason for decline; or
(2) The concern may reapply for participation in the 8(a) BD program at any point after 90 days from the AA/BD's decline if size was not the only reason for decline. In such a case, the AA/BD will accept the size determination as conclusive of the concern's small business status, provided the applicant concern has not completed an additional fiscal year in the intervening period and SBA believes that the additional fiscal year changes the applicant's size.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8254, Feb. 11, 2011; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.102 were published at 89 FR 102487, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.103
Who is socially disadvantaged?
(a)
General.
Socially disadvantaged individuals are those who have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias within American society because of their identities as members of groups and without regard to their individual qualities. The social disadvantage must stem from circumstances beyond their control.
(b)
Members of designated groups.
(1) There is a rebuttable presumption that the following individuals are socially disadvantaged: Black Americans; Hispanic Americans; Native Americans (Alaska Natives, Native Hawaiians, or enrolled members of a Federally or State recognized Indian Tribe); Asian Pacific Americans (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China (including Hong Kong), Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru); Subcontinent Asian Americans (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands or Nepal); and members of other groups designated from time to time by SBA according to procedures set forth at paragraph (d) of this section. Being born in a country does not, by itself, suffice to make the birth country an individual's country of origin for purposes of being included within a designated group.
(2) An individual must demonstrate that he or she has held himself or herself out, and is currently identified by others, as a member of a designated group if SBA requires it.
(3) The presumption of social disadvantage may be overcome with credible evidence to the contrary. Individuals possessing or knowing of such evidence should submit the information in writing to the Associate Administrator for Business Development (AA/BD) for consideration.
(c)
Individuals not members of designated groups.
(1) An individual who is not a member of one of the groups presumed to be socially disadvantaged in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must establish individual social disadvantage by a preponderance of the evidence. Such individual should present corroborating evidence to support his or her claim(s) of social disadvantage where readily available.
(2) Evidence of individual social disadvantage must include the following elements:
(i) At least one objective distinguishing feature that has contributed to social disadvantage, such as race, ethnic origin, gender, identifiable disability, long-term residence in an environment isolated from the mainstream of American society, or other similar causes not common to individuals who are not socially disadvantaged;
(ii) The individual's social disadvantage must be rooted in treatment which he or she has experienced in American society, not in other countries;
(iii) The individual's social disadvantage must be chronic and substantial, not fleeting or insignificant; and
(iv) The individual's social disadvantage must have negatively impacted on his or her entry into or advancement in the business world. SBA will consider any relevant evidence in assessing this element, including experiences relating to education, employment and business history (including experiences relating to both the applicant firm and any other previous firm owned and/or controlled by the individual), where applicable.
(A)
Education.
SBA considers such factors as denial of equal access to institutions of higher education, exclusion from social and professional association with students or teachers, denial of educational honors rightfully earned, and social patterns or pressures which discouraged the individual from pursuing a professional or business education.
(B)
Employment.
SBA considers such factors as unequal treatment in hiring, promotions and other aspects of professional advancement, pay and fringe benefits, and other terms and conditions of employment; retaliatory or discriminatory behavior by an employer; and social patterns or pressures which have channeled the individual into nonprofessional or non-business fields.
(C)
Business history.
SBA considers such factors as unequal access to credit or capital, acquisition of credit or capital under commercially unfavorable circumstances, unequal treatment in opportunities for government contracts or other work, unequal treatment by potential customers and business associates, and exclusion from business or professional organizations.
(3) An individual claiming social disadvantage must present facts and evidence that by themselves establish that the individual has suffered social disadvantage that has negatively impacted his or her entry into or advancement in the business world.
(i) Each instance of alleged discriminatory conduct must be accompanied by a negative impact on the individual's entry into or advancement in the business world in order for it to constitute an instance of social disadvantage.
(ii) SBA may disregard a claim of social disadvantage where a legitimate alternative ground for an adverse employment action or other perceived adverse action exists and the individual has not presented evidence that would render his/her claim any more likely than the alternative ground.

# Example 1 to paragraph (
c

# )(3)(
ii

# ).
A woman who is not a member of a designated group attempts to establish her individual social disadvantage based on gender. She certifies that while working for company X, she received less compensation than her male counterpart. Without additional facts, that claim is insufficient to establish an incident of gender bias that could lead to a finding of social disadvantage. Without additional
facts, it is no more likely that the individual claiming disadvantage was paid less than her male counterpart because he had superior qualifications or because he had greater responsibilities in his employment position. She must identify her qualifications (education, experience, years of employment, supervisory functions) as being equal or superior to that of her male counterpart in order for SBA to consider that particular incident may be the result of discriminatory conduct.

# Example 2 to paragraph (
c

# )(3)(
ii

# ).
A woman who is not a member of a designated group attempts to establish her individual social disadvantage based on gender. She certifies that while working for company Y, she was not permitted to attend a professional development conference, even though male employees were allowed to attend similar conferences in the past. Without additional facts, that claim is insufficient to establish an incident of gender bias that could lead to a finding of social disadvantage. It is no more likely that she was not permitted to attend the conference based on gender bias than based on non-discriminatory reasons. She must identify that she was in the same professional position and level as the male employees who were permitted to attend similar conferences in the past, and she must identify that funding for training or professional development was available at the time she requested to attend the conference.
(iii) SBA may disregard a claim of social disadvantage where an individual presents evidence of discriminatory conduct, but fails to connect the discriminatory conduct to consequences that negatively impact his or her entry into or advancement in the business world.

# Example to paragraph (
c

# )(3)(
iii

# ).
A woman who is not a member of a designated group attempts to establish her individual social disadvantage based on gender. She provides instances where one or more male business clients utter derogatory statements about her because she is a woman. After each instance, however, she acknowledges that the clients gave her contracts or otherwise continued to do business with her. Despite suffering discriminatory conduct, this individual has not established social disadvantage because the discriminatory conduct did not have an adverse effect on her business.
(4) SBA may request an applicant to provide additional facts to support his or her claim of social disadvantage to substantiate that a negative outcome was based on discriminatory conduct instead of one or more legitimate non-discriminatory reasons.
(5) SBA will discount or disbelieve statements made by an individual seeking to establish his or her individual social disadvantage where such statements are inconsistent with other evidence contained in the record.
(6) In determining whether an individual claiming social disadvantage meets the requirements set forth in this paragraph (c), SBA will determine whether:
(i) Each specific claim establishes an incident of bias or discriminatory conduct;
(ii) Each incident of bias or discriminatory conduct negatively impacted the individual's entry into or advancement in the business world; and
(iii) In the totality, the incidents of bias or discriminatory conduct that negatively impacted the individual's entry into or advancement in the business world establish chronic and substantial social disadvantage.
(d)
Socially disadvantaged group inclusion
—(1)
General.
Representatives of an identifiable group whose members believe that the group has suffered chronic racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias may petition SBA to be included as a presumptively socially disadvantaged group under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Upon presentation of substantial evidence that members of the group have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias because of their identity as group members and without regard to their individual qualities, SBA will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
that it has received and is considering such a request, and that it will consider public comments.
(2)
Standards to be applied.
In determining whether a group has made an adequate showing that it has suffered chronic racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural bias for the purposes of this section, SBA must determine that:
(i) The group has suffered prejudice, bias, or discriminatory practices;
(ii) Those conditions have resulted in economic deprivation for the group of the type which Congress has found exists for the groups named in the Small Business Act; and
(iii) Those conditions have produced impediments in the business world for members of the group over which they
have no control and which are not common to small business owners generally.
(3)
Procedure.
The notice published under paragraph (d)(1) of this section will authorize a specified period for the receipt of public comments supporting or opposing the petition for socially disadvantaged group status. If appropriate, SBA may hold hearings. SBA may also conduct its own research relative to the group's petition.
(4)
Decision.
In making a final decision that a group should be considered presumptively disadvantaged, SBA must find that a preponderance of the evidence demonstrates that the group has met the standards set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section based on SBA's consideration of the group petition, the comments from the public, and any independent research it performs. SBA will advise the petitioners of its final decision in writing, and publish its conclusion as a notice in the
Federal Register.
If appropriate, SBA will amend paragraph (b)(1) of this section to include a new group.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8254, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48579, July 25, 2016; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.104
Who is economically disadvantaged?
(a)
General.
Economically disadvantaged individuals are socially disadvantaged individuals whose ability to compete in the free enterprise system has been impaired due to diminished capital and credit opportunities as compared to others in the same or similar line of business who are not socially disadvantaged.
(b)
Submission of narrative and financial information.
(1) Each individual claiming economic disadvantage must submit personal financial information.
(2) When married, an individual claiming economic disadvantage must submit separate financial information for his or her spouse, unless the individual and the spouse are legally separated. SBA will consider a spouse's financial situation in determining an individual's access to credit and capital where the spouse has a role in the business (
e.g.,
an officer, employee or director) or has lent money to, provided credit support to, or guaranteed a loan of the business. SBA does not take into consideration community property laws when determining economic disadvantage.
(c)
Factors to be considered.
In considering diminished capital and credit opportunities, SBA will examine factors relating to the personal financial condition of any individual claiming disadvantaged status, including income for the past three years (including bonuses and the value of company stock received in lieu of cash), personal net worth, and the fair market value of all assets, whether encumbered or not. An individual who exceeds any one of the thresholds set forth in this paragraph for personal income, net worth or total assets will generally be deemed to have access to credit and capital and not economically disadvantaged.
(1)
Transfers within two years.
(i) Except as set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, SBA will attribute to an individual claiming disadvantaged status any assets which that individual has transferred to an immediate family member, or to a trust a beneficiary of which is an immediate family member, for less than fair market value, within two years prior to a concern's application for participation in the 8(a) BD program or within two years of a Participant's annual program review, unless the individual claiming disadvantaged status can demonstrate that the transfer is to or on behalf of an immediate family member for that individual's education, medical expenses, or some other form of essential support.
(ii) SBA will not attribute to an individual claiming disadvantaged status any assets transferred by that individual to an immediate family member that are consistent with the customary recognition of special occasions, such as birthdays, graduations, anniversaries, and retirements.
(iii) In determining an individual's access to capital and credit, SBA may consider any assets that the individual transferred within such two-year period described by paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section that SBA does not consider in evaluating the individual's assets and net worth (e.g., transfers to charities).
(2)
Net worth.
The net worth of an individual claiming disadvantage must be less than $850,000. In determining such net worth, SBA will exclude the ownership interest in the applicant or Participant and the equity in the primary personal residence (except any portion of such equity which is attributable to excessive withdrawals from the applicant or Participant). Exclusions for net worth purposes are not exclusions for asset valuation or access to capital and credit purposes.
(i) A contingent liability does not reduce an individual's net worth.
(ii) Funds invested in an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) or other official retirement account will not be considered in determining an individual's net worth. In order to properly assess whether funds invested in a retirement account may be excluded from an individual's net worth, SBA may require the individual to provide information about the terms and restrictions of the account to SBA and certify that the retirement account is legitimate.
(iii) The personal net worth of an individual claiming to be an Alaska Native will include assets and income from sources other than an Alaska Native Corporation and exclude any of the following which the individual receives from any Alaska Native Corporation: cash (including cash dividends on stock received from an ANC) to the extent that it does not, in the aggregate, exceed $2,000 per individual per annum; stock (including stock issued or distributed by an ANC as a dividend or distribution on stock); a partnership interest; land or an interest in land (including land or an interest in land received from an ANC as a dividend or distribution on stock); and an interest in a settlement trust.
(3)
Personal income for the past three years.
(i) SBA will presume that an individual is not economically disadvantaged if his or her adjusted gross income averaged over the three preceding years exceeds $400,000. The presumption may be rebutted by a showing that this income level was unusual and not likely to occur in the future, that losses commensurate with and directly related to the earnings were suffered, or by evidence that the income is not indicative of lack of economic disadvantage.
(ii) Income received from an applicant or Participant that is an S corporation, LLC or partnership will be excluded from an individual's income where the applicant or Participant provides documentary evidence demonstrating that the income was reinvested in the firm or used to pay taxes arising in the normal course of operations of the firm. Losses from the S corporation, LLC or partnership, however, are losses to the company only, not losses to the individual, and cannot be used to reduce an individual's personal income.
(4)
Fair market value of all assets.
An individual will generally not be considered economically disadvantaged if the fair market value of all his or her assets (including his or her primary residence and the value of the applicant/Participant firm) exceeds $6.5 million. The only assets excluded from this determination are funds excluded under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section as being invested in a qualified IRA account.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8254, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48580, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 27660, May 11, 2020; 87 FR 69154, Nov. 17, 2022; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.105
What does it mean to be unconditionally owned by one or more disadvantaged individuals?
An applicant or Participant must be at least 51 percent unconditionally and directly owned by one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals who are citizens of the United States, except for concerns owned by Indian tribes, Alaska Native Corporations, Native Hawaiian Organizations, or Community Development Corporations (CDCs).
See
§ 124.3 for definition of unconditional ownership; and §§ 124.109, 124.110, and 124.111, respectively, for special ownership requirements for concerns owned by Indian tribes, ANCs, Native Hawaiian Organizations, and CDCs.
(a)
Ownership must be direct.
Ownership by one or more disadvantaged individuals must be direct ownership. An applicant or Participant owned principally by another business entity or by a trust (including employee stock
ownership trusts) that is in turn owned and controlled by one or more disadvantaged individuals does not meet this requirement. However, ownership by a trust, such as a living trust, may be treated as the functional equivalent of ownership by a disadvantaged individual where the trust is revocable, and the disadvantaged individual is the grantor, a trustee, and the sole current beneficiary of the trust.
(b)
Ownership of a partnership.
In the case of a concern which is a partnership, at least 51 percent of every class of partnership interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more individuals determined by SBA to be socially and economically disadvantaged. The ownership must be reflected in the concern's partnership agreement.
(c)
Ownership of a limited liability company.
In the case of a concern which is a limited liability company, at least 51 percent of each class of member interest must be unconditionally owned by one or more individuals determined by SBA to be socially and economically disadvantaged.
(d)
Ownership of a corporation.
In the case of a concern which is a corporation, at least 51 percent of each class of voting stock outstanding and 51 percent of the aggregate of all stock outstanding must be unconditionally owned by one or more individuals determined by SBA to be socially and economically disadvantaged.
(e)
Stock options' effect on ownership.
In determining unconditional ownership, SBA will disregard any unexercised stock options or similar agreements held by disadvantaged individuals. However, any unexercised stock options or similar agreements (including rights to convert non-voting stock or debentures into voting stock) held by non-disadvantaged individuals will be treated as exercised, except for any ownership interests which are held by investment companies licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
(f)
Dividends and distributions.
One or more disadvantaged individuals must be entitled to receive:
(1) At least 51 percent of the annual distribution of dividends paid on the stock of a corporate applicant concern;
(2) 100 percent of the value of each share of stock owned by them in the event that the stock is sold; and
(3) At least 51 percent of the retained earnings of the concern and 100 percent of the unencumbered value of each share of stock owned in the event of dissolution of the corporation.
(g)
Ownership of another current or former Participant by an immediate family member.
(1) An individual may not use his or her disadvantaged status to qualify a concern if that individual has an immediate family member who is using or has used his or her disadvantaged status to qualify another concern for the 8(a) BD program and any of the following circumstances exist:
(i) The concerns are connected by any common ownership or management, regardless of amount or position;
(ii) The concerns have a contractual relationship that was not conducted at arm's length;
(iii) The concerns share common facilities; or
(iv) The concerns operate in the same primary NAICS code and the individual seeking to qualify the applicant concern does not have management or technical experience in that primary NAICS code.

# Example 1 to paragraph (g)(1).
X applies to the 8(a) BD program. X is 95% owned by A and 5% by B, A's father and the majority owner in a former 8(a) Participant. Even though B has no involvement in X, X would be ineligible for the program.

# Example 2 to paragraph (g)(1).
Y applies to the 8(a) BD program. C owns 100% of Y. However, D, C's sister and the majority owner in a former 8(a) Participant, is acting as a Vice President in Y. Y would be ineligible for the program.

# Example 3 to paragraph (g)(1).
X seeks to apply to the 8(a) BD program with a primary NAICS code in plumbing. X is 100% owned by A. Z, a former 8(a) participant with a primary industry in general construction, is owned 100% by B, A's brother. For general construction jobs, Z has subcontracted plumbing work to X in the past at normal commercial rates. Subcontracting work at normal commercial rates would not preclude X from being admitted to the 8(a) BD program. X would be eligible for the program.
(2) If the AA/BD approves an application under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, SBA will, as part of its annual review, assess whether the firm continues to operate independently of the
other current or former 8(a) concern of an immediate family member. SBA may initiate proceedings to terminate a firm from further participation in the 8(a) BD program if it is apparent that there are connections between the two firms that were not disclosed to the AA/BD at the time of application or that came into existence after program admittance.
(h)
Ownership restrictions for non-disadvantaged individuals and concerns.
(1) A non-disadvantaged individual (in the aggregate with all immediate family members) or a non-Participant concern that is a general partner or stockholder with at least a 10 percent ownership interest in one Participant may not own more than a 10 percent interest in another Participant that is in the developmental stage or more than a 20 percent interest in another Participant in the transitional stage of the program. This restriction does not apply to financial institutions licensed or chartered by Federal, state or local government, including investment companies which are licensed under the Small Business Investment Act of 1958.
(2) A non-Participant concern in the same or similar line of business or a principal of such concern may generally not own more than a 10 percent interest in a Participant that is in the developmental stage or more than a 20 percent interest in a Participant in the transitional stage of the program, except that:
(i) A former Participant in the same or similar line of business or a principal of such a former Participant (except those that have been terminated from 8(a) BD program participation pursuant to §§ 124.303 and 124.304) may have an equity ownership interest of up to 20 percent in a current Participant in the developmental stage of the program or up to 30 percent in a transitional stage Participant; and
(ii) A business concern approved by SBA to be a mentor pursuant to § 125.9 of this chapter may own up to 40 percent of its 8(a) Participant protégé as set forth in § 125.9(d)(2) of this chapter, whether or not that concern is in the same or similar line of business as the Participant.
(i)
Change of ownership.
A Participant may change its ownership or business structure so long as one or more disadvantaged individuals own and control it after the change and SBA approves the transaction in writing prior to the change. The decision to approve or deny a Participant's request for a change in ownership or business structure will be made and communicated to the firm by the AA/BD. The decision of the AA/BD is the final decision of the Agency. The AA/BD will issue a decision within 60 days from receipt of a request containing all necessary documentation, or as soon thereafter as possible. If 60 days lapse without a decision from SBA, the Participant cannot presume that it can complete the change without written approval from SBA. A decision to deny a request for change of ownership or business structure may be grounds for program termination where the change is made nevertheless.
(1) Any Participant or former Participant that is performing one or more 8(a) contracts may substitute one disadvantaged individual or entity for another disadvantaged individual or entity without requiring the termination of those contracts or a request for waiver under § 124.515, as long as it receives SBA's approval prior to the change.
(2) Prior approval by the AA/BD is not needed where all non-disadvantaged individual (or entity) owners involved in the change of ownership own no more than a 20 percent interest in the concern both before and after the transaction, the transfer results from the death or incapacity due to a serious, long-term illness or injury of a disadvantaged principal, or the disadvantaged individual or entity in control of the Participant will increase the percentage of its ownership interest. In determining whether a non-disadvantaged individual involved in a change of ownership has more than a 20 percent interest in the concern, SBA will aggregate the interests of all immediate family members as set forth in § 124.3, as well as any individuals who are affiliated based on an identity of interest under § 121.103(f). The concern must notify SBA within 60 days of such a change in ownership.

# Example 1 to paragraph (i)(2).
Disadvantaged individual A owns 90% of 8(a) Participant X;
non-disadvantaged individual B owns 10% of X. In order to raise additional capital, X seeks to change its ownership structure such that A would own 80%, B would own 10% and C would own 10%. X can accomplish this change in ownership without prior SBA approval. Non-disadvantaged owner B is not involved in the transaction and non-disadvantaged individual C owns less than 20% of X both before and after the transaction.

# Example 2 to paragraph (i)(2).
Disadvantaged individual C owns 60% of 8(a) Participant Y; non-disadvantaged individual D owns 30% of Y; and non-disadvantaged individual E owns 10% of Y. C seeks to transfer 5% of Y to E. Prior SBA approval is not needed. Although non-disadvantaged individual D owns more than 20% of Y, D is not involved in the transfer. Because the only non-disadvantaged individual involved in the transfer, E, owns less than 20% of Y both before and after the transaction, prior approval is not needed.

# Example 3 to paragraph (i)(2).
Disadvantaged individual A owns 85% of 8(a) Participant X; non-disadvantaged individual B owns 15% of X. A seeks to transfer 15% of X to B. Prior SBA approval is needed. Although B, the non-disadvantaged owner of X, owns less than
2
0% of X prior to the transaction, prior approval is needed because B would own more than 20% after the transaction.

# Example 4 to paragraph (i)(2).
ANC A owns 60% of 8(a) Participant X; non-disadvantaged individual B owns 40% of X. B seeks to transfer 15% to A. Prior SBA approval is not needed. Although a non-disadvantaged individual who is involved in the transaction, B, owns more than 20% of X both before and after the transaction, SBA approval is not needed because the change only increases the percentage of A's ownership interest in X.
(3) Continued participation of the Participant with new ownership and the award of any new 8(a) contracts requires SBA's determination that all eligibility requirements are met by the concern and the new owners.
(4) Where a Participant requests a change of ownership or business structure, and proceeds with the change prior to receiving SBA approval (or where a change of ownership results from the death or incapacity of a disadvantaged individual for which a request prior to the change in ownership could not occur), SBA may suspend the Participant from program benefits pending resolution of the request. If the change is approved, the length of the suspension will be restored to the Participant's program term in the case of death or incapacity, or if the firm requested prior approval and waited 60 days for SBA approval.
(5) A change in ownership does not provide the new owner(s) with a new 8(a) BD program term. For example, if a concern has been in the 8(a) BD program for five years when a change in ownership occurs, the new owner will have four years remaining until program graduation.
(j)
Public offering.
A Participant's request for SBA's approval for the issuance of a public offering will be treated as a request for a change of ownership. Such request will cause SBA to examine the concern's continued need for access to the business development resources of the 8(a) BD program.
(k)
Community property laws given effect.
In determining ownership interests when an owner resides in any of the community property states or territories of the United States (Arizona, California, Idaho, Louisiana, Nevada, New Mexico, Puerto Rico, Texas, Washington and Wisconsin), SBA considers applicable state community property laws. If only one spouse claims disadvantaged status, that spouse's ownership interest will be considered unconditionally held only to the extent it is vested by the community property laws. A transfer or relinquishment of interest by the non-disadvantaged spouse may be necessary in some cases to establish eligibility.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8255, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48580, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66183, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.105 were published at 89 FR 102487, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.106
When do disadvantaged individuals control an applicant or Participant?
Control is not the same as ownership, although both may reside in the same person. SBA regards control as including both the strategic policy setting exercised by boards of directors and the day-to-day management and administration of business operations. An applicant or Participant's management and daily business operations must be conducted by one or more disadvantaged individuals, except for concerns
owned by Indian tribes, ANCs, Native Hawaiian Organizations, or Community Development Corporations (CDCs). (
See
§§ 124.109, 124.110, and 124.111, respectively, for the requirements for concerns owned by Indian tribes or ANCs, for concerns owned by Native Hawaiian Organizations, and for CDC-owned concerns.) Management experience need not be related to the same or similar industry as the primary industry classification of the applicant or Participant. Disadvantaged individuals managing the concern must have managerial experience of the extent and complexity needed to run the concern. A disadvantaged individual need not have the technical expertise or possess a required license to be found to control an applicant or Participant if he or she can demonstrate that he or she has ultimate managerial and supervisory control over those who possess the required licenses or technical expertise. However, where a critical license is held by a non-disadvantaged individual having an equity interest in the applicant or Participant firm, the non-disadvantaged individual may be found to control the firm.
(a)(1) An applicant or Participant must be managed on a full-time basis by one or more disadvantaged individuals who possess requisite management capabilities.
(2) A disadvantaged full-time manager must hold the highest officer position (usually President or Chief Executive Officer) in the applicant or Participant and be physically located in the United States.
(3) One or more disadvantaged individuals who manage the applicant or Participant must devote full-time to the business during the normal working hours of firms in the same or similar line of business. Work in a wholly-owned subsidiary of the applicant or participant may be considered to meet the requirement of full-time devotion. This applies only to a subsidiary owned by the 8(a) firm, and not to firms in which the disadvantaged individual has an ownership interest.
(4) Any disadvantaged manager who wishes to engage in outside employment must notify SBA of the nature and anticipated duration of the outside employment and obtain the prior written approval of SBA. SBA will deny a request for outside employment which could conflict with the management of the firm or could hinder it in achieving the objectives of its business development plan.
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, a disadvantaged owner's unexercised right to cause a change in the control or management of the applicant concern does not in itself constitute disadvantaged control and management, regardless of how quickly or easily the right could be exercised.
(b) In the case of a partnership, one or more disadvantaged individuals must serve as general partners, with control over all partnership decisions. A partnership in which no disadvantaged individual is a general partner will be ineligible for participation.
(c) In the case of a limited liability company, one or more disadvantaged individuals must serve as management members, with control over all decisions of the limited liability company.
(d) One or more disadvantaged individuals must control the Board of Directors of a corporate applicant or Participant.
(1) SBA will deem disadvantaged individuals to control the Board of Directors where:
(i) A single disadvantaged individual owns 100% of all voting stock of an applicant or Participant concern;
(ii) A single disadvantaged individual owns at least 51% of all voting stock of an applicant or Participant concern, the individual is on the Board of Directors and no super majority voting requirements exist for shareholders to approve corporation actions. Where super majority voting requirements are provided for in the concern's articles of incorporation, its by-laws, or by state law, the disadvantaged individual must own at least the percent of the voting stock needed to overcome any such super majority voting requirements; or
(iii) More than one disadvantaged shareholder seeks to qualify the concern (i.e., no one individual owns 51%), each such individual is on the Board of Directors, together they own at least 51% of all voting stock of the concern, no super majority voting requirements
exist, and the disadvantaged shareholders can demonstrate that they have made enforceable arrangements to permit one of them to vote the stock of all as a block without a shareholder meeting. Where the concern has super majority voting requirements, the disadvantaged shareholders must own at least that percentage of voting stock needed to overcome any such super majority ownership requirements.
(2) Where an applicant or Participant does not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the disadvantaged individual(s) upon whom eligibility is based must control the Board of Directors through actual numbers of voting directors or, where permitted by state law, through weighted voting (e.g., in a concern having a two-person Board of Directors where one individual on the Board is disadvantaged and one is not, the disadvantaged vote must be weighted—worth more than one vote—in order for the concern to be eligible for 8(a) participation). Where a concern seeks to comply with this paragraph:
(i) Provisions for the establishment of a quorum cannot permit non-disadvantaged Directors to control the Board of Directors, directly or indirectly;
(ii) Any Executive Committee of Directors must be controlled by disadvantaged directors unless the Executive Committee can only make recommendations to and cannot independently exercise the authority of the Board of Directors.
(3) An applicant must inform SBA of any super majority voting requirements provided for in its articles of incorporation, its by-laws, by state law, or otherwise. Similarly, after being admitted to the program, a Participant must inform SBA of changes regarding super majority voting requirements.
(4) Non-voting, advisory, or honorary Directors may be appointed without affecting disadvantaged individuals' control of the Board of Directors.
(5) Arrangements regarding the structure and voting rights of the Board of Directors must comply with applicable state law.
(e) Non-disadvantaged individuals may be involved in the management of an applicant or Participant, and may be stockholders, partners, limited liability members, officers, and/or directors of the applicant or Participant. However, no non-disadvantaged individual or immediate family member may:
(1) Exercise actual control or have the power to control the applicant or Participant;
(2) Be a former employer or a principal of a former employer of any disadvantaged owner of the applicant or Participant, unless it is determined by the AA/BD that the relationship between the former employer or principal and the disadvantaged individual or applicant concern does not give the former employer actual control or the potential to control the applicant or Participant and such relationship is in the best interests of the 8(a) BD firm; or
(3) Receive compensation from the applicant or Participant in any form as directors, officers or employees, including dividends, that exceeds the compensation to be received by the highest officer (usually CEO or President). The highest ranking officer may elect to take a lower salary than a non-disadvantaged individual only upon demonstrating that it helps the applicant or Participant. In the case of a Participant, the Participant must also obtain the prior written consent of the AA/BD or designee before changing the compensation paid to the highest ranking officer to be below that paid to a non-disadvantaged individual.
(f) Non-disadvantaged individuals who transfer majority stock ownership or control of the firm to an immediate family member within two years prior to the application and remain involved in the firm as a stockholder, officer, director, or key employee of the firm are presumed to control the firm. The presumption may be rebutted by showing that the transferee has independent management experience necessary to control the operation of the firm.
(g) Non-disadvantaged individuals or entities may be found to control or have the power to control in any of the following circumstances, which are illustrative only and not all inclusive:
(1) In circumstances where an applicant or Participant seeks to establish disadvantaged control of the Board of
Directors through paragraph (d)(2) of this section, non-disadvantaged individuals control the Board of Directors of the applicant or Participant, either directly through majority voting membership, or indirectly, where the by-laws allow non-disadvantaged individuals effectively to prevent a quorum or block actions proposed by the disadvantaged individuals.
(2) A non-disadvantaged individual or entity, having an equity interest in the applicant or participant, provides critical financial or bonding support or a critical license to the applicant or Participant which directly or indirectly allows the non-disadvantaged individual significantly to influence business decisions of the Participant.
(3) A non-disadvantaged individual or entity controls the applicant or Participant or an individual disadvantaged owner through loan arrangements. Providing a loan guaranty on commercially reasonable terms does not, by itself, give a non-disadvantaged individual or entity the power to control a firm.
(4) Business relationships exist with non-disadvantaged individuals or entities which cause such dependence that the applicant or Participant cannot exercise independent business judgment without great economic risk.
(h) Notwithstanding the provisions of this section requiring a disadvantaged owner to control the daily business operations and long-term strategic planning of an 8(a) BD Participant, where a disadvantaged individual upon whom eligibility is based is a reserve component member in the United States military who has been called to active duty, the Participant may elect to designate one or more individuals to control the Participant on behalf of the disadvantaged individual during the active duty call-up period. If such an election is made, the Participant will continue to be treated as an eligible 8(a) Participant and no additional time will be added to its program term. Alternatively, the Participant may elect to suspend its 8(a) BD participation during the active duty call-up period pursuant to §§ 124.305(h)(1)(ii) and 124.305(h)(4).
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8255, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48580, July 25, 2016]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.106 were published at 89 FR 96092, Dec. 4, 2024, effective Jan. 3, 2025, and at 89 FR 102488, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.107
What is potential for success?
SBA must determine that with contract, financial, technical, and management support from the 8(a) BD program, the applicant concern is able to perform 8(a) contracts and possess reasonable prospects for success in competing in the private sector. To do so, the applicant concern must show that it has operated and received contracts (either in the private sector, at the state or local government level, or with the Federal Government) in its primary industry classification for at least two full years immediately prior to the date of its 8(a) BD application, unless a waiver for this requirement is granted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.
(a) Income tax returns for each of the two previous tax years must show operating revenues in the primary industry in which the applicant is seeking 8(a) BD certification.
(b)(1) SBA may waive the two years in business requirement if each of the following five conditions are met:
(i) The individual or individuals upon whom eligibility is based have substantial business management experience;
(ii) The applicant has demonstrated technical experience to carry out its business plan with a substantial likelihood for success if admitted to the 8(a) BD program;
(iii) The applicant has adequate capital to sustain its operations and carry out its business plan as a Participant;
(iv) The applicant has a record of successful performance on contracts from governmental or nongovernmental sources in its primary industry category; and
(v) The applicant has, or can demonstrate its ability to timely obtain, the personnel, facilities, equipment, and any other requirements needed to perform contracts as a Participant.
(2) The concern seeking a waiver under paragraph (b) must provide information on governmental and nongovernmental contracts in progress and completed (including letters of reference) in order to establish successful contract performance, and must demonstrate how it otherwise meets the five conditions for waiver. SBA considers an applicant's performance on both government and private sector contracts in determining whether the firm has an overall successful performance record. If, however, the applicant has performed only government contracts or only private sector contracts, SBA will review its performance on those contracts alone to determine whether the applicant possesses a record of successful performance.
(c) In assessing potential for success, SBA considers the concern's access to credit and capital, including, but not limited to, access to long-term financing, access to working capital financing, equipment trade credit, access to raw materials and supplier trade credit, and bonding capability.
(d) In assessing potential for success, SBA will also consider the technical and managerial experience of the applicant concern's managers, the operating history of the concern, the concern's record of performance on previous Federal and private sector contracts in the primary industry in which the concern is seeking 8(a) BD certification, and its financial capacity. The applicant concern as a whole must demonstrate both technical knowledge in its primary industry category and management experience sufficient to run its day-to-day operations.
(e) The Participant or individuals employed by the Participant must hold all requisite licenses if the concern is engaged in an industry requiring professional licensing (e.g., public accountancy, law, professional engineering).
(f) An applicant will not be denied admission into the 8(a) BD program due solely to a determination that potential 8(a) contract opportunities are unavailable to assist in the development of the concern unless:
(1) The Government has not previously procured and is unlikely to procure the types of products or services offered by the concern; or
(2) The purchase of such products or services by the Federal Government will not be in quantities sufficient to support the developmental needs of the applicant and other Participants providing the same or similar items or services.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.107 were published at 89 FR 102488, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.108
What other eligibility requirements apply for individuals or businesses?
(a)
Good character.
The applicant or Participant and all its principals must have good character.
(1) If during the processing of an application, SBA receives adverse information from the applicant or a credible source regarding possible criminal conduct by the applicant or any of its principals, SBA may suspend further processing of the application and refer it to SBA's Office of Inspector General (OIG) for review. If the SBA suspends the application, but does not hear back from OIG within 45 days, SBA may proceed with application processing. The AA/BD will consider any findings of the OIG when evaluating the application.
(2) Violations of any of SBA's regulations may result in denial of participation in the 8(a) BD program. The AA/BD will consider the nature and severity of the violation in making an eligibility determination.
(3) Debarred or suspended concerns or concerns owned by debarred or suspended persons are ineligible for admission to the 8(a) BD program.
(4) An applicant is ineligible for admission to the 8(a) BD program if the applicant concern or a proprietor, partner, limited liability member, director, officer, or holder of at least 20 percent of its stock, or another person (including key employees) with significant authority over the concern:
(i) Lacks business integrity as demonstrated by information related to an indictment or guilty plea, conviction, civil judgment, or settlement; or
(ii) Is currently incarcerated, or on parole or probation pursuant to a pre-
trial diversion or following conviction for a felony or any crime involving business integrity.
(5) If, during the processing of an application, SBA determines that an applicant has knowingly submitted false information, regardless of whether correct information would cause SBA to deny the application, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents, SBA will deny the application. If, after admission to the program, SBA discovers that false information has been knowingly submitted by a firm, SBA will initiate termination proceedings and suspend the firm under §§ 124.304 and 124.305. Whenever SBA determines that the applicant submitted false information, the matter will be referred to SBA's Office of Inspector General for review.
(b)
One-time eligibility.
Once a concern or disadvantaged individual upon whom eligibility was based has participated in the 8(a) BD program, neither the concern nor that individual will be eligible again.
(1) An individual who claims disadvantage and completes the appropriate SBA forms to qualify an applicant has participated in the 8(a) BD program if SBA approves the application.
(2) Use of eligibility will take effect on the date of the concern's approval for admission into the program.
(3) An individual who uses his or her one-time eligibility to qualify a concern for the 8(a) BD program will be considered a non-disadvantaged individual for ownership or control purposes of another applicant or Participant. The criteria restricting participation by non-disadvantaged individuals will apply to such an individual.
See
§§ 124.105 and 124.106.
(4) When at least 50% of the assets of a concern are the same as those of a former Participant, the concern will not be eligible for entry into the program.
(5) Participants which change their form of business organization and transfer their assets and liabilities to the new organization may do so without affecting the eligibility of the new organization provided the previous business is dissolved and all other eligibility criteria are met. In such a case, the new organization may complete the remaining program term of the previous organization. A request for a change in business form will be treated as a change of ownership under § 124.105(i).
(c)
Wholesalers.
An applicant concern seeking admission to the 8(a) BD program as a wholesaler need not demonstrate that it is capable of meeting the requirements of the nonmanufacturer rule for its primary industry classification.
(d)
Brokers.
Brokers are ineligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program. A broker is a concern that adds no material value to an item being supplied to a procuring activity or which does not take ownership or possession of or handle the item being procured with its own equipment or facilities.
(e)
Federal financial obligations.
Neither a firm nor any of its principals that fails to pay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government, including unresolved tax liens and defaults on Federal loans or other Federally assisted financing, is eligible for admission to or participation in the 8(a) BD program. However, a firm will not be ineligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program if the firm or the affected principals can demonstrate that the financial obligations owed have been settled and discharged/forgiven by the Federal Government.
[63 FR 35739, 35772, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8255, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48580, July 25, 2016; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.108 were published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.109
Do Indian tribes and Alaska Native Corporations have any special rules for applying to and remaining eligible for the 8(a) BD program?
(a)
Special rules for ANCs.
Small business concerns owned and controlled by ANCs are eligible for participation in the 8(a) program and must meet the eligibility criteria set forth in § 124.112 to the extent the criteria are not inconsistent with this section. ANC-owned concerns are subject to the same conditions that apply to tribally-owned
concerns, as described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, except that the following provisions and exceptions apply only to ANC-owned concerns:
(1) Alaska Natives and descendants of Natives must own a majority of both the total equity of the ANC and the total voting powers to elect directors of the ANC through their holdings of settlement common stock. Settlement common stock means stock of an ANC issued pursuant to 43 U.S.C. 1606(g)(1), which is subject to the rights and restrictions listed in 43 U.S.C. 1606(h)(1).
(2) An ANC that meets the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section is deemed economically disadvantaged under 43 U.S.C. 1626(e), and need not establish economic disadvantage as required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(3) Even though an ANC can be either for profit or non-profit, a small business concern owned and controlled by an ANC must be for profit to be eligible for the 8(a) program. The concern will be deemed owned and controlled by the ANC where both the majority of stock or other ownership interest and total voting power are held by the ANC and holders of its settlement common stock.
(4) The Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act provides that a concern which is majority owned by an ANC shall be deemed to be both owned and controlled by Alaska Natives and an economically disadvantaged business. Therefore, an individual responsible for control and management of an ANC-owned applicant or Participant need not establish personal social and economic disadvantage.
(5) Paragraphs (b)(3)(i), (ii) and (iv) of this section are not applicable to an ANC, provided its status as an ANC is clearly shown in its articles of incorporation.
(6) Paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not applicable to an ANC-owned concern to the extent it requires an express waiver of sovereign immunity or a “sue and be sued” clause.
(7) Notwithstanding § 124.105(i), where an ANC merely reorganizes its ownership of a Participant in the 8(a) BD program by inserting or removing a wholly-owned business entity between the ANC and the Participant, the Participant need not request a change of ownership from SBA. The Participant must, however, notify SBA of the change within 60 days of the transfer.
(b)
Tribal eligibility.
In order to qualify a concern which it owns and controls for participation in the 8(a) BD program, an Indian Tribe must establish its own economic disadvantaged status under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Once an Indian Tribe establishes that it is economically disadvantaged in connection with the application for one Tribally-owned firm, it need not reestablish such status in order to have other businesses that it owns certified for 8(a) BD program participation, unless specifically requested to do so by the AA/BD. An Indian Tribe may request to meet with SBA prior to submitting an application for 8(a) BD participation for its first applicant firm to better understand what SBA requires for it to establish economic disadvantage. Each Tribally-owned concern seeking to be certified for 8(a) BD participation must comply with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
(1)
Social disadvantage.
An Indian tribe as defined in § 124.3 is considered to be socially disadvantaged.
(2)
Economic disadvantage.
In order to be eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program, the Indian tribe must demonstrate to SBA that the tribe itself is economically disadvantaged. This must involve the consideration of available data showing the tribe's economic condition, including but not limited to, the following information:
(i) The number of tribal members.
(ii) The present tribal unemployment rate.
(iii) The per capita income of tribal members, excluding judgment awards.
(iv) The percentage of the local Indian population below the poverty level.
(v) The tribe's access to capital.
(vi) The tribal assets as disclosed in a current tribal financial statement. The statement must list all assets including those which are encumbered or held in trust, but the status of those encumbered or in trust must be clearly delineated.
(vii) A list of all wholly or partially owned tribal enterprises or affiliates
and the primary industry classification of each. The list must also specify the members of the tribe who manage or control such enterprises by serving as officers or directors.
(3)
Forms and documents required to be submitted.
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the Indian tribe generally must submit the forms and documents required of 8(a) BD applicants as well as the following material:
(i) A copy of all governing documents such as the tribe's constitution or business charter.
(ii) Evidence of its recognition as a tribe eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States or by its state of residence.
(iii) Copies of its articles of incorporation and bylaws as filed with the organizing or chartering authority, or similar documents needed to establish and govern a non-corporate legal entity.
(iv) Documents or materials needed to show the tribe's economically disadvantaged status as described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(c)
Business eligibility.
In order to be eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program, a concern which is owned by an eligible Indian tribe (or wholly owned business entities of such tribe) must meet the conditions set forth in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(7) of this section.
(1)
Legal business entity organized for profit and susceptible to suit.
The applicant or participating concern must be a separate and distinct legal entity organized or chartered by the tribe, or Federal or state authorities. Where an applicant or participating concern is owned by a federally recognized tribe, the concern's articles of incorporation, partnership agreement, limited liability company articles of organization, or other similar incorporating documents for tribally incorporated applicants must contain express sovereign immunity waiver language, or a “sue and be sued” clause which designates United States Federal Courts to be among the courts of competent jurisdiction for all matters relating to SBA's programs including, but not limited to, 8(a) BD program participation, loans, and contract performance. Also, the concern must be organized for profit, and the tribe must possess economic development powers in the tribe's governing documents.
(2)
Size.
(i) A tribally-owned applicant concern must qualify as a small business concern as defined for purposes of Federal Government procurement in part 121 of this title. The particular size standard to be applied is based on the primary industry classification of the applicant concern.
(ii) A tribally-owned Participant must certify to SBA that it is a small business pursuant to the provisions of part 121 of this title for the purpose of performing each individual contract which it is awarded.
(iii) In determining the size of a small business concern owned by a socially and economically disadvantaged Indian tribe (or a wholly owned business entity of such tribe) for either 8(a) BD program entry or contract award, the firm's size shall be determined independently without regard to its affiliation with the tribe, any entity of the tribal government, or any other business enterprise owned by the tribe, unless the Administrator determines that one or more such tribally-owned business concerns have obtained, or are likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category.
(iv) In determining whether a tribally-owned concern has obtained, or is likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category, SBA will examine the firm's participation in the relevant six digit NAICS code nationally as compared to the overall small business share of that industry.
(A) SBA will consider the firm's percentage share of the national market and other relevant factors to determine whether the firm is dominant in a specific six-digit NAICS code with a particular size standard.
(B) SBA does not contemplate a finding of affiliation where a tribally-owned concern appears to have obtained an unfair competitive advantage in a local market, but remains competitive, but not dominant, on a national basis.
(3)
Ownership.
(i) For corporate entities, a Tribe must unconditionally own at least 51 percent of the voting stock
and at least 51 percent of the aggregate of all classes of stock. For non-corporate entities, a Tribe must unconditionally own at least a 51 percent interest.
(ii) A Tribe may not own 51% or more of another firm which, either at the time of application or within the previous two years, has been operating in the 8(a) program under the same primary NAICS code as the applicant. For purposes of this paragraph, the same primary NAICS code means the six-digit NAICS code having the same corresponding size standard. A Tribe may, however, own a Participant or other applicant that conducts or will conduct secondary business in the 8(a) BD program under the NAICS code which is the primary NAICS code of the applicant concern.
(A) Once an applicant is admitted to the 8(a) BD program, it may not receive an 8(a) sole source contract that is a follow-on contract to an 8(a) contract that was performed immediately previously by another Participant (or former Participant) owned by the same Tribe. However, a tribally-owned concern may receive a follow-on sole source 8(a) contract to a requirement that it performed through the 8(a) program (either as a competitive or sole source contract).
(B) If the primary NAICS code of a tribally-owned Participant is changed pursuant to § 124.112(e), the tribe can submit an application and qualify another firm owned by the tribe for participation in the 8(a) BD program under the NAICS code that was the previous primary NAICS code of the Participant whose primary NAICS code was changed.

# Example 1 to paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B).
Tribe X owns 100% of 8(a) Participant A. A entered the 8(a) BD program with a primary NAICS code of 236115, New Single-Family Housing Construction (except For-Sale Builders). After four years in the program, SBA noticed that the vast majority of A's revenues were in NAICS Code 237310, Highway, Street, and Bridge Construction, and notified A that SBA intended to change its primary NAICS code pursuant to § 124.112(e). A agreed to change its primary NAICS Code to 237310. Once the change is finalized, Tribe X can immediately submit a new application to qualify another firm that it owns for participation in the 8(a) BD program with a primary NAICS Code of 236115.
(iii) The restrictions of § 124.105(h) do not apply to tribes; they do, however, apply to non disadvantaged individuals or other business concerns that are partial owners of a tribally-owned concern.
(iv) Notwithstanding § 124.105(i), where a Tribe merely reorganizes its ownership of a Participant in the 8(a) BD program by inserting or removing a wholly-owned business entity between the Tribe and the Participant, the Participant need not request a change of ownership from SBA. The Participant must, however, notify SBA of the change within 30 days of the transfer.
(4)
Control and management.
(i) The management and daily business operations of a Tribally-owned concern must be controlled by the Tribe. The Tribally-owned concern may be controlled by the Tribe through one or more individuals who possess sufficient management experience of an extent and complexity needed to run the concern, or through management as follows:
(A) Management may be provided by committees, teams, or Boards of Directors which are controlled by one or more members of an economically disadvantaged tribe, or
(B) Management may be provided by non-Tribal members if the concern can demonstrate that the Tribe can hire and fire those individuals, that it will retain control of all management decisions common to boards of directors, including strategic planning, budget approval, and the employment and compensation of officers, and that a written management development plan exists which shows how Tribal members will develop managerial skills sufficient to manage the concern or similar Tribally-owned concerns in the future.
(ii) Members of the management team, business committee members, officers, and directors are precluded from engaging in any outside employment or other business interests which conflict with the management of the concern or prevent the concern from achieving the objectives set forth in its business development plan. This is not intended to preclude participation in tribal or other activities which do not interfere with such individual's responsibilities
in the operation of the applicant concern.
(iii) The individuals responsible for the management and daily operations of a tribally-owned concern cannot manage more than two Program Participants at the same time.
(A) An individual's officer position, membership on the board of directors or position as a tribal leader does not necessarily imply that the individual is responsible for the management and daily operations of a given concern. SBA looks beyond these corporate formalities and examines the totality of the information submitted by the applicant to determine which individual(s) manage the actual day-to-day operations of the applicant concern.
(B) Officers, board members, and/or tribal leaders may control a holding company overseeing several tribally-owned or ANC-owned companies, provided they do not actually control the day-to-day management of more than two current 8(a) BD Program Participant firms.
(C) Because an individual may be responsible for the management and daily business operations of two tribally-owned concerns, the full-time devotion requirement does not apply to tribally-owned applicants and Participants.
(5)
Individual eligibility limitation.
SBA does not deem an individual involved in the management or daily business operations of a tribally-owned concern to have used his or her individual eligibility within the meaning of § 124.108(b).
(6)
Potential for success.
A Tribally-owned applicant concern must possess reasonable prospects for success in competing in the private sector if admitted to the 8(a) BD program. A Tribally-owned applicant may establish potential for success by demonstrating that:
(i) It has been in business for at least two years, as evidenced by income tax returns (individual or consolidated) or financial statements (either audited, reviewed or in-house as set-forth in § 124.602) for each of the two previous tax years showing operating revenues in the primary industry in which the applicant seeks 8(a) BD certification; or
(ii) The individual(s) who will manage and control the daily business operations of the firm have substantial technical and management experience, the applicant has a record of successful performance on contracts from governmental or nongovernmental sources in its primary industry category, and the applicant has adequate capital to sustain its operations and carry out its business plan as a Participant; or
(iii) The Tribe, a tribally-owned economic development corporation, or other relevant tribally-owned holding company vested with the authority to oversee tribal economic development or business ventures has made a firm written commitment to support the operations of the applicant concern and it has the financial ability to do so.
(7)
Other eligibility criteria.
(i) As with other 8(a) applicants, a tribally-owned applicant concern shall not be denied admission into the 8(a) program due solely to a determination that specific contract opportunities are unavailable to assist the development of the concern unless:
(A) The Government has not previously procured and is unlikely to procure the types of products or services offered by the concern; or
(B) The purchase of such products or services by the Federal Government will not be in quantities sufficient to support the developmental needs of the applicant and other program participants providing the same or similar items or services.
(ii) The officers, directors, and all shareholders owning an interest of 20% or more (other than the tribe itself) of a tribally-owned applicant or Participant must demonstrate good character (
see
§ 124.108(a)) and cannot fail to pay significant Federal obligations owed to the Federal Government (
see
§ 124.108(e)).
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8255, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48580, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66184, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26204, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.110
Do Native Hawaiian Organizations (NHOs) have any special rules for applying to and remaining eligible for the 8(a) BD program?
(a) Concerns owned by economically disadvantaged Native Hawaiian Organizations, as defined in § 124.3, are eligible for participation in the 8(a) program and other federal programs requiring SBA to determine social and economic disadvantage as a condition of eligibility. Such concerns must meet all eligibility criteria set forth in §§ 124.101 through 124.108 and § 124.112 to the extent that they are not inconsistent with this section.
(b) A concern owned by a Native Hawaiian Organization must qualify as a small business concern as defined in part 121 of this title. The size standard corresponding to the primary industry classification of the applicant concern applies for determining size. SBA will determine the concern's size independently, without regard to its affiliation with the Native Hawaiian Organization or any other business enterprise owned by the Native Hawaiian Organization, unless the Administrator determines that one or more such concerns owned by the Native Hawaiian Organization have obtained, or are likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category. In determining whether an NHO-owned concern has obtained, or is likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category, SBA will examine the firm's participation in the relevant six digit NAICS code nationally.
(1) SBA will consider the firm's percentage share of the national market and other relevant factors to determine whether the firm is dominant in a specific six-digit NAICS code with a particular size standard.
(2) SBA does not contemplate a finding of affiliation where an NHO-owned concern appears to have obtained an unfair competitive advantage in a local market, but remains competitive, but not dominant, on a national basis.
(c) An NHO must establish that it is economically disadvantaged and that its business activities will principally benefit Native Hawaiians. Once an NHO establishes that it is economically disadvantaged in connection with the application of one NHO-owned firm, it need not reestablish such status in order to have other businesses that it owns certified for 8(a) BD program participation, unless specifically requested to do so by the AA/BD. If a different NHO identifies that it will serve and benefit the same Native Hawaiian community as an NHO that has already established its economic disadvantage status, that NHO need not establish its economic disadvantage status in connection with an 8(a) BD application of a business concern that it owns, unless specifically requested to do so by the AA/BD.
(1) In order to establish that an NHO is economically disadvantaged, it must demonstrate that it will principally benefit economically disadvantaged Native Hawaiians. To do this, the NHO must provide data showing the economic condition of the Native Hawaiian community that it intends to serve, including:
(i) The number of Native Hawaiians in the community that the NHO intends to serve;
(ii) The present Native Hawaiian unemployment rate of those individuals;
(iii) The per capita income of those Native Hawaiians, excluding judgment awards;
(iv) The percentage of those Native Hawaiians below the poverty level; and
(v) The access to capital of those Native Hawaiians.
(2) An NHO should describe any activities that it has done to benefit Native Hawaiians at the time its NHO-owned firm applies to the 8(a) BD program. In addition, the NHO must include statements in its bylaws or operating agreements identifying the benefits Native Hawaiians will receive from the NHO. The NHO must have a detailed plan that shows how revenue earned by the NHO will principally benefit Native Hawaiians. As part of an annual review conducted for an NHO-owned Participant, SBA will review how the NHO is fulfilling its obligation to principally benefit Native Hawaiians.
(d) An NHO must control the applicant or Participant firm. To establish that it is controlled by an NHO, an applicant or Participant must demonstrate that the NHO controls its
board of directors, managing members, managers or managing partners.
(1) The NHO need not possess the technical expertise necessary to run the NHO-owned applicant or Participant firm. The NHO must have managerial experience of the extent and complexity needed to run the concern. Management experience need not be related to the same or similar industry as the primary industry classification of the applicant or Participant.
(2) An individual responsible for the day-to-day management of an NHO-owned firm need not establish personal social and economic disadvantage.
(3) The individuals responsible for the management and daily operations of an NHO-owned concern cannot manage more than two Program Participants at the same time.
(i) An individual's officer position or membership on the board of directors does not necessarily imply that the individual is responsible for the management and daily operations of a given concern. SBA looks beyond these corporate formalities and examines the totality of the information submitted by the applicant to determine which individual(s) manage the actual day-to-day operations of the applicant concern.
(ii) NHO officers and/or board members may control a holding company overseeing several NHO-owned business concerns, provided they do not actually control the day-to-day management of more than two current 8(a) BD Program Participant firms.
(iii) Because an individual may be responsible for the management and daily business operations of two NHO-owned concerns, the full-time devotion requirement does not apply to NHO-owned applicants and Participants.
(e) For corporate entities, an NHO must unconditionally own at least 51 percent of the voting stock and at least 51 percent of the aggregate of all classes of stock. For non-corporate entities, an NHO must unconditionally own at least a 51 percent interest.
(f) An NHO cannot own 51% or more of another firm which, either at the time of application or within the previous two years, has been operating in the 8(a) program under the same primary NAICS code as the applicant. For purposes of this paragraph, the same primary NAICS code means the six-digit NAICS code having the same corresponding size standard. An NHO may, however, own a Participant or an applicant that conducts or will conduct secondary business in the 8(a) BD program under the same NAICS code that a current Participant owned by the NHO operates in the 8(a) BD program as its primary NAICS code.
(1) Once an applicant is admitted to the 8(a) BD program, it may not receive an 8(a) sole source contract that is a follow-on contract to an 8(a) contract that was performed immediately previously by another Participant (or former Participant) owned by the same NHO. However, an NHO-owned concern may receive a follow-on sole source 8(a) contract to a requirement that it performed through the 8(a) program (either as a competitive or sole source contract).
(2) If the primary NAICS code of a Participant owned by an NHO is changed pursuant to § 124.112(e), the NHO can submit an application and qualify another firm owned by the NHO for participation in the 8(a) BD program under the NAICS code that was the previous primary NAICS code of the Participant whose primary NAICS code was changed.
(g) SBA does not deem an individual involved in the management or daily business operations of a Participant owned by a Native Hawaiian Organization to have used his or her individual eligibility within the meaning of § 124.108(b).
(h) An NHO-owned firm's eligibility for 8(a) BD participation is separate and distinct from the individual eligibility of the NHO's members, directors, or managers. The eligibility of an NHO-owned concern is not affected by the former 8(a) BD participation of one or more of the NHO's individual members.
(i) An applicant concern owned by a NHO must possess reasonable prospects for success in competing in the private sector if admitted to the 8(a) BD program. An applicant concern owned by a NHO may establish potential for success by demonstrating that:
(1) It has been in business for at least two years, as evidenced by income tax returns (individual or consolidated) for
each of the two previous tax years showing operating revenues in the primary industry in with the applicant is seeking 8(a) BD certification; or
(2) The individual(s) who will manage and control the daily business operations of the firm have substantial technical and management experience, the applicant has a record of successful performance on contracts from governmental or nongovernmental sources in its primary industry category, and the applicant has adequate capital to sustain its operations and carry out its business plan as a Participant; or
(3) The NHO has made a firm written commitment to support the operations of the applicant concern and it has the financial ability to do so.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8256, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 28237, May 14, 2012; 81 FR 48580, July 25, 2016; 81 FR 71983, Oct. 19, 2016; 85 FR 66184, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.111
Do Community Development Corporations (CDCs) have any special rules for applying to and remaining eligible for the 8(a) BD program?
(a) Concerns owned at least 51 percent by CDCs (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) are eligible for participation in the 8(a) BD program and other federal programs requiring SBA to determine social and economic disadvantage as a condition of eligibility. These concerns must meet all eligibility criteria set forth in § 124.101 through § 124.108 and § 124.112 to the extent that they are not inconsistent with this section.
(b) A concern that is at least 51 percent owned by a CDC (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) is considered to be controlled by such CDC and eligible for participation in the 8(a) BD program, provided it meets all eligibility criteria set forth or referred to in this section and its management and daily business operations are conducted by one or more individuals determined to have managerial experience of an extent and complexity needed to run the concern.
(c) A concern that is at least 51 percent owned by a CDC (or a wholly owned business entity of a CDC) must qualify as a small business concern as defined in part 121 of this title. The size standard corresponding to the primary industry classification of the applicant concern applies for determining size. SBA will determine the concern's size independently, without regard to its affiliation with the CDC or any other business enterprise owned by the CDC, unless the Administrator determines that one or more such concerns owned by the CDC have obtained, or are likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category. In determining whether a CDC-owned concern has obtained, or is likely to obtain, a substantial unfair competitive advantage within an industry category, SBA will examine the firm's participation in the relevant six digit NAICS code nationally.
(1) SBA will consider the firm's percentage share of the national market and other relevant factors to determine whether the firm is dominant in a specific six-digit NAICS code with a particular size standard.
(2) SBA does not contemplate a finding of affiliation where a CDC-owned concern appears to have obtained an unfair competitive advantage in a local market, but remains competitive, but not dominant, on a national basis.
(3) Notwithstanding § 124.105(i), where a CDC merely reorganizes its ownership of a Participant in the 8(a) BD program by inserting or removing a wholly-owned business entity between the CDC and the Participant, the Participant need not request a change of ownership from SBA. The Participant must, however, notify SBA of the change within 30 days of the transfer.
(d) A CDC cannot own 51% or more of another firm which, either at the time of application or within the previous two years, has been operating in the 8(a) program under the same primary NAICS code as the applicant. For purposes of this paragraph, the same primary NAICS code means the six-digit NAICS code having the same corresponding size standard. A CDC may, however, own a Participant or an applicant that conducts or will conduct secondary business in the 8(a) BD program under the same NAICS code that a current Participant owned by the CDC operates in the 8(a) BD program as its primary NAICS code.
(1) Once an applicant is admitted to the 8(a) BD program, it may not receive an 8(a) sole source contract that is a follow-on contract to an 8(a) contract that was performed immediately previously by another Participant (or former Participant) owned by the same CDC. However, a CDC-owned concern may receive a follow-on sole source 8(a) contract to a requirement that it performed through the 8(a) program.
(2) If the primary NAICS code of a Participant owned by a CDC is changed pursuant to § 124.112(e), the CDC can submit an application and qualify another firm owned by the CDC for participation in the 8(a) BD program under the NAICS code that was the previous primary NAICS code of the Participant whose primary NAICS code was changed.
(e) SBA does not deem an individual involved in the management or daily business operations of a CDC-owned concern to have used his or her individual eligibility within the meaning of § 124.108(b).
(f) An applicant concern owned by a CDC must possess reasonable prospects for success in competing in the private sector if admitted to the 8(a) BD program. An applicant concern owned by a CDC may establish potential for success by demonstrating that:
(1) It has been in business for at least two years, as evidenced by income tax returns (individual or consolidated) for each of the two previous tax years showing operating revenues in the primary industry in with the applicant is seeking 8(a) BD certification; or
(2) The individual(s) who will manage and control the daily business operations of the firm have substantial technical and management experience, the applicant has a record of successful performance on contracts from governmental or nongovernmental sources in its primary industry category, and the applicant has adequate capital to sustain its operations and carry out its business plan as a Participant; or
(3) The CDC has made a firm written commitment to support the operations of the applicant concern and it has the financial ability to do so.
(g) A CDC-owned applicant and all of its principals must have good character as set forth in § 124.108(a).
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8257, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 28237, May 14, 2012; 81 FR 48581, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66184, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.112
What criteria must a business meet to remain eligible to participate in the 8(a) BD program?
(a)
Standards.
In order for a concern (except those owned by Indian tribes, ANCs, Native Hawaiian Organizations or CDCs) to remain eligible for 8(a) BD program participation, it must continue to meet all eligibility criteria contained in § 124.101 through § 124.108. For concerns owned by Indian tribes, ANCs, Native Hawaiian Organizations or CDCs to remain eligible, they must meet the criteria set forth in this § 124.112 to the extent that they are not inconsistent with § 124.109, § 124.110 and § 124.111, respectively. The concern must inform SBA in writing of any changes in circumstances which would adversely affect its program eligibility, especially economic disadvantage and ownership and control. Any concern that fails to meet the eligibility requirements after being admitted to the program will be subject to termination or early graduation under §§ 124.302 through 124.304, as appropriate.
(b)
Submissions supporting continued eligibility.
As part of an annual review, each Participant must annually submit to the servicing district office the following:
(1) A certification that it meets the 8(a) BD program eligibility requirements as set forth in § 124.101 through § 124.108 and paragraph (a) of this section;
(2) A certification that there have been no changed circumstances which could adversely affect the Participant's program eligibility. If the Participant is unable to provide such certification, the Participant must inform SBA of any changes and provide relevant supporting documentation.
(3) Personal financial information for each disadvantaged owner;
(4) A record from each individual claiming disadvantaged status regarding the transfer of assets for less than fair market value to any immediate
family member, or to a trust any beneficiary of which is an immediate family member, within two years of the date of the annual review. The record must provide the name of the recipient(s) and family relationship, and the difference between the fair market value of the asset transferred and the value received by the disadvantaged individual.
(5) A record of all payments, compensation, and distributions (including loans, advances, salaries and dividends) made by the Participant to each of its owners, officers or directors, or to any person or entity affiliated with such individuals;
(6) If it is an approved protégé, a narrative report detailing the contracts it has had with its mentor and benefits it has received from the mentor/protégé relationship. See § 124.520(b)(4) for additional annual requirements;
(7) A listing of any fees paid to agents or representatives to assist the Participant in obtaining or seeking to obtain a Federal contract;
(8) A report for each 8(a) contract performed during the year explaining how the performance of work requirements are being met for the contract, including any 8(a) contracts performed as a joint venture; and
(9) Such other information as SBA may deem necessary. For other required annual submissions,
see
§§ 124.601 through 124.603.
(c)
Eligibility reviews.
(1) Upon receipt of specific and credible information alleging that a Participant no longer meets the eligibility requirements for continued program eligibility, SBA will review the concern's eligibility for continued participation in the program.
(2) Sufficient reasons for SBA to conclude that a socially disadvantaged individual is no longer economically disadvantaged include, but are not limited to, excessive withdrawals of funds or other assets withdrawn from the concern by its owners, or substantial personal assets, income or net worth of any disadvantaged owner. SBA may also consider access by the Participant firm to a significant new source of capital or loans since the financial condition of the Participant is considered in evaluating the disadvantaged individual's economic status.
(d)
Excessive withdrawals.
(1) The term withdrawal includes, but is not limited to, the following: Cash dividends; distributions in excess of amounts needed to pay S Corporation, LLC or partnership taxes; cash and property withdrawals; payments to immediate family members not employed by the Participant; bonuses to officers; and investments on behalf of an owner. Although officers' salaries are generally not considered withdrawals for purposes of this paragraph, SBA will count those salaries as withdrawals where SBA believes that a firm is attempting to circumvent the excessive withdrawal limitations through the payment of officers' salaries. SBA will look at the totality of the circumstances in determining whether to include any specific amount as a withdrawal under this paragraph.
(2) If SBA determines that funds or assets have been excessively withdrawn from the Participant for the personal benefit of one or more owners or managers, or any person or entity affiliated with such owners or managers, and such withdrawal was detrimental to the achievement of the targets, objectives, and goals contained in the Participant's business plan, SBA may:
(i) Initiate termination proceedings under §§ 124.303 and 124.304 where the withdrawals detrimentally affect the achievement of the Participant's targets, objectives and goals set forth in its business plan, or its overall business development;
(ii) Initiate early graduation proceedings under §§ 124.302 and 124.303 where the withdrawals do not adversely affect the Participant's business development; or
(iii) Require an appropriate reinvestment of funds or other assets, as well as any other actions SBA deems necessary to counteract the detrimental effects of the withdrawals, as a condition of the Participant maintaining program eligibility.
(3) Withdrawals are excessive if in the aggregate during any fiscal year of the Participant they exceed (i) $250,000 for firms with sales up to $1,000,000; (ii) $300,000 for firms with sales between $1,000,000 and $2,000,000; and (iii) $400,000
for firms with sales exceeding $2,000,000.
(4) The fact that a concern's net worth has increased despite withdrawals that are deemed excessive will not preclude SBA from determining that such withdrawals were detrimental to the attainment of the concern's business objectives or to its overall business development.
(5) The excessive withdrawal analysis does not apply to Participants owned by Tribes, ANCs, NHOs, or CDCs where a withdrawal is made for the benefit of the Tribe, ANC, NHO, CDC or the native or shareholder community. It does, however, apply to withdrawals from a firm owned by a Tribe, ANC, NHO, or CDC that do not benefit the relevant entity or community. Thus, if funds or assets are withdrawn from an entity-owned Participant for the benefit of a non-disadvantaged manager or owner that exceed the withdrawal thresholds, SBA may find that withdrawal to be excessive. However, a non-disadvantaged minority owner may receive a payout in excess of the excessive withdrawal amount if it is a pro rata distribution paid to all shareholders (
i.e.,
the only way to increase the distribution to the Tribe, ANC, NHO or CDC is to increase the distribution to all shareholders) and it does not adversely affect the business development of the Participant.

# Example 1 to paragraph (d)(5).
Tribally-owned Participant X pays $1,000,000 to a non-disadvantaged manager. If that was not part of a pro rata distribution to all shareholders, that would be deemed an excessive withdrawal.

# Example 2 to paragraph (d)(5).
ANC-owned Participant Y seeks to distribute $550,000 to the ANC and $450,000 to non-disadvantaged individual A based on their 55%/45% ownership interests. Because the distribution is based on the pro rata share of ownership, this would not be prohibited as an excessive withdrawal unless SBA determined that Y would be adversely affected.
(e)
Change in primary industry classification.
(1) A Participant may request that the primary industry classification contained in its business plan be changed by filing such a request with its servicing SBA district office. SBA will grant such a request where the Participant can demonstrate that the majority of its total revenues during a three-year period have evolved from one NAICS code to another.
(2) SBA may change the primary industry classification contained in a Participant's business plan where the greatest portion of the Participant's total revenues during the Participant's last three completed fiscal years has evolved from one NAICS code to another. As part of its annual review, SBA will consider whether the primary NAICS code contained in a Participant's business plan continues to be appropriate.
(i) Where SBA believes that the primary industry classification contained in a Participant's business plan does not match the Participant's actual revenues over the Participant's most recently completed three fiscal years, SBA may notify the Participant of its intent to change the Participant's primary industry classification and afford the Participant the opportunity to respond.
(ii) A Participant may challenge SBA's intent to change its primary industry classification by demonstrating why it believes the primary industry classification contained in its business plan continues to be appropriate, despite an increase in revenues in a secondary NAICS code beyond those received in its designated primary industry classification. The Participant should identify: All non-federal work that it has performed in its primary NAICS code; any efforts it has made and any plans it has to make to receive contracts to obtain contracts in its primary NAICS code; all contracts that it was awarded that it believes could have been classified under its primary NAICS code, but which a contracting officer assigned another reasonable NAICS code; and any other information that it believes has a bearing on why its primary NAICS code should not be changed despite performing more work in another NAICS code.
(iii) As long as the Participant provides a reasonable explanation as to why the identified primary NAICS code continues to be its primary NAICS code, SBA will not change the Participant's primary NAICS code.
(iv) A Participant may appeal a district office's decision to change its primary NAICS code to SBA's Associate
General Counsel for Procurement Law (AGC/PL) within 10 business days of receiving the district office's final determination. The AGC/PL will examine the record, including all information submitted by the Participant in support of its position as to why the primary NAICS code contained in its business plan continues to be appropriate despite performing more work in another NAICS code, and issue a final agency decision within 15 business days of receiving the appeal.
(v) Where an SBA change in the primary NAICS code of an entity-owned firm results in the entity having two Participants with the same primary NAICS code, the second, newer Participant will not be able to receive any 8(a) contracts in the six-digit NAICS code that is the primary NAICS code of the first, older Participant for a period of time equal to two years after the first Participant leaves the 8(a) BD program.
(f)
Graduation determination.
As part of the final annual review performed by SBA prior to the expiration of a Participant's nine-year program term, SBA will determine if the Participant has met the targets, objectives and goals set forth in its business plan and, thus, whether the Participant will be considered to have graduated from the 8(a) BD program at the expiration of its program term. A firm that has not met the targets, objectives and goals set forth in its business plan at the end of its nine-year term in the 8(a) BD program will not be considered to have graduated from the 8(a) BD program, but rather to have merely completed its program term.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8257, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 28237, May 14, 2012; 81 FR 48581, July 25, 2016; 81 FR 71983, Oct. 19, 2016; 85 FR 66185, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Applying to the 8(
a

# ) BD Program
§ 124.201
May any business submit an application?
Any concern or any individual on behalf of a business has the right to apply for 8(a) BD program participation whether or not there is an appearance of eligibility.
§ 124.202
How must an application be filed?
An application for 8(a) BD program admission must be filed in an electronic format. An electronic application can be found by going to the 8(a) BD page of SBA's Web site (
http://www.sba.gov
). The SBA district office will provide an applicant with information regarding the 8(a) BD program.
[81 FR 48581, July 25, 2016]
§ 124.203
What must a concern submit to apply to the 8(a) BD program?
Each 8(a) BD applicant concern must submit information and supporting documents required by SBA when applying for admission to the 8(a) BD program. This information may include, but not be limited to, financial data and statements, copies of filed Federal personal and business tax returns, individual and business bank statements, personal history statements, and any additional information or documents SBA deems necessary to determine eligibility. Each individual claiming disadvantaged status must also authorize SBA to request and receive tax return information directly from the Internal Revenue Service.In all cases, the applicant must provide a signature from each individual claiming social and economic disadvantage status. The electronic signing protocol will ensure the Agency is able to specifically identify the individual making the representation. The individual(s) upon whom eligibility is based take responsibility for the accuracy of all information submitted on behalf of the applicant.
[81 FR 48581, July 25, 2016, as amended at 85 FR 66185, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.203 were published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.204
How does SBA process applications for 8(a) BD program admission?
(a) The AA/BD is authorized to approve or decline applications for admission to the 8(a) BD program.
(1) Except as set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the DPCE will receive, review and evaluate all 8(a) BD applications.
(2) Where an applicant answers on its electronic application that it is not a for-profit business (
see
§§ 121.105 and 124.104), that one or more of the individuals upon whom eligibility is based is not a United States citizen (
see
§ 124.104), that the applicant or one or more of the individuals upon whom eligibility is based has previously participated in the 8(a) BD program (
see
§ 124.108(b)), or that the applicant is not an entity-owned business and has generated no revenues (
see
§§ 124.107(a) and 124.107(b)(1)(iv)), its application will be closed automatically and it will be prevented from completing a full electronic application.
(3) SBA will advise each program applicant within 15 days after the receipt of an application whether the application is complete and suitable for evaluation and, if not, what additional information or clarification is required to complete the application.
(4) SBA will process an application for 8(a) BD program participation within 90 days of receipt of an application package deemed complete by the DPCE. Incomplete packages will not be processed. Where during its screening or review SBA requests clarifying, revised or other information from the applicant, SBA's processing time for the application will be suspended pending the receipt of such information.
(b) SBA, in its sole discretion, may request clarification of information contained in the application at any time in the application process. SBA will take into account any clarifications made by an applicant in response to a request for such by SBA.
(c) The burden of proof to demonstrate eligibility is on the applicant concern. If a concern does not provide requested information within the allotted time provided by SBA, or if it submits incomplete information, SBA may presume that disclosure of the missing information would adversely affect the firm or would demonstrate lack of eligibility in the area to which the information relates.
(d) An applicant must be eligible as of the date the AA/BD issues a decision. The decision will be based on the facts set forth in the application, any information received in response to SBA's request for clarification made pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, and any changed circumstances since the date of application.
(e) Changed circumstances for an applicant concern occurring subsequent to its application and which adversely affect eligibility will be considered and may constitute grounds for decline. The applicant must inform SBA of any changed circumstances that could adversely affect its eligibility for the program (particularly economic disadvantage and ownership and control) during its application review. Failure to inform SBA of any such changed circumstances constitutes good cause for which SBA may terminate the Participant if non-compliance is discovered after admittance.
(f) The decision of the AA/BD to approve or deny an application will be in writing. A decision to deny admission will state the specific reasons for denial, and will inform the applicant of any appeal rights.
(g) If the AA/BD approves the application, the date of the approval letter is the date of program certification for purposes of determining the concern's program term.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8258, Feb. 11, 2011; 85 FR 66185, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.204 were published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.205
Can an applicant ask SBA to reconsider SBA's initial decision to decline its application?
There is no reconsideration process for applications that have been declined. An applicant which has been declined may file an appeal with SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals pursuant to § 124.206, or reapply to the program pursuant to § 124.207.
[85 FR 66185, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 124.206
What appeal rights are available to an applicant that has been denied admission?
(a) An applicant may appeal a denial of program admission to SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA), if it is based solely on a negative finding of social disadvantage, economic disadvantage, ownership, control, or any
combination of these four criteria. A denial decision that is based at least in part on the failure to meet any other eligibility criterion is not appealable and is the final decision of SBA.
(b) [Reserved]
(b) The applicant may initiate an appeal by filing a petition in accordance with part 134 of this chapter with OHA within 45 days after the applicant receives the Agency decision.
(c) If an appeal is filed with OHA, the written decision of the Administrative Law Judge is the final Agency decision. If an appealable decision is not appealed, the decision of the AA/BD is the final Agency decision.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 47246, July 18, 2002; 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 85 FR 66185, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 124.207
Can an applicant reapply for admission to the 8(a) BD program?
A concern which has been declined for 8(a) BD program participation may submit a new application for admission to the program at any time after 90 days from the date of the Agency's final decision to decline. However, a concern that has been declined three times within 18 months of the date of the first final Agency decision finding the concern ineligible cannot submit a new application for admission to the program until 12 months from the date of the third final Agency decision to decline.
[85 FR 66185, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.207 were published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.

# Exiting the 8(
a

# ) BD Program
§ 124.300
What are the ways a business may leave the 8(a) BD program?
A concern participating in the 8(a) BD program may leave the program by any of the following means:
(a) Expiration of the program term established pursuant to § 124.2;
(b) Voluntary withdrawal or voluntary early graduation;
(c) Graduation pursuant to § 124.302;
(d) Early graduation pursuant to the provisions of §§ 124.302 and 124.304; or
(e) Termination pursuant to the provisions of §§ 124.303 and 124.304.
[76 FR 8258, Feb. 11, 2011. Redesignated at 85 FR 66186, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 124.301
Voluntary withdrawal or voluntary early graduation.
(a) A Participant may voluntarily withdraw from the 8(a) BD program at any time prior to the expiration of its program term. Where a Participant has substantially achieved the goals and objectives set forth in its business plan, it may elect to voluntarily early graduate from the 8(a) BD program.
(b) To initiate withdrawal or early graduation from the 8(a) BD program, a Participant must notify its servicing SBA district office of its intent to do so in writing. Once the SBA servicing district office processes the request and the District Director recognizes the withdrawal or early graduation, the Participant is no longer eligible to receive any 8(a) BD program assistance.
[85 FR 66186, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 124.302
What is graduation and what is early graduation?
(a)
General.
SBA may graduate a firm from the 8(a) BD program at the expiration of its program term (graduation) or prior to the expiration of its program term (early graduation) where SBA determines that:
(1) The concern has successfully completed the 8(a) BD program by substantially achieving the targets, objectives, and goals set forth in its business plan, and has demonstrated the ability to compete in the marketplace without assistance under the 8(a) BD program; or
(2) One or more of the disadvantaged owners upon whom the Participant's eligibility is based are no longer economically disadvantaged.
(b)
Exceeding the size standard corresponding to the primary NAICS code.
SBA may graduate a Participant prior to the expiration of its program term where the firm exceeds the size standard corresponding to its primary NAICS code, as adjusted during the program, for three successive program years unless the firm is able to demonstrate that it has taken steps to change its industry focus to another
NAICS code that is contained in the goals, targets and objectives of its business plan.
(c)
Excessive withdrawals.
SBA may graduate a Participant prior to the expiration of its program term where excessive funds or other assets have been withdrawn from the Participant (see § 124.112(d)(3)), causing SBA to determine that the Participant has demonstrated the ability to compete in the marketplace without assistance under the 8(a) BD program.
[63 FR 35739, 35772, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8258, Feb. 11, 2011; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.303
What is termination?
(a) SBA may terminate the participation of a concern in the 8(a) BD program prior to the expiration of the concern's Program Term for good cause. Examples of good cause include, but are not limited to, the following:
(1) Submission of false information in the concern's 8(a) BD application, regardless of whether correct information would have caused the concern to be denied admission to the program, and regardless of whether correct information was given to SBA in accompanying documents or by other means.
(2) Failure by the concern to maintain its eligibility for program participation, including failure by an individual owner or manager to continue to meet the requirements for economic disadvantage set forth in § 124.104 where such status is needed for eligibility.
(3) Failure by the concern for any reason, including the death of an individual upon whom eligibility was based, to maintain ownership, full-time day-to-day management, and control by disadvantaged individuals.
(4) Failure by the concern to obtain prior written approval from SBA for any changes in ownership or business structure, management or control pursuant to §§ 124.105 and 124.106.
(5) Failure by the concern to disclose to SBA the extent to which non-disadvantaged persons or firms participate in the management of the Participant business concern.
(6) Failure by the concern or one or more of the concern's principals to maintain good character.
(7) A pattern of failure to make required submissions or responses to SBA in a timely manner, including a failure to provide required financial statements, requested tax returns, reports, updated business plans, information requested by SBA's Office of Inspector General, or other requested information or data within 30 days of the date of request.
(8) Cessation of business operations by the concern.
(9) Failure by the concern to pursue competitive and commercial business in accordance with its business plan, or failure in other ways to make reasonable efforts to develop and achieve competitive viability.
(10) A pattern of inadequate performance by the concern of awarded section 8(a) contracts.
(11) Failure by the concern to pay or repay significant financial obligations owed to the Federal Government.
(12) Failure by the concern to obtain and keep current any and all required permits, licenses, and charters, including suspension or revocation of any professional license required to operate the business.
(13) Excessive withdrawals that are detrimental to the achievement of the targets, objectives, and goals contained in the Participant's business plan, including transfers of funds or other business assets from the concern for the personal benefit of any of its owners or managers, or any person or entity affiliated with the owners or managers (
see
§ 124.112(d)).
(14) Unauthorized use of SBA direct or guaranteed loan proceeds or violation of an SBA loan agreement.
(15) Submission by or on behalf of a Participant of false information to SBA, including false certification of compliance with non-8(a) business activity targets under § 124.509 or failure to report changes that adversely affect the program eligibility of an applicant or program participant under § 124.204 and § 124.112, where responsible officials of the 8(a) BD Participant knew or should have known the submission to be false.
(16) Debarment, suspension, voluntary exclusion, or ineligibility of the concern or its principals pursuant to 2
CFR parts 180 and 2700 or FAR subpart 9.4 (48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4). * * *
(17) Conduct by the concern, or any of its principals, indicating a lack of business integrity. Such conduct may be demonstrated by information related to a criminal indictment or guilty plea, a criminal conviction, or a judgment or settlement in a civil case.
(18) Willful failure by the Participant business concern to comply with applicable labor standards and obligations.
(19) Material breach of any terms and conditions of the 8(a) BD Program Participation Agreement.
(20) Willful violation by a concern, or any of its principals, of any SBA regulation pertaining to material issues.
(b) The examples of good cause listed in paragraph (a) of this section are intended to be illustrative only. Other grounds for terminating a Participant from the 8(a) BD program for cause may exist and may be used by SBA.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8258, Feb. 11, 2011; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.303 were published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.304
What are the procedures for early graduation and termination?
(a)
General.
The same procedures apply to both early graduation and termination of Participants from the 8(a) BD program.
(b)
Letter of Intent to Terminate or Graduate Early.
(1) Except as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, when SBA believes that a Participant should be terminated or graduated prior to the expiration of its program term, SBA will notify the concern in writing. The Letter of Intent to Terminate or Graduate Early will set forth the specific facts and reasons for SBA's findings and will notify the concern that it has 30 days from the date it receives the letter to submit a written response to SBA explaining why the proposed ground(s) should not justify termination or early graduation.
(2) Where SBA obtains evidence that a Participant has ceased its operations, the AA/BD may immediately terminate a concern's participation in the 8(a) BD program by notifying the concern of its termination and right to appeal that decision to OHA.
(c)
Recommendation and decision.
Following the 30-day response period, the Assistant Administrator for DPCE (AA/DPCE) or designee will consider the proposed early graduation or termination and any information submitted in response by the concern. Upon determining that early graduation or termination is not warranted, the AA/DPCE or designee will notify the Participant in writing. If early graduation or termination appears warranted, the AA/DPCE will make such a recommendation to the AA/BD, who will then make a decision whether to early graduate or terminate the concern. SBA will act in a timely manner in processing early graduation and termination actions.
(d)
Notice requirements and effect of decision.
Upon deciding that early graduation or termination is warranted, the AA/BD will issue a Notice of Early Graduation or Termination. The Notice will set forth the specific facts and reasons for the decision, and will advise the concern that it may appeal the decision in accordance with the provisions of part 134 of this title.Once the AA/BD issues a decision to early graduate or terminate a Participant, the Participant will be immediately ineligible to receive further program assistance. If OHA overrules the AA/BD's decision on appeal, the length of time between the AA/BD's decision and OHA's decision on appeal will be added to the Participant's program term.
(e)
Appeal to OHA.
Procedures governing appeals of early graduation or termination to SBA's OHA are set forth in part 134. If a Participant does not appeal a Notification of Early Graduation or Termination within 45 days after the Participant receives the Notification, the decision of the AA/BD is the final agency decision effective on the date the appeal right expired.
(f)
Effect or early graduation or termination.
(1) After the effective date of early graduation or termination, a Participant is no longer eligible to receive any 8(a) BD program assistance. However, such concern is obligated to complete previously awarded 8(a) contracts, including any priced options which may be exercised.
(2) When SBA early graduates or terminates a firm from the 8(a) BD program, the firm will generally not qualify as an SDB for future procurement actions. If the firm believes that it does qualify as an SDB and seeks to certify itself as an SDB, as part of its SDB certification the firm must identify:
(i) That it has been early graduated or terminated;
(ii) The statutory or regulatory authority that qualifies the firm for SDB status; and
(iii) Where applicable, the circumstances that have changed since the early graduation or termination or that do not prevent it from qualifying as an SDB.
(3) Where a concern certifies that it qualifies as an SDB pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of the section, the procuring activity contracting officer may protest the SDB status of the firm to SBA pursuant to § 124.1002 where questions regarding the firm's SDB status remain.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 47246, July 18, 2002; 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8258, Feb. 11, 2011; 85 FR 66186, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.305
What is suspension and how is a Participant suspended from the 8(a) BD program?
(a) Except as set forth in paragraph (h) of this section, the AA/BD may suspend a Participant when he or she determines that suspension is needed to protect the interests of the Federal Government, such as where information showing a clear lack of program eligibility or conduct indicating a lack of business integrity exists, including where the concern or one of its principals submitted false statements to the Federal Government. SBA will suspend a Participant where SBA determines that the Participant submitted false information in its 8(a) BD application.
(b) SBA will issue a Notice of Suspension to the Participant's last known address by certified mail, return receipt requested. Suspension is effective as of the date of the issuance of the Notice. The Notice will provide the following information:
(1) The basis for the suspension;
(2) A statement that the suspension will continue pending the completion of further investigation, a final program termination determination, or some other specified period of time;
(3) A statement that awards of competitive and non-competitive 8(a) contracts, including those which have been “self-marketed” by a Participant, will not be made during the pendency of the suspension unless it is determined by the head of the relevant procuring agency or an authorized representative to be in the best interest of the Government to do so, and SBA adopts that determination;
(4) A statement that the concern is obligated to complete previously awarded section 8(a) contracts;
(5) A statement that the suspension is effective nationally throughout SBA;
(6) A statement that a request for a hearing on the suspension will be considered by an Administrative Law Judge at OHA, and granted or denied as a matter of discretion.
(7) A statement that the firm's participation in the program is suspended effective on the date the Notice is served, and that the program term will resume only if the suspension is lifted or the firm is not terminated.
(c) The Participant may appeal a Notice of Suspension by filing a petition in accordance with part 134 of this chapter with OHA within 45 days after the concern receives the Notice of Suspension pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. It is contemplated that in most cases a hearing on the issue of the suspension will be afforded if the Participant requests one, but authority to grant a hearing is within the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge in OHA. A suspension remains in effect pending the result of its appeal.
(d) SBA has the burden of showing that adequate evidence exists that protection of the Federal Government's interest requires suspension.
(1) The term “adequate evidence” means information contained in the record before the AA/BD at the time of his or her suspension decision that is sufficient to support the reasonable belief that the Government's interests need to be protected.
(2) SBA need not demonstrate that an act or omission actually occurred in
order for OHA to uphold a suspension. SBA's burden in a suspension proceeding is limited to demonstrating that it had a reasonable belief that a particular act or omission occurred, and that that act or omission requires suspension to protect the interests of the Government.
(3) OHA's review is limited to determining whether the Government's interests need to be protected, unless a termination action has also been initiated and the Administrative Law Judge consolidates the suspension and termination proceedings. In such a case, OHA will also consider the merits of the termination action.
(e) If there is a timely appeal, the decision of the Administrative Law Judge is the final SBA decision. If there is not a timely appeal, the decision of the AA/BD is the final Agency decision.
(f) Upon the request of SBA, OHA may consolidate suspension and termination proceedings when the issues presented are identical.
(g) Any program suspension which occurs under this section is effective until such time as SBA lifts the suspension or the Participant's participation in the program is fully terminated. If the concern is ultimately not terminated from the 8(a) BD program, the suspension will be lifted and the length of the suspension will be added to the concern's program term.
(h)(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, SBA will suspend a Participant from receiving further 8(a) BD program benefits where:
(i) A Participant requests a change of ownership and/or control and SBA discovers that a change of ownership or control has in fact occurred prior to SBA's approval; or
(ii) A disadvantaged individual who is involved in controlling the day-to-day management and control of the Participant is called to active military duty by the United States, his or her participation in the firm's management and daily business operations is critical to the firm's continued eligibility, the Participant does not designate another disadvantaged individual to control the concern during the call-up period, and the Participant requests to be suspended during the call-up period;
(iii) A Participant has a principal place of business located in a federally declared disaster area and elects to suspend its participation in the 8(a) BD program for a period of up to one year from the date of the disaster declaration to allow the firm to recover from the disaster and take full advantage of the program. A Participant that elects to be suspended may request that the suspension be lifted prior to the end date of the original request; or
(iv) Federal appropriations for one or more Federal departments or agencies have lapsed, a Participant would lose an 8(a) sole source award due to the lapse in appropriations (
e.g.,
SBA has previously accepted an offer for a sole source 8(a) award on behalf of the Participant or an agency could not offer a sole source 8(a) requirement to the program on behalf of the Participant due to the lapse in appropriations, and the Participant's program term would end during the lapse), and the Participant elects to suspend its participation in the 8(a) BD program during the lapse in Federal appropriations; or
(v) A Participant has not submitted a business plan to its SBA servicing office within 60 days after program admission.
(2) A suspension initiated under paragraph (h) of this section will be commenced by the issuance of a notice similar to that required for termination-related suspensions under paragraph (b) of this section, except that a suspension issued under paragraph (h) is not appealable.
(3) Where a Participant is suspended pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section and SBA approves the change of ownership and/or control, the length of the suspension will be added to the firm's program term only where the change in ownership or control results from the death or incapacity of a disadvantaged individual or where the firm requested prior approval and waited at least 60 days for SBA approval before making the change.
(4) Where a Participant is suspended pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section, the Participant must notify SBA when the disadvantaged individual returns to control the firm so that SBA can immediately lift the suspension. When the suspension is lifted,
the length of the suspension will be added to the concern's program term.
(5) Where a Participant is suspended pursuant to (h)(1)(iv) of this section, the Participant must notify SBA when the lapse in appropriation ends so that SBA can immediately lift the suspension. When the suspension is lifted, the length of the suspension will be added to the concern's program term.
(6) Where a Participant is suspended pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(iii) or paragraph (h)(1)(v) of this section, the length of the suspension will be added to the concern's program term.
(7)
Effect of suspension.
Once a suspension is issued pursuant to this section, a Participant cannot receive any additional 8(a) BD program assistance, including new 8(a) contract awards, for as long as the Participant is suspended. This includes any procurement requirements that the firm has self-marketed and those that have been accepted into the 8(a) BD program on behalf of the suspended concern. However, the suspended Participant must complete any previously awarded 8(a) contracts.
(i) SBA does not recognize the concept of de facto suspension. Adding time to the end of a Participant's program term equal to the length of a suspension will occur only where a concern's program participation has been formally suspended in accordance with the procedures set forth in this section.
(j) A suspension from 8(a) BD participation under this section has no effect on a concern's eligibility for non-8(a) Federal Government contracts. However, a debarment or suspension under the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR, chapter 1) will disqualify a concern from receiving all Federal Government contracts, including 8(a) contracts.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 67 FR 47246, July 18, 2002; 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8259, Feb. 11, 2011; 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66186, Oct. 16, 2020]

# Business Development
§ 124.401
Which SBA field office services a Participant?
The SBA district office which serves the geographical territory where a Participant's principal place of business is located normally will service the concern during its participation in the 8(a) BD program.
§ 124.402
How does a Participant develop a business plan?
(a)
General.
In order to assist the SBA servicing office in determining the business development needs of its portfolio Participants, each Participant must develop a comprehensive business plan setting forth its business targets, objectives, and goals.
(b)
Submission of initial business plan.
Each Participant must submit a business plan to its SBA servicing office as soon as possible after program admission. SBA will suspend a Participant from receiving 8(a) BD program benefits, including 8(a) contracts, if it has not submitted its business plan to the servicing district office within 60 days after program admission. Where a sole source 8(a) requirement is offered to SBA on behalf of a Participant or a Participant is the apparent successful offeror for a competitive 8(a) requirement and SBA has not yet approved the Participant's business plan, SBA will approve the Participant's business plan as part of its eligibility determination prior to contract award.
(c)
Contents of business plan.
The business plan must contain at least the following:
(1) A detailed description of any products currently being produced and any services currently being performed by the concern, as well as any future plans to enter into one or more new markets;
(2) The applicant's designation of its primary industry classification, as defined in § 124.3;
(3) An analysis of market potential, competitive environment, and the concern's prospects for profitable operations during and after its participation in the 8(a) BD program;
(4) An analysis of the concern's strengths and weaknesses, with particular attention on ways to correct any financial, managerial, technical, or work force conditions which could impede the concern from receiving and performing non-8(a) contracts;
(5) Specific targets, objectives, and goals for the business development of the concern during the next two years;
(6) Estimates of both 8(a) and non-8(a) contract awards that will be needed to meet its targets, objectives and goals; and
(7) Such other information as SBA may require.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 85 FR 66186, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.403
How is a business plan updated and modified?
(a)
Annual review.
Each Participant must annually review its business plan with its assigned Business Opportunity Specialist (BOS), and modify the plan as appropriate. If there are no changes in a Participant's business plan, the Participant need not resubmit its business plan. A Participant must submit a new or modified business plan only if its business plan has changed from the previous year. The Participant must submit a modified plan and updated information to its BOS within thirty (30) days after the close of each program year. It also must submit a capability statement describing its current contract performance capabilities as part of its updated business plan.
(b)
Contract forecast.
As part of the annual review of its business plan, each Participant must annually forecast in writing its needs for contract awards for the next program year. The forecast must include:
(1) The aggregate dollar value of 8(a) contracts to be sought, broken down by sole source and competitive opportunities where possible;
(2) The aggregate dollar value of non-8(a) contracts to be sought;
(3) The types of contract opportunities to be sought, identified by product or service; and
(4) Such other information as SBA may request to aid in providing effective business development assistance to the Participant.
(c)
Transition management strategy.
Beginning in the first year of the transitional stage of program participation, each Participant must annually submit a transition management strategy to be incorporated into its business plan. The transition management strategy must describe:
(1) How the Participant intends to meet the applicable non-8(a) business activity target imposed by § 124.509 during the transitional stage of participation; and
(2) The specific steps the Participant intends to take to continue its business growth and promote profitable business operations after the expiration of its program term.
[63 FR 35739, 35772, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8259, Feb. 11, 2011; 88 FR 26205, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.404
What business development assistance is available to Participants during the two stages of participation in the 8(a) BD program?
(a)
General.
Participation in the 8(a) BD program is divided into two stages, a developmental stage and a transitional stage. The developmental stage will last four years, and the transitional stage will last five years, unless the concern has exited the program by one of the means set forth in § 124.301 prior to the expiration of its program term or has elected to extend its participation pursuant to § 124.2(b).
(b)
Developmental stage of program participation.
A Participant, if otherwise eligible, may receive the following assistance during the developmental stage of program participation:
(1) Sole source and competitive 8(a) contract support;
(2) Financial assistance pursuant to § 120.375 of this title;
(3) The transfer of technology or surplus property owned by the United States pursuant to § 124.405; and
(4) Training to aid in developing business principles and strategies to enhance their ability to compete successfully for both 8(a) and non-8(a) contracts.
(c)
Transitional stage of program participation.
A Participant, if otherwise eligible, may receive the following assistance during the transitional stage of program participation:
(1) The same assistance as that provided to Participants in the developmental stage;
(2) Assistance from procuring agencies (in cooperation with SBA) in forming joint ventures, leader-follower arrangements, and teaming agreements between the concern and other Participants or other business concerns with respect to contracting opportunities
outside the 8(a) BD program for research, development, or full scale engineering or production of major systems (these arrangements must comply with all relevant statutes and regulations, including applicable size standard requirements); and
(3) Training and technical assistance in transitional business planning.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 86 FR 2533, Jan. 13, 2021]
§ 124.405
How does a Participant obtain Federal Government surplus property?
(a)
General.
(1) Pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(13)(F), eligible Participants may receive surplus Federal Government property from State Agencies for Surplus Property (SASPs).The procedures set forth in 41 CFR part 102-37 and this section will be used to transfer surplus personal property to eligible Participants.
(2) The surplus personal property which may be transferred to SASPs for further transfer to eligible Participants includes all personal property which has become available for donation pursuant to 41 CFR 102-37.30.
(b)
Eligibility to receive Federal surplus property.
To be eligible to receive Federal surplus property, on the date of transfer a concern must:
(1) Be in the 8(a) BD program;
(2) Be in compliance with all program requirements, including any reporting requirements;
(3) Not be debarred, suspended, or declared ineligible under Title 2 or Title 48 of the Code of Federal Regulations;
(4) Not be under a pending 8(a) BD program suspension, termination or early graduation proceeding; and
(5) Be engaged or expect to be engaged in business activities making the item useful to it.
(6) Not have received property under part 129, Subpart B of this chapter, during the applicable period described in that section.
(c)
Use of acquired surplus personal property.
(1) Eligible Participants may acquire Federal surplus personal property from the SASP in the State(s) where the Participant is located and operates, provided the Participant represents in writing:
(i) As to what the intended use of the surplus property is to be and that this use is consistent with the objectives of the concern's 8(a) business plan;
(ii) That it will use the property to be acquired in the normal conduct of its business activities or be liable for the fair rental value from the date of its receipt;
(iii) That it will not sell or transfer the property to be acquired to any party other than the Federal Government during its term of participation in the 8(a) program and for one year after it leaves the program;
(iv) That, at its own expense, it will return the property to a SASP or transfer it to another Participant if directed to do so by SBA because it has not used the property as intended within one year of receipt;
(v) That, should it breach its agreement not to sell or transfer the property, it will be liable to the Government for the established fair market value or the sale price, whichever is greater, of the property sold or transferred; and
(vi) That it will give SBA access to inspect the property and all records pertaining to it.
(2) A firm receiving surplus property pursuant to this section assumes all liability associated with or stemming from the use of the property.
(3) If the property is not placed in use for the purposes for which it was intended within one year of its receipt, SBA may direct the concern to deliver the property to another Participant or to the SASP from which it was acquired.
(4) Failure to comply with any of the commitments made under paragraph (c)(1) of this section constitutes a basis for termination from the 8(a) program.
(d)
Procedures for acquiring Federal Government surplus personal property.
(1) Participants may participate in the GSA Federal Surplus Personal Property Donation Program administered by the SASPs.
See
generally 41 CFR part 102-37 and/or § 102-37.125 of that title.
(2) Each Participant seeking to acquire Federal Government surplus property from a SASP must:
(i) Certify in writing to the SASP that it is eligible to receive the property pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section;
(ii) Make the written representations and agreement required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section; and
(iii) Identify to the SASP its servicing SBA field office.
(3) Upon receipt of the required certification, representations, agreement, and information set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the SASP must contact the appropriate SBA field office and obtain SBA's verification that the concern seeking to acquire the surplus property is eligible, and that the identified use of the property is consistent with the concern's business activities. SASPs may not release property to a Participant without this verification.
(4) The SASP and the Participant must agree on and record the fair market value of the surplus property at the time of the transfer to the Participant. The SASP must provide to SBA a written record, including the agreed upon fair market value, of each transaction to a Participant when any property has been transferred.
(e)
Costs.
Participants acquiring surplus property from a SASP must pay a service fee to the SASP which is equal to the SASP's direct costs of locating, inspecting, and transporting the surplus property. If a Participant elects to incur the responsibility and the expense for transporting the acquired property, the concern may do so and no transportation costs will be charged by the SASP. In addition, the SASP may charge a reasonable fee to cover its costs of administering the program. In no instance will any SASP charge a Participant more for any service than their established fees charged to other transferees.
(f)
Title.
Upon execution of the SASP distribution document, the Participant has conditional title only to the surplus personal property during the applicable period of restriction. Full title to the surplus personal property will vest in the donee only after the donee has met all of the requirements of this part.
(g)
Compliance.
(1) SBA will periodically review whether Participants that have received surplus property have used and maintained the property as agreed. This review may include site visits to visually inspect the property to ensure that it is being used in a manner consistent with the terms of its transfer.
(2) Participants must provide SBA with access to all relevant records upon request.
(3) Where SBA receives credible information that transferred surplus property may have been disposed of or otherwise used in a manner that is not consistent with the terms of the transfer, SBA may investigate such claim to determine its validity.
(4) SBA may take any action to correct any noncompliance involving the use of transferred property still in possession of the Participant or to enforce any terms, conditions, reservations, or restrictions imposed on the property by the distribution document. Actions to enforce compliance, or which may be taken as a result of noncompliance, include the following:
(i) Requiring that the property be placed in proper use within a specified time;
(ii) Requiring that the property be transferred to another Participant having a need and use for the property, returned to the SASP serving the area where the property is located for distribution to another eligible transferee or to another SASP, or transferred through GSA to another Federal agency;
(iii) Recovery of the fair rental value of the property from the date of its receipt by the Participant; and
(iv) Initiation of proceedings to terminate the Participant from the 8(a) BD program.
(5) Where SBA finds that a recipient has sold or otherwise disposed of the acquired surplus property in violation of the agreement covering sale and disposal, the Participant is liable for the agreed upon fair market value of the property at the time of the transfer, or the sale price, whichever is greater. However, a Participant need not repay any amount where it can demonstrate to SBA's satisfaction that the property is no longer useful for the purpose for which it was transferred and receives SBA's prior written consent to transfer
the property. For example, if a piece of equipment breaks down beyond repair, it may be disposed of without being subject to the repayment provision, so long as the concern receives SBA's prior consent.
(6) Any funds received by SBA in enforcement of this section will be remitted promptly to the Treasury of the United States as miscellaneous receipts.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 85 FR 69124, Nov. 2, 2020]

# Contractual Assistance
§ 124.501
What general provisions apply to the award of 8(a) contracts?
(a) Pursuant to section 8(a) of the Small Business Act, SBA is authorized to enter into all types of contracts with other Federal agencies regardless of the place of performance, including contracts to furnish equipment, supplies, services, leased real property, or materials to them or to perform construction work for them, and to contract the performance of these contracts to qualified Participants. This includes set-asides, partial set-asides and reserves of Multiple Award Contracts and set-asides of orders issued against Multiple Award Contracts. Where practicable, simplified acquisition procedures should be used for 8(a) contracts at or below the simplified acquisition threshold. Where appropriate, SBA will delegate the contract execution function to procuring activities. In order to receive and retain a delegation of SBA's contract execution and review functions, a procuring activity must report all 8(a) contract awards, modifications, and options to SBA.
(b) 8(a) contracts may either be sole source awards or awards won through competition with other Participants. In addition, for multiple award contracts not set aside for the 8(a) BD program, a procuring agency may award an 8(a) sole source order or set aside one or more specific orders to be competed only among eligible 8(a) Participants. Such an order may be awarded as an 8(a) award where the order was offered to and accepted by SBA as an 8(a) award and the order specifies that the performance of work and/or non-manufacturer rule requirements apply as appropriate. A procuring activity cannot restrict an 8(a) competition (for either a contract or order) to require SBA socioeconomic certifications other than 8(a) certification (
i.e.,
a competition cannot be limited only to business concerns that are both 8(a) and HUBZone, 8(a) and WOSB, or 8(a) and SDVO) or give evaluation preferences to firms having one or more other certifications.
(c) Admission into the 8(a) BD program does not guarantee that a Participant will receive 8(a) contracts.
(d) A requirement for possible award may be identified by SBA, a particular Participant or the procuring activity itself. SBA will submit the capability statements provided to SBA annually under § 124.403 to appropriate procuring activities for the purpose of matching requirements with Participants.
(e) Participants should market their capabilities to appropriate procuring activities to increase their prospects of receiving sole source 8(a) contracts.
(f) An 8(a) participant that identifies a requirement that appears suitable for award through the 8(a) BD program may request SBA to contact the procuring activity to request that the requirement be offered to the 8(a) BD program.
(g) Before a Participant may be awarded either a sole source or competitive 8(a) contract, SBA must determine that the Participant is eligible for award. SBA will determine eligibility at the time of its acceptance of the underlying requirement into the 8(a) BD program for a sole source 8(a) contract, and after the apparent successful offeror is identified for a competitive 8(a) contract. Where a joint venture is the apparent successful offeror in connection with a competitive 8(a) procurement or is offered a sole source order under a previously competitively awarded 8(a) multiple award contract, SBA will determine whether the 8(a) partner to the joint venture is eligible for award, but will not review the joint venture agreement to determine compliance with § 124. 513 (
see
§ 124.513(e)(1)). In any case in which an
8(a) Participant is determined to be ineligible, SBA will notify the 8(a) Participant of that determination. Eligibility is based on 8(a) BD program criteria, including whether the 8(a) Participant:
(1) Qualifies as a small business under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the requirement;
(2) Is in compliance with any applicable competitive business mix targets established or remedial measure imposed by § 124.509 that does not include the denial of future sole source 8(a) contracts;
(3) Complies with the continued eligibility reporting requirements set forth in § 124.112(b);
(4) Has a bona fide place of business in the applicable geographic area if the procurement is for construction;
(5) Has not received 8(a) contracts in excess of the dollar limits set forth in § 124.519 for a sole source 8(a) procurement;
(6) Has complied with the provisions of § 124.513(c) and (d) if it is seeking a sole source 8(a) award through a joint venture; and
(7) Can demonstrate that it, together with any similarly situated entity, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 124.510.
(h) For a sole source 8(a) procurement, a concern must be a current Participant in the 8(a) BD program at the time of award and must qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the contract or order on the date the contract or order is offered to the 8(a) BD program. If a firm's term of participation in the 8(a) BD program ends (or the firm otherwise exits the program) before a sole source 8(a) contract can be awarded, award cannot be made to that firm. This applies equally to sole source orders issued under multiple award contracts. For a competitive 8(a) procurement, a firm must be a current Participant eligible for award of the contract on the initial date specified for receipt of offers contained in the solicitation as provided in § 124.507(d).
(i) A Participant must certify that it qualifies as a small business under the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to each 8(a) contract. 8(a) BD program personnel will verify size prior to award of an 8(a) contract. If the Participant is not verified as small, it may request a formal size determination from the appropriate General Contracting Area Office under part 121 of this title.
(j) Any person or entity that misrepresents its status as a “small business concern owned and controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged individuals” in order to obtain any 8(a) contracting opportunity will be subject to possible criminal, civil and administrative penalties, including those imposed by section 16(d) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 645(d).
(k) In order to be awarded a sole source or competitive 8(a) construction contract, a Participant must have a bona fide place of business within the applicable geographic location determined by SBA. This will generally be the geographic area serviced by the SBA district office, a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), a contiguous county (whether in the same or different state), or the geographical area serviced by a contiguous SBA district office to where the work will be performed. A Participant with a bona fide place of business within a state will be deemed eligible for a construction contract anywhere in that state (even if that state is serviced by more than one SBA district office). SBA may also determine that a Participant with a bona fide place of business in the geographic area served by one of several SBA district offices or another nearby area is eligible for the award of an 8(a) construction contract.
(1) A Participant may have bona fide places of business in more than one location.
(2) In order for a Participant to establish a bona fide place of business in a particular geographic location, the SBA district office serving the geographic area of that location must determine if the location in fact qualifies as a bona fide place of business under SBA's requirements.
(i) A Participant must submit a request for a bona fide business determination to the SBA district office servicing it. Such request may, but
need not, relate to a specific 8(a) requirement. In order to apply to a specific competitive 8(a) solicitation, such request must be submitted at least 20 working days before initial offers that include price are due.
(ii) The servicing district office will immediately forward the request to the SBA district office serving the geographic area of the particular location for processing. Within 10 working days of receipt of the submission, the reviewing district office will conduct a site visit, if practicable. If not practicable, the reviewing district office will contact the Participant within such 10-day period to inform the Participant that the reviewing office has received the request and may ask for additional documentation to support the request.
(iii) In connection with a specific competitive solicitation, the reviewing office will make a determination whether or not the Participant has a bona fide place of business in its geographical area within 5 working days of a site visit or within 15 working days of its receipt of the request from the servicing district office if a site visit is not practical in that timeframe. If the request is not related to a specific procurement, the reviewing office will make a determination within 30 working days of its receipt of the request from the servicing district office, if practicable.
(A) Where SBA does not provide a determination within the identified time limit, a Participant may presume that SBA has approved its request for a bona fide place of business and submit an offer for a competitive 8(a) procurement that requires a bona fide place of business in the requested area.
(B) In order to be eligible for award, SBA must approve the bona fide place of business prior to award. If SBA has not provided a determination prior to the time that a Participant is identified as the apparent successful offeror, SBA will make the bona fide place of business determination as part of the eligibility determination set forth in paragraph (g)(4) of this section within 5 days of receiving a procuring activity's request for an eligibility determination, unless the procuring activity grants additional time for review. If, due to deficiencies in a Participant's request, SBA cannot make a determination, and the procuring activity does not grant additional time for review, SBA will be unable to verify the Participant's eligibility for award and the Participant will be ineligible for award.
(3) The effective date of a bona fide place of business is the date that the evidence (paperwork) shows that the business in fact regularly maintained its business at the new geographic location.
(4) If a Participant is currently performing a contract in a specific state, it qualifies as having a bona fide place of business in that state for one or more additional contracts. The Participant may not use contract performance in one state to allow it to be eligible for an 8(a) contract in a contiguous state unless it officially establishes a bona fide place of business in the location in which it is currently performing a contract, in the contiguous state or in a location in another state in which the geographical area serviced by the SBA district office is contiguous to the district office in the state where the work will be performed.
(5) A Participant may establish a bona fide place of business through a full-time employee in a home office.
(6) An individual designated as the full-time employee of the Participant seeking to establish a bona fide place of business in a specific geographic location need not be a resident of the state where he/she is conducting business.
(7) Except as provided in paragraph (k)(2)(iii) of this section, in order for a Participant to be eligible to submit an offer for an 8(a) procurement limited to a specific geographic area, it must receive from SBA a determination that it has a bona fide place of business within that area prior to submitting its offer for the procurement.
(8) Once a Participant has established a bona fide place of business, the Participant may change the location of the recognized office without prior SBA approval. However, the Participant must notify SBA and provide documentation demonstrating an office at that new location within 30 days after the move. Failure to timely notify SBA
will render the Participant ineligible for new 8(a) construction procurements limited to that geographic area.
(9) For an 8(a) construction contract requiring work in multiple locations, a Participant is eligible if:
(i) For a single award contract, the Participant has a bona fide place of business where a majority of the work (as identified by the dollar value of the work) is anticipated to be performed; and
(ii) For a multiple award contract, the Participant has a bona fide place of business in any location where work is to be performed.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 76 FR 8259, Feb. 11, 2011; 78 FR 61132, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66186, Oct. 16, 2020; 86 FR 2959, Jan. 14, 2021; 88 FR 26206, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.502
How does an agency offer a procurement to SBA for award through the 8(a) BD program?
(a) A procuring activity contracting officer indicates his or her formal intent to award a procurement requirement as an 8(a) contract by submitting a written offering letter to SBA.
(1) Except as set forth in § 124.503(a)(4)(ii) and § 124.503(i)(1)(ii), a procuring activity contracting officer must submit an offering letter for each intended 8(a) procurement, including follow-on 8(a) contracts, competitive 8(a) orders issued under non-8(a) multiple award contracts, and sole source 8(a) orders issued under 8(a) multiple award contracts.
(2) The procuring activity may transmit the offering letter to SBA by electronic mail, if available, or by facsimile transmission, as well as by mail or commercial delivery service.
(b) Contracting officers must submit offering letters to the following locations:
(1) For competitive 8(a) requirements and those sole source requirements for which no specific Participant is nominated (i.e., open requirements) other than construction requirements, to the SBA district office serving the geographical area in which the procuring activity is located;
(2) For competitive and open construction requirements, to the SBA district office serving the geographical area in which the work is to be performed or, in the case of such contracts to be performed overseas, to the Office of 8(a) BD located in SBA Headquarters;
(3) For sole source requirements offered on behalf of a specific Participant, to the SBA district office servicing that concern.
(c) An offering letter must contain the following information:
(1) A description of the work to be performed;
(2) The estimated period of performance;
(3) The NAICS code that applies to the principal nature of the acquisition;
(4) The anticipated dollar value of the requirement, including options, if any;
(5) Any special restrictions or geographical limitations on the requirement;
(6) The location of the work to be performed for construction procurements;
(7) Any special capabilities or disciplines needed for contract performance;
(8) The type of contract to be awarded, such as firm fixed price, cost reimbursement, or time and materials;
(9) The acquisition history, if any, of the requirement, including specifically whether the requirement is a follow-on requirement, and whether any portion of the contract was previously performed by a small business outside of the 8(a) BD program;
(10) The names and addresses of any small business contractors which have performed on this requirement during the previous 24 months;
(11) A statement that prior to the offering no solicitation for the specific acquisition has been issued as a small business set-aside, or as a small disadvantaged business set-aside if applicable, and that no other public communication (such as a notice in the Commerce Business Daily) has been made showing the procuring activity's clear intent to use any of these means of procurement;
(12) Identification of any specific Participant that the procuring activity contracting officer nominates for award of a sole source 8(a) contract, if
appropriate, including a brief justification for the nomination, such as one of the following:
(i) The Participant, through its own efforts, marketed the requirement and caused it to be reserved for the 8(a) BD program; or
(ii) The acquisition is a follow-on or renewal contract and the nominated concern is the incumbent;
(13) Bonding requirements, if applicable;
(14) Identification of all Participants which have expressed an interest in being considered for the acquisition;
(15) Identification of all SBA field offices which have requested that the requirement be awarded through the 8(a) BD program;
(16) A request, if appropriate, that a requirement whose estimated contract value is under the applicable competitive threshold be awarded as an 8(a) competitive contract;
(17) A statement that the necessary justification and approval under the Federal Acquisition Regulation has occurred where a requirement whose estimated contract value exceeds $25,000,000, or $100,000,000 in the case of Department of Defense contracts, is offered to SBA as a sole source requirement on behalf of a specific Participant; and
(18) Any other information that the procuring activity deems relevant or which SBA requests.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 86 FR 61672, Nov. 8, 2021; 88 FR 26206, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.503
How does SBA accept a procurement for award through the 8(a) BD program?
(a) Acceptance of the requirement. Upon receipt of the procuring activity's offer of a procurement requirement, SBA will determine whether it will accept the requirement for the 8(a) BD program. SBA's decision whether to accept the requirement will be sent to the procuring activity in writing within 10 business days of receipt of the written offering letter if the contract is valued at more than the simplified acquisition threshold, and within two business days of receipt of the offering letter if the contract is valued at or below the simplified acquisition threshold, unless SBA requests, and the procuring activity grants, an extension. SBA and the procuring activity may agree to a shorter timeframe for SBA's review under a Partnership Agreement delegating 8(a) contract execution functions to the agency. SBA is not required to accept any particular procurement offered to the 8(a) BD program.
(1) Where SBA decides to accept an offering of a sole source 8(a) procurement, SBA will accept the offer both on behalf of the 8(a) BD program and in support of a specific Participant. As part of its acceptance of a sole source requirement, SBA will determine the eligibility of the Participant identified in the offering letter, using the same analysis set forth in § 124.501(g). Where a procuring agency offers a sole source 8(a) procurement on behalf of a joint venture, SBA will conduct an eligibility review of the lead 8(a) party to the joint venture as part of its acceptance, and will approve the joint venture prior to award pursuant to § 124.513(e).
(2) Where SBA decides to accept an offering of a competitive 8(a) procurement, SBA will accept the offer on behalf of the 8(a) BD program. For a competitive 8(a) procurement, SBA will determine the eligibility of the apparent successful offeror pursuant to § 124.507(b).
(3) Where SBA has delegated its contract execution functions to a procuring activity, the procuring activity may assume that SBA accepts its offer for the 8(a) program if the procuring activity does not receive a reply to its offer within five days.
(4) In the case of procurement requirements valued at or below the Simplified Acquisition Procedures threshold:
(i) Where a procuring activity makes an offer to the 8(a) program on behalf of a specific Program Participant and does not receive a reply to its offer within two days, the procuring activity may assume the offer is accepted and proceed with award of an 8(a) contract;
(ii) Where SBA has delegated its 8(a) contract execution functions to an agency through a signed Partnership Agreement, SBA may authorize the procuring activity to award an 8(a)
contract below the simplified acquisition threshold without requiring an offer and acceptance of the requirement for the 8(a) BD program. However, the procuring activity must request SBA to determine the eligibility of the intended awardee prior to award. SBA shall review the 8(a) Participant's eligibility and issue an eligibility determination within two business days after a request from the procuring activity. If SBA does not respond within this timeframe, the procuring activity may assume the 8(a) Participant is eligible and proceed with award. The procuring activity shall provide a copy of the executed contract to the SBA servicing district office within fifteen business days of award.
(5) Where SBA does not respond to an offering letter within the normal 10 business-day time period, the procuring activity may seek SBA's acceptance through the AA/BD. The procuring activity may assume that SBA accepts its offer for the 8(a) program if it does not receive a reply from the AA/BD within 5 business days of his or her receipt of the procuring activity request.
(b)
Verification of NAICS code.
As part of the acceptance process, SBA will verify the appropriateness of the NAICS code designation assigned to the requirement by the procuring activity contracting officer.
(1) SBA will accept the NAICS code assigned to the requirement by the procuring activity contracting officer as long as it is reasonable, even though other NAICS codes may also be reasonable.
(2) If SBA and the procuring activity are unable to agree as to the proper NAICS code designation for the requirement, SBA may either refuse to accept the requirement for the 8(a) BD program, appeal the contracting officer's determination to the head of the agency pursuant to § 124.505, or appeal the NAICS code designation to OHA under part 134 of this title.
(c)
Sole source award where procuring activity nominates a specific Participant.
SBA will determine whether an appropriate match exists where the procuring activity identifies a particular Participant for a sole source award.
(1) Once SBA determines that a procurement is suitable to be accepted as an 8(a) sole source contract, SBA will normally accept it on behalf of the Participant recommended by the procuring activity, provided that:
(i) The procurement is consistent with the Participant's business plan;
(ii) The Participant complies with its applicable non-8(a) business activity target imposed by § 124.509(d);
(iii) The Participant is small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the requirement by the procuring activity contracting officer;
(iv) The Participant has submitted required financial statements to SBA; and
(v) The Participant can demonstrate that it, together with any similarly situated entity, will meet the limitations on subcontracting provisions set forth in § 124.510.
(2) If an appropriate match exists, SBA will advise the procuring activity whether SBA will participate in contract negotiations or whether SBA will authorize the procuring activity to negotiate directly with the identified Participant. Where SBA has delegated its contract execution functions to a procuring activity, SBA will also identify that delegation in its acceptance letter.
(3) If an appropriate match does not exist, SBA will notify the Participant and the procuring activity, and may then nominate an alternate Participant.
(d)
Open requirements.
When a procuring activity does not nominate a particular concern for performance of a sole source 8(a) contract (open requirement), the following additional procedures will apply:
(1) If the procurement is a construction requirement, SBA will examine the portfolio of Participants that have a bona fide place of business within the geographical boundaries served by the SBA district office where the work is to be performed to select a qualified Participant. If none is found to be qualified or a match for a concern in that district is determined to be impossible or inappropriate, SBA may nominate a Participant with a bona fide place of business within the geographical boundaries served by another district office within the same state, or
may nominate a Participant having a bona fide place of business out of state but within a reasonable proximity to the work site. SBA's decision will ensure that the nominated Participant is close enough to the work site to keep costs of performance reasonable.
(2) If the procurement is not a construction requirement, SBA may select any eligible, responsible Participant nationally to perform the contract.
(3) In cases in which SBA selects a Participant for possible award from among two or more eligible and qualified Participants, the selection will be based upon relevant factors, including business development needs, compliance with competitive business mix requirements (if applicable), financial condition, management ability, technical capability, and whether award will promote the equitable distribution of 8(a) contracts.
(e)
Withdrawal/substitution of offered requirement or Participant.
After SBA has accepted a requirement for award as a sole source 8(a) contract on behalf of a specific Participant (whether nominated by the procuring agency or identified by SBA for an open requirement), if the procuring agency believes that the identified Participant is not a good match for the procurement—including for such reasons as the procuring agency finding the Participant non-responsible or the negotiations between the procuring agency and the Participant otherwise failing—the procuring agency may seek to substitute another Participant for the originally identified Participant. The procuring agency must inform SBA of its concerns regarding the originally identified Participant and identify whether it believes another Participant could fulfill its needs.
(1) If the procuring agency and SBA agree that another Participant can fulfill its needs, the procuring agency will withdraw the original offering and reoffer the requirement on behalf of another 8(a) Participant. SBA will then accept the requirement on behalf of the newly identified Participant and authorize the procuring agency to negotiate directly with that Participant.
(2) If the procuring agency and SBA agree that another Participant cannot fulfill its needs, the procuring agency will withdraw the original offering letter and fulfill its needs outside the 8(a) BD program.
(3) If the procuring agency believes that another Participant cannot fulfill its needs, but SBA does not agree, SBA may appeal that decision to the head of the procuring agency pursuant to § 124.505(a)(2).
(f)
Formal technical evaluations.
Except for requirements for architectural and engineering services, SBA will not authorize formal technical evaluations for sole source 8(a) requirements. A procuring activity:
(1) Must request that a procurement be a competitive 8(a) award if it requires formal technical evaluations of more than one Participant for a requirement below the applicable competitive threshold amount; and
(2) May conduct informal assessments of several Participants' capabilities to perform a specific requirement, so long as the statement of work for the requirement is not released to any of the Participants being assessed.
(g)
Repetitive acquisitions.
A procuring activity contracting officer must submit a new offering letter to SBA where he or she intends to award a follow-on or repetitive contract as an 8(a) award.
(1) This enables SBA to determine:
(i) Whether the requirement should be a competitive 8(a) award;
(ii) A nominated firm's eligibility, whether or not it is the same firm that performed the previous contract;
(iii) The affect that contract award would have on the equitable distribution of 8(a) contracts; and
(iv) Whether the requirement should continue under the 8(a) BD program.
(2) Where a procuring agency seeks to reprocure a follow-on requirement through an 8(a) contracting vehicle which is not available to all 8(a) BD Program Participants (
e.g.,
a multiple award or Governmentwide acquisition contract that is itself an 8(a) contract), and the previous/current 8(a) award was not so limited, SBA will consider the business development purposes of the program in determining how to accept the requirement.
(h)
Basic Ordering Agreements (BOAs) and Blanket Purchase Agreements (BPAs).
Neither a Basic Ordering
Agreement (BOA) nor a Blanket Purchase Agreement (BPA) is a contract under the FAR.
See
48 CFR 13.303 and 48 CFR 16.703(a). Each order to be issued under a BOA or BPA is an individual contract. As such, the procuring activity must offer, and SBA must accept, each order under a BOA or BPA in addition to offering and accepting the BOA or BPA itself.
(1) SBA will not accept for award on a sole source basis any task order under a BOA or BPA that would cause the total dollar amount of task orders issued to exceed the applicable competitive threshold amount set forth in § 124.506(a).
(2) Where a procuring activity believes that task orders to be issued under a proposed BOA or BPA will exceed the applicable competitive threshold amount set forth in § 124.506(a), the procuring activity must offer the requirement to the program to be competed among eligible Participants.
(3) Once a concern's program term expires, the concern otherwise exits the 8(a) BD program, or becomes other than small for the NAICS code assigned under the BOA or BPA, new orders will not be accepted for the concern.
(4) A procuring agency may offer, and SBA may accept, an order issued under a BOA or BPA to be awarded through the 8(a) BD program where the BOA or BPA itself was not accepted for the 8(a) BD program, but rather was awarded on an unrestricted basis.
(i)
Task or Delivery Order Contracts, including Multiple Award Contracts
—(1)
Contracts set-aside for exclusive competition among 8(a) Participants.
(i) A task or delivery order contract, Multiple Award Contract, or order issued against a Multiple Award Contract that is set-aside exclusively for 8(a) Program Participants, partially set-aside for 8(a) Program Participants or reserved solely for 8(a) Program Participants must follow the established 8(a) competitive procedures. This includes an offering to and acceptance into the 8(a) program, SBA eligibility verification of the apparent successful offerors prior to contract award, compliance with the performance of work requirements set forth in § 124.510, and compliance with the nonmanufacturer rule (
see
§ 121.406(b)), if applicable.
(ii) An agency is not required to offer or receive acceptance of individual orders into the 8(a) BD program if the task or delivery order contract or Multiple Award Contract was set-aside exclusively for 8(a) Program Participants, partially set-aside for 8(a) Program Participants or reserved solely for 8(a) Program Participants, and the individual order is to be competed among all 8(a) contract holders. However, where the order includes work that was previously performed through another 8(a) contract, the procuring agency must notify and consult with SBA prior to issuing the order that it intends to procure such specified work through an order under an 8(a) Multiple Award Contract. Consultation with SBA does not require SBA concurrence or approval. Where that work is critical to the business development of a current Participant that previously performed the work through another 8(a) contract and that Participant is not a contract holder of the 8(a) Multiple Award Contract, SBA may request that the procuring agency fulfill the requirement through a competition available to all 8(a) BD Program Participants. SBA will provide any feedback in response to the procuring agency's notification within 10 business days.
(iii) A concern awarded a task or delivery order contract or Multiple Award Contract that was set-aside exclusively for 8(a) Program Participants, partially set-aside for 8(a) Program Participants or reserved solely for 8(a) Program Participants may generally continue to receive new orders even if it has grown to be other than small or has exited the 8(a) BD program, and agencies may continue to take SDB credit toward their prime contracting goals for orders awarded to 8(a) Participants. A procuring agency may seek to award an order only to a concern that is a current Participant in the 8(a) program at the time of the order. In such a case, the procuring agency will announce its intent to limit the award of the order to current 8(a) Participants and verify a contract holder's 8(a) BD status prior to issuing the order. Where a procuring agency seeks to award an order to a concern that is a current 8(a) Participant, a
concern must be an eligible Participant in accordance with § 124.501(g) as of the initial date specified for the receipt of offers contained in the order solicitation, or at the date of award of the order if there is no solicitation.
(iv) An agency may issue a sole source award against a Multiple Award Contract that has been set aside exclusively for 8(a) Program Participants, partially set-aside for 8(a) BD Program Participants or reserved solely for 8(a) Program Participants if the required dollar thresholds for sole source awards are met. Where an agency seeks to award an order on a sole source basis (
i.e.,
to one particular 8(a) contract holder without competition among all 8(a) contract holders), the agency must offer, and SBA must accept, the order into the 8(a) program on behalf of the identified 8(a) contract holder.
(A) To be eligible for the award of a sole source order, a concern must be a current Participant in the 8(a) BD program at the time of award of the order, qualify as small for the size standard corresponding to the NAICS code assigned to the order on the date the order is offered to the 8(a) BD program, and be in compliance with any applicable competitive business mix target established or remedial measure imposed by § 124.509. Where the intended sole source recipient is a joint venture, the 8(a) managing partner to the joint venture is the concern whose eligibility is considered.
(B) Where an agency seeks to issue a sole source order to a joint venture, the two-year restriction for joint venture awards set forth in § 121.103(h) does not apply and SBA will not review and approve the joint venture agreement as set forth in § 124.513(e)(1).
(2)
Allowing orders issued to 8(a) Participants under Multiple Award Contracts that were not set-aside for exclusive competition among eligible 8(a) Participants to be considered 8(a) awards.
In order for an order issued to an 8(a) Participant and placed against a Multiple Award Contract to be considered an 8(a) award, where the Multiple Award contract was not initially set-aside, partially set-aside or reserved for exclusive competition among 8(a) Participants, the following conditions must be met:
(i) The order must be offered to and accepted into the 8(a) BD program;
(ii) The order must be either an 8(a) sole source award or be competed exclusively among only the 8(a) awardees of the underlying multiple award contract. Where an agency seeks to issue an 8(a) competitive order under a multiple award contract that was awarded under full and open competition or as a small business set-aside, all eligible 8(a) BD Participants who are contract holders of the underlying multiple award contract must have the opportunity to compete for the order. Where an agency seeks to issue an 8(a) competitive order under the Federal Supply Schedule, an agency can utilize the procedures set forth in FAR subpart 8.4 (48 CFR part 8, subpart 8.4) to award to an eligible 8(a) BD Participant. Where an agency seeks to issue an 8(a) sole source order under a multiple award contract that was awarded under full and open competition or as a small business set-aside, the identified 8(a) Participant that is a contract holder of the underlying multiple award contract must be an eligible Participant on the date of the issuance of the order.
(iii) The order must require the concern comply with applicable limitations on subcontracting provisions (
see
§ 125.6) and the nonmanufacturer rule, if applicable, (
see
§ 121.406(b)) in the performance of the individual order; and
(iv) SBA must verify that a concern is an eligible 8(a) Participant in accordance with § 124.501(g) as of the initial date specified for the receipt of offers contained in the order solicitation, or at the date of award of the order if there is no solicitation. If a concern has exited the 8(a) BD program prior to that date, it will be ineligible for the award of the order.
(3)
Reserves.
A procuring activity must offer and SBA must accept a requirement that is reserved for 8(a) Participants (
i.e.,
an acquisition where the contracting officer states an intention to make one or more awards to only 8(a) Participants under full and open competition). However, a contracting officer does not have to offer the requirement to SBA where the acquisition has been reserved for small businesses, even if the contracting officer
states an intention to make one or more awards to several types of small business including 8(a) Participants since any such award to 8(a) Participants would not be considered an 8(a) contract award.
(j) Requirements where SBA has delegated contract execution authority. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, where SBA has delegated its 8(a) contract execution authority to the procuring activity, the procuring activity must still offer and SBA must still accept all requirements intended to be awarded as 8(a) contracts.
(k)
Contracting Among Small Business Programs
—(1)
Acquisitions Valued At or Below the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Micro-purchase Threshold but not exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. This requirement does not preclude a contracting officer from making an award to a small business under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB Programs.
(2)
Acquisitions Valued Above the Simplified Acquisition Threshold.
(i) The contracting officer shall set aside any acquisition with an anticipated dollar value exceeding the Simplified Acquisition Threshold (defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101) for small business concerns when there is a reasonable expectation that offers will be obtained from at least two small business concerns that are competitive in terms of quality and delivery and award will be made at fair market prices. However, after conducting market research, the contracting officer shall first consider a set-aside or sole source award (if the sole source award is permitted by statute or regulation) under the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs before setting aside the requirement as a small business set-aside. There is no order of precedence among the 8(a) BD, HUBZone, SDVO SBC or WOSB programs. The contracting officer must document the contract file with the rationale used to support the specific set-aside, including the type and extent of market research conducted. In addition, the contracting officer must document the contract file showing that the apparent successful offeror's System for Award Management (SAM) (or any successor system) certifications and associated representations were reviewed.
(ii) SBA believes that Progress in fulfilling the various small business goals, as well as other factors such as the results of market research, programmatic needs specific to the procuring agency, anticipated award price, and the acquisition history, will be considered in making a decision as to which program to use for the acquisition.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 70 FR 51248, Aug. 30, 2005; 71 FR 66444, Nov. 15, 2006; 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 75 FR 62280, Oct. 7, 2010; 76 FR 8259, Feb. 11, 2011; 77 FR 1860, Jan. 12, 2012; 78 FR 61133, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 84 FR 65661, Nov. 29, 2019; 85 FR 66187, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26206, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.503 were published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.504
What circumstances limit SBA's ability to accept a procurement for award as an 8(a) contract, and when can a requirement be released from the 8(a) BD program?
SBA will not accept a procurement for award as an 8(a) contract if the circumstances identified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section exist.
(a)
Prior intent to award as a small business set-aside, or use the HUBZone, Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business, or Women-Owned Small Business programs.
The procuring activity issued a solicitation for or otherwise expressed publicly a clear intent to award the contract as a small business set-aside, or to use the HUBZone, Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business, or Women-Owned Small Business programs prior to offering the requirement to SBA for award as an 8(a) contract. However, the AA/BD may permit the acceptance of the requirement under extraordinary circumstances.
(b)
Competition prior to offer and acceptance.
The procuring activity competed a requirement among 8(a) Participants prior to offering the requirement to SBA and did not clearly evidence its intent to conduct an 8(a) competitive acquisition.
(c)
Adverse impact.
SBA has made a written determination that acceptance of the procurement for 8(a) award would have an adverse impact on an individual small business, a group of small businesses located in a specific geographical location, or other small business programs. The adverse impact concept is designed to protect small business concerns which are performing Government contracts awarded outside the 8(a) BD program, and does not apply to follow-on or renewal 8(a) acquisitions. SBA will not consider adverse impact with respect to any requirement offered to the 8(a) program under the simplified acquisition threshold (as defined in the FAR at 48 CFR 2.101).
(1) In determining whether the acceptance of a requirement would have an adverse impact on an individual small business, SBA will consider all relevant factors.
(i) In connection with a specific small business, SBA presumes adverse impact to exist where:
(A) The small business concern has performed the specific requirement for at least 24 months;
(B) The small business is performing the requirement at the time it is offered to the 8(a) BD program, or its performance of the requirement ended within 30 days of the procuring activity's offer of the requirement to the 8(a) BD program; and
(C) The dollar value of the requirement that the small business is or was performing is 25 percent or more of its most recent annual gross sales (including those of its affiliates). For a multi-year requirement, the dollar value of the last 12 months of the requirement will be used to determine whether a small business would be adversely affected by SBA's acceptance.
(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, adverse impact does not apply to “new” requirements. A new requirement is one which has not been previously procured by the relevant procuring activity.
(A) Where a requirement is new, no small business could have previously performed the requirement and, thus, SBA's acceptance of the requirement for the 8(a) BD program will not adversely impact any small business.
(B) Procurements for construction services (
e.g.,
the building of a specific structure) are generally deemed to be new requirements. However, recurring indefinite delivery or indefinite quantity task or delivery order construction services are not considered new (
e.g.,
a recurring procurement requiring all construction work at base X).
(C) The expansion or modification of an existing requirement may be considered a new requirement where the magnitude of change is significant enough to cause a price adjustment of at least 25 percent (adjusted for inflation) or to require significant additional or different types of capabilities or work.
(D) SBA need not perform an impact determination where a new requirement is offered to the 8(a) BD program.
(2) In determining whether the acceptance of a requirement would have an adverse impact on a group of small businesses, SBA will consider the effects of combining or consolidating various requirements being performed by two or more small business concerns into a single contract which would be considered a “new” requirement as compared to any of the previous smaller requirements. SBA may find adverse impact to exist if one of the existing small business contractors meets the presumption set forth in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.
(3) In determining whether the acceptance of a requirement would have an adverse impact on other small business programs, SBA will consider all relevant factors, including but not limited to, the number and value of contracts in the subject industry in the 8(a) BD program as compared with other small business programs.
(4) SBA does not typically consider the value of a bridge contract when determining whether an offered procurement is a new requirement. A bridge contract is meant to be a temporary stop-gap measure intended to ensure the continuation of service while an
agency finalizes a long-term procurement approach.
(d)
Release for non-8(a) or limited 8(a) competition.
(1) Except as set forth in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, where a procurement is awarded as an 8(a) contract, its follow-on requirement must remain in the 8(a) BD program unless SBA agrees to release it for non-8(a) competition. Where a procurement will contain work currently performed under one or more 8(a) contracts, and the procuring agency determines that the procurement should not be considered a follow-on requirement to the 8(a) contract(s), the procuring agency must coordinate with the SBA District Office servicing the 8(a) incumbent firm and the SBA Procurement Center Representative assigned to the contracting activity initiating a non-8(a) procurement action that it intends to procure such specified work outside the 8(a) BD program through a requirement that it considers to be new. Such notification must identify the scope and dollar value of any work previously performed through another 8(a) contract and the scope and dollar value of the contract determined to be new. Additionally, a procuring agency must coordinate with SBA where it seeks to reprocure a follow-on requirement through a pre-existing limited contracting vehicle which is not available to all 8(a) BD Program Participants and the previous/current 8(a) award was not so limited. If a procuring agency would like to fulfill a follow-on requirement outside of the 8(a) BD program, it must make a written request to and receive the concurrence of the AA/BD to do so. In determining whether to release a requirement from the 8(a) BD program, SBA will consider:
(i) Whether the agency has achieved its SDB goal;
(ii) Where the agency is in achieving its HUBZone, SDVO, WOSB, or small business goal, as appropriate; and
(iii) Whether the requirement is critical to the business development of the 8(a) Participant that is currently performing it.
(2) SBA may decline to accept the offer of a follow-on or renewable 8(a) acquisition in order to give a concern previously awarded the contract that is leaving or has left the 8(a) BD program the opportunity to compete for the requirement outside of the 8(a) BD program.
(i) SBA will consider release under paragraph (2) only where:
(A) The procurement awarded through the 8(a) BD program is being or was performed by either a Participant whose program term will expire prior to contract completion, or by a former Participant whose program term expired within one year of the date of the offering letter;
(B) The concern requests in writing that SBA decline to accept the offer prior to SBA's acceptance of the requirement for award as an 8(a) contract; and
(C) The concern qualifies as a small business for the requirement now offered to the 8(a) BD program.
(ii) In considering release under paragraph (2), SBA will balance the importance of the requirement to the concern's business development needs against the business development needs of other Participants that are qualified to perform the requirement. This determination will include consideration of whether rejection of the requirement would seriously reduce the pool of similar types of contracts available for award as 8(a) contracts. SBA will also seek the views of the procuring agency.
(3) SBA may release a requirement under this paragraph only where the procuring activity agrees to procure the requirement as a small business, HUBZone, SDVO small business, or WOSB set-aside or otherwise identifies a procurement strategy that would emphasize or target small business participation.
(4) The requirement that a follow-on procurement must be released from the 8(a) BD program in order for it to be fulfilled outside the 8(a) BD program does not apply:
(i) Where previous orders were offered to and accepted for the 8(a) BD program pursuant to § 124.503(i)(2); or
(ii) Where a procuring agency will use a mandatory source (
see
FAR Subparts 8.6 and 8.7(48 CFR subparts 8.6 and 8.7)). In such a case, the procuring agency should notify SBA at least 30
days prior to the end of the contract or order.
[63 FR 35739, 35772, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 76 FR 8259, Feb. 11, 2011; 78 FR 61133, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 34260, May 31, 2016; 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 85 FR 66188, Oct. 16, 2020; 88 FR 26207, Apr. 27, 2023]

# Effective Date Note:
Amendments to § 124.504 were published at 89 FR 102489, Dec. 17, 2024, effective Jan. 16, 2025.
§ 124.505
When will SBA appeal the terms or conditions of a particular 8(a) contract or a procuring activity decision not to use the 8(a) BD program?
(a)
What SBA may appeal.
The Administrator of SBA may appeal the following matters to the head of the procuring agency:
(1) A contracting officer's decision not to make a particular procurement available for award as an 8(a) contract;
(2) A contracting officer's decision to reject a specific Participant for award of an 8(a) contract after SBA's acceptance of the requirement for the 8(a) BD program;
(3) A decision by a contracting officer that a particular procurement is a new requirement that is not subject to the release requirements set forth in § 124.504(d); and
(4) The terms and conditions of a proposed 8(a) contract, including the procuring activity's NAICS code designation and estimate of the fair market price.
(b)
Procedures for appeal.
(1) SBA must notify the contracting officer of the SBA Administrator's intent to appeal an adverse decision within 5 working days of SBA's receipt of the decision.
(2) Upon receipt of the notice of intent to appeal, the procuring activity must suspend further action regarding the procurement until the head of the procuring agency issues a written decision on the appeal, unless the head of the procuring agency makes a written determination that urgent and compelling circumstances which significantly affect interests of the United States will not permit waiting for a consideration of the appeal.
(3) The SBA Administrator must send a written appeal of the adverse decision to the head of the procuring agency within 15 working days of SBA's notification of intent to appeal or the appeal may be considered withdrawn.
(4) By statute (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(1)(A)), the procuring agency head must specify in writing the reasons for a denial of an appeal brought by the Administrator under this section.
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 85 FR 66189, Oct. 16, 2020]
§ 124.506
At what dollar threshold must an 8(a) procurement be competed among eligible Participants?
(a)
Competitive thresholds.
(1) The Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council (FAR Council) has the responsibility of adjusting each acquisition-related dollar threshold on October 1, of each year that is evenly divisible by five. Acquisition-related dollar thresholds are defined as dollar thresholds that are specified in law as a factor in defining the scope of the applicability of a policy, procedure, requirement, or restriction provided in that law to the procurement of property or services by an executive agency as determined by the FAR Council. 41 U.S.C. 431a(c). Part 124, Subpart A, 8(a) Business Development, contains acquisition-related dollar thresholds subject to inflationary adjustments. The FAR Council shall publish a notice of the adjusted dollar thresholds in the
Federal Register.
The adjusted dollar thresholds shall take effect on the date of publication.
(2) A procurement offered and accepted for the 8(a) BD program must be competed among eligible Participants if:
(i) There is a reasonable expectation that at least two eligible Participants will submit offers at a fair market price;
(ii) The anticipated award price of the contract, including options, will exceed $7,000,000 for contracts assigned manufacturing NAICS codes and $4,500,000 for all other contracts; and
(iii) The requirement has not been accepted by SBA for award as a sole source 8(a) procurement on behalf of a tribally-owned or ANC-owned concern.
(3) For all types of contracts, the applicable competitive threshold amounts will be applied to the procuring activity estimate of the total
value of the contract, including all options.

# Example to paragraph (a)(3).
If the anticipated award price for a professional services requirement is determined to be $3.8 million and it is accepted as a sole source 8(a) requirement on that basis, a sole source award will be valid even if the contract price arrived at after negotiation is $4.2 million.
(4) Where the estimate of the total value of a proposed 8(a) contract is less than the applicable competitive threshold amount and the requirement is accepted as a sole source requirement on that basis, award may be made even though the contract price arrived at through negotiations exceeds the competitive threshold, provided that the contract price is not more than ten percent greater than the competitive threshold amount.
(5) A proposed 8(a) requirement with an estimated value exceeding the applicable competitive threshold amount may not be divided into several separate procurement actions for lesser amounts in order to use 8(a) sole source procedures to award to a single contractor.
(b)
Exemption from competitive thresholds for Participants owned by Indian Tribes, ANCs and NHOs.
(1) A Participant concern owned and controlled by an Indian Tribe or an ANC may be awarded a sole source 8(a) contract where the anticipated value of the procurement exceeds the applicable competitive threshold if SBA has not accepted the requirement into the 8(a) BD program as a competitive procurement.
(2) A Participant concern owned and controlled by an NHO may be awarded a sole source Department of Defense (DoD) 8(a) contract where the anticipated value of the procurement exceeds the applicable competitive threshold if SBA has not accepted the requirement into the 8(a) BD program as a competitive procurement.
(3) There is no requirement that a procurement must be competed whenever possible before it can be accepted on a sole source basis for a tribally-owned or ANC-owned concern, or a concern owned by an NHO for DoD contracts. However, a current procurement requirement may not be removed from competition and awarded to a tribally-owned, ANC-owned or NHO-owned concern on a sole source basis (
i.e.,
a procuring agency may not evidence its intent to fulfill a requirement as a competitive 8(a) procurement, through the issuance of a competitive 8(a) solicitation or otherwise, cancel the solicitation or change its public intent, and then procure the requirement as a sole source 8(a) procurement to an entity-owned Participant). A follow-on requirement to one that was previously awarded as a competitive 8(a) procurement may be offered, accepted and awarded on a sole source basis to a tribally-owned or ANC-owned concern, or a concern owned by an NHO for DoD contracts.
(4) A joint venture between one or more eligible Tribally-owned, ANC-owned or NHO-owned Participants and one or more non-8(a) business concerns may be awarded sole source 8(a) contracts above the competitive threshold amount, provided that it meets the requirements of § 124.513.
(5) An agency may not award an 8(a) sole source contract for an amount exceeding $25,000,000, or $100,000,000 for an agency of the Department of Defense, unless the contracting officer justifies the use of a sole source contract in writing and has obtained the necessary approval under the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
(c)
Competition below thresholds.
The AA/BD, on a nondelegable basis, may approve a request from a procuring activity to compete a requirement that is below the applicable competitive threshold amount among eligible Participants.
(1) This authority will be used primarily when technical competitions are appropriate or when a large number of potential awardees exist.
(2) The AA/BD may consider whether the procuring activity has made and will continue to make available a significant number of its contracts to the 8(a) BD program on a noncompetitive basis.
(3) The AA/BD may deny a request if the procuring activity previously offered the requirement to the 8(a) BD program on a noncompetitive basis and the request is made following the inability of the procuring activity and the potential sole source awardee to
reach an agreement on price or some other material term or condition.
(d)
Sole source above thresholds.
Where a contract opportunity exceeds the applicable threshold amount and there is not a reasonable expectation that at least two eligible 8(a) Participants will submit offers at a fair price, the AA/BD may accept the requirement for a sole source 8(a) award if he or she determines that an eligible Participant in the 8(a) portfolio is capable of performing the requirement at a fair price. The AA/BD may also accept a requirement that exceeds the applicable competitive threshold amount for a sole source 8(a) award if he or she determines that a FAR exception (48 CFR 6.302) to full and open competition exists (e.g., unusual and compelling urgency). An agency may not award an 8(a) sole source contract under this paragraph for an amount exceeding $25,000,000, or $100,000,000 for an agency of the Department of Defense, unless the contracting officer justifies the use of a sole source contract in writing and has obtained the necessary approval under FAR § 19.808-1 or DFAR § 219.808-1(a).
[63 FR 35739, June 30, 1998, as amended at 74 FR 45753, Sept. 4, 2009; 74 FR 46887, Sept. 14, 2009; 76 FR 8260, Feb. 11, 2011; 78 FR 61133, Oct. 2, 2013; 81 FR 48582, July 25, 2016; 86 FR 61672, Nov. 8, 2021; 88 FR 26208, Apr. 27, 2023]
§ 124.507
What procedures apply to competitive 8(a) procurements?
(a)
FAR procedures.
Procuring activities will conduct competitions among and evaluate offers received from Participants in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR, chapter 1).
(b)
Eligibility determination by SBA.
In either a negotiated or sealed bid competitive 8(a) acquisition, the procuring activity will request that the SBA district office servicing the apparent successful offeror determine that firm's eligibility for award.
(1) Within 5 working days after receipt of a procuring activity's request for an eligibility determination, SBA will determine whether the firm identified by the procuring activity is eligible for award.
(2) SBA determines a Participant's eligibility pursuant to § 124.501(g).
(3) If SBA determines that the apparent successful offeror is ineligible, SBA will notify the procuring activity. The procuring activity will then send to SBA the identity of the next highest evaluated firm for an eligibility determination. The process is repeated until SBA determines that an identified offeror is eligible for award.
(4) Except to the extent set forth in paragraph (d) of this section, SBA determines whether a Participant is eligible for a specific 8(a) competitive requirement as of the date that the Participant submitted its initial offer which includes price.
(5) If the procuring activity contracting officer believes that the apparent successful offeror is not responsible to perform the contract, he or she must refer the concern to SBA for a possible Certificate of Competency in accord with § 125.5 of this title.
(c)
Restricted competition
—(1)
Construction competitions.
