(3) An owner or operator may request that compliance with the hydrogen chloride emissions limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established during the initial compliance test.
(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial compliance test for hydrogen chloride as required under § 60.8.
(5) Following the date of the initial compliance test or the date on which the initial compliance test is required under § 60.8, the owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall conduct a performance test for hydrogen chloride on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous compliance test).
(6) [Reserved]
(7) Not operating a sorbent injection system for the sole purpose of testing in order to demonstrate compliance with the percent reduction standards for MWC acid gases shall not be considered a
physical change in the method of operation
under 40 CFR 52.21, or under regulations approved pursuant to 40 CFR 51.166 or 40 CFR 51.165 (a) and (b).
(g) The following procedures and test methods shall be used to determine compliance with the nitrogen oxides limit under § 60.55a:
(1) Method 19, section 4.1, shall be used for determining the daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission rate.
(2) An owner or operator may request that compliance with the nitrogen oxides emissions limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established during the initial compliance test.
(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the nitrogen oxides limit under § 60.55a shall conduct an initial compliance test for nitrogen oxides as required under § 60.8. Compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission standard shall be determined by using a CEMS for measuring nitrogen oxides and calculating a 24-hour daily arithmetic average emission rate using Method 19, section 4.1, except as specified under paragraph (g)(4) of this section.
(4) For batch MWC's or MWC's that do not operate continuously, compliance shall be determined using a daily arithmetic average of all hourly average values for the hours during the day that the affected facility is combusting MSW.
(5) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the nitrogen oxides emissions limit under § 60.55a shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring nitrogen oxides discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system.
(6) Following the initial compliance test or the date on which the initial compliance test is required to be completed under § 60.8, compliance with the emission limit for nitrogen oxides required under § 60.55a shall be determined based on the arithmetic average of the arithmetic average hourly emission rates during each 24-hour daily period measured between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight using CEMS data.
(7) At a minimum valid CEMS data shall be obtained for 75 percent of the hours per day for 75 percent of the days per month the affected facility is operated and combusting MSW.
(8) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required by paragraph (g)(6) of this section shall be expressed in parts per million volume (dry basis) and used to calculate the 24-hour daily arithmetic average emission rates. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under
§ 60.13(b). At least two data points shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.
(9) All valid CEMS data must be used in calculating emission rates even if the minimum CEMS data requirements of paragraph (g)(7) of this section are not met.
(10) The procedures under § 60.13 shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the CEMS.
(11) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with Procedure 1 (appendix F of part 60).
(12) When nitrogen oxides emissions data are not obtained because of CEMS breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emission data calculations to determine compliance shall be made using other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator or Method 19 to provide as necessary valid emission data for a minimum of 75 percent of the hours per day for 75 percent of the days per month the unit is operated and combusting MSW.
(h) The following procedures shall be used for determining compliance with the operating standards under § 60.56a:
(1) Compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.56a(a) shall be determined using a 4-hour block arithmetic average for all types of affected facilities except mass burn rotary waterwall MWC's, RDF stokers, and spreader stoker/RDF mixed fuel-fired combustors.
(2) For affected mass burn rotary waterwall MWC's, RDF stokers, and spreader stoker/RDF mixed fuel-fired combustors, compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.56a(a) shall be determined using a 24-hour daily arithmetic average.
(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring carbon monoxide at the combustor outlet and record the output of the system.
(4) The 4-hour and 24-hour daily arithmetic averages in paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section shall be calculated from 1-hour arithmetic averages expressed in parts per million by volume (dry basis). The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points generated by the CEMS. At least two data points shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.
(5) An owner or operator may request that compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established during the initial compliance test.
(6) The following procedures shall be used to determine compliance with load level requirements under § 60.56a(b):
(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility with steam generation capability shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a steam flow meter or a feedwater flow meter; measure steam or feedwater flow in kilograms per hour (pounds per hour) on a continuous basis; and record the output of the monitor. Steam or feedwater flow shall be calculated in 4-hour block arithmetic averages.
(ii) The method included in “American Society of Mechanical Engineers Power Test Codes: Test Code for Steam Generating Units, Power Test Code 4.1—1964”, Section 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be used for calculating the steam (or feedwater flow) required under paragraph (h)(6)(i) of this section. The recommendations of “American Society of Mechanical Engineers Interim Supplement 19.5 on Instruments and Apparatus: Application, Part II of Fluid Meters, 6th edition (1971),” chapter 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) shall be followed for design, construction, installation, calibration, and use of nozzles and orifices except as specified in (h)(6)(iii) of this section.
(iii) Measurement devices such as flow nozzles and orifices are not required to be recalibrated after they are installed.
(iv) All signal conversion elements associated with steam (or feedwater flow) measurements must be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions before each dioxin/furan compliance and performance test, and at least once per year.
(v) The owner or operator of an affected facility without heat recovery shall:
(A) [Reserved]
(7) To determine compliance with the maximum particulate matter control device temperature requirements under § 60.56a(c), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device for measuring temperature of the flue gas stream at the inlet to the final particulate matter control device on a continuous basis and record the output of the device. Temperature shall be calculated in 4-hour block arithmetic averages.
(8) Maximum demonstrated MWC unit load shall be determined during the initial compliance test for dioxins/furans and each subsequent performance test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit under § 60.53a is achieved. Maximum demonstrated MWC unit load shall be the maximum 4-hour arithmetic average load achieved during the most recent test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan limit was achieved.
(9) The maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be determined during the initial compliance test for dioxins/furans and each subsequent performance test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit under § 60.53a is achieved. Maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be the maximum 4-hour arithmetic average temperature achieved at the final particulate matter control device inlet during the most recent test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan limit was achieved.
(10) At a minimum, valid CEMS data for carbon monoxide, steam or feedwater flow, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature shall be obtained 75 percent of the hours per day for 75 percent of the days per month the affected facility is operated and combusting MSW.
(11) All valid data must be used in calculating the parameters specified under paragraph (h) of this section even if the minimum data requirements of paragraph (h)(10) of this section are not met.
(12) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for carbon monoxide CEMS shall be performed in accordance with Procedure 1 (appendix F).
(i) [Reserved]
(j) The following procedures shall be used for calculating
MWC unit capacity
as defined under § 60.51a:
(1) For MWC units capable of combusting MSW continuously for a 24-hour period, MWC unit capacity, in megagrams per day (tons per day) of MSW combusted, shall be calculated based on 24 hours of operation at the maximum design charging rate. The design heating values under paragraph (j)(4) of this section shall be used in calculating the design charging rate.
(2) For batch MWC units, MWC unit capacity, in megagrams per day (tons per day) of MSW combusted, shall be calculated as the maximum design amount of MSW that can be charged per batch multiplied by the maximum number of batches that could be processed in a 24-hour period. The maximum number of batches that could be processed in a 24-hour period is calculated as 24 hours divided by the design number of hours required to process one batch of MSW, and may include fractional batches.
1
The design heating values under paragraph (j)(4) of this section shall be used in calculating the MWC unit capacity in megagrams per day (tons per day) of MSW.
1
For example, if one batch requires 16 hours, then 24/16, or 1.5 batches, could be combusted in a 24-hour period.
(3) [Reserved]
(4) The MWC unit capacity shall be calculated using a design heating value of 10,500 kilojoules per kilogram (4,500 British thermal units per pound) for all MSW.
[56 FR 5507, Feb. 11, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 65387, Dec. 19, 1995; 65 FR 61753, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.59a
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility located at an MWC plant with a capacity greater than 225 megagrams per day (250 tons per day) shall provide notification of intent to construct and of planned initial start-
up date and the type(s) of fuels that they plan to combust in the affected facility. The MWC unit capacity and MWC plant capacity and supporting capacity calculations shall be provided at the time of the notification of construction.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility located within a small or large MWC plant and subject to the standards under § 60.52a, § 60.53a, § 60.54a, § 60.55a, § 60.56a, or § 60.57a shall maintain records of the following information for each affected facility for a period of at least 2 years:
(1) Calendar date.
(2) The emission rates and parameters measured using CEMS as specified under (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) The following measurements shall be recorded in computer-readable format and on paper:
(A) All 6-minute average opacity levels required under § 60.58a(b).
(B) All 1 hour average sulfur dioxide emission rates at the inlet and outlet of the acid gas control device if compliance is based on a percent reduction, or at the outlet only if compliance is based on the outlet emission limit, as specified under § 60.58a(e).
(C) All 1-hour average nitrogen oxides emission rates as specified under § 60.58a(g).
(D) All 1-hour average carbon monoxide emission rates, MWC unit load measurements, and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under § 60.58a(h).
(ii) The following average rates shall be computed and recorded:
(A) All 24-hour daily geometric average percent reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions and all 24-hour daily geometric average sulfur dioxide emission rates as specified under § 60.58a(e).
(B) All 24-hour daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission rates as specified under § 60.58a(g).
(C) All 4-hour block or 24-hour daily arithmetic average carbon monoxide emission rates, as applicable, as specified under § 60.58a(h).
(D) All 4-hour block arithmetic average MWC unit load levels and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under § 60.58a(h).
(3) Identification of the operating days when any of the average emission rates, percent reductions, or operating parameters specified under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section or the opacity level exceeded the applicable limits, with reasons for such exceedances as well as a description of corrective actions taken.
(4) Identification of operating days for which the minimum number of hours of sulfur dioxide or nitrogen oxides emissions or operational data (carbon monoxide emissions, unit load, particulate matter control device temperature) have not been obtained, including reasons for not obtaining sufficient data and a description of corrective actions taken.
(5) Identification of the times when sulfur dioxide or nitrogen oxides emission or operational data (carbon monoxide emissions, unit load, particulate matter control device temperature) have been excluded from the calculation of average emission rates or parameters and the reasons for excluding data.
(6) The results of daily sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide CEMS drift tests and accuracy assessments as required under appendix F, Procedure 1.
(7) The results of all annual performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the particulate matter, dioxin/furan and hydrogen chloride limits. For all annual dioxin/furan tests, the maximum demonstrated MWC unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be recorded along with supporting calculations.
(8)-(15) [Reserved]
(c) Following the initial compliance test as required under §§ 60.8 and 60.58a, the owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall submit the initial compliance test data, the performance evaluation of the CEMS using the applicable performance specifications in appendix B, and the maximum demonstrated MWC unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature established during the dioxin/furan compliance test.
(d) [Reserved]
(e)(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall submit annual compliance reports for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide (if applicable), carbon monoxide, load level, and particulate matter control device temperature to the Administrator containing the information recorded under paragraphs (b)(1), (2)(ii), (4), (5), and (6) of this section for each pollutant or parameter. The hourly average values recorded under paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section are not required to be included in the annual reports. Combustors firing a mixture of medical waste and other MSW shall also provide the information under paragraph (b)(15) of this section, as applicable, in each annual report. The owner or operator of an affected facility must submit reports semiannually once the affected facility is subject to permitting requirements under Title V of the Act.
(2) The owner or operator shall submit a semiannual report for any pollutant or parameter that does not comply with the pollutant or parameter limits specified in this subpart. Such report shall include the information recorded under paragraph (b)(3) of this section. For each of the dates reported, include the sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxide, carbon monoxide, load level, and particulate matter control device temperature data, as applicable, recorded under paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(3) Reports shall be postmarked no later than the 30th day following the end of the annual or semiannual period, as applicable.
(f)(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall submit annual compliance reports, as applicable, for opacity. The annual report shall list the percent of the affected facility operating time for the reporting period that the opacity CEMS was operating and collecting valid data. Once the unit is subject to permitting requirements under Title V of the Act, the owner or operator of an affected facility must submit these reports semiannually.
(2) The owner or operator shall submit a semiannual report for all periods when the 6-minute average levels exceeded the opacity limit under § 60.52a. The semiannual report shall include all information recorded under paragraph (b)(3) of this section which pertains to opacity, and a listing of the 6-minute average opacity levels recorded under paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section, which exceeded the opacity limit.
(3) Reports shall be postmarked no later than the 30th day following the end of the annual of semiannual period, as applicable.
(g)(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility located within a large MWC plant shall submit reports to the Administrator of all annual performance tests for particulate matter, dioxin/furan, and hydrogen chloride as recorded under paragraph (b)(7) of this section, as applicable, from the affected facility. For each annual dioxin/furan compliance test, the maximum demonstrated MWC unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be reported. Such reports shall be submitted when available and in no case later than the date of required submittal of the annual report specified under paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, or within six months of the date the test was conducted, whichever is earlier.
(2) The owner or operator shall submit a report of test results which document any particulate matter, dioxin/furan, and hydrogen chloride levels that were above the applicable pollutant limit. The report shall include a copy of the test report documenting the emission levels and shall include the corrective action taken. Such reports shall be submitted when available and in no case later than the date required for submittal of any semiannual report required in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section, or within six months of the date the test was conducted, whichever is earlier.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) Records of CEMS data for opacity, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide, load level data, and particulate matter control device temperature data shall be maintained for at least 2 years after date of recordation and be made available for inspection upon request.
(j) Records showing the names of persons who have completed review of the operating manual, including the date
of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews, shall be maintained for at least 2 years after date of review and be made available for inspection upon request.
[56 FR 5507, Feb. 11, 1991, as amended at 60 FR 65387, Dec. 19, 1995; 64 FR 7465, Feb. 12, 1999]

# Subpart Eb—Standards of Performance for Large Municipal Waste Combustors for Which Construction is Commenced After September 20, 1994 or for Which Modification or Reconstruction is Commenced After June 19, 1996

# Source:
60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.50b
Applicability and delegation of authority.
(a) The affected facility to which this subpart applies is each municipal waste combustor unit with a combustion capacity greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste for which construction, modification, or reconstruction is commenced after September 20, 1994.
(b) Any waste combustion unit that is capable of combusting more than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste and is subject to a federally enforceable permit limiting the maximum amount of municipal solid waste that may be combusted in the unit to less than or equal to 11 tons per day is not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator:
(1) Notifies EPA of an exemption claim;
(2) Provides a copy of the federally enforceable permit that limits the firing of municipal solid waste to less than 11 tons per day; and
(3) Keeps records of the amount of municipal solid waste fired on a daily basis.
(c) An affected facility to which this subpart applies is not subject to subpart E or Ea of this part.
(d) Physical or operational changes made to an existing municipal waste combustor unit primarily for the purpose of complying with emission guidelines under subpart Cb are not considered a modification or reconstruction and do not result in an existing municipal waste combustor unit becoming subject to this subpart.
(e) A qualifying small power production facility, as defined in section 3(17)(C) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(17)(C)), that burns homogeneous waste (such as automotive tires or used oil, but not including refuse-derived fuel) for the production of electric energy is not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator of the facility notifies EPA of this exemption and provides data documenting that the facility qualifies for this exemption.
(f) A qualifying cogeneration facility, as defined in section 3(18)(B) of the Federal Power Act (16 U.S.C. 796(18)(B)), that burns homogeneous waste (such as automotive tires or used oil, but not including refuse-derived fuel) for the production of electric energy and steam or forms of useful energy (such as heat) that are used for industrial, commercial, heating, or cooling purposes, is not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator of the facility notifies EPA of this exemption and provides data documenting that the facility qualifies for this exemption.
(g) Any unit combusting a single-item waste stream of tires is not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator of the unit:
(1) Notifies EPA of an exemption claim; and
(2) [Reserved]
(3) Provides data documenting that the unit qualifies for this exemption.
(h) Any unit required to have a permit under section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act is not subject to this subpart.
(i) Any materials recovery facility (including primary or secondary smelters) that combusts waste for the primary purpose of recovering metals is not subject to this subpart.
(j) Any cofired combustor, as defined under § 60.51b, that meets the capacity specifications in paragraph (a) of this section is not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator of the cofired combustor:
(1) Notifies EPA of an exemption claim;
(2) Provides a copy of the federally enforceable permit (specified in the definition of cofired combustor in this section); and
(3) Keeps a record on a calendar quarter basis of the weight of municipal solid waste combusted at the cofired combustor and the weight of all other fuels combusted at the cofired combustor.
(k) Air curtain incinerators, as defined under § 60.51b, located at a plant that meet the capacity specifications in paragraph (a) of this section and that combust a fuel stream composed of 100 percent yard waste are exempt from all provisions of this subpart except the opacity limit under § 60.56b, the testing procedures under § 60.58b(l), and the reporting and recordkeeping provisions under § 60.59b (e) and (i).
(l) Air curtain incinerators located at plants that meet the capacity specifications in paragraph (a) of this section combusting municipal solid waste other than yard waste are subject to all provisions of this subpart.
(m) Pyrolysis/combustion units that are an integrated part of a plastics/rubber recycling unit (as defined in § 60.51b) are not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator of the plastics/rubber recycling unit keeps records of the weight of plastics, rubber, and/or rubber tires processed on a calendar quarter basis; the weight of chemical plant feedstocks and petroleum refinery feedstocks produced and marketed on a calendar quarter basis; and the name and address of the purchaser of the feedstocks. The combustion of gasoline, diesel fuel, jet fuel, fuel oils, residual oil, refinery gas, petroleum coke, liquified petroleum gas, propane, or butane produced by chemical plants or petroleum refineries that use feedstocks produced by plastics/rubber recycling units are not subject to this subpart.
(n) The following authorities are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to a State:
(1) Approval of exemption claims in paragraphs (b), (e), (f), (g) and (j) of this section;
(2) Enforceability under Federal law of all Federally enforceable, as defined in § 60.51b, limitations and conditions;
(3) Determination of compliance with the siting requirements as specified in § 60.57b(a);
(4) Acceptance of relationship between carbon monoxide and oxygen as part of initial and annual performance tests as specified in § 60.58b(b)(7);
(5) Approval of other monitoring systems used to obtain emissions data when data is not obtained by CEMS as specified in § 60.58b(e)(14), (h)(12), (i)(11), and (n)(14), and (p)(11);
(6) Approval of a site-specific monitoring plan for the continuous emission monitoring system specified in “60.58b(n)(13) and (o) of this section or the continuous automated sampling system specified in § 60.58b(p)(10) and (q) of this section;
(7) Approval of major alternatives to test methods;
(8) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring;
(9) Waiver of recordkeeping; and
(10) Performance test and data reduction waivers under “608(b).
(o) This subpart shall become effective June 19, 1996.
(p) Cement kilns firing municipal solid waste are not subject to this subpart.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45120, 45125, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 27335, May 10, 2006]
§ 60.51b
Definitions.
Administrator means:
(1) For approved and effective State Section 111(d)/129 plans, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or employee of the State air pollution control agency that is delegated the authority to perform the specified task;
(2) For Federal Section 111(d)/129 plans, the Administrator of the EPA, an employee of the EPA, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or employee of the State air pollution control agency to whom the authority has been delegated by the Administrator of the EPA to perform the specified task; and
(3) For NSPS, the Administrator of the EPA, an employee of the EPA, the Director of the State air pollution control agency, or employee of the State air pollution control agency to whom the authority has been delegated by
the Administrator of the EPA to perform the specified task.
Air curtain incinerator
means an incinerator that operates by forcefully projecting a curtain of air across an open chamber or pit in which burning occurs. Incinerators of this type can be constructed above or below ground and with or without refractory walls and floor.
Batch municipal waste combustor
means a municipal waste combustor unit designed so that it cannot combust municipal solid waste continuously 24 hours per day because the design does not allow waste to be fed to the unit or ash to be removed while combustion is occurring.
Bubbling fluidized bed combustor
means a fluidized bed combustor in which the majority of the bed material remains in a fluidized state in the primary combustion zone.
Calendar quarter
means a consecutive 3-month period (nonoverlapping) beginning on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1.
Calendar year
means the period including 365 days starting January 1 and ending on December 31.
Chief facility operator
means the person in direct charge and control of the operation of a municipal waste combustor and who is responsible for daily onsite supervision, technical direction, management, and overall performance of the facility.
Circulating fluidized bed combustor
means a fluidized bed combustor in which the majority of the fluidized bed material is carried out of the primary combustion zone and is transported back to the primary zone through a recirculation loop.
Clean wood
means untreated wood or untreated wood products including clean untreated lumber, tree stumps (whole or chipped), and tree limbs (whole or chipped). Clean wood does not include yard waste, which is defined elsewhere in this section, or construction, renovation, and demolition wastes (including but not limited to railroad ties and telephone poles), which are exempt from the definition of municipal solid waste in this section.
Cofired combustor
means a unit combusting municipal solid waste with nonmunicipal solid waste fuel (e.g., coal, industrial process waste) and subject to a federally enforceable permit limiting the unit to combusting a fuel feed stream, 30 percent or less of the weight of which is comprised, in aggregate, of municipal solid waste as measured on a calendar quarter basis.
Continuous automated sampling system
means the total equipment and procedures for automated sample collection and sample recovery/analysis to determine a pollutant concentration or emission rate by collecting a single or multiple integrated sample(s) of the pollutant (or diluent gas) for subsequent on-or off-site analysis; integrated sample(s) collected are representative of the emissions for the sample time as specified by the applicable requirement.
Continuous emission monitoring system
means a monitoring system for continuously measuring the emissions of a pollutant from an affected facility.
Dioxin/furan
means tetra- through octa- chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
EPA
means the Administrator of the U.S. EPA or employee of the U.S. EPA who is delegated to perform the specified task.
Federally enforceable
means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by EPA including the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, 40 CFR part 61, and 40 CFR part 63, requirements within any applicable State implementation plan, and any permit requirements established under 40 CFR 52.21 or under 40 CFR 51.18 and 40 CFR 51.24.
First calendar half
means the period starting on January 1 and ending on June 30 in any year.
Four-hour block average
or
4-hour block average
means the average of all hourly emission concentrations when the affected facility is operating and combusting municipal solid waste measured over 4-hour periods of time from 12:00 midnight to 4 a.m., 4 a.m. to 8 a.m., 8 a.m. to 12:00 noon, 12:00 noon to 4 p.m., 4 p.m. to 8 p.m., and 8 p.m. to 12:00 midnight.
Mass burn refractory municipal waste combustor
means a field-erected combustor that combusts municipal solid
waste in a refractory wall furnace. Unless otherwise specified, this includes combustors with a cylindrical rotary refractory wall furnace.
Mass burn rotary waterwall municipal waste combustor
means a field-erected combustor that combusts municipal solid waste in a cylindrical rotary waterwall furnace or on a tumbling-tile grate.
Mass burn waterwall municipal waste combustor
means a field-erected combustor that combusts municipal solid waste in a waterwall furnace.
Materials separation plan
means a plan that identifies both a goal and an approach to separate certain components of municipal solid waste for a given service area in order to make the separated materials available for recycling. A materials separation plan may include elements such as dropoff facilities, buy-back or deposit-return incentives, curbside pickup programs, or centralized mechanical separation systems. A materials separation plan may include different goals or approaches for different subareas in the service area, and may include no materials separation activities for certain subareas or, if warranted, an entire service area.
Maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load
means the highest 4-hour arithmetic average municipal waste combustor unit load achieved during four consecutive hours during the most recent dioxin/furan performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable limit for municipal waste combustor organics specified under § 60.52b(c).
Maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature
means the highest 4-hour arithmetic average flue gas temperature measured at the particulate matter control device inlet during four consecutive hours during the most recent dioxin/furan performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable limit for municipal waste combustor organics specified under § 60.52b(c).
Modification
or
modified municipal waste combustor unit
means a municipal waste combustor unit to which changes have been made after June 19, 1996 if the cumulative cost of the changes, over the life of the unit, exceed 50 percent of the original cost of construction and installation of the unit (not including the cost of any land purchased in connection with such construction or installation) updated to current costs; or any physical change in the municipal waste combustor unit or change in the method of operation of the municipal waste combustor unit increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted by the unit for which standards have been established under section 129 or section 111. Increases in the amount of any air pollutant emitted by the municipal waste combustor unit are determined at 100-percent physical load capability and downstream of all air pollution control devices, with no consideration given for load restrictions based on permits or other nonphysical operational restrictions.
Modular excess-air municipal waste combustor
means a combustor that combusts municipal solid waste and that is not field-erected and has multiple combustion chambers, all of which are designed to operate at conditions with combustion air amounts in excess of theoretical air requirements.
Modular starved-air municipal waste combustor
means a combustor that combusts municipal solid waste and that is not field-erected and has multiple combustion chambers in which the primary combustion chamber is designed to operate at substoichiometric conditions.
Municipal solid waste
or
municipal-type solid waste
or
MSW
means household, commercial/retail, and/or institutional waste. Household waste includes material discarded by single and multiple residential dwellings, hotels, motels, and other similar permanent or temporary housing establishments or facilities. Commercial/retail waste includes material discarded by stores, offices, restaurants, warehouses, nonmanufacturing activities at industrial facilities, and other similar establishments or facilities. Institutional waste includes material discarded by schools, nonmedical waste discarded by hospitals, material discarded by nonmanufacturing activities at prisons and government facilities, and material discarded by other similar establishments
or facilities. Household, commercial/retail, and institutional waste does not include used oil; sewage sludge; wood pallets; construction, renovation, and demolition wastes (which includes but is not limited to railroad ties and telephone poles); clean wood; industrial process or manufacturing wastes; medical waste; or motor vehicles (including motor vehicle parts or vehicle fluff). Household, commercial/retail, and institutional wastes include:
(1) Yard waste;
(2) Refuse-derived fuel; and
(3) Motor vehicle maintenance materials limited to vehicle batteries and tires except as specified in § 60.50b(g).
Municipal waste combustor, MWC,
or
municipal waste combustor unit:
(1) Means any setting or equipment that combusts solid, liquid, or gasified municipal solid waste including, but not limited to, field-erected incinerators (with or without heat recovery), modular incinerators (starved-air or excess-air), boilers (i.e., steam generating units), furnaces (whether suspension-fired, grate-fired, mass-fired, air curtain incinerators, or fluidized bed-fired), and pyrolysis/combustion units. Municipal waste combustors do not include pyrolysis/combustion units located at a plastics/rubber recycling unit (as specified in § 60.50b(m)). Municipal waste combustors do not include cement kilns firing municipal solid waste (as specified in § 60.50b(p)). Municipal waste combustors do not include internal combustion engines, gas turbines, or other combustion devices that combust landfill gases collected by landfill gas collection systems.
(2) The boundaries of a municipal solid waste combustor are defined as follows. The municipal waste combustor unit includes, but is not limited to, the municipal solid waste fuel feed system, grate system, flue gas system, bottom ash system, and the combustor water system. The municipal waste combustor boundary starts at the municipal solid waste pit or hopper and extends through:
(i) The combustor flue gas system, which ends immediately following the heat recovery equipment or, if there is no heat recovery equipment, immediately following the combustion chamber,
(ii) The combustor bottom ash system, which ends at the truck loading station or similar ash handling equipment that transfer the ash to final disposal, including all ash handling systems that are connected to the bottom ash handling system; and
(iii) The combustor water system, which starts at the feed water pump and ends at the piping exiting the steam drum or superheater.
(3) The municipal waste combustor unit does not include air pollution control equipment, the stack, water treatment equipment, or the turbine-generator set.
Municipal waste combustor acid gases
means all acid gases emitted in the exhaust gases from municipal waste combustor units including, but not limited to, sulfur dioxide and hydrogen chloride gases.
Municipal waste combustor metals
means metals and metal compounds emitted in the exhaust gases from municipal waste combustor units.
Municipal waste combustor organics
means organic compounds emitted in the exhaust gases from municipal waste combustor units and includes tetra-through octa- chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans.
Municipal waste combustor plant
means one or more affected facilities (as defined in § 60.50b) at the same location.
Municipal waste combustor unit capacity
means the maximum charging rate of a municipal waste combustor unit expressed in tons per day of municipal solid waste combusted, calculated according to the procedures under § 60.58b(j). Section 60.58b(j) includes procedures for determining municipal waste combustor unit capacity for continuous and batch feed municipal waste combustors.
Municipal waste combustor unit load
means the steam load of the municipal waste combustor unit measured as specified in § 60.58b(i)(6).
Particulate matter
means total particulate matter emitted from municipal waste combustor units as measured by EPA Reference Method 5 (see § 60.58b(c)).
Plastics/rubber recycling unit
means an integrated processing unit where plastics, rubber, and/or rubber tires are the
only feed materials (incidental contaminants may be included in the feed materials) and they are processed into a chemical plant feedstock or petroleum refinery feedstock, where the feedstock is marketed to and used by a chemical plant or petroleum refinery as input feedstock. The combined weight of the chemical plant feedstock and petroleum refinery feedstock produced by the plastics/rubber recycling unit on a calendar quarter basis shall be more than 70 percent of the combined weight of the plastics, rubber, and rubber tires processed by the plastics/rubber recycling unit on a calendar quarter basis. The plastics, rubber, and/or rubber tire feed materials to the plastics/rubber recycling unit may originate from the separation or diversion of plastics, rubber, or rubber tires from MSW or industrial solid waste, and may include manufacturing scraps, trimmings, and off-specification plastics, rubber, and rubber tire discards. The plastics, rubber, and rubber tire feed materials to the plastics/rubber recycling unit may contain incidental contaminants (e.g., paper labels on plastic bottles, metal rings on plastic bottle caps, etc.).
Potential hydrogen chloride emission concentration
means the hydrogen chloride emission concentration that would occur from combustion of municipal solid waste in the absence of any emission controls for municipal waste combustor acid gases.
Potential mercury emission concentration
means the mercury emission concentration that would occur from combustion of municipal solid waste in the absence of any mercury emissions control.
Potential sulfur dioxide emissions
means the sulfur dioxide emission concentration that would occur from combustion of municipal solid waste in the absence of any emission controls for municipal waste combustor acid gases.
Pulverized coal/refuse-derived fuel mixed fuel-fired combustor
means a combustor that fires coal and refuse-derived fuel simultaneously, in which pulverized coal is introduced into an air stream that carries the coal to the combustion chamber of the unit where it is fired in suspension. This includes both conventional pulverized coal and micropulverized coal.
Pyrolysis/combustion unit
means a unit that produces gases, liquids, or solids through the heating of municipal solid waste, and the gases, liquids, or solids produced are combusted and emissions vented to the atmosphere.
Reconstruction
means rebuilding a municipal waste combustor unit for which the reconstruction commenced after June 19, 1996, and the cumulative costs of the construction over the life of the unit exceed 50 percent of the original cost of construction and installation of the unit (not including any cost of land purchased in connection with such construction or installation) updated to current costs (current dollars).
Refractory unit
or
refractory wall furnace
means a combustion unit having no energy recovery (e.g., via a waterwall) in the furnace (i.e., radiant heat transfer section) of the combustor.
Refuse-derived fuel
means a type of municipal solid waste produced by processing municipal solid waste through shredding and size classification. This includes all classes of refuse-derived fuel including low-density fluff refuse-derived fuel through densified refuse-derived fuel and pelletized refuse-derived fuel.
Refuse-derived fuel stoker
means a steam generating unit that combusts refuse-derived fuel in a semisuspension firing mode using air-fed distributors.
Same location
means the same or contiguous property that is under common ownership or control including properties that are separated only by a street, road, highway, or other public right-of-way. Common ownership or control includes properties that are owned, leased, or operated by the same entity, parent entity, subsidiary, subdivision, or any combination thereof including any municipality or other governmental unit, or any quasi-governmental authority (e.g., a public utility district or regional waste disposal authority).
Second calendar half
means the period starting July 1 and ending on December 31 in any year.
Shift supervisor
means the person who is in direct charge and control of the
operation of a municipal waste combustor and who is responsible for onsite supervision, technical direction, management, and overall performance of the facility during an assigned shift.
Spreader stoker coal/refuse-derived fuel mixed fuel-fired combustor
means a combustor that fires coal and refuse-derived fuel simultaneously, in which coal is introduced to the combustion zone by a mechanism that throws the fuel onto a grate from above. Combustion takes place both in suspension and on the grate.
Standard conditions
means a temperature of 20 °C and a pressure of 101.3 kilopascals.
Total mass dioxin/furan
or
total mass
means the total mass of tetra- through octa- chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans, as determined using EPA Reference Method 23 and the procedures specified under § 60.58b(g).
Tumbling-tile
means a grate tile hinged at one end and attached to a ram at the other end. When the ram extends, the grate tile rotates around the hinged end.
Twenty-four hour daily average
or
24-hour daily average
means either the arithmetic mean or geometric mean (as specified) of all hourly emission concentrations when the affected facility is operating and combusting municipal solid waste measured over a 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight.
Untreated lumber
means wood or wood products that have been cut or shaped and include wet, air-dried, and kiln-dried wood products. Untreated lumber does not include wood products that have been painted, pigment-stained, or “pressure-treated.” Pressure-treating compounds include, but are not limited to, chromate copper arsenate, pentachlorophenol, and creosote.
Waterwall furnace
means a combustion unit having energy (heat) recovery in the furnace (i.e., radiant heat transfer section) of the combustor.
Yard waste
means grass, grass clippings, bushes, shrubs, and clippings from bushes and shrubs that are generated by residential, commercial/retail, institutional, and/or industrial sources as part of maintenance activities associated with yards or other private or public lands. Yard waste does not include construction, renovation, and demolition wastes, which are exempt from the definition of municipal solid waste in this section. Yard waste does not include clean wood, which is exempt from the definition of municipal solid waste in this section.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45121, 45126, Aug. 25, 1997; 66 FR 36476, July 12, 2001; 71 FR 27335, May 10, 2006]
§ 60.52b
Standards for municipal waste combustor metals, acid gases, organics, and nitrogen oxides.
(a) The limits for municipal waste combustor metals are specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.
(1) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain particulate matter in excess of the limits specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 20, 1994, and on or before December 19, 2005, the emission limit is 24 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen.
(ii) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after December 19, 2005, the emission limit is 20 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen.
(2) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that exhibit greater than 10 percent opacity (6-minute average).
(3) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into
the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain cadmium in excess of the limits specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 20, 1994, and on or before December 19, 2005, the emission limit is 20 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen.
(ii) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after December 19, 2005, the emission limit is 10 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen.
(4) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases that contain lead in excess of the limits specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i) or (a)(4)(ii) of this section.
(i) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 20, 1994, and on or before December 19, 2005, the emission limit is 200 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen.
(ii) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after December 19, 2005, the emission limit is 140 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter, corrected to 7 percent oxygen.
(5) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases that contain mercury in excess of the limits specified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (a)(5)(ii) of this section.
(i) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after September 20, 1994 and on or before December 19, 2005, the emission limit is 80 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter or 15 percent of the potential mercury emission concentration (85-percent reduction by weight), corrected to 7 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent.
(ii) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after December 19, 2005, the emission limit is 50 micrograms per dry standard cubic meter, or 15 percent of the potential mercury emission concentration (85-percent reduction by weight), corrected to 7 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent.
(b) The limits for municipal waste combustor acid gases are specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain sulfur dioxide in excess of 30 parts per million by volume or 20 percent of the potential sulfur dioxide emission concentration (80-percent reduction by weight or volume), corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis), whichever is less stringent. The averaging time is specified under § 60.58b(e).
(2) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain hydrogen chloride in excess of 25 parts per million by volume or 5 percent of the potential hydrogen chloride emission concentration (95-percent reduction by weight or volume), corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis), whichever is less stringent.
(c) The limits for municipal waste combustor organics are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
(1) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility for which construction, modification or reconstruction commences on
or before November 20, 1997 shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain dioxin/furan emissions that exceed 30 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), corrected to 7 percent oxygen, for the first 3 years following the date of initial startup. After the first 3 years following the date of initial startup, no owner or operator shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain dioxin/furan total mass emissions that exceed 13 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), corrected to 7 percent oxygen.
(2) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility for which construction, modification, or reconstruction commences after November 20, 1997 shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain dioxin/furan total mass emissions that exceed 13 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), corrected to 7 percent oxygen.
(d) The limits for nitrogen oxides are specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section.
(1) During the first year of operation after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain nitrogen oxides in excess of 180 parts per million by volume, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis). The averaging time is specified under § 60.58b(h).
(2) After the first year of operation following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain nitrogen oxides in excess of 150 parts per million by volume, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis). The averaging time is specified under § 60.58b(h).
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45121, 45126, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 27336, May 10, 2006]
§ 60.53b
Standards for municipal waste combustor operating practices.
(a) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that affected facility any gases that contain carbon monoxide in excess of the emission limits specified in table 1 of this subpart.
Table 1—Municipal Waste Combustor Operating Standards
Municipal waste combustor technology
Carbon monoxide emission limit (parts per million by volume)
a
Averaging time (hours)
b
Mass burn waterwall
100
4
Mass burn refractory
100
4
Mass burn rotary waterwall
100
24
Modular starved air
50
4
Modular excess air
50
4
Refuse-derived fuel stoker
150
24
Bubbling fluidized bed combustor
100
4
Circulating fluidized bed combustor
100
4
Pulverized coal/refuse-derived fuel mixed fuel-fired combustor
150
4
Spreader stoker coal/refuse-derived fuel mixed fuel-fired combustor
150
24
a
Measured at the combustor outlet in conjunction with a measurement of oxygen concentration, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis). The averaging times are specified in greater detail in § 60.58b(i).
b
Averaging times are 4-hour or 24-hour block averages.
(b) No owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause such facility to operate at a load level greater than 110 percent of the maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load as defined in § 60.51b, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. The averaging time is specified under § 60.58b(i).
(1) During the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test and the 2 weeks preceding the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test, no municipal waste combustor unit load limit is applicable if the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section are met.
(2) The municipal waste combustor unit load limit may be waived in writing by the Administrator for the purpose of evaluating system performance, testing new technology or control technologies, diagnostic testing, or related activities for the purpose of improving facility performance or advancing the state-of-the-art for controlling facility emissions. The municipal waste combustor unit load limit continues to apply, and remains enforceable, until and unless the Administrator grants the waiver.
(c) No owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause such facility to operate at a temperature, measured at the particulate matter control device inlet, exceeding 17 °C above the maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature as defined in § 60.51b, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. The averaging time is specified under § 60.58b(i). The requirements specified in this paragraph apply to each particulate matter control device utilized at the affected facility.
(1) During the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test and the 2 weeks preceding the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test, no particulate matter control device temperature limitations are applicable if the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section are met.
(2) The particulate matter control device temperature limits may be waived in writing by the Administrator for the purpose of evaluating system performance, testing new technology or control technologies, diagnostic testing, or related activities for the purpose of improving facility performance or advancing the state-of-the-art for controlling facility emissions. The temperature limits continue to apply, and remain enforceable, until and unless the Administrator grants the waiver.
(d) Paragraph (m)(2) of § 60.58b addresses treatment of activated carbon injection rate during dioxin/furan or mercury testing.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45126, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 27336, May 10, 2006]
§ 60.54b
Standards for municipal waste combustor operator training and certification.
(a) No later than the date 6 months after the date of startup of an affected facility or on December 19, 1996, whichever is later, each chief facility operator and shift supervisor shall obtain and maintain a current provisional operator certification from either the American Society of Mechanical Engineers [QRO-1-1994 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17 of subpart A of this part)] or a State certification program.
(b) Not later than the date 6 months after the date of startup of an affected facility or on December 19, 1996, whichever is later, each chief facility operator and shift supervisor shall have completed full certification or shall have scheduled a full certification exam with either the American Society of Mechanical Engineers [QRO-1-1994 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17 of subpart A of this part)] or a State certification program.
(c) No owner or operator of an affected facility shall allow the facility to be operated at any time unless one of the following persons is on duty and at the affected facility: A fully certified chief facility operator, a provisionally certified chief facility operator who is scheduled to take the full certification exam according to the schedule specified in paragraph (b) of this section, a fully certified shift supervisor, or a provisionally certified shift supervisor who is scheduled to take the full certification exam according to the schedule specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
(1) The requirement specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall take effect 6 months after the date of startup
of the affected facility or on December 19, 1996, whichever is later.
(2) If both the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are unavailable, a provisionally certified control room operator on site at the municipal waste combustion unit may fulfill the certified operator requirement. Depending on the length of time that a certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are away, the owner or operator of the affected facility must meet one of three criteria:
(i) When the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are both off site for 12 hours or less, and no other certified operator is on site, the provisionally certified control room operator may perform the duties of the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor.
(ii) When the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site for more than 12 hours, but for two weeks or less, and no other certified operator is on site, the provisionally certified control room operator may perform the duties of the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor without notice to, or approval by, the Administrator. However, the owner or operator of the affected facility must record the period when the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site and include that information in the annual report as specified under § 60.59b(g)(5).
(iii) When the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site for more than two weeks, and no other certified operator is on site, the provisionally certified control room operator may perform the duties of the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor without approval by the Administrator. However, the owner or operator of the affected facility must take two actions:
(A) Notify the Administrator in writing. In the notice, state what caused the absence and what actions are being taken by the owner or operator of the facility to ensure that a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor is on site as expeditiously as practicable.
(B) Submit a status report and corrective action summary to the Administrator every four weeks following the initial notification. If the Administrator provides notice that the status report or corrective action summary is disapproved, the municipal waste combustion unit may continue operation for 90 days, but then must cease operation. If corrective actions are taken in the 90-day period such that the Administrator withdraws the disapproval, municipal waste combustion unit operation may continue.
(3) A provisionally certified operator who is newly promoted or recently transferred to a shift supervisor position or a chief facility operator position at the municipal waste combustion unit may perform the duties of the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor without notice to, or approval by, the Administrator for up to six months before taking the ASME QRO certification exam.
(d) All chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators at affected facilities must complete the EPA or State municipal waste combustor operator training course no later than the date 6 months after the date of startup of the affected facility or by December 19, 1996, whichever is later.
(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall develop and update on a yearly basis a site-specific operating manual that shall, at a minimum, address the elements of municipal waste combustor unit operation specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(11) of this section.
(1) A summary of the applicable standards under this subpart;
(2) A description of basic combustion theory applicable to a municipal waste combustor unit;
(3) Procedures for receiving, handling, and feeding municipal solid waste;
(4) Municipal waste combustor unit startup, shutdown, and malfunction procedures;
(5) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels;
(6) Procedures for operating the municipal waste combustor unit within the standards established under this subpart;
(7) Procedures for responding to periodic upset or off-specification conditions;
(8) Procedures for minimizing particulate matter carryover;
(9) Procedures for handling ash;
(10) Procedures for monitoring municipal waste combustor unit emissions; and
(11) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures.
(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall establish a training program to review the operating manual according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section with each person who has responsibilities affecting the operation of an affected facility including, but not limited to, chief facility operators, shift supervisors, control room operators, ash handlers, maintenance personnel, and crane/load handlers.
(1) Each person specified in paragraph (f) of this section shall undergo initial training no later than the date specified in paragraph (f)(1)(i), (f)(1)(ii), or (f)(1)(iii) of this section whichever is later.
(i) The date 6 months after the date of startup of the affected facility;
(ii) The date prior to the day the person assumes responsibilities affecting municipal waste combustor unit operation; or
(iii) December 19, 1996.
(2) Annually, following the initial review required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(g) The operating manual required by paragraph (e) of this section shall be kept in a readily accessible location for all persons required to undergo training under paragraph (f) of this section. The operating manual and records of training shall be available for inspection by the EPA or its delegated enforcement agency upon request.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45126, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 27337, May 10, 2006]
§ 60.55b
Standards for municipal waste combustor fugitive ash emissions.
(a) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged to the atmosphere visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system (including conveyor transfer points) in excess of 5 percent of the observation period (i.e., 9 minutes per 3-hour period), as determined by EPA Reference Method 22 observations as specified in § 60.58b(k), except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) The emission limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section does not cover visible emissions discharged inside buildings or enclosures of ash conveying systems; however, the emission limit specified in paragraph (a) of this section does cover visible emissions discharged to the atmosphere from buildings or enclosures of ash conveying systems.
(c) The provisions specified in paragraph (a) of this section do not apply during maintenance and repair of ash conveying systems.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45126, Aug. 25, 1997]
§ 60.56b
Standards for air curtain incinerators.
On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator with the capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day of municipal solid waste and that combusts a fuel feed stream composed of 100 percent yard waste and no other municipal solid waste materials shall at no time cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from that incinerator any gases that exhibit greater than 10-percent opacity (6-minute average), except that an opacity level of up to 35 percent (6-minute average) is permitted during startup periods during the first 30 minutes of operation of the unit.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45126, Aug. 25, 1997]
§ 60.57b
Siting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall prepare a materials separation plan, as defined in § 60.51b, for the affected facility and its
service area, and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(10) of this section. The initial application is defined as representing a good faith submittal as determined by EPA.
(1) The owner or operator shall prepare a preliminary draft materials separation plan and shall make the plan available to the public as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall distribute the preliminary draft materials separation plan to the principal public libraries in the area where the affected facility is to be constructed.
(ii) The owner or operator shall publish a notification of a public meeting in the principal newspaper(s) serving the area where the affected facility is to be constructed and where the waste treated by the affected facility will primarily be collected. As a minimum, the notification shall include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (a)(1)(ii)(D) of this section.
(A) The date, time, and location of the public meeting.
(B) The location of the public libraries where the preliminary draft materials separation plan may be found, including normal business hours of the libraries.
(C) An agenda of the issues to be discussed at the public meeting.
(D) The dates that the public comment period on the preliminary draft materials separation plan begins and ends.
(2) The owner or operator shall conduct a public meeting, accept comments on the preliminary draft materials separation plan, and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iv) of this section.
(i) The public meeting shall be conducted in the county where the affected facility is to be located.
(ii) The public meeting shall be scheduled to occur 30 days or more after making the preliminary draft materials separation plan available to the public as specified under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(iii) Suggested issues to be addressed at the public meeting are listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (a)(2)(iii)(H) of this section.
(A) The expected size of the service area for the affected facility.
(B) The amount of waste generation anticipated for the service area.
(C) The types and estimated amounts of materials proposed for separation.
(D) The methods proposed for materials separation.
(E) The amount of residual waste to be disposed.
(F) Alternate disposal methods for handling the residual waste.
(G) Identification of the location(s) where responses to public comment on the preliminary draft materials separation plan will be available for inspection, as specified in paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4) of this section.
(H) Identification of the locations where the final draft materials separation plan will be available for inspection, as specified in paragraph (a)(7).
(iv) Nothing in this section shall preclude an owner or operator from combining this public meeting with any other public meeting required as part of any other Federal, State, or local permit review process except the public meeting required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(3) Following the public meeting required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall prepare responses to the comments received at the public meeting.
(4) The owner or operator shall make the document summarizing responses to public comments available to the public (including distribution to the principal public libraries used to announce the meeting) in the service area where the affected facility is to be located.
(5) The owner or operator shall prepare a final draft materials separation plan for the affected facility considering the public comments received at the public meeting.
(6) As required under § 60.59b(a), the owner or operator shall submit to EPA a copy of the notification of the public meeting, a transcript of the public meeting, the document summarizing responses to public comments, and copies of both the preliminary and final draft materials separation plans on or
before the time the facility's application for a construction permit is submitted under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or part 52, as applicable.
(7) As part of the distribution of the siting analysis required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall make the final draft materials separation plan required under paragraph (a)(5) of this section available to the public, as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(8) As part of the public meeting for review of the siting analysis required under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall address questions concerning the final draft materials separation plan required by paragraph (a)(5) of this section including discussion of how the final draft materials separation plan has changed from the preliminary draft materials separation plan that was discussed at the first public meeting required by paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(9) If the owner or operator receives any comments on the final draft materials separation plan during the public meeting required in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall respond to those comments in the document prepared in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(10) The owner or operator shall prepare a final materials separation plan and shall submit, as required under § 60.59b(b)(5)(ii), the final materials separation plan as part of the initial notification of construction.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility for which the initial application for a construction permit under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or part 52, as applicable, is submitted after December 19, 1995 shall prepare a siting analysis in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(7) of this section.
(1) The siting analysis shall be an analysis of the impact of the affected facility on ambient air quality, visibility, soils, and vegetation.
(2) The analysis shall consider air pollution control alternatives that minimize, on a site-specific basis, to the maximum extent practicable, potential risks to the public health or the environment.
(3) The owner or operator shall make the siting analysis and final draft materials separation plan required by paragraph (a)(5) of this section available to the public as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall distribute the siting analysis and final draft materials separation plan to the principal public libraries in the area where the affected facility is to be constructed.
(ii) The owner or operator shall publish a notification of a public meeting in the principal newspaper(s) serving the area where the affected facility is to be constructed and where the waste treated by the affected facility will primarily be collected. As a minimum, the notification shall include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) through (b)(3)(ii)(D) of this section.
(A) The date, time, and location of the public meeting.
(B) The location of the public libraries where the siting analyses and final draft materials separation plan may be found, including normal business hours.
(C) An agenda of the issues to be discussed at the public meeting.
(D) The dates that the public comment period on the siting analyses and final draft materials separation plan begins and ends.
(4) The owner or operator shall conduct a public meeting and accept comments on the siting analysis and the final draft materials separation plan required under paragraph (a)(5) of this section. The public meeting shall be conducted in the county where the affected facility is to be located and shall be scheduled to occur 30 days or more after making the siting analysis available to the public as specified under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(5) The owner or operator shall prepare responses to the comments on the siting analysis and the final draft materials separation plan that are received at the public meeting.
(6) The owner or operator shall make the document summarizing responses to public comments available to the
public (including distribution to all public libraries) in the service area where the affected facility is to be located.
(7) As required under § 60.59b(b)(5), the owner or operator shall submit a copy of the notification of the public meeting, a transcript of the public meeting, the document summarizing responses to public comments, and the siting analysis as part of the initial notification of construction.
(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility for which construction is commenced after September 20, 1994 shall prepare a siting analysis in accordance with 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or part 52, as applicable, and shall submit the siting analysis as part of the initial notification of construction. Affected facilities subject to paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are not subject to this paragraph.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45126, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 27337, May 10, 2006]
§ 60.58b
Compliance and performance testing.
(a) The provisions for startup, shutdown, and malfunction are provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(1) Except as provided by § 60.56b, the standards under this subpart apply at all times except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. Duration of startup, shutdown, or malfunction periods are limited to 3 hours per occurrence, except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section. During periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, monitoring data shall be dismissed or excluded from compliance calculations, but shall be recorded and reported in accordance with the provisions of 40 CFR 60.59b(d)(7).
(i) The startup period commences when the affected facility begins the continuous burning of municipal solid waste and does not include any warmup period when the affected facility is combusting fossil fuel or other nonmunicipal solid waste fuel, and no municipal solid waste is being fed to the combustor.
(ii) Continuous burning is the continuous, semicontinuous, or batch feeding of municipal solid waste for purposes of waste disposal, energy production, or providing heat to the combustion system in preparation for waste disposal or energy production. The use of municipal solid waste solely to provide thermal protection of the grate or hearth during the startup period when municipal solid waste is not being fed to the grate is not considered to be continuous burning.
(iii) For the purpose of compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.53b(a), if a loss of boiler water level control (e.g., boiler waterwall tube failure) or a loss of combustion air control (e.g., loss of combustion air fan, induced draft fan, combustion grate bar failure) is determined to be a malfunction, the duration of the malfunction period is limited to 15 hours per occurrence. During such periods of malfunction, monitoring data shall be dismissed or excluded from compliance calculations, but shall be recorded and reported in accordance with the provisions of § 60.59b(d)(7).
(2) The opacity limits for air curtain incinerators specified in § 60.56b apply at all times as specified under § 60.56b except during periods of malfunction. Duration of malfunction periods are limited to 3 hours per occurrence.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for measuring the oxygen or carbon dioxide content of the flue gas at each location where carbon monoxide, sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides emissions, or particulate matter (if the owner or operator elects to continuously monitor emissions under paragraph (n) of this section) are monitored and record the output of the system and shall comply with the test procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section.
(1) The span value of the oxygen (or 20 percent carbon dioxide) monitor shall be 25 percent oxygen (or 20 percent carbon dioxide).
(2) The monitor shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part.
(3) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than
180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(4) The monitor shall conform to Performance Specification 3 in appendix B of this part except for section 2.3 (relative accuracy requirement).
(5) The quality assurance procedures of appendix F of this part except for section 5.1.1 (relative accuracy test audit) shall apply to the monitor.
(6) If carbon dioxide is selected for use in diluent corrections, the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels shall be established during the initial performance test according to the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (b)(6)(iv) of this section. This relationship may be reestablished during performance compliance tests.
(i) The fuel factor equation in Method 3B shall be used to determine the relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide at a sampling location. Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration at the same location as the carbon dioxide monitor.
(ii) Samples shall be taken for at least 30 minutes in each hour.
(iii) Each sample shall represent a 1-hour average.
(iv) A minimum of three runs shall be performed.
(7) The relationship between carbon dioxide and oxygen concentrations that is established in accordance with paragraph (b)(6) of this section shall be submitted to EPA as part of the initial performance test report and, if applicable, as part of the annual test report if the relationship is reestablished during the annual performance test.
(8) During a loss of boiler water level control or loss of combustion air control malfunction period as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, a diluent cap of 14 percent for oxygen or 5 percent for carbon dioxide may be used in the emissions calculations for sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(10) of this section, the procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(11) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the emission limits for particulate matter and opacity under § 60.52b(a)(1) and (a)(2).
(1) The EPA Reference Method 1 shall be used to select sampling site and number of traverse points.
(2) The EPA Reference Method 3, 3A or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used for gas analysis.
(3) EPA Reference Method 5 shall be used for determining compliance with the particulate matter emission limit. The minimum sample volume shall be 1.7 cubic meters. The probe and filter holder heating systems in the sample train shall be set to provide a gas temperature no greater than 160 °C. An oxygen or carbon dioxide measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 5 run.
(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the particulate matter emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(5) As specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, all performance tests shall consist of three test runs. The average of the particulate matter emission concentrations from the three test runs is used to determine compliance.
(6) In accordance with paragraphs (c)(7) and (c)(11) of this section, EPA Reference Method 9 shall be used for determining compliance with the opacity limit except as provided under § 60.11(e) of subpart A of this part.
(7) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for particulate matter emissions and opacity as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(8) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system for measuring opacity and shall follow the methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (c)(8)(iv) of this section.
(i) The output of the continuous opacity monitoring system shall be recorded on a 6-minute average basis.
(ii) The continuous opacity monitoring system shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part.
(iii) The continuous opacity monitoring system shall conform to Performance Specification 1 in appendix B of this part.
(iv) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of the initial startup of the municipal waste combustor unit, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(9) Following the date that the initial performance test for particulate matter is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part for an affected facility, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for particulate matter on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period).
(10) In place of particulate matter testing with EPA Reference Method 5, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for monitoring particulate matter emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to continuously monitor particulate matter emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA Method 5 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(10)(i) through (c)(10)(xiv) of this section. The owner or operator who elects to continuously monitor particulate matter emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA Method 5 is not required to complete performance testing for particulate matter as specified in paragraph (c)(9) of this section and is not required to continuously monitor opacity as specified in paragraph (c)(8) of this section.
(i) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the system.
(ii) Notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the system.
(iii) The monitor shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part.
(iv) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the continuous monitoring system if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by Method 5 performance tests, whichever is later.
(v) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the particulate matter emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(vi) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for particulate matter emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the particulate matter emission limit shall be determined by using the continuous emission monitoring system specified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section to measure particulate matter and calculating a 24-hour block arithmetic average emission concentration using EPA Reference Method 19, section 12.4.1.
(vii) Compliance with the particulate matter emission limit shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily (block) average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using continuous emission monitoring system outlet data.
(viii) After April 28, 2008, at a minimum, valid continuous monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (c)(10)(viii)(A) and (c)(10)(viii)(B) for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.
(A) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.
(B) Each particulate matter 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data.
(ix) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (c)(10)(vii) of this section shall be expressed in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis) and shall be used to calculate the 24-hour daily arithmetic average emission concentrations. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part.
(x) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data shall be used in calculating average emission concentrations even if the minimum continuous emission monitoring system data requirements of paragraph (c)(10)(viii) of this section are not met.
(xi) The continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated according to Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part.
(xii) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by Performance Specification 11 in appendix B of this part, particulate matter and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (c)(10)(xii)(A) and (c)(10)(xii)(B) of this section.
(A) For particulate matter, EPA Reference Method 5 shall be used.
(B) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, as applicable shall be used.
(xiii) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 2 in appendix F of this part.
(xiv) When particulate matter emissions data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator or EPA Reference Method 19 to provide, as necessary, valid emissions data for a minimum of 90 percent of the hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the hours per calendar year that the affected facility is operated and combusting municipal solid waste.
(11) Following the date that the initial performance test for opacity is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part for an affected facility, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for opacity on an annual basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period) using the test method specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section.
(d) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the emission limits for cadmium, lead, and mercury under § 60.52b(a).
(1) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(ix) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the emission limits for cadmium and lead under § 60.52b(a) (3) and (4).
(i) The EPA Reference Method 1 shall be used for determining the location and number of sampling points.
(ii) The EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used for flue gas analysis.
(iii) The EPA Reference Method 29 shall be used for determining compliance with the cadmium and lead emission limits.
(iv) An oxygen or carbon dioxide measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 29 test run for cadmium and lead required under paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.
(v) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the cadmium or lead emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility
shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(vi) All performance tests shall consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under representative full load operating conditions. The average of the cadmium or lead emission concentrations from three test runs or more shall be used to determine compliance.
(vii) Following the date of the initial performance test or the date on which the initial performance test is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct a performance test for compliance with the emission limits for cadmium and lead on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period).
(viii)-(ix) [Reserved]
(2) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(xi) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the mercury emission limit under § 60.52b(a)(5).
(i) The EPA Reference Method 1 shall be used for determining the location and number of sampling points.
(ii) The EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used for flue gas analysis.
(iii) The EPA Reference Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 shall be used to determine the mercury emission concentration. The minimum sample volume when using Method 29 as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 for mercury shall be 1.7 cubic meters.
(iv) An oxygen (or carbon dioxide) measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 test run for mercury required under paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.
(v) The percent reduction in the potential mercury emissions (%PHg) is computed using equation 1:
ER19de95.001
where:
%P
Hg
= percent reduction of the potential mercury emissions achieved.
E
i
= potential mercury emission concentration measured at the control device inlet, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis).
E
o
= controlled mercury emission concentration measured at the mercury control device outlet, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis).
(vi) All performance tests shall consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under representative full load operating conditions. The average of the mercury emission concentrations or percent reductions from three test runs or more is used to determine compliance.
(vii) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the mercury emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(viii) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for mercury emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(ix) Following the date that the initial performance test for mercury is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct a performance test for mercury emissions on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months from the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period).
(x) [Reserved]
(xi) The owner or operator of an affected facility where activated carbon injection is used to comply with the mercury emission limit shall follow the procedures specified in paragraph (m) of this section for measuring and calculating carbon usage.
(3) In place of cadmium and lead testing with EPA Reference Method 29 as an alternative ASTM D6784-02, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system
for monitoring cadmium and lead emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system according to the provisions of paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section.
(4) In place of mercury testing with EPA Reference Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system or a continuous automated sampling system for monitoring mercury emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system according to the provisions of paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section, or paragraphs (p) and (q) of this section, as appropriate. The owner or operator who elects to continuously monitor mercury in place of mercury testing with EPA Reference Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 is not required to complete performance testing for mercury as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(ix) of this section.
(e) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(14) of this section shall be used for determining compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit under § 60.52b(b)(1).
(1) The EPA Reference Method 19, section 4.3, shall be used to calculate the daily geometric average sulfur dioxide emission concentration.
(2) The EPA Reference Method 19, section 5.4, shall be used to determine the daily geometric average percent reduction in the potential sulfur dioxide emission concentration.
(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for sulfur dioxide emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit (concentration or percent reduction) shall be determined by using the continuous emission monitoring system specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section to measure sulfur dioxide and calculating a 24-hour daily geometric average emission concentration or a 24-hour daily geometric average percent reduction using EPA Reference Method 19, sections 4.3 and 5.4, as applicable.
(5) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for measuring sulfur dioxide emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system.
(6) Following the date that the initial performance test for sulfur dioxide is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, compliance with the sulfur dioxide emission limit shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily geometric average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using continuous emission monitoring system outlet data if compliance is based on an emission concentration, or continuous emission monitoring system inlet and outlet data if compliance is based on a percent reduction.
(7) At a minimum, valid continuous monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) and (e)(7)(ii) for 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating days per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.
(i) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.
(ii) Each sulfur dioxide 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data.
(8) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (e)(6) of this section shall be expressed in parts per million corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis) and used to calculate the 24-hour daily geometric average emission concentrations and daily geometric average emission percent reductions. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be
calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part.
(9) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data shall be used in calculating average emission concentrations and percent reductions even if the minimum continuous emission monitoring system data requirements of paragraph (e)(7) of this section are not met.
(10) The procedures under § 60.13 of subpart A of this part shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the continuous emission monitoring system.
(11) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the municipal waste combustor as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(12) The continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated according to Performance Specification 2 in appendix B of this part. For sources that have actual inlet emissions less than 100 parts per million dry volume, the relative accuracy criterion for inlet sulfur dioxide continuous emission monitoring systems should be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the reference method test data in terms of the units of the emission standard, or 5 parts per million dry volume absolute value of the mean difference between the reference method and the continuous emission monitoring systems, whichever is greater.
(i) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by Performance Specification 2 in appendix B of this part, sulfur dioxide and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (e)(12)(i)(A) and (e)(12)(i)(B) of this section.
(A) For sulfur dioxide, EPA Reference Method 6, 6A, or 6C, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, shall be used.
(B) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used.
(ii) The span value of the continuous emissions monitoring system at the inlet to the sulfur dioxide control device shall be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential sulfur dioxide emissions of the municipal waste combustor unit. The span value of the continuous emission monitoring system at the outlet of the sulfur dioxide control device shall be 50 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential sulfur dioxide emissions of the municipal waste combustor unit.
(13) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(14) When sulfur dioxide emissions data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and/or zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA or EPA Reference Method 19 to provide, as necessary, valid emissions data for a minimum of 90 percent of the hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the hours per calendar year that the affected facility is operated and combusting municipal solid waste.
(f) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section shall be used for determining compliance with the hydrogen chloride emission limit under § 60.52b(b)(2).
(1) The EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A, as applicable, shall be used to determine the hydrogen chloride emission concentration. The minimum sampling time shall be 1 hour.
(2) An oxygen (or carbon dioxide) measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each test run for hydrogen chloride required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(3) The percent reduction in potential hydrogen chloride emissions (% P
HCl
) is computed using equation 2:
ER19de95.002
where:
%P
HCl
= percent reduction of the potential hydrogen chloride emissions achieved.
E
i
= potential hydrogen chloride emission concentration measured at the control device inlet, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis).
E
o
= controlled hydrogen chloride emission concentration measured at the control device outlet, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis).
(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the hydrogen chloride emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(5) As specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, all performance tests shall consist of three test runs. The average of the hydrogen chloride emission concentrations or percent reductions from the three test runs is used to determine compliance.
(6) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for hydrogen chloride as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(7) Following the date that the initial performance test for hydrogen chloride is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct a performance test for hydrogen chloride emissions on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous performance test).
(8) In place of hydrogen chloride testing with EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A, an owner or operator may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for monitoring hydrogen chloride emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system according to the provisions of paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section.
(g) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(9) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the limits for dioxin/furan emissions under § 60.52b(c).
(1) The EPA Reference Method 1 shall be used for determining the location and number of sampling points.
(2) The EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used for flue gas analysis.
(3) The EPA Reference Method 23 shall be used for determining the dioxin/furan emission concentration.
(i) The minimum sample time shall be 4 hours per test run.
(ii) An oxygen (or carbon dioxide) measurement shall be obtained simultaneously with each Method 23 test run for dioxins/furans.
(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for dioxin/furan emissions in accordance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section, as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(5) Following the date that the initial performance test for dioxins/furans is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct performance tests for dioxin/furan emissions in accordance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section, according to one of the schedules specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (g)(5)(iii) of this section.
(i) For affected facilities, performance tests shall be conducted on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 calendar months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period).
(ii) For the purpose of evaluating system performance to establish new operating parameter levels, testing new technology or control technologies, diagnostic testing, or related activities for the purpose of improving facility performance or advancing the state-of-the-art for controlling facility emissions, the owner or operator of an affected facility that qualifies for the performance testing schedule specified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, may test one unit for dioxin/furan and apply the dioxin/furan operating parameters to similarly designed and equipped units on site by meeting the requirements specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(ii)(A) through (g)(5)(ii)(D) of this section.
(A) Follow the testing schedule established in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section. For example, each year a different affected facility at the municipal waste combustor plant shall be tested, and the affected facilities at the plant shall be tested in sequence (e.g., unit 1, unit 2, unit 3, as applicable).
(B) Upon meeting the requirements in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section for one affected facility, the owner or operator may elect to apply the average carbon mass feed rate and associated carbon injection system operating parameter levels for dioxin/furan as established in paragraph (m) of this section to similarly designed and equipped units on site.
(C) Upon testing each subsequent unit in accordance with the testing schedule established in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, the dioxin/furan and mercury emissions of the subsequent unit shall not exceed the dioxin/furan and mercury emissions measured in the most recent test of that unit prior to the revised operating parameter levels.
(D) The owner or operator of an affected facility that selects to follow the performance testing schedule specified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section and apply the carbon injection system operating parameters to similarly designed and equipped units on site shall follow the procedures specified in § 60.59b(g)(4) for reporting.
(iii) Where all performance tests over a 2-year period indicate that dioxin/furan emissions are less than or equal to 7 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass) for all affected facilities located within a municipal waste combustor plant, the owner or operator of the municipal waste combustor plant may elect to conduct annual performance tests for one affected facility (i.e., unit) per year at the municipal waste combustor plant. At a minimum, a performance test for dioxin/furan emissions shall be conducted on a calendar year basis (no less than 9 calendar months and no more than 15 months following the previous performance test; and must complete five performance tests in each 5-year calendar period) for one affected facility at the municipal waste combustor plant. Each year a different affected facility at the municipal waste combustor plant shall be tested, and the affected facilities at the plant shall be tested in sequence (e.g., unit 1, unit 2, unit 3, as applicable). If each annual performance test continues to indicate a dioxin/furan emission level less than or equal to 7 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), the owner or operator may continue conducting a performance test on only one affected facility per calendar year. If any annual performance test indicates either a dioxin/furan emission level greater than 7 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass), performance tests shall thereafter be conducted annually on all affected facilities at the plant until and unless all annual performance tests for all affected facilities at the plant over a 2-year period indicate a dioxin/furan emission level less than or equal to 7 nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass).
(6) The owner or operator of an affected facility that selects to follow the performance testing schedule specified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section shall follow the procedures specified in § 60.59b(g)(4) for reporting the selection of this schedule.
(7) The owner or operator of an affected facility where activated carbon is used shall follow the procedures specified in paragraph (m) of this section for measuring and calculating the carbon usage rate.
(8) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(9) As specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, all performance tests shall consist of three test runs. The average of the dioxin/furan emission concentrations from the three test runs is used to determine compliance.
(10) In place of dioxin/furan sampling and testing with EPA Reference Method 23, an owner or operator may elect to sample dioxin/furan by installing,
calibrating, maintaining, and operating a continuous automated sampling system for monitoring dioxin/furan emissions discharged to the atmosphere, recording the output of the system, and analyzing the sample using EPA Method 23. This option to use a continuous automated sampling system takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to dioxin/furan from monitors is published in the
Federal Register
or the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to continuously sample dioxin/furan emissions instead of sampling and testing using EPA Method 23 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (p) and (q) of this section.
(h) The procedures and test methods specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(12) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit for affected facilities under § 60.52b(d).
(1) The EPA Reference Method 19, section 4.1, shall be used for determining the daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission concentration.
(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the nitrogen oxides limit under § 60.52b(d) shall conduct an initial performance test for nitrogen oxides as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the nitrogen oxides emission limit shall be determined by using the continuous emission monitoring system specified in paragraph (h)(4) of this section for measuring nitrogen oxides and calculating a 24-hour daily arithmetic average emission concentration using EPA Reference Method 19, section 4.1.
(4) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the nitrogen oxides emission limit under § 60.52b(d) shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for measuring nitrogen oxides discharged to the atmosphere, and record the output of the system.
(5) Following the date that the initial performance test for nitrogen oxides is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, compliance with the emission limit for nitrogen oxides required under § 60.52b(d) shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily arithmetic average of the hourly emission concentrations using continuous emission monitoring system outlet data.
(6) At a minimum, valid continuous emission monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) and (h)(6)(ii) of this section for 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and for 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.
(i) At least 2 data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.
(ii) Each nitrogen oxides 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data.
(7) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required by paragraph (h)(5) of this section shall be expressed in parts per million by volume (dry basis) and used to calculate the 24-hour daily arithmetic average concentrations. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part.
(8) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data must be used in calculating emission averages even if the minimum continuous emission monitoring system data requirements of paragraph (h)(6) of this section are not met.
(9) The procedures under § 60.13 of subpart A of this part shall be followed for installation, evaluation, and operation of the continuous emission monitoring system. The initial performance
evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the municipal waste combustor unit, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(10) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall operate the continuous emission monitoring system according to Performance Specification 2 in appendix B of this part and shall follow the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (h)(10)(i) and (h)(10)(ii) of this section.
(i) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part, nitrogen oxides and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (h)(10)(i)(A) and (h)(10)(i)(B) of this section.
(A) For nitrogen oxides, EPA Reference Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E shall be used.
(B) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or as an alternative ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10, as applicable, shall be used.
(ii) The span value of the continuous emission monitoring system shall be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential nitrogen oxide emissions of the municipal waste combustor unit.
(11) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests shall be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(12) When nitrogen oxides continuous emission data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA or EPA Reference Method 19 to provide, as necessary, valid emissions data for a minimum of 90 percent of the hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the hours per calendar year the unit is operated and combusting municipal solid waste.
(i) The procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(12) of this section shall be used for determining compliance with the operating requirements under § 60.53b.
(1) Compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.53b(a) shall be determined using a 4-hour block arithmetic average for all types of affected facilities except mass burn rotary waterwall municipal waste combustors and refuse-derived fuel stokers.
(2) For affected mass burn rotary waterwall municipal waste combustors and refuse-derived fuel stokers, compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limits in § 60.53b(a) shall be determined using a 24-hour daily arithmetic average.
(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for measuring carbon monoxide at the combustor outlet and record the output of the system and shall follow the procedures and methods specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (i)(3)(iii) of this section.
(i) The continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated according to Performance Specification 4A in appendix B of this part.
(ii) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by Performance Specification 4A in appendix B of this part, carbon monoxide and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(ii)(A) and (i)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. For affected facilities subject to the 100 parts per million dry volume carbon monoxide standard, the relative accuracy criterion of 5 parts per million dry volume is calculated as the absolute value of the mean difference between the reference method and continuous emission monitoring systems.
(A) For carbon monoxide, EPA Reference Method 10, 10A, or 10B shall be used.
(B) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, or ASME PTC-19-10-1981—part10 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17 of subpart A of this part), as applicable, shall be used.
(iii) The span value of the continuous emission monitoring system shall be 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential carbon monoxide emissions of the municipal waste combustor unit.
(4) The 4-hour block and 24-hour daily arithmetic averages specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) of this section shall be calculated from 1-hour arithmetic averages expressed in parts per million by volume corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis). The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points generated by the continuous emission monitoring system. At least two data points shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.
(5) The owner or operator of an affected facility may request that compliance with the carbon monoxide emission limit be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(6) The procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(6)(i) through (i)(6)(v) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with load level requirements under § 60.53b(b).
(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility with steam generation capability shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a steam flow meter or a feedwater flow meter; measure steam (or feedwater) flow in kilograms per hour (or pounds per hour) on a continuous basis; and record the output of the monitor. Steam (or feedwater) flow shall be calculated in 4-hour block arithmetic averages.
(ii) The method included in the “American Society of Mechanical Engineers Power Test Codes: Test Code for Steam Generating Units, Power Test Code 4.1—1964 (R1991)” section 4 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17 of subpart A of this part) shall be used for calculating the steam (or feedwater) flow required under paragraph (i)(6)(i) of this section. The recommendations in “American Society of Mechanical Engineers Interim Supplement 19.5 on Instruments and Apparatus: Application, partII of Fluid Meters, 6th edition (1971),” chapter 4 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17 of subpart A of this part) shall be followed for design, construction, installation, calibration, and use of nozzles and orifices except as specified in (i)(6)(iii) of this section.
(iii) Measurement devices such as flow nozzles and orifices are not required to be recalibrated after they are installed.
(iv) All signal conversion elements associated with steam (or feedwater flow) measurements must be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions before each dioxin/furan performance test, and at least once per year.
(7) To determine compliance with the maximum particulate matter control device temperature requirements under § 60.53b(c), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device for measuring on a continuous basis the temperature of the flue gas stream at the inlet to each particulate matter control device utilized by the affected facility. Temperature shall be calculated in 4-hour block arithmetic averages.
(8) The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load shall be determined during the initial performance test for dioxins/furans and each subsequent performance test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit specified in § 60.52b(c) is achieved. The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load shall be the highest 4-hour arithmetic average load achieved during four consecutive hours during the most recent test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit was achieved. If a subsequent dioxin/furan performance test is being performed on only one affected facility at the MWC plant, as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to apply the same maximum municipal waste combustor unit load from the tested facility for all the similarly designed and operated affected facilities at the MWC plant.
(9) For each particulate matter control device employed at the affected facility, the maximum demonstrated
particulate matter control device temperature shall be determined during the initial performance test for dioxins/furans and each subsequent performance test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit specified in § 60.52b(c) is achieved. The maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature shall be the highest 4-hour arithmetic average temperature achieved at the particulate matter control device inlet during four consecutive hours during the most recent test during which compliance with the dioxin/furan limit was achieved. If a subsequent dioxin/furan performance test is being performed on only one affected facility at the MWC plant, as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to apply the same maximum particulate matter control device temperature from the tested facility for all the similarly designed and operated affected facilities at the MWC plant.
(10) At a minimum, valid continuous emission monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (i)(10)(i) and (i)(10)(ii) of this section for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.
(i) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.
(ii) At a minimum, each carbon monoxide 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data.
(11) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data must be used in calculating the parameters specified under paragraph (i) of this section even if the minimum data requirements of paragraph (i)(10) of this section are not met. When carbon monoxide continuous emission data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, emissions data shall be obtained using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA or EPA Reference Method 10 to provide, as necessary, the minimum valid emission data.
(12) Quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests for the carbon monoxide continuous emission monitoring system shall be performed in accordance with procedure 1 in appendix F of this part.
(j) The procedures specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section shall be used for calculating municipal waste combustor unit capacity as defined under § 60.51b.
(1) For municipal waste combustor units capable of combusting municipal solid waste continuously for a 24-hour period, municipal waste combustor unit capacity shall be calculated based on 24 hours of operation at the maximum charging rate. The maximum charging rate shall be determined as specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section as applicable.
(i) For combustors that are designed based on heat capacity, the maximum charging rate shall be calculated based on the maximum design heat input capacity of the unit and a heating value of 12,800 kilojoules per kilogram for combustors firing refuse-derived fuel and a heating value of 10,500 kilojoules per kilogram for combustors firing municipal solid waste that is not refuse-derived fuel.
(ii) For combustors that are not designed based on heat capacity, the maximum charging rate shall be the maximum design charging rate.
(2) For batch feed municipal waste combustor units, municipal waste combustor unit capacity shall be calculated as the maximum design amount of municipal solid waste that can be charged per batch multiplied by the maximum number of batches that could be processed in a 24-hour period. The maximum number of batches that could be processed in a 24-hour period is calculated as 24 hours divided by the design number of hours required to process one batch of municipal solid waste, and may include fractional batches (e.g., if one batch requires 16 hours, then 24/16, or 1.5 batches, could be combusted in a 24-hour period). For batch combustors that are designed based on heat capacity, the design
heating value of 12,800 kilojoules per kilogram for combustors firing refuse-derived fuel and a heating value of 10,500 kilojoules per kilogram for combustors firing municipal solid waste that is not refuse-derived fuel shall be used in calculating the municipal waste combustor unit capacity in megagrams per day of municipal solid waste.
(k) The procedures specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (k)(4) of this section shall be used for determining compliance with the fugitive ash emission limit under § 60.55b.
(1) The EPA Reference Method 22 shall be used for determining compliance with the fugitive ash emission limit under § 60.55b. The minimum observation time shall be a series of three 1-hour observations. The observation period shall include times when the facility is transferring ash from the municipal waste combustor unit to the area where ash is stored or loaded into containers or trucks.
(2) The average duration of visible emissions per hour shall be calculated from the three 1-hour observations. The average shall be used to determine compliance with § 60.55b.
(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall conduct an initial performance test for fugitive ash emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(4) Following the date that the initial performance test for fugitive ash emissions is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part for an affected facility, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for fugitive ash emissions on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous performance test).
(l) The procedures specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(3) of this section shall be used to determine compliance with the opacity limit for air curtain incinerators under § 60.56b.
(1) The EPA Reference Method 9 shall be used for determining compliance with the opacity limit.
(2) The owner or operator of the air curtain incinerator shall conduct an initial performance test for opacity as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part.
(3) Following the date that the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of the air curtain incinerator shall conduct a performance test for opacity on an annual basis (no more than 12 calendar months following the previous performance test).
(m) The owner or operator of an affected facility where activated carbon injection is used to comply with the mercury emission limit under § 60.52b(a)(5), and/or the dioxin/furan emission limits under § 60.52(b)(c), or the dioxin/furan emission level specified in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(4) of this section.
(1) During the performance tests for dioxins/furans and mercury, as applicable, the owner or operator shall estimate an average carbon mass feed rate based on carbon injection system operating parameters such as the screw feeder speed, hopper volume, hopper refill frequency, or other parameters appropriate to the feed system being employed, as specified in paragraphs (m)(1)(i) and (m)(1)(ii) of this section.
(i) An average carbon mass feed rate in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour shall be estimated during the initial performance test for mercury emissions and each subsequent performance test for mercury emissions.
(ii) An average carbon mass feed rate in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour shall be estimated during the initial performance test for dioxin/furan emissions and each subsequent performance test for dioxin/furan emissions. If a subsequent dioxin/furan performance test is being performed on only one affected facility at the MWC plant, as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to apply the same estimated average carbon mass feed rate from the tested facility for all the similarly designed and operated affected facilities at the MWC plant.
(2) During operation of the affected facility, the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of the carbon mass feed rate (e.g., screw feeder setting) shall be averaged over a block 8-
hour period, and the 8-hour block average must equal or exceed the level(s) documented during the performance tests specified under paragraphs (m)(1)(i) and (m)(1)(ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) and (m)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) During the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test and the 2 weeks preceding the annual dioxin/furan or mercury performance test, no limit is applicable for average mass carbon feed rate if the provisions of paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section are met.
(ii) The limit for average mass carbon feed rate may be waived in accordance with permission granted by the Administrator for the purpose of evaluating system performance, testing new technology or control technologies, diagnostic testing, or related activities for the purpose of improving facility performance or advancing the state-of-the-art for controlling facility emissions.
(3) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall estimate the total carbon usage of the plant (kilograms or pounds) for each calendar quarter by two independent methods, according to the procedures in paragraphs (m)(3)(i) and (m)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) The weight of carbon delivered to the plant.
(ii) Estimate the average carbon mass feed rate in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour for each hour of operation for each affected facility based on the parameters specified under paragraph (m)(1) of this section, and sum the results for all affected facilities at the plant for the total number of hours of operation during the calendar quarter.
(4) Pneumatic injection pressure or other carbon injection system operational indicator shall be used to provide additional verification of proper carbon injection system operation. The operational indicator shall provide an instantaneous visual and/or audible alarm to alert the operator of a potential interruption in the carbon feed that would not normally be indicated by direct monitoring of carbon mass feed rate (e.g., continuous weight loss feeder) or monitoring of the carbon system operating parameter(s) that are the indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed). The carbon injection system operational indicator used to provide additional verification of carbon injection system operation, including basis for selecting the indicator and operator response to the indicator alarm, shall be included in section (e)(6) of the site-specific operating manual required under § 60.54b(e) of this subpart.
(n) In place of periodic manual testing of mercury, cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride with EPA Reference Method 26, 26A, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable), the owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for monitoring emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system. The option to use a continuous emission monitoring system for mercury takes effect on the date of approval of the site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraph (n)(13) and (o) of this section. The option to use a continuous emission monitoring system for cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride monitor is published in the
Federal Register
or the date of approval of the site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraphs (n)(13) and (o) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to continuously monitor emissions instead of conducting manual performance testing shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system and shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (n)(13) of this section.
(1) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the system.
(2) Notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the system.
(3) The monitor shall be installed, evaluated, and operated in accordance with § 60.13 of subpart A of this part.
(4) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than
180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the continuous monitoring system if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by Method 26, 26A, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable) performance tests, whichever is later.
(5) The owner or operator may request that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(6) The owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test for emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined by using the continuous emission monitoring system specified in paragraph (n) of this section to measure emissions and calculating a 24-hour block arithmetic average emission concentration using EPA Reference Method 19, section 12.4.1.
(7) Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined based on the 24-hour daily (block) average of the hourly arithmetic average emission concentrations using continuous emission monitoring system outlet data.
(8) Beginning on April 28, 2008 for mercury and on the date two years after final performance specifications for cadmium, lead or hydrogen chloride monitors are published in the
Federal Register
or the date two years after approval of a site-specific monitoring plan, valid continuous monitoring system hourly averages shall be obtained as specified in paragraphs (n)(8)(i) and (n)(8)(ii) of this section for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.
(i) At least two data points per hour shall be used to calculate each 1-hour arithmetic average.
(ii) Each 1-hour arithmetic average shall be corrected to 7 percent oxygen on an hourly basis using the 1-hour arithmetic average of the oxygen (or carbon dioxide) continuous emission monitoring system data.
(9) The 1-hour arithmetic averages required under paragraph (n)(7) of this section shall be expressed in micrograms per dry standard cubic meter for mercury, cadmium, lead and parts per million dry volume for hydrogen chloride corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis) and shall be used to calculate the 24-hour daily arithmetic (block) average emission concentrations. The 1-hour arithmetic averages shall be calculated using the data points required under § 60.13(e)(2) of subpart A of this part.
(10) All valid continuous emission monitoring system data shall be used in calculating average emission concentrations even if the minimum continuous emission monitoring system data requirements of paragraph (n)(8) of this section are not met.
(11) The continuous emission monitoring system shall be operated according to the performance specifications in paragraphs (n)(11)(i) through (n)(11)(iii) of this section or the approved site-specific monitoring plan.
(i) For mercury, Performance Specification 12A in appendix B of this part.
(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]
(12) During each relative accuracy test run of the continuous emission monitoring system required by the performance specifications in paragraph (n)(11) of this section, mercury, cadmium, lead, hydrogen chloride, and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data shall be collected concurrently (or within a 30- to 60-minute period) by both the continuous emission monitors and the test methods specified in paragraphs (n)(12)(i) through (n)(12)(iii) of this section.
(i) For mercury, cadmium, and lead, EPA Reference Method 29 or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 shall be used.
(ii) For hydrogen chloride, EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A shall be used.
(iii) For oxygen (or carbon dioxide), EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B, as applicable shall be used.
(13) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for mercury, cadmium,
lead, or hydrogen chloride must develop and implement a site-specific monitoring plan as specified in paragraph (o) of this section. The owner or operator who relies on a performance specification may refer to that document in addressing applicable procedures and criteria.
(14) When emissions data are not obtained because of continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, parametric monitoring data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA.
(o) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous emission monitoring system for mercury, cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride must develop and submit for approval by EPA, a site-specific mercury, cadmium, lead, or hydrogen chloride monitoring plan that addresses the elements and requirements in paragraphs (o)(1) through (o)(7) of this section.
(1) Installation of the continuous emission monitoring system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (
e.g.
, on or downstream of the last control device).
(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system.
(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (
e.g.
, calibrations).
(4) Provisions for periods when the continuous emission monitoring system is out of control as described in paragraphs (o)(4)(i) through (o)(4)(iii) of this section.
(i) A continuous emission monitoring system is out of control if either of the conditions in paragraphs (o)(4)(i)(A) or (o)(4)(ii)(B) of this section are met.
(A) The zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable), or high-level calibration drift exceeds two times the applicable calibration drift specification in the applicable performance specification or in the relevant standard; or
(B) The continuous emission monitoring system fails a performance test audit (
e.g.
, cylinder gas audit), relative accuracy audit, relative accuracy test audit, or linearity test audit.
(ii) When the continuous emission monitoring system is out of control as defined in paragraph (o)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator of the affected source shall take the necessary corrective action and shall repeat all necessary tests that indicate that the system is out of control. The owner or operator shall take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are below the applicable limits. The beginning of the out-of-control period is the hour the owner or operator conducts a performance check (
e.g.
, calibration drift) that indicates an exceedance of the performance requirements established under this part. The end of the out-of-control period is the hour following the completion of corrective action and successful demonstration that the system is within the allowable limits. During the period the continuous emission monitoring system is out of control, recorded data shall not be used in data averages and calculations or to meet any data availability requirements in paragraph (n)(8) of this section.
(iii) The owner or operator of a continuous emission monitoring system that is out of control as defined in paragraph (o)(4) of this section shall submit all information concerning out-of-control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual compliance reports required in § 60.59b(g) or (h).
(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures for continuous emission monitoring systems as described in paragraphs (o)(5)(i) and (o)(5)(ii) of this section.
(i) Develop and implement a continuous emission monitoring system quality control program. As part of the quality control program, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to EPA for approval, upon request, a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system performance evaluation required in paragraph (o)(5)(ii) of this
section. In addition, each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes procedures for each of the operations described in paragraphs (o)(7)(i)(A) through (o)(7)(i)(F) of this section.
(A) Initial and any subsequent calibration of the continuous emission monitoring system;
(B) Determination and adjustment of the calibration drift of the continuous emission monitoring system;
(C) Preventive maintenance of the continuous emission monitoring system, including spare parts inventory;
(D) Data recording, calculations, and reporting;
(E) Accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and analysis methods; and
(F) Program of corrective action for a malfunctioning continuous emission monitoring system.
(ii) The performance evaluation test plan shall include the evaluation program objectives, an evaluation program summary, the performance evaluation schedule, data quality objectives, and both an internal and external quality assurance program. Data quality objectives are the pre-evaluation expectations of precision, accuracy, and completeness of data. The internal quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, the activities planned by routine operators and analysts to provide an assessment of continuous emission monitoring system performance, for example, plans for relative accuracy testing using the appropriate reference method in § 60.58b(n)(12) of this section. The external quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, systems audits that include the opportunity for on-site evaluation by the Administrator of instrument calibration, data validation, sample logging, and documentation of quality control data and field maintenance activities.
(6) Conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous emission monitoring system in accordance with the site-specific monitoring plan.
(7) Operate and maintain the continuous emission monitoring system in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
(p) In place of periodic manual testing of dioxin/furan or mercury with EPA Reference Method 23, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable), the owner or operator of an affected facility may elect to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for determining emissions discharged to the atmosphere. This option takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to such continuous automated sampling systems is published in the
Federal Register
or the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan required in paragraphs (p)(10) and (q) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected facility who elects to use a continuous automated sampling system to determine emissions instead of conducting manual performance testing shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the sampling system and conduct analyses in compliance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (p)(1) through (p)(12) of this section.
(1) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the system.
(2) Notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the system.
(3) The initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than 180 days after the date of initial startup of the affected facility, as specified under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part or within 180 days of notification to the Administrator of use of the continuous monitoring system if the owner or operator was previously determining compliance by manual performance testing using Method 23, 29, or as an alternative ASTM D6784-02 (as applicable), whichever is later.
(4) The owner or operator may request that compliance with the emission limits be determined using carbon dioxide measurements corrected to an equivalent of 7 percent oxygen. The relationship between oxygen and carbon dioxide levels for the affected facility shall be established as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(5) The owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test for emissions as required under § 60.8 of subpart A of this part. Compliance
with the emission limits shall be determined by using the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (p) of this section to collect integrated samples and analyze emissions for the time period specified in paragraphs (p)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) For dioxin/furan, the continuous automated sampling system shall collect an integrated sample over each 2-week period. The collected sample shall be analyzed using Method 23.
(ii) For mercury, the continuous automated sampling system shall collect an integrated sample over each 24-hour daily period and the sample shall be analyzed according to the applicable final performance specification or the approved site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (q) of this section.
(6) Compliance with the emission limits shall be determined based on 2-week emission concentrations for dioxin/furan and on the 24-hour daily emission concentrations for mercury using samples collected at the system outlet. The emission concentrations shall be expressed in nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (total mass) for dioxin/furan and micrograms per dry standard cubic meter for mercury, corrected to 7 percent oxygen (dry basis).
(7) Beginning on the date two years after the respective final performance specification for continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury is published in the
Federal Register
or two years after approval of a site-specific monitoring plan, the continuous automated sampling system must be operated and collect emissions for at least 90 percent of the operating hours per calendar quarter and 95 percent of the operating hours per calendar year that the affected facility is combusting municipal solid waste.
(8) All valid data shall be used in calculating emission concentrations.
(9) The continuous automated sampling system shall be operated according to the final performance specification in paragraphs (p)(9)(i) or (p)(9)(ii) of this section or the approved site-specific monitoring plan.
(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
(10) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury must develop and implement a site-specific monitoring plan as specified in paragraph (q) of this section. The owner or operator who relies on a performance specification may refer to that document in addressing applicable procedures and criteria.
(11) When emissions data are not obtained because of continuous automated sampling system breakdowns, repairs, quality assurance checks, or adjustments, parametric monitoring data shall be obtained by using other monitoring systems as approved by EPA.
(q) The owner or operator who elects to install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury must develop and submit for approval by EPA, a site-specific monitoring plan that has sufficient detail to assure the validity of the continuous automated sampling system data and that addresses the elements and requirements in paragraphs (q)(1) through (q)(7) of this section.
(1) Installation of the continuous automated sampling system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (
e.g.
, on or downstream of the last control device).
(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration analytical method, and the data collection system.
(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria.
(4) Provisions for periods when the continuous automated sampling system is malfunctioning or is out of control as described in paragraphs (q)(4)(i) through (q)(4)(iii) of this section.
(i) The site-specific monitoring plan shall identify criteria for determining that the continuous automated sampling system is out of control. This shall include periods when the sampling system is not collecting a representative sample or is malfunctioning, or when the analytical method
does not meet site-specific quality criteria established in paragraph (q)(5) of this section.
(ii) When the continuous automated sampling system is out of control as defined in paragraph (q)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall take the necessary corrective action and shall repeat all necessary tests that indicate that the system is out of control. The owner or operator shall take corrective action and conduct retesting until the performance requirements are within the applicable limits. The out-of-control period includes all hours that the sampling system was not collecting a representative sample or was malfunctioning, or hours represented by a sample for which the analysis did not meet the relevant quality criteria. Emissions data obtained during an out-of-control period shall not be used in determining compliance with the emission limits or to meet any data availability requirements in paragraph (p)(8) of this section.
(iii) The owner or operator of a continuous automated sampling system that is out of control as defined in paragraph (q)(4) of this section shall submit all information concerning out-of-control periods, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual compliance reports required in § 60.59b(g) or (h).
(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures for continuous automated sampling systems as described in paragraphs (q)(5)(i) and (q)(5)(ii) of this section.
(i) Develop and implement a continuous automated sampling system and analysis quality control program. As part of the quality control program, the owner or operator shall develop and submit to EPA for approval, upon request, a site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous automated sampling system performance evaluation required in paragraph (q)(5)(ii) of this section. In addition, each quality control program shall include, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes procedures for each of the operations described in paragraphs (q)(7)(i)(A) through (q)(7)(i)(F) of this section.
(A) Correct placement, installation of the continuous automated sampling system such that the system is collecting a representative sample of gas;
(B) Initial and subsequent calibration of flow such that the sample collection rate of the continuous automated sampling system is known and verifiable;
(C) Procedures to assure representative (
e.g.
, proportional or isokinetic) sampling;
(D) Preventive maintenance of the continuous automated sampling system, including spare parts inventory and procedures for cleaning equipment, replacing sample collection media, or other servicing at the end of each sample collection period;
(E) Data recording and reporting, including an automated indicator and recording device to show when the continuous automated monitoring system is operating and collecting data and when it is not collecting data;
(F) Accuracy audit procedures for analytical methods; and
(G) Program of corrective action for a malfunctioning continuous automated sampling system.
(ii) The performance evaluation test plan shall include the evaluation program objectives, an evaluation program summary, the performance evaluation schedule, data quality objectives, and both an internal and external quality assurance program. Data quality objectives are the pre-evaluation expectations of precision, accuracy, and completeness of data. The internal quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, the activities planned by routine operators and analysts to provide an assessment of continuous automated sampling system performance, for example, plans for relative accuracy testing using the appropriate reference method in 60.58b(p)(3), and an assessment of quality of analysis results. The external quality assurance program shall include, at a minimum, systems audits that include the opportunity for on-site evaluation by the Administrator of instrument calibration, data validation, sample logging, and documentation of quality control data and field maintenance activities.
(6) Conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous automated sampling system in accordance with the site-specific monitoring plan.
(7) Operate and maintain the continuous automated sampling system in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45126, Aug. 25, 1997; 65 FR 61753, Oct. 17, 2000; 66 FR 57827, Nov. 16, 2001; 71 FR 27337, May 10, 2006]
§ 60.59b
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility with a capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day shall submit, on or before the date the application for a construction permit is submitted under 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, or part 52, as applicable, the items specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.
(1) The preliminary and final draft materials separation plans required by § 60.57b(a)(1) and (a)(5).
(2) A copy of the notification of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(a)(1)(ii).
(3) A transcript of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(a)(2).
(4) A copy of the document summarizing responses to public comments required by § 60.57b(a)(3).
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility with a capacity to combust greater than 250 tons per day shall submit a notification of construction, which includes the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.
(1) Intent to construct.
(2) Planned initial startup date.
(3) The types of fuels that the owner or operator plans to combust in the affected facility.
(4) The municipal waste combustor unit capacity, and supporting capacity calculations prepared in accordance with § 60.58b(j).
(5) Documents associated with the siting requirements under § 60.57b (a) and (b), as specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(v) of this section.
(i) The siting analysis required by § 60.57b (b)(1) and (b)(2).
(ii) The final materials separation plan for the affected facility required by § 60.57b(a)(10).
(iii) A copy of the notification of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(b)(3)(ii).
(iv) A transcript of the public meeting required by § 60.57b(b)(4).
(v) A copy of the document summarizing responses to public comments required by § 60.57b (a)(9) and (b)(5).
(c) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall provide a notification of construction that includes the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.
(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility subject to the standards under §§ 60.52b, 60.53b, 60.54b, 60.55b, and 60.57b shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(15) of this section, as applicable, for each affected facility for a period of at least 5 years.
(1) The calendar date of each record.
(2) The emission concentrations and parameters measured using continuous monitoring systems as specified under paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (d)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) The measurements specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A) through (d)(2)(i)(F) of this section shall be recorded and be available for submittal to the Administrator or review on site by an EPA or State inspector.
(A) All 6-minute average opacity levels as specified under § 60.58b(c).
(B) All 1-hour average sulfur dioxide emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(e).
(C) All 1-hour average nitrogen oxides emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(h).
(D) All 1-hour average carbon monoxide emission concentrations, municipal waste combustor unit load measurements, and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under § 60.58b(i).
(E) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all 1-
hour average particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(n).
(ii) The average concentrations and percent reductions, as applicable, specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(F) of this section shall be computed and recorded, and shall be available for submittal to the Administrator or review on-site by an EPA or State inspector.
(A) All 24-hour daily geometric average sulfur dioxide emission concentrations and all 24-hour daily geometric average percent reductions in sulfur dioxide emissions as specified under § 60.58b(e).
(B) All 24-hour daily arithmetic average nitrogen oxides emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(h).
(C) All 4-hour block or 24-hour daily arithmetic average carbon monoxide emission concentrations, as applicable, as specified under § 60.58b(i).
(D) All 4-hour block arithmetic average municipal waste combustor unit load levels and particulate matter control device inlet temperatures as specified under § 60.58b(i).
(E) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all 24-hour daily arithmetic average particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emission concentrations as specified under § 60.58b(n).
(F) For owners and operators who elect to use a continuous automated sampling system to monitor mercury or dioxin/furan instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, all integrated 24-hour mercury concentrations or all integrated 2-week dioxin/furan concentrations as specified under § 60.586(p).
(3) Identification of the calendar dates when any of the average emission concentrations, percent reductions, or operating parameters recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(F) of this section, or the opacity levels recorded under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section are above the applicable limits, with reasons for such exceedances and a description of corrective actions taken.
(4) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon for mercury or dioxin/furan control, the records specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (d)(4)(v) of this section.
(i) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated as required under § 60.58b(m)(1)(i) of this section during the initial mercury performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests, with supporting calculations.
(ii) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated as required under § 60.58b(m)(1)(ii) of this section during the initial dioxin/furan performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests, with supporting calculations.
(iii) The average carbon mass feed rate (in kilograms per hour or pounds per hour) estimated for each hour of operation as required under § 60.58b(m)(3)(ii) of this section, with supporting calculations.
(iv) The total carbon usage for each calendar quarter estimated as specified by paragraph 60.58b(m)(3) of this section, with supporting calculations.
(v) Carbon injection system operating parameter data for the parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed).
(5) [Reserved]
(6) Identification of the calendar dates and times (hours) for which valid hourly data specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(vi) of this section have not been obtained, or continuous automated sampling systems were not operated as specified in paragraph (d)(6)(vii) of this section, including reasons for not obtaining the data and a description of corrective actions taken.
(i) Sulfur dioxide emissions data;
(ii) Nitrogen oxides emissions data;
(iii) Carbon monoxide emissions data;
(iv) Municipal waste combustor unit load data;
(v) Particulate matter control device temperature data; and
(vi) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury,
or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of performance testing by EPA manual test methods, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions data.
(vii) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxins/furans or mercury as allowed under “60.58b(p) and (q), dates and times when the sampling systems were not operating or were not collecting a valid sample.
(7) Identification of each occurrence that sulfur dioxide emissions data, nitrogen oxides emissions data, particulate matter emissions data, cadmium emissions data, lead emissions data, mercury emissions data, hydrogen chloride emissions data, or dioxin/furan emissions data (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods) or operational data (
i.e.
, carbon monoxide emissions, unit load, and particulate matter control device temperature) have been excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters, and the reasons for excluding the data.
(8) The results of daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and carbon monoxide continuous emission monitoring systems, as required under appendix F of this part, procedure 1.
(9) The test reports documenting the results of the initial performance test and all annual performance tests listed in paragraphs (d)(9)(i) and (d)(9)(ii) of this section shall be recorded along with supporting calculations.
(i) The results of the initial performance test and all annual performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission limits.
(ii) For the initial dioxin/furan performance test and all subsequent dioxin/furan performance tests recorded under paragraph (d)(9)(i) of this section, the maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device temperature (for each particulate matter control device).
(10) An owner or operator who elects to continuously monitor emissions instead of performance testing by EPA manual methods must maintain records specified in paragraphs (10)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods), as required under appendix F of this part, procedure 2, the results of daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy determinations for particulate matter.
(ii) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride instead of conducting EPA manual test methods, the results of all quality evaluations, such as daily drift tests and periodic accuracy determinations, specified in the approved site-specific performance evaluation test plan required by § 60.58b(o)(5).
(iii) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the results of all quality evaluations specified in the approved site-specific performance evaluation test plan required by § 60.58b(q)(5).
(11) For each affected facility subject to the siting provisions under § 60.57b, the siting analysis, the final materials separation plan, a record of the location and date of the public meetings, and the documentation of the responses to public comments received at the public meetings.
(12) The records specified in paragraphs (d)(12)(i) through (d)(12)(iv) of this section.
(i) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have been provisionally certified by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or an equivalent State-approved certification program as required by § 60.54b(a) including the dates of initial and renewal certifications and documentation of current certification.
(ii) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have been fully certified by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers or an equivalent State-approved certification program as required by § 60.54b(b) including the dates of initial and renewal certifications and documentation of current certification.
(iii) Records showing the names of the municipal waste combustor chief facility operator, shift supervisors, and control room operators who have completed the EPA municipal waste combustor operator training course or a State-approved equivalent course as required by § 60.54b(d) including documentation of training completion.
(iv) Records of when a certified operator is temporarily off site. Include two main items:
(A) If the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor are off site for more than 12 hours, but for 2 weeks or less, and no other certified operator is on site, record the dates that the certified chief facility operator and certified shift supervisor were off site.
(B) When all certified chief facility operators and certified shift supervisors are off site for more than 2 weeks and no other certified operator is on site, keep records of four items:
(
1
) Time of day that all certified persons are off site.
(
2
) The conditions that cause those people to be off site.
(
3
) The corrective actions taken by the owner or operator of the affected facility to ensure a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor is on site as soon as practicable.
(
4
) Copies of the written reports submitted every 4 weeks that summarize the actions taken by the owner or operator of the affected facility to ensure that a certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor will be on site as soon as practicable.
(13) Records showing the names of persons who have completed a review of the operating manual as required by § 60.54b(f) including the date of the initial review and subsequent annual reviews.
(14) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon, identification of the calendar dates when the average carbon mass feed rates recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section were less than either of the hourly carbon feed rates estimated during performance tests for mercury emissions and recorded under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section, respectively, with reasons for such feed rates and a description of corrective actions taken. For affected facilities that apply activated carbon, identification of the calendar dates when the average carbon mass feed rates recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section were less than either of the hourly carbon feed rates estimated during performance tests for dioxin/furan emissions and recorded under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section, respectively, with reasons for such feed rates and a description of corrective actions taken.
(15) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon for mercury or dioxin/furan control, identification of the calendar dates when the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate (e.g., screw feeder speed) recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(v) of this section are below the level(s) estimated during the performance tests as specified in § 60.58b(m)(1)(i) and § 60.58b(m)(1)(ii) of this section, with reasons for such occurrences and a description of corrective actions taken.
(e) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall maintain records of results of the initial opacity performance test and subsequent performance tests required by § 60.58b(l) for a period of at least 5 years.
(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(6) of this section in the initial performance test report.
(1) The initial performance test data as recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(D) of this section for the initial performance test for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load level, and particulate
matter control device inlet temperature.
(2) The test report documenting the initial performance test recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section for particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emissions.
(3) The performance evaluation of the continuous emission monitoring system using the applicable performance specifications in appendix B of this part.
(4) The maximum demonstrated municipal waste combustor unit load and maximum demonstrated particulate matter control device inlet temperature(s) established during the initial dioxin/furan performance test as recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section.
(5) For affected facilities that apply activated carbon injection for mercury control, the owner or operator shall submit the average carbon mass feed rate recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section.
(6) For those affected facilities that apply activated carbon injection for dioxin/furan control, the owner or operator shall submit the average carbon mass feed rate recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section.
(g) Following the first year of municipal waste combustor operation, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit an annual report that includes the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(5) of this section, as applicable, no later than February 1 of each year following the calendar year in which the data were collected (once the unit is subject to permitting requirements under title V of the Act, the owner or operator of an affected facility must submit these reports semiannually).
(1) A summary of data collected for all pollutants and parameters regulated under this subpart, which includes the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(v) of this section.
(i) A list of the particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission levels achieved during the performance tests recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section.
(ii) A list of the highest emission level recorded for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods), municipal waste combustor unit load level, and particulate matter control device inlet temperature based on the data recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(E) of this section.
(iii) List the highest opacity level measured, based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
(iv) Periods when valid data were not obtained as described in paragraphs (g)(1)(iv)(A) through (g)(1)(iv)(C) of this section.
(A) The total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that valid data for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, or particulate matter control device temperature data were not obtained based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(B) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, and hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, the total number of hours per calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that valid data for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, and hydrogen chloride were not obtained based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6) of this section. For each continuously monitored pollutant or parameter, the hours of valid emissions data per calendar quarter and per calendar year expressed as a percent of the hours per calendar quarter or year that the affected facility was operating and combusting municipal solid waste.
(C) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the total number of hours per
calendar quarter and hours per calendar year that the sampling systems were not operating or were not collecting a valid sample based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(6)(vii) of this section. Also, the number of hours during which the continuous automated sampling system was operating and collecting a valid sample as a percent of hours per calendar quarter or year that the affected facility was operating and combusting municipal solid waste.
(v) Periods when valid data were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters as described in paragraphs (g)(1)(v)(A) through (g)(1)(v)(C) of this section.
(A) The total number of hours that data for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load, and particulate matter control device temperature were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(B) For owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride emissions instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods, the total number of hours that data for particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(C) For owners and operators who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury, the total number of hours that data for mercury and dioxin/furan were excluded from the calculation of average emission concentrations or parameters based on the data recorded under paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(2) The summary of data reported under paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall also provide the types of data specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (g)(1)(vi) of this section for the calendar year preceding the year being reported, in order to provide the Administrator with a summary of the performance of the affected facility over a 2-year period.
(3) The summary of data including the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section shall highlight any emission or parameter levels that did not achieve the emission or parameter limits specified under this subpart.
(4) A notification of intent to begin the reduced dioxin/furan performance testing schedule specified in § 60.58b(g)(5)(iii) of this section during the following calendar year and notification of intent to apply the average carbon mass feed rate and associated carbon injection system operating parameter levels as established in § 60.58b(m) to similarly designed and equipped units on site.
(5) Documentation of periods when all certified chief facility operators and certified shift supervisors are off site for more than 12 hours.
(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit a semiannual report that includes the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section for any recorded pollutant or parameter that does not comply with the pollutant or parameter limit specified under this subpart, according to the schedule specified under paragraph (h)(6) of this section.
(1) The semiannual report shall include information recorded under paragraph (d)(3) of this section for sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, dioxin/furan (for owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods) municipal waste combustor unit load level, particulate matter control device inlet temperature, and opacity.
(2) For each date recorded as required by paragraph (d)(3) of this section and reported as required by paragraph (h)(1) of this section, the semiannual report shall include the sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, carbon monoxide, municipal waste combustor unit load level, particulate matter control device
inlet temperature, or opacity data, as applicable, recorded under paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (d)(2)(ii)(D) and (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section, as applicable.
(3) If the test reports recorded under paragraph (d)(9) of this section document any particulate matter, opacity, cadmium, lead, mercury, dioxins/furans, hydrogen chloride, and fugitive ash emission levels that were above the applicable pollutant limits, the semiannual report shall include a copy of the test report documenting the emission levels and the corrective actions taken.
(4) The semiannual report shall include the information recorded under paragraph (d)(15) of this section for the carbon injection system operating parameter(s) that are the primary indicator(s) of carbon mass feed rate.
(5) For each operating date reported as required by paragraph (h)(4) of this section, the semiannual report shall include the carbon feed rate data recorded under paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.
(6) Semiannual reports required by paragraph (h) of this section shall be submitted according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) and (h)(6)(ii) of this section.
(i) If the data reported in accordance with paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section were collected during the first calendar half, then the report shall be submitted by August 1 following the first calendar half.
(ii) If the data reported in accordance with paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(5) of this section were collected during the second calendar half, then the report shall be submitted by February 1 following the second calendar half.
(i) The owner or operator of an air curtain incinerator subject to the opacity limit under § 60.56b shall submit the results of the initial opacity performance test and all subsequent annual performance tests recorded under paragraph (e) of this section. Annual performance tests shall be submitted by February 1 of the year following the year of the performance test.
(j) All reports specified under paragraphs (a), (b), (c), (f), (g), (h), and (i) of this section shall be submitted as a paper copy, postmarked on or before the submittal dates specified under these paragraphs, and maintained onsite as a paper copy for a period of 5 years.
(k) All records specified under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section shall be maintained onsite in either paper copy or computer-readable format, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.
(l) If the owner or operator of an affected facility would prefer a different annual or semiannual date for submitting the periodic reports required by paragraphs (g), (h) and (i) of this section, then the dates may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator according to the procedures specified in § 60.19(c) of subpart A of this part.
(m) Owners and operators who elect to continuously monitor particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride, or who elect to use continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury emissions, instead of conducting performance testing using EPA manual test methods must notify the Administrator one month prior to starting or stopping use of the particulate matter, cadmium, lead, mercury, hydrogen chloride, and dioxin/furan continuous emission monitoring systems or continuous automated sampling systems.
(n)
Additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements for affected facilities with continuous cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride monitoring systems.
In addition to complying with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source who elects to install a continuous emission monitoring system for cadmium, lead, mercury, or hydrogen chloride as specified in § 60.58b(n), shall maintain the records in paragraphs (n)(1) through (n)(10) of this section and report the information in paragraphs (n)(11) through (n)(12) of this section, relevant to the continuous emission monitoring system:
(1) All required continuous emission monitoring measurements (including monitoring data recorded during unavoidable continuous emission monitoring system breakdowns and out-of-control periods);
(2) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous emission monitoring system was inoperative except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks;
(3) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous emission monitoring system was out of control, as defined in § 60.58b(o)(4);
(4) The specific identification (
i.e.
, the date and time of commencement and completion) of each period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source;
(5) The specific identification (
i.e.
, the date and time of commencement and completion) of each time period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during periods other than startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source;
(6) The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known);
(7) The corrective action taken to correct any malfunction or preventive measures adopted to prevent further malfunctions;
(8) The nature of the repairs or adjustments to the continuous emission monitoring system that was inoperative or out of control;
(9) All procedures that are part of a quality control program developed and implemented for the continuous emission monitoring system under § 60.58b(o);
(10) When more than one continuous emission monitoring system is used to measure the emissions from one affected source (
e.g.
, multiple breechings, multiple outlets), the owner or operator shall report the results as required for each continuous emission monitoring system.
(11) Submit to EPA for approval, the site-specific monitoring plan required by § 60.58b(n)(13) and § 60.58b(o), including the site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system required by § 60.58(b)(o)(5). The owner or operator shall maintain copies of the site-specific monitoring plan on record for the life of the affected source to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the site-specific monitoring plan is revised and approved, the owner or operator shall keep previous (
i.e.
, superseded) versions of the plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.
(12) Submit information concerning all out-of-control periods for each continuous emission monitoring system, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken, in the annual or semiannual reports required in paragraphs (g) or (h) of this section.
(o)
Additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements for affected facilities with continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan or mercury monitoring.
In addition to complying with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (m) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source who elects to install a continuous automated sampling system for dioxin/furan or mercury, as specified in § 60.58b(p), shall maintain the records in paragraphs (o)(1) through (o)(10) of this section and report the information in (o)(11) and (o)(12) of this section, relevant to the continuous automated sampling system:
(1) All required 24-hour integrated mercury concentration or 2-week integrated dioxin/furan concentration data (including any data obtained during unavoidable system breakdowns and out-of-control periods);
(2) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous automated sampling system was inoperative;
(3) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous automated sampling system was out of control, as defined in § 60.58b(q)(4);
(4) The specific identification (
i.e.
, the date and time of commencement and completion) of each period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source;
(5) The specific identification (
i.e.
, the date and time of commencement and completion) of each time period of excess emissions and parameter monitoring exceedances, as defined in the standard, that occurs during periods other than startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected source;
(6) The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known);
(7) The corrective action taken to correct any malfunction or preventive measures adopted to prevent further malfunctions;
(8) The nature of the repairs or adjustments to the continuous automated sampling system that was inoperative or out of control;
(9) All procedures that are part of a quality control program developed and implemented for the continuous automated sampling system under § 60.58b(q);
(10) When more than one continuous automated sampling system is used to measure the emissions from one affected source (
e.g.
, multiple breechings, multiple outlets), the owner or operator shall report the results as required for each system.
(11) Submit to EPA for approval, the site-specific monitoring plan required by § 60.58b(p)(11) and § 60.58b(q) including the site-specific performance evaluation test plan for the continuous emission monitoring system required by § 60.58(b)(q)(5). The owner or operator shall maintain copies of the site-specific monitoring plan on record for the life of the affected source to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the site-specific monitoring plan is revised and approved, the owner or operator shall keep previous (
i.e.
, superseded) versions of the plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan.
(12) Submit information concerning all out-of-control periods for each continuous automated sampling system, including start and end dates and hours and descriptions of corrective actions taken in the annual or semiannual reports required in paragraphs (g) or (h) of this section.
[60 FR 65419, Dec. 19, 1995, as amended at 62 FR 45121, 45127, Aug. 25, 1997; 71 FR 27345, May 10, 2006]

# Subpart Ec—Standards of Performance for New Stationary Sources: Hospital/Medical/Infectious Waste Incinerators

# Source:
62 FR 48382, Sept. 15, 1997, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.50c
Applicability and delegation of authority.
(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each individual hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerator (HMIWI):
(1) For which construction is commenced after June 20, 1996 but no later than December 1, 2008; or
(2) For which modification is commenced after March 16, 1998 but no later than April 6, 2010.
(3) For which construction is commenced after December 1, 2008; or
(4) For which modification is commenced after April 6, 2010.
(b) A combustor is not subject to this subpart during periods when only pathological waste, low-level radioactive waste, and/or chemotherapeutic waste (all defined in § 60.51c) is burned, provided the owner or operator of the combustor:
(1) Notifies the Administrator of an exemption claim; and
(2) Keeps records on a calendar quarter basis of the periods of time when only pathological waste, low-level radioactivewaste and/or chemotherapeutic waste is burned.
(c) Any co-fired combustor (defined in § 60.51c) is not subject to this subpart if the owner or operator of the co-fired combustor:
(1) Notifies the Administrator of an exemption claim;
(2) Provides an estimate of the relative amounts of hospital waste, medical/infectious waste, and other fuels and wastes to be combusted; and
(3) Keeps records on a calendar quarter basis of the weight of hospital
waste and medical/infectious waste combusted, and the weight of all other fuels and wastes combusted at the co-fired combustor.
(d) Any combustor required to have a permit under section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act is not subject to this subpart.
(e) Any combustor which meets the applicability requirements under subpart Cb, Ea, or Eb of this part (standards or guidelines for certain municipal waste combustors) is not subject to this subpart.
(f) Any pyrolysis unit (defined in § 60.51c) is not subject to this subpart.
(g) Cement kilns firing hospital waste and/or medical/infectious waste are not subject to this subpart.
(h) Physical or operational changes made to an existing HMIWI solely for the purpose of complying with emission guidelines under subpart Ce are not considered a modification and do not result in an existing HMIWI becoming subject to this subpart.
(i) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Clean Air Act, the following authorities shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State:
(1) The requirements of Sec. 60.56c(i) establishing operating parameters when using controls other than those listed in Sec. 60.56c(d).
(2) Approval of alternative methods of demonstrating compliance under § 60.8 including:
(i) Approval of CEMS for PM, HCl, multi-metals, and Hg where used for purposes of demonstrating compliance,
(ii) Approval of continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan and Hg where used for purposes of demonstrating compliance, and
(iii) Approval of major alternatives to test methods;
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring;
(4) Waiver of recordkeeping requirements; and
(5) Performance test and data reduction waivers under § 60.8(b).
(j) Affected facilities subject to this subpart are not subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 64.
(i) Approval of CEMS for PM, HCl, multi-metals, and Hg where used for purposes of demonstrating compliance,
(ii) Approval of continuous automated sampling systems for dioxin/furan and Hg where used for purposes of demonstrating compliance, and
(iii) Approval of major alternatives to test methods;
(3) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring;
(4) Waiver of recordkeeping requirements; and
(5) Performance test and data reduction waivers under § 60.8(b).
(k) The requirements of this subpart shall become effective March 16, 1998
(l) Beginning September 15, 2000, or on the effective date of an EPA-approved operating permit program under Clean Air Act title V and the implementing regulations under 40 CFR part 70 in the State in which the unit is located, whichever date is later, affected facilities subject to this subpart shall operate pursuant to a permit issued under the EPA approved State operating permit program.
(m) The requirements of this subpart as promulgated on September 15, 1997, shall apply to the affected facilities defined in paragraph (a)(1) and (2) of this section until the applicable compliance date of the requirements of subpart Ce of this part, as amended on October 6, 2009. Upon the compliance date of the requirements of the amended subpart Ce of this part, affected facilities as defined in paragraph (a) of this section are no longer subject to the requirements of this subpart, but are subject to the requirements of subpart Ce of this part, as amended on October 6, 2009, except where the emissions limits of this subpart as promulgated on September 15, 1997 are more stringent than the emissions limits of the amended subpart Ce of this part. Compliance with subpart Ce of this part, as amended on October 6, 2009 is required on or before the date 3 years after EPA approval of the State plan for States in which an affected facility as defined in paragraph (a) of this section is located (but not later than the date 5 years after promulgation of the amended subpart).
(n) The requirements of this subpart, as amended on October 6, 2009, shall become effective April 6, 2010.
[62 FR 48382, Sept. 15, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 51408, Oct. 6, 2009]
§ 60.51c
Definitions.
Bag leak detection system
means an instrument that is capable of monitoring PM loadings in the exhaust of a fabric filter in order to detect bag failures. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light-scattering, light-transmittance, or other effects to monitor relative PM loadings.
Batch HMIWI
means an HMIWI that is designed such that neither waste charging nor ash removal can occur during combustion.
Biologicals
means preparations made from living organisms and their products, including vaccines, cultures, etc., intended for use in diagnosing, immunizing, or treating humans or animals or in research pertaining thereto.
Blood products
means any product derived from human blood, including but not limited to blood plasma, platelets, red or white blood corpuscles, and other derived licensed products, such as interferon, etc.
Body fluids
means liquid emanating or derived from humans and limited to blood; dialysate; amniotic, cerebrospinal, synovial, pleural, peritoneal and pericardial fluids; and semen and vaginal secretions.
Bypass stack
means a device used for discharging combustion gases to avoid severe damage to the air pollution control device or other equipment.
Chemotherapeutic waste
means waste material resulting from the production or use of antineoplastic agents used for the purpose of stopping or reversing the growth of malignant cells.
Co-fired combustor
means a unit combusting hospital waste and/or medical/infectious waste with other fuels or wastes (e.g., coal, municipal solid waste) and subject to an enforceable requirement limiting the unit to combusting a fuel feed stream, 10 percent or less of the weight of which is comprised, in aggregate, of hospital waste and medical/infectious waste as measured on a calendar quarter basis. For purposes of this definition, pathological waste, chemotherapeutic waste, and low-level radioactive waste are considered “other” wastes when calculating the percentage of hospital waste and medical/infectious waste combusted.
Commercial HMIWI
means a HMIWI which offers incineration services for hospital/medical/infectious waste generated offsite by firms unrelated to the firm that owns the HMIWI.
Continuous emission monitoring system
or
CEMS
means a monitoring system for continuously measuring and recording the emissions of a pollutant from an affected facility.
Continuous HMIWI
means an HMIWI that is designed to allow waste charging and ash removal during combustion.
Dioxins/furans
means the combined emissions of tetra-through octa-chlorinated dibenzo-para-dioxins and dibenzofurans, as measured by EPA Reference Method 23.
Dry scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control system that injects dry alkaline sorbent (dry injection) or sprays an alkaline sorbent (spray dryer) to react with and neutralize acid gases in the HMIWI exhaust stream forming a dry powder material.
Fabric filter
or
baghouse
means an add-on air pollution control system that removes particulate matter (PM) and nonvaporous metals emissions by passing flue gas through filter bags.
Facilities manager
means the individual in charge of purchasing, maintaining, and operating the HMIWI or the owner's or operator's representative responsible for the management of the HMIWI. Alternative titles may include director of facilities or vice president of support services.
High-air phase
means the stage of the batch operating cycle when the primary chamber reaches and maintains maximum operating temperatures.
Hospital
means any facility which has an organized medical staff, maintains at least six inpatient beds, and where the primary function of the institution is to provide diagnostic and therapeutic patient services and continuous nursing care primarily to human inpatients who are not related and who stay on average in excess of 24 hours
per admission. This definition does not include facilities maintained for the sole purpose of providing nursing or convalescent care to human patients who generally are not acutely ill but who require continuing medical supervision.
Hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerator
or
HMIWI
or
HMIWI unit
means any device that combusts any amount of hospital waste and/or medical/infectious waste.
Hospital/medical/infectious waste incinerator operator
or
HMIWI operator
means any person who operates, controls or supervises the day-to-day operation of an HMIWI.
Hospital waste
means discards generated at a hospital, except unused items returned to the manufacturer. The definition of hospital waste does not include human corpses, remains, and anatomical parts that are intended for interment or cremation.
Infectious agent
means any organism (such as a virus or bacteria) that is capable of being communicated by invasion and multiplication in body tissues and capable of causing disease or adverse health impacts in humans.
Intermittent HMIWI
means an HMIWI that is designed to allow waste charging, but not ash removal, during combustion.
Large HMIWI
means:
(1) Except as provided in (2);
(i) An HMIWI whose maximum design waste burning capacity is more than 500 pounds per hour; or
(ii) A continuous or intermittent HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is more than 500 pounds per hour; or
(iii) A batch HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is more than 4,000 pounds per day.
(2) The following are not large HMIWI:
(i) A continuous or intermittent HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is less than or equal to 500 pounds per hour; or
(ii) A batch HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is less than or equal to 4,000 pounds per day.
Low-level radioactive waste
means waste material which contains radioactive nuclides emitting primarily beta or gamma radiation, or both, in concentrations or quantities that exceed applicable federal or State standards for unrestricted release. Low-level radioactive waste is not high-level radioactive waste, spent nuclear fuel, or by-product material as defined by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(e)(2)).
Malfunction
means any sudden, infrequent, and not reasonably preventable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner. Failures that are caused, in part, by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. During periods of malfunction the operator shall operate within established parameters as much as possible, and monitoring of all applicable operating parameters shall continue until all waste has been combusted or until the malfunction ceases, whichever comes first.
Maximum charge rate
means:
(1) For continuous and intermittent HMIWI, 110 percent of the lowest 3-hour average charge rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits.
(2) For batch HMIWI, 110 percent of the lowest daily charge rate measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits.
Maximum design waste burning capacity
means:
(1) For intermittent and continuous HMIWI,
C = P
V
× 15,000/8,500
Where:
C = HMIWI capacity, lb/hr
P
V
= primary chamber volume, ft
3
15,000 = primary chamber heat release rate factor, Btu/ft
3
/hr
8,500 = standard waste heating value, Btu/lb;
(2) For batch HMIWI,
C = P
V
× 4.5/8
Where:
C = HMIWI capacity, lb/hr
P
V
= primary chamber volume, ft
3
4.5 = waste density, lb/ft
3
8 = typical hours of operation of a batch HMIWI, hours.
Maximum fabric filter inlet temperature
means 110 percent of the lowest 3-hour average temperature at the inlet to the fabric filter (taken, at a minimum,
once every minute) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit.
Maximum flue gas temperature
means 110 percent of the lowest 3-hour average temperature at the outlet from the wet scrubber (taken, at a minimum, once every minute) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the mercury (Hg) emission limit.
Medical/infectious waste
means any waste generated in the diagnosis, treatment, or immunization of human beings or animals, in research pertaining thereto, or in the production or testing of biologicals that are listed in paragraphs (1) through (7) of this definition. The definition of medical/infectious waste does not include hazardous waste identified or listed under the regulations in part 261 of this chapter; household waste, as defined in § 261.4(b)(1) of this chapter; ash from incineration of medical/infectious waste, once the incineration process has been completed; human corpses, remains, and anatomical parts that are intended for interment or cremation; and domestic sewage materials identified in § 261.4(a)(1) of this chapter.
(1) Cultures and stocks of infectious agents and associated biologicals, including: Cultures from medical and pathological laboratories; cultures and stocks of infectious agents from research and industrial laboratories; wastes from the production of biologicals; discarded live and attenuated vaccines; and culture dishes and devices used to transfer, inoculate, and mix cultures.
(2) Human pathological waste, including tissues, organs, and body parts and body fluids that are removed during surgery or autopsy, or other medical procedures, and specimens of body fluids and their containers.
(3) Human blood and blood products including:
(i) Liquid waste human blood;
(ii) Products of blood;
(iii) Items saturated and/or dripping with human blood; or
(iv) Items that were saturated and/or dripping with human blood that are now caked with dried human blood; including serum, plasma, and other blood components, and their containers, which were used or intended for use in either patient care, testing and laboratory analysis or the development of pharmaceuticals. Intravenous bags are also included in this category.
(4) Sharps that have been used in animal or human patient care or treatment or in medical, research, or industrial laboratories, including hypodermic needles, syringes (with or without the attached needle), pasteur pipettes, scalpel blades, blood vials, needles with attached tubing, and culture dishes (regardless of presence of infectious agents). Also included are other types of broken or unbroken glassware that were in contact with infectious agents, such as used slides and cover slips.
(5) Animal waste including contaminated animal carcasses, body parts, and bedding of animals that were known to have been exposed to infectious agents during research (including research in veterinary hospitals), production of biologicals or testing of pharmaceuticals.
(6) Isolation wastes including biological waste and discarded materials contaminated with blood, excretions, exudates, or secretions from humans who are isolated to protect others from certain highly communicable diseases, or isolated animals known to be infected with highly communicable diseases.
(7) Unused sharps including the following unused, discarded sharps: hypodermic needles, suture needles, syringes, and scalpel blades.
Medium HMIWI
means:
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2);
(i) An HMIWI whose maximum design waste burning capacity is more than 200 pounds per hour but less than or equal to 500 pounds per hour; or
(ii) A continuous or intermittent HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is more than 200 pounds per hour but less than or equal to 500 pounds per hour; or
(iii) A batch HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is more than 1,600 pounds per day but less than or equal to 4,000 pounds per day.
(2) The following are not medium HMIWI:
(i) A continuous or intermittent HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is less than or equal to 200 pounds per hour or more than 500 pounds per hour; or
(ii) A batch HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is more than 4,000 pounds per day or less than or equal to 1,600 pounds per day.
Minimum dioxin/furan sorbent flow rate
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average dioxin/furan sorbent flow rate (taken, at a minimum, once every hour) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the dioxin/furan emission limit.
Minimum Hg sorbent flow rate
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average Hg sorbent flow rate (taken, at a minimum, once every hour) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the Hg emission limit.
Minimum hydrogen chloride (HCl) sorbent flow rate
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average HCl sorbent flow rate (taken, at a minimum, once every hour) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the HCl emission limit.
Minimum horsepower or amperage
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average horsepower or amperage to the wet scrubber (taken, at a minimum, once every minute) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limits.
Minimum pressure drop across the wet scrubber
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average pressure drop across the wet scrubber PM control device (taken, at a minimum, once every minute) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the PM emission limit.
Minimum reagent flow rate
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average reagent flow rate at the inlet to the selective noncatalytic reduction technology (taken, at a minimum, once every minute) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the NO
X
emissions limit.
Minimum scrubber liquor flow rate
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average liquor flow rate at the inlet to the wet scrubber (taken, at a minimum, once every minute) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits.
Minimum scrubber liquor pH
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average liquor pH at the inlet to the wet scrubber (taken, at a minimum, once every minute) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the HCl emission limit.
Minimum secondary chamber temperature
means 90 percent of the highest 3-hour average secondary chamber temperature (taken, at a minimum, once every minute) measured during the most recent performance test demonstrating compliance with the PM, CO, dioxin/furan, and NO
X
emissions limits.
Modification
or
Modified HMIWI
means any change to an HMIWI unit after the effective date of these standards such that:
(1) The cumulative costs of the modifications, over the life of the unit, exceed 50 per centum of the original cost of the construction and installation of the unit (not including the cost of any land purchased in connection with such construction or installation) updated to current costs, or
(2) The change involves a physical change in or change in the method of operation of the unit which increases the amount of any air pollutant emitted by the unit for which standards have been established under section 129 or section 111.
Operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12:00 midnight and the following midnight during which any amount of hospital waste or medical/infectious waste is combusted at any time in the HMIWI.
Operation
means the period during which waste is combusted in the incinerator excluding periods of startup or shutdown.
Particulate matter
or
PM
means the total particulate matter emitted from an HMIWI as measured by EPA Reference Method 5 or EPA Reference Method 29.
Pathological waste
means waste material consisting of only human or animal remains, anatomical parts, and/or tissue, the bags/containers used to collect and transport the waste material, and animal bedding (if applicable).
Primary chamber
means the chamber in an HMIWI that receives waste material, in which the waste is ignited, and from which ash is removed.
Pyrolysis
means the endothermic gasification of hospital waste and/or medical/infectious waste using external energy.
Secondary chamber
means a component of the HMIWI that receives combustion gases from the primary chamber and in which the combustion process is completed.
Shutdown
means the period of time after all waste has been combusted in the primary chamber. For continuous HMIWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 2 hours after the last charge to the incinerator. For intermittent HMIWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 4 hours after the last charge to the incinerator. For batch HMIWI, shutdown shall commence no less than 5 hours after the high-air phase of combustion has been completed.
Small HMIWI
means:
(1) Except as provided in (2);
(i) An HMIWI whose maximum design waste burning capacity is less than or equal to 200 pounds per hour; or
(ii) A continuous or intermittent HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is less than or equal to 200 pounds per hour; or
(iii) A batch HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is less than or equal to 1,600 pounds per day.
(2) The following are not small HMIWI:
(i) A continuous or intermittent HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is more than 200 pounds per hour;
(ii) A batch HMIWI whose maximum charge rate is more than 1,600 pounds per day.
Standard conditions
means a temperature of 20 °C and a pressure of 101.3 kilopascals.
Startup
means the period of time between the activation of the system and the first charge to the unit. For batch HMIWI, startup means the period of time between activation of the system and ignition of the waste.
Wet scrubber
means an add-on air pollution control device that utilizes an alkaline scrubbing liquor to collect particulate matter (including nonvaporous metals and condensed organics) and/or to absorb and neutralize acid gases.
[62 FR 48382, Sept. 15, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 51408, Oct. 6, 2009; 79 FR 11249, Feb. 27, 2014]
§ 60.52c
Emission limits.
(a) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2), any gases that contain stack emissions in excess of the limits presented in Table 1A to this subpart.
(2) From an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), any gases that contain stack emissions in excess of the limits presented in Table 1B to this subpart.
(b) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, no owner or operator of an affected facility shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2), any gases that exhibit greater than 10 percent opacity (6-minute block average).
(2) From an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), any gases that exhibit greater than 6 percent opacity (6-minute block average).
(c) On and after the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, no owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2) and utilizing a large HMIWI, and in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere visible emissions of combustion ash from an ash conveying system (including conveyor transfer points) in excess of 5 percent of the observation period (
i.e.,
9
minutes per 3-hour period), as determined by EPA Reference Method 22 of appendix A-1 of this part, except as provided in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.
(d) The emission limit specified in paragraph (c) of this section does not cover visible emissions discharged inside buildings or enclosures of ash conveying systems; however, the emission limit does cover visible emissions discharged to the atmosphere from buildings or enclosures of ash conveying systems.
(e) The provisions specified in paragraph (c) of this section do not apply during maintenance and repair of ash conveying systems. Maintenance and/or repair shall not exceed 10 operating days per calendar quarter unless the owner or operator obtains written approval from the State agency establishing a date whereby all necessary maintenance and repairs of ash conveying systems shall be completed.
[62 FR 48382, Sept. 15, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 51409, Oct. 6, 2009]
§ 60.53c
Operator training and qualification requirements.
(a) No owner or operator of an affected facility shall allow the affected facility to operate at any time unless a fully trained and qualified HMIWI operator is accessible, either at the facility or available within 1 hour. The trained and qualified HMIWI operator may operate the HMIWI directly or be the direct supervisor of one or more HMIWI operators.
(b) Operator training and qualification shall be obtained through a State-approved program or by completing the requirements included in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section.
(c) Training shall be obtained by completing an HMIWI operator training course that includes, at a minimum, the following provisions:
(1) 24 hours of training on the following subjects:
(i) Environmental concerns, including pathogen destruction and types of emissions;
(ii) Basic combustion principles, including products of combustion;
(iii) Operation of the type of incinerator to be used by the operator, including proper startup, waste charging, and shutdown procedures;
(iv) Combustion controls and monitoring;
(v) Operation of air pollution control equipment and factors affecting performance (if applicable);
(vi) Methods to monitor pollutants (continuous emission monitoring systems and monitoring of HMIWI and air pollution control device operating parameters) and equipment calibration procedures (where applicable);
(vii) Inspection and maintenance of the HMIWI, air pollution control devices, and continuous emission monitoring systems;
(viii) Actions to correct malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction;
(ix) Bottom and fly ash characteristics and handling procedures;
(x) Applicable Federal, State, and local regulations;
(xi) Work safety procedures;
(xii) Pre-startup inspections; and
(xiii) Recordkeeping requirements.
(2) An examination designed and administered by the instructor.
(3) Reference material distributed to the attendees covering the course topics.
(d) Qualification shall be obtained by:
(1) Completion of a training course that satisfies the criteria under paragraph (c) of this section; and
(2) Either 6 months experience as an HMIWI operator, 6 months experience as a direct supervisor of an HMIWI operator, or completion of at least two burn cycles under the observation of two qualified HMIWI operators.
(e) Qualification is valid from the date on which the examination is passed or the completion of the required experience, whichever is later.
(f) To maintain qualification, the trained and qualified HMIWI operator shall complete and pass an annual review or refresher course of at least 4 hours covering, at a minimum, the following:
(1) Update of regulations;
(2) Incinerator operation, including startup and shutdown procedures;
(3) Inspection and maintenance;
(4) Responses to malfunctions or conditions that may lead to malfunction; and
(5) Discussion of operating problems encountered by attendees.
(g) A lapsed qualification shall be renewed by one of the following methods:
(1) For a lapse of less than 3 years, the HMIWI operator shall complete and pass a standard annual refresher course described in paragraph (f) of this section.
(2) For a lapse of 3 years or more, the HMIWI operator shall complete and pass a training course with the minimum criteria described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall maintain documentation at the facility that address the following:
(1) Summary of the applicable standards under this subpart;
(2) Description of basic combustion theory applicable to an HMIWI;
(3) Procedures for receiving, handling, and charging waste;
(4) HMIWI startup, shutdown, and malfunction procedures;
(5) Procedures for maintaining proper combustion air supply levels;
(6) Procedures for operating the HMIWI and associated air pollution control systems within the standards established under this subpart;
(7) Procedures for responding to periodic malfunction or conditions that may lead to malfunction;
(8) Procedures for monitoring HMIWI emissions;
(9) Reporting and recordkeeping procedures; and
(10) Procedures for handling ash.
(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall establish a program for reviewing the information listed in paragraph (h) of this section annually with each HMIWI operator (defined in § 60.51c).
(1) The initial review of the information listed in paragraph (h) of this section shall be conducted within 6 months after the effective date of this subpart or prior to assumption of responsibilities affecting HMIWI operation, whichever date is later.
(2) Subsequent reviews of the information listed in paragraph (h) of this section shall be conducted annually.
(j) The information listed in paragraph (h) of this section shall be kept in a readily accessible location for all HMIWI operators. This information, along with records of training shall be available for inspection by the EPA or its delegated enforcement agent upon request.
§ 60.54c
Siting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility for which construction is commenced after September 15, 1997 shall prepare an analysis of the impacts of the affected facility. The analysis shall consider air pollution control alternatives that minimize, on a site-specific basis, to the maximum extent practicable, potential risks to public health or the environment. In considering such alternatives, the analysis may consider costs, energy impacts, non-air environmental impacts, or any other factors related to the practicability of the alternatives.
(b) Analyses of facility impacts prepared to comply with State, local, or other Federal regulatory requirements may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section, as long as they include the consideration of air pollution control alternatives specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The owner or operator of the affected facility shall complete and submit the siting requirements of this section as required under § 60.58c(a)(1)(iii).
§ 60.55c
Waste management plan.
The owner or operator of an affected facility shall prepare a waste management plan. The waste management plan shall identify both the feasibility and the approach to separate certain components of solid waste from the health care waste stream in order to reduce the amount of toxic emissions from incinerated waste. A waste management plan may include, but is not limited to, elements such as segregation and recycling of paper, cardboard, plastics, glass, batteries, food waste, and metals (
e.g.,
aluminum cans, metals-containing devices); segregation of non-recyclable wastes (
e.g.,
polychlorinated biphenyl-containing waste, pharmaceutical waste, and mercury-containing waste, such as dental
waste); and purchasing recycled or recyclable products. A waste management plan may include different goals or approaches for different areas or departments of the facility and need not include new waste management goals for every waste stream. It should identify, where possible, reasonably available additional waste management measures, taking into account the effectiveness of waste management measures already in place, the costs of additional measures, the emissions reductions expected to be achieved, and any other environmental or energy impacts they might have. The American Hospital Association publication entitled “An Ounce of Prevention: Waste Reduction Strategies for Health Care Facilities” (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17) shall be considered in the development of the waste management plan. The owner or operator of each commercial HMIWI company shall conduct training and education programs in waste segregation for each of the company's waste generator clients and ensure that each client prepares its own waste management plan that includes, but is not limited to, the provisions listed previously in this section.
[74 FR 51409, Oct. 6, 2009]
§ 60.56c
Compliance and performance testing.
(a) The emissions limits apply at all times.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2), shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8 to determine compliance with the emissions limits using the procedures and test methods listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) and (b)(9) through (b)(14) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), shall conduct an initial performance test as required under § 60.8 to determine compliance with the emissions limits using the procedures and test methods listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(14). The use of the bypass stack during a performance test shall invalidate the performance test.
(1) All performance tests shall consist of a minimum of three test runs conducted under representative operating conditions.
(2) The minimum sample time shall be 1 hour per test run unless otherwise indicated.
(3) EPA Reference Method 1 of appendix A of this part shall be used to select the sampling location and number of traverse points.
(4) EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part shall be used for gas composition analysis, including measurement of oxygen concentration. EPA Reference Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 of this part shall be used simultaneously with each of the other EPA reference methods. As an alternative to EPA Reference Method 3B, ASME PTC-19-10-1981-Part 10 may be used (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
(5) The pollutant concentrations shall be adjusted to 7 percent oxygen using the following equation:
C
adj
= C
meas
(20.9−7)/(20.9−%O
2
)
where:
C
adj
= pollutant concentration adjusted to 7 percent oxygen;
C
meas
= pollutant concentration measured on a dry basis (20.9−7) = 20.9 percent oxygen—7 percent oxygen (defined oxygen correction basis);
20.9 = oxygen concentration in air, percent; and
%O
2
= oxygen concentration measured on a dry basis, percent.
(6) EPA Reference Method 5 of appendix A-3 or Method 26A or Method 29 of appendix A-8 of this part shall be used to measure the particulate matter emissions. As an alternative, PM CEMS may be used as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(7) EPA Reference Method 7 or 7E of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to measure NO
X
emissions.
(8) EPA Reference Method 6 or 6C of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to measure SO
2
emissions.
(9) EPA Reference Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to measure stack opacity. As an alternative, demonstration of compliance with the PM standards using bag leak detection systems as specified in § 60.57c(h) or PM CEMS as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section is considered demonstrative of compliance with the opacity requirements.
(10) EPA Reference Method 10 or 10B of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to measure the CO emissions. As specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, use of CO CEMS are required for affected facilities under § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4).
(11) EPA Reference Method 23 of appendix A-7 of this part shall be used to measure total dioxin/furan emissions. As an alternative, an owner or operator may elect to sample dioxins/furans by installing, calibrating, maintaining, and operating a continuous automated sampling system for monitoring dioxin/furan emissions as specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. For Method 23 of appendix A-7 sampling, the minimum sample time shall be 4 hours per test run. If the affected facility has selected the toxic equivalency standards for dioxins/furans, under § 60.52c, the following procedures shall be used to determine compliance:
(i) Measure the concentration of each dioxin/furan tetra-through octa-congener emitted using EPA Reference Method 23.
(ii) For each dioxin/furan congener measured in accordance with paragraph (b)(9)(i) of this section, multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in table 2 of this subpart.
(iii) Sum the products calculated in accordance with paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section to obtain the total concentration of dioxins/furans emitted in terms of toxic equivalency.
(12) EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A of appendix A-8 of this part shall be used to measure HCl emissions. As an alternative, HCl CEMS may be used as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(13) EPA Reference Method 29 of appendix A-8 of this part shall be used to measure Pb, Cd, and Hg emissions. As an alternative, Hg emissions may be measured using ASTM D6784-02 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17). As an alternative for Pb, Cd, and Hg, multi-metals CEMS or Hg CEMS, may be used as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section. As an alternative, an owner or operator may elect to sample Hg by installing, calibrating, maintaining, and operating a continuous automated sampling system for monitoring Hg emissions as specified in paragraph (c)(7) of this section.
(14) The EPA Reference Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part shall be used to determine compliance with the fugitive ash emissions limit under § 60.52c(c). The minimum observation time shall be a series of three 1-hour observations.
(c) Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall:
(1) Determine compliance with the opacity limit by conducting an annual performance test (no more than 12 months following the previous performance test) using the applicable procedures and test methods listed in paragraph (b) of this section.
(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section, determine compliance with the PM, CO, and HCl emissions limits by conducting an annual performance test (no more than 12 months following the previous performance test) using the applicable procedures and test methods listed in paragraph (b) of this section. If all three performance tests over a 3-year period indicate compliance with the emissions limit for a pollutant (PM, CO, or HCl), the owner or operator may forego a performance test for that pollutant for the subsequent 2 years. At a minimum, a performance test for PM, CO, and HCl shall be conducted every third year (no more than 36 months following the previous performance test). If a performance test conducted every third year indicates compliance with the emissions limit for a pollutant (PM, CO, or HCl), the owner or operator may forego a performance test for that pollutant for an additional 2 years. If any performance test indicates noncompliance with the respective emissions limit, a performance test for that pollutant shall be conducted annually until all annual performance tests over a 3-year period indicate compliance with the emissions limit. The use of the bypass stack during a performance test shall invalidate the performance test.
(3) For an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2) and utilizing a
large HMIWI, and in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), determine compliance with the visible emissions limits for fugitive emissions from flyash/bottom ash storage and handling by conducting a performance test using EPA Reference Method 22 of appendix A-7 on an annual basis (no more than 12 months following the previous performance test).
(4) For an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), determine compliance with the CO emissions limit using a CO CEMS according to paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (c)(4)(iii) of this section:
(i) Determine compliance with the CO emissions limit using a 24-hour block average, calculated as specified in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 of appendix A-7 of this part.
(ii) Operate the CO CEMS in accordance with the applicable procedures under appendices B and F of this part.
(iii) Use of a CO CEMS may be substituted for the CO annual performance test and minimum secondary chamber temperature to demonstrate compliance with the CO emissions limit.
(5) Facilities using CEMS to demonstrate compliance with any of the emissions limits under § 60.52c shall:
(i) For an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(1) and (2), determine compliance with the appropriate emissions limit(s) using a 12-hour rolling average, calculated each hour as the average of the previous 12 operating hours.
(ii) For an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), determine compliance with the appropriate emissions limit(s) using a 24-hour block average, calculated as specified in section 12.4.1 of EPA Reference Method 19 of appendix A-7 of this part.
(iii) Operate all CEMS in accordance with the applicable procedures under appendices B and F of this part. For those CEMS for which performance specifications have not yet been promulgated (HCl, multi-metals), this option for an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) takes effect on the date a final performance specification is published in the
Federal Register
or the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan.
(iv) For an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), be allowed to substitute use of an HCl CEMS for the HCl annual performance test, minimum HCl sorbent flow rate, and minimum scrubber liquor pH to demonstrate compliance with the HCl emissions limit.
(v) For an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), be allowed to substitute use of a PM CEMS for the PM annual performance test and minimum pressure drop across the wet scrubber, if applicable, to demonstrate compliance with the PM emissions limit.
(6) An affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) using a continuous automated sampling system to demonstrate compliance with the dioxin/furan emissions limits under § 60.52c shall record the output of the system and analyze the sample according to EPA Reference Method 23 of appendix A-7 of this part. This option to use a continuous automated sampling system takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to dioxin/furan from monitors is published in the
Federal Register
or the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan. The owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) who elects to continuously sample dioxin/furan emissions instead of sampling and testing using EPA Reference Method 23 of appendix A-7 shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system and shall comply with the requirements specified in § 60.58b(p) and (q) of subpart Eb of this part.
(7) An affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) using a continuous automated sampling system to demonstrate compliance with the Hg emissions limits under § 60.52c shall record the output of the system and analyze the sample at set intervals using any suitable determinative technique that can meet appropriate performance criteria. This option to use a continuous automated sampling system takes effect on the date a final performance specification applicable to Hg from monitors is published in the
Federal Register
or the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan. The owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) who elects to continuously sample Hg
emissions instead of sampling and testing using EPA Reference Method 29 of appendix A-8 of this part, or an approved alternative method for measuring Hg emissions, shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous automated sampling system and shall comply with the requirements specified in § 60.58b(p) and (q) of subpart Eb of this part.
(d) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(4) through (c)(7) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected facility equipped with a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter, a wet scrubber, or a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter and wet scrubber shall:
(1) Establish the appropriate maximum and minimum operating parameters, indicated in table 3 of this subpart for each control system, as site specific operating parameters during the initial performance test to determine compliance with the emission limits; and
(2) Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, ensure that the affected facility does not operate above any of the applicable maximum operating parameters or below any of the applicable minimum operating parameters listed in table 3 of this subpart and measured as 3-hour rolling averages (calculated each hour as the average of the previous 3 operating hours) at all times. Operating parameter limits do not apply during performance tests. Operation above the established maximum or below the established minimum operating parameter(s) shall constitute a violation of established operating parameter(s).
(e) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, for affected facilities equipped with a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter:
(1) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum secondary chamber temperature (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the CO emission limit.
(2) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum fabric filter inlet temperature, above the maximum charge rate, and below the minimum dioxin/furan sorbent flow rate (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the dioxin/furan emission limit.
(3) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum HCl sorbent flow rate (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the HCl emission limit.
(4) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum Hg sorbent flow rate (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the Hg emission limit.
(5) Use of the bypass stack shall constitute a violation of the PM, dioxin/furan, HCl, Pb, Cd and Hg emissions limits.
(6) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the CO emissions limit as measured by the CO CEMS specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall constitute a violation of the CO emissions limit.
(7) For an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), failure to initiate corrective action within 1 hour of a bag leak detection system alarm; or failure to operate and maintain the fabric filter such that the alarm is not engaged for more than 5 percent of the total operating time in a 6-month block reporting period shall constitute a violation of the PM emissions limit. If inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted. If corrective action is required, each alarm is counted as a minimum of 1 hour. If it takes longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, the alarm time is counted as the actual amount of time taken to initiate corrective action. If the bag leak detection system is used to demonstrate compliance with the opacity limit, this would also constitute a violation of the opacity emissions limit.
(8) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the PM, HCl, Pb, Cd, and/or Hg emissions limit as measured by the CEMS
specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section shall constitute a violation of the applicable emissions limit.
(9) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the dioxin/furan emissions limit as measured by the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section shall constitute a violation of the dioxin/furan emissions limit.
(10) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the Hg emissions limit as measured by the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (c)(7) of this section shall constitute a violation of the Hg emissions limit.
(f) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, for affected facilities equipped with a wet scrubber:
(1) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum pressure drop across the wet scrubber or below the minimum horsepower or amperage to the system (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the PM emission limit.
(2) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum secondary chamber temperature (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the CO emission limit.
(3) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate, below the minimum secondary chamber temperature, and below the minimum scrubber liquor flow rate (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the dioxin/furan emission limit.
(4) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum scrubber liquor pH (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the HCl emission limit.
(5) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum flue gas temperature and above the maximum charge rate (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the Hg emission limit.
(6) Use of the bypass stack shall constitute a violation of the PM, dioxin/furan, HCl, Pb, Cd and Hg emissions limits.
(7) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the CO emissions limit as measured by the CO CEMS specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall constitute a violation of the CO emissions limit.
(8) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the PM, HCl, Pb, Cd, and/or Hg emissions limit as measured by the CEMS specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section shall constitute a violation of the applicable emissions limit.
(9) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the dioxin/furan emissions limit as measured by the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section shall constitute a violation of the dioxin/furan emissions limit.
(10) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the Hg emissions limit as measured by the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (c)(7) of this section shall constitute a violation of the Hg emissions limit.
(g) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, for affected facilities equipped with a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter and a wet scrubber:
(1) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum secondary chamber temperature (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the CO emission limit.
(2) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum fabric filter inlet temperature, above the maximum charge rate, and below the minimum dioxin/furan sorbent flow rate (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the dioxin/furan emission limit.
(3) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum scrubber liquor pH (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the HCl emission limit.
(4) Operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate and below the minimum Hg sorbent flow rate (each measured on a 3-hour rolling average) simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the Hg emission limit.
(5) Use of the bypass stack shall constitute a violation of the PM, dioxin/furan, HCl, Pb, Cd and Hg emissions limits.
(6) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the CO emissions limit as measured by the CO CEMS specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section shall constitute a violation of the CO emissions limit.
(7) For an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), failure to initiate corrective action within 1 hour of a bag leak detection system alarm; or failure to operate and maintain the fabric filter such that the alarm is not engaged for more than 5 percent of the total operating time in a 6-month block reporting period shall constitute a violation of the PM emissions limit. If inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted. If corrective action is required, each alarm is counted as a minimum of 1 hour. If it takes longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, the alarm time is counted as the actual amount of time taken to initiate corrective action. If the bag leak detection system is used to demonstrate compliance with the opacity limit, this would also constitute a violation of the opacity emissions limit.
(8) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the PM, HCl, Pb, Cd, and/or Hg emissions limit as measured by the CEMS specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section shall constitute a violation of the applicable emissions limit.
(9) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the dioxin/furan emissions limit as measured by the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (c)(6) of this section shall constitute a violation of the dioxin/furan emissions limit.
(10) Operation of the affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) above the Hg emissions limit as measured by the continuous automated sampling system specified in paragraph (c)(7) of this section shall constitute a violation of the Hg emissions limit.
(h) The owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) equipped with selective noncatalytic reduction technology shall:
(1) Establish the maximum charge rate, the minimum secondary chamber temperature, and the minimum reagent flow rate as site specific operating parameters during the initial performance test to determine compliance with the emissions limits;
(2) Following the date on which the initial performance test is completed or is required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, ensure that the affected facility does not operate above the maximum charge rate, or below the minimum secondary chamber temperature or the minimum reagent flow rate measured as 3-hour rolling averages (calculated each hour as the average of the previous 3 operating hours) at all times. Operating parameter limits do not apply during performance tests.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, operation of the affected facility above the maximum charge rate, below the minimum secondary chamber temperature, and below the minimum reagent flow rate simultaneously shall constitute a violation of the NO
X
emissions limit.
(i) The owner or operator of an affected facility may conduct a repeat performance test within 30 days of violation of applicable operating parameter(s) to demonstrate that the affected facility is not in violation of the applicable emissions limit(s). Repeat performance tests conducted pursuant to this paragraph shall be conducted using the identical operating parameters that indicated a violation under paragraph (e), (f), (g), or (h) of this section.
(j) The owner or operator of an affected facility using an air pollution control device other than a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter, a wet scrubber, a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter and a wet scrubber, or selective noncatalytic reduction technology to comply with the emissions limits under § 60.52c shall petition the
Administrator for other site-specific operating parameters to be established during the initial performance test and continuously monitored thereafter. The owner or operator shall not conduct the initial performance test until after the petition has been approved by the Administrator.
(k) The owner or operator of an affected facility may conduct a repeat performance test at any time to establish new values for the operating parameters. The Administrator may request a repeat performance test at any time.
[62 FR 48382, Sept. 15, 1997, as amended at 65 FR 61753, Oct. 17, 2000; 74 FR 51409, Oct. 6, 2009; 78 FR 28066, May 13, 2013]
§ 60.57c
Monitoring requirements.
(a) Except as provided in § 60.56c(c)(4) through (c)(7), the owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate devices (or establish methods) for monitoring the applicable maximum and minimum operating parameters listed in Table 3 to this subpart (unless CEMS are used as a substitute for certain parameters as specified) such that these devices (or methods) measure and record values for these operating parameters at the frequencies indicated in Table 3 of this subpart at all times.
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) that uses selective noncatalytic reduction technology shall install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate devices (or establish methods) for monitoring the operating parameters listed in § 60.56c(h) such that the devices (or methods) measure and record values for the operating parameters at all times. Operating parameter values shall be measured and recorded at the following minimum frequencies:
(1) Maximum charge rate shall be measured continuously and recorded once each hour;
(2) Minimum secondary chamber temperature shall be measured continuously and recorded once each minute; and
(3) Minimum reagent flow rate shall be measured hourly and recorded once each hour.
(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate a device or method for measuring the use of the bypass stack including date, time, and duration.
(d) The owner or operator of an affected facility using an air pollution control device other than a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter, a wet scrubber, a dry scrubber followed by a fabric filter and a wet scrubber, or selective noncatalytic reduction technology to comply with the emissions limits under § 60.52c shall install, calibrate (to manufacturers' specifications), maintain, and operate the equipment necessary to monitor the site-specific operating parameters developed pursuant to § 60.56c(j).
(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall obtain monitoring data at all times during HMIWI operation except during periods of monitoring equipment malfunction, calibration, or repair. At a minimum, valid monitoring data shall be obtained for 75 percent of the operating hours per day for 90 percent of the operating days per calendar quarter that the affected facility is combusting hospital waste and/or medical/infectious waste.
(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) shall ensure that each HMIWI subject to the emissions limits in § 60.52c undergoes an initial air pollution control device inspection that is at least as protective as the following:
(1) At a minimum, an inspection shall include the following:
(i) Inspect air pollution control device(s) for proper operation, if applicable;
(ii) Ensure proper calibration of thermocouples, sorbent feed systems, and any other monitoring equipment; and
(iii) Generally observe that the equipment is maintained in good operating condition.
(2) Within 10 operating days following an air pollution control device inspection, all necessary repairs shall be completed unless the owner or operator
obtains written approval from the Administrator establishing a date whereby all necessary repairs of the designated facility shall be completed.
(g) The owner or operator of an affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) shall ensure that each HMIWI subject to the emissions limits under § 60.52c undergoes an air pollution control device inspection annually (no more than 12 months following the previous annual air pollution control device inspection), as outlined in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.
(h) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) that use an air pollution control device that includes a fabric filter and are not demonstrating compliance using PM CEMS, determine compliance with the PM emissions limit using a bag leak detection system and meet the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (h)(12) of this section for each bag leak detection system.
(1) Each triboelectric bag leak detection system may be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained according to the “Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance,” (EPA-454/R-98-015, September 1997). This document is available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA); Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards; Sector Policies and Programs Division; Measurement Policy Group (D-243-02), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. This document is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN) under Emissions Measurement Center Continuous Emissions Monitoring. Other types of bag leak detection systems shall be installed, operated, calibrated, and maintained in a manner consistent with the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations.
(2) The bag leak detection system shall be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.0044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.
(3) The bag leak detection system sensor shall provide an output of relative PM loadings.
(4) The bag leak detection system shall be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.
(5) The bag leak detection system shall be equipped with an audible alarm system that will sound automatically when an increase in relative PM emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm shall be located where it is easily heard by plant operating personnel.
(6) For positive pressure fabric filter systems, a bag leak detector shall be installed in each baghouse compartment or cell.
(7) For negative pressure or induced air fabric filters, the bag leak detector shall be installed downstream of the fabric filter.
(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(9) The baseline output shall be established by adjusting the range and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time according to section 5.0 of the “Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance.”
(10) Following initial adjustment of the system, the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time may not be adjusted. In no case may the sensitivity be increased by more than 100 percent or decreased more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete fabric filter inspection that demonstrates that the fabric filter is in good operating condition. Each adjustment shall be recorded.
(11) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.
(12) Initiate corrective action within 1 hour of a bag leak detection system alarm; operate and maintain the fabric filter such that the alarm is not engaged for more than 5 percent of the total operating time in a 6-month block reporting period. If inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted. If corrective action is required, each alarm is counted as a minimum of 1 hour. If it takes longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, the alarm time is counted as the
actual amount of time taken to initiate corrective action.
[62 FR 48382, Sept. 15, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 51412, Oct. 6, 2009]
§ 60.58c
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit notifications, as provided by § 60.7. In addition, the owner or operator shall submit the following information:
(1) Prior to commencement of construction;
(i) A statement of intent to construct;
(ii) The anticipated date of commencement of construction; and
(iii) All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of § 60.54c.
(2) Prior to initial startup;
(i) The type(s) of waste to be combusted;
(ii) The maximum design waste burning capacity;
(iii) The anticipated maximum charge rate; and
(iv) If applicable, the petition for site-specific operating parameters under § 60.56c(j).
(b) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall maintain the following information (as applicable) for a period of at least 5 years:
(1) Calendar date of each record;
(2) Records of the following data:
(i) Concentrations of any pollutant listed in § 60.52c or measurements of opacity as determined by the continuous emission monitoring system (if applicable);
(ii) Results of fugitive emissions (by EPA Reference Method 22) tests, if applicable;
(iii) HMIWI charge dates, times, and weights and hourly charge rates;
(iv) Fabric filter inlet temperatures during each minute of operation, as applicable;
(v) Amount and type of dioxin/furan sorbent used during each hour of operation, as applicable;
(vi) Amount and type of Hg sorbent used during each hour of operation, as applicable;
(vii) Amount and type of HCl sorbent used during each hour of operation, as applicable;
(viii) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), amount and type of NO
X
reagent used during each hour of operation, as applicable;
(ix) Secondary chamber temperatures recorded during each minute of operation;
(x) Liquor flow rate to the wet scrubber inlet during each minute of operation, as applicable;
(xi) Horsepower or amperage to the wet scrubber during each minute of operation, as applicable;
(xii) Pressure drop across the wet scrubber system during each minute of operation, as applicable,
(xiii) Temperature at the outlet from the wet scrubber during each minute of operation, as applicable;
(xiv) pH at the inlet to the wet scrubber during each minute of operation, as applicable,
(xv) Records indicating use of the bypass stack, including dates, times, and durations, and
(xvi) For affected facilities complying with § 60.56c(j) and § 60.57c(d), the owner or operator shall maintain all operating parameter data collected;
(xvii) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), records of the annual air pollution control device inspections, any required maintenance, and any repairs not completed within 10 days of an inspection or the timeframe established by the Administrator.
(xviii) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), records of each bag leak detection system alarm, the time of the alarm, the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken, as applicable.
(xix) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), concentrations of CO as determined by the continuous emissions monitoring system.
(3) Identification of calendar days for which data on emission rates or operating parameters specified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section have not been obtained, with an identification of the emission rates or operating parameters not measured, reasons for not obtaining the data, and a description of corrective actions taken.
(4) Identification of calendar days, times and durations of malfunctions, a description of the malfunction and the corrective action taken.
(5) Identification of calendar days for which data on emission rates or operating parameters specified under paragraph (b)(2) of this section exceeded the applicable limits, with a description of the exceedances, reasons for such exceedances, and a description of corrective actions taken.
(6) The results of the initial, annual, and any subsequent performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emissions limits and/or to establish or re-establish operating parameters, as applicable, and a description, including sample calculations, of how the operating parameters were established or re-established, if applicable.
(7) All documentation produced as a result of the siting requirements of § 60.54c;
(8) Records showing the names of HMIWI operators who have completed review of the information in § 60.53c(h) as required by § 60.53c(i), including the date of the initial review and all subsequent annual reviews;
(9) Records showing the names of the HMIWI operators who have completed the operator training requirements, including documentation of training and the dates of the training;
(10) Records showing the names of the HMIWI operators who have met the criteria for qualification under § 60.53c and the dates of their qualification; and
(11) Records of calibration of any monitoring devices as required under § 60.57c(a) through (d).
(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section no later than 60 days following the initial performance test. All reports shall be signed by the facilities manager.
(1) The initial performance test data as recorded under § 60.56c(b)(1) through (b)(14), as applicable.
(2) The values for the site-specific operating parameters established pursuant to § 60.56c(d), (h), or (j), as applicable, and a description, including sample calculations, of how the operating parameters were established during the initial performance test.
(3) The waste management plan as specified in § 60.55c.
(4) For each affected facility as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4) that uses a bag leak detection system, analysis and supporting documentation demonstrating conformance with EPA guidance and specifications for bag leak detection systems in § 60.57c(h).
(d) An annual report shall be submitted 1 year following the submissions of the information in paragraph (c) of this section and subsequent reports shall be submitted no more than 12 months following the previous report (once the unit is subject to permitting requirements under title V of the Clean Air Act, the owner or operator of an affected facility must submit these reports semiannually). The annual report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (11) of this section. All reports shall be signed by the facilities manager.
(1) The values for the site-specific operating parameters established pursuant to § 60.56c(d), (h), or (j), as applicable.
(2) The highest maximum operating parameter and the lowest minimum operating parameter, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded for the calendar year being reported, pursuant to § 60.56c(d), (h), or (j), as applicable.
(3) The highest maximum operating parameter and the lowest minimum operating parameter, as applicable, for each operating parameter recorded pursuant to § 60.56c(d), (h), or (j) for the calendar year preceding the year being reported, in order to provide the Administrator with a summary of the performance of the affected facility over a 2-year period.
(4) Any information recorded under paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section for the calendar year being reported.
(5) Any information recorded under paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section for the calendar year preceding the year being reported, in order to provide the Administrator with a summary of the performance of the affected facility over a 2-year period.
(6) If a performance test was conducted during the reporting period, the results of that test.
(7) If no exceedances or malfunctions were reported under paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section for the calendar year being reported, a statement that no exceedances occurred during the reporting period.
(8) Any use of the bypass stack, the duration, reason for malfunction, and corrective action taken.
(9) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), records of the annual air pollution control device inspection, any required maintenance, and any repairs not completed within 10 days of an inspection or the timeframe established by the Administrator.
(10) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), records of each bag leak detection system alarm, the time of the alarm, the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken, as applicable.
(11) For affected facilities as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), concentrations of CO as determined by the continuous emissions monitoring system.
(e) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit semiannual reports containing any information recorded under paragraphs (b)(3) through (b)(5) of this section no later than 60 days following the reporting period. The first semiannual reporting period ends 6 months following the submission of information in paragraph (c) of this section. Subsequent reports shall be submitted no later than 6 calendar months following the previous report. All reports shall be signed by the facilities manager.
(f) All records specified under paragraph (b) of this section shall be maintained onsite in either paper copy or computer-readable format, unless an alternative format is approved by the Administrator.
(g) For affected facilities, as defined in § 60.50c(a)(3) and (4), that choose to submit an electronic copy of stack test reports to EPA's WebFIRE data base, as of December 31, 2011, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall enter the test data into EPA's data base using the Electronic Reporting Tool located at
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/ert__tool.html.
[62 FR 48382, Sept. 15, 1997, as amended at 74 FR 51413, Oct. 6, 2009; 76 FR 18413, Apr. 4, 2011]
Pt. 60, Subpt. Ec, Table 1A

# Table 1A to Subpart E
c

# of Part 60—Emissions Limits for Small, Medium, and Large HMIWI at Affected Facilities as Defined in § 60.50
c

# (
a

# )(1) and (2)
Pollutant
Units (7 percent oxygen, dry basis)
Emissions limits
HMIWI size
Small
Medium
Large
Averaging time
1
Method
for
demonstrating
compliance
2
Particulate matter
Milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (grains per dry standard cubic foot)
69 (0.03)
34 (0.015)
34 (0.015)
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 5 of appendix A-3 of part 60, or EPA Reference Method M 26A or 29 of appendix A-8 of part 60.
Carbon monoxide
Parts per million by volume
40
40
40
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 10 or 10B of appendix A-4 of part 60.
Dioxins/furans
Nanograms per dry standard cubic meter total dioxins/furans (grains per billion dry standard cubic feet) or nanograms per dry standard cubic meter TEQ (grains per billion dry standard cubic feet)
125 (55) or 2.3 (1.0)
25 (11) or 0.6 (0.26)
25 (11) or 0.6 (0.26)
3-run average (4-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 23 of appendix A-7 of part 60.
Hydrogen chloride
Parts per million by volume or percent reduction
15 or 99%
15 or 99%
15 or 99%
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A of appendix A-8 of part 60.
Sulfur dioxide
Parts per million by volume
55
55
55
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 6 or 6C of appendix A-4 of part 60.
Nitrogen oxides
Parts per million by volume
250
250
250
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 7 or 7E of appendix A-4 of part 60.
Lead
Milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (grains per thousand dry standard cubic feet) or percent reduction
1.2 (0.52) or 70%
0.07 (0.03) or 98%
0.07 (0.03) or 98%
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 29 of appendix A-8 of part 60.
Cadmium
Milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (grains per thousand dry standard cubic feet) or percent reduction
0.16 (0.07) or 65%
0.04 (0.02) or 90%
0.04 (0.02) or 90%
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 29 of appendix A-8 of part 60.
Mercury
Milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (grains per thousand dry standard cubic feet) or percent reduction
0.55 (0.24) or 85%
0.55 (0.24) or 85%
0.55 (0.24) or 85%
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 29 of appendix A-8 of part 60.
1
Except as allowed under § 60.56c(c) for HMIWI equipped with CEMS.
2
Does not include CEMS and approved alternative non-EPA test methods allowed under § 60.56c(b).
[74 FR 51414, Oct. 6, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 18414, Apr. 4, 2011]
Pt. 60, Subpt. Ec, Table 1B

# Table 1B to Subpart E
c

# of Part 60—Emissions Limits for Small, Medium, and Large HMIWI at Affected Facilities as Defined in § 60.50c(
a

# )(3) and (4)
Pollutant
Units
(7 percent oxygen,
dry basis)
Emissions limits
HMIWI size
Small
Medium
Large
Averaging time
1
Method for
demonstrating
compliance
2
Particulate matter
Milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (grains per dry standard cubic foot)
66 (0.029)
22 (0.0095)
18 (0.0080)
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 5 of appendix A-3 of part 60, or EPA Reference Method M 26A or 29 of appendix A-8 of part 60.
Carbon monoxide
Parts per million by volume
20
1.8
11
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 10 or 10B of appendix A-4 of part 60.
Dioxins/furans
Nanograms per dry standard cubic meter total dioxins/furans (grains per billion dry standard cubic feet) or nanograms per dry standard cubic meter TEQ (grains per billion dry standard cubic feet)
16 (7.0) or 0.013 (0.0057)
0.47 (0.21) or 0.014 (0.0061)
9.3 (4.1) or 0.035 (0.015)
3-run average (4-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 23 of appendix A-7 of part 60.
Hydrogen chloride
Parts per million by volume
15
7.7
5.1
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 26 or 26A of appendix A-8 of part 60.
Sulfur dioxide
Parts per million by volume
1.4
1.4
8.1
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 6 or 6C of appendix A-4 of part 60.
Nitrogen oxides
Parts per million by volume
67
67
140
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 7 or 7E of appendix A-4 of part 60.
Lead
Milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (grains per thousand dry standard cubic feet)
0.31 (0.14)
0.018 (0.0079)
0.00069 (0.00030)
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 29 of appendix A-8 of part 60.
Cadmium
Milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (grains per thousand dry standard cubic feet)
0.017 (0.0074)
0.0098 (0.0043)
0.00013 (0.000057)
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 29 of appendix A-8 of part 60.
Mercury
Milligrams per dry standard cubic meter (grains per thousand dry standard cubic feet)
0.014 (0.0061)
0.0035 (0.0015)
0.0013 (0.00057)
3-run average (1-hour minimum sample time per run)
EPA Reference Method 29 of appendix A-8 of part 60.
1
Except as allowed under § 60.56c(c) for HMIWI equipped with CEMS.
2
Does not include CEMS and approved alternative non-EPA test methods allowed under § 60.56c(b).
[74 FR 51414, Oct. 6, 2009, as amended at 76 FR 18414, Apr. 4, 2011]
Pt. 60, Subpt. Ec, Table 2

# Table 2 to Subpart E
c

# of Part 60—Toxic Equivalency Factors
Dioxin/furan congener
Toxic equivalency factor
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
1
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.5
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.01
octachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin
0.001
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.5
1,2,3,7,8-pentachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.05
1,2,3,4,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,7,8,9-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
2,3,4,6,7,8-hexachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.1
1,2,3,4,6,7,8-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
1,2,3,4,7,8,9-heptachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.01
Octachlorinated dibenzofuran
0.001
Pt. 60, Subpt. Ec, Table 3

# Table 3 to Subpart E
c

# of Part 60—Operating Parameters To Be Monitored and Minimum Measurement and Recording Frequencies
Operating parameters to be monitored
Minimum frequency
Data measurement
Data recording
Control system
Dry scrubber followed by fabric filter
Wet scrubber
Dry scrubber followed by fabric filter and wet scrubber
Maximum operating parameters:
Maximum charge rate
Continuous
1 × hour
✔
✔
✔
Maximum fabric filter inlet temperature
Continuous
1 × minute
✔
✔
Maximum flue gas temperature
Continuous
1 × minute
✔
✔
Minimum operating parameters:
Minimum secondary chamber temperature
Continuous
1 × minute
✔
✔
✔
Minimum dioxin/furan sorbent flow rate
Hourly
1 × hour
✔
✔
Minimum HCI sorbent flow rate
Hourly
1 × hour
✔
✔
Minimum mercury (Hg) sorbent flow rate
Hourly
1 × hour
✔
✔
Minimum pressure drop across the wet scrubber or minimum horsepower or amperage to wet scrubber
Continuous
1 × minute
✔
✔
Minimum scrubber liquor flow rate
Continuous
1 × minute
✔
✔
Minimum scrubber liquor pH
Continuous
1 × minute
✔
✔

# Subpart F—Standards of Performance for Portland Cement Plants
§ 60.60
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in portland cement plants: Kiln, clinker cooler, raw mill system, finish mill system, raw mill dryer, raw material storage, clinker storage, finished product storage, conveyor transfer points, bagging and bulk loading and unloading systems.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after August 17, 1971, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37936, July 25, 1977]
§ 60.61
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Portland cement plant
means any facility manufacturing portland cement by either the wet or dry process.
(b)
Bypass
means any system that prevents all or a portion of the kiln or clinker cooler exhaust gases from entering the main control device and ducts the gases through a separate control device. This does not include emergency systems designed to duct exhaust gases directly to the atmosphere in the event of a malfunction of any control device controlling kiln or clinker cooler emissions.
(c)
Bypass stack
means the stack that vents exhaust gases to the atmosphere from the bypass control device.
(d)
Monovent
means an exhaust configuration of a building or emission control device (e.g., positive-pressure fabric filter) that extends the length of the structure and has a width very small in relation to its length (i.e., length to width ratio is typically greater than 5:1). The exhaust may be an open vent with or without a roof, louvered vents, or a combination of such features.
(e)
Excess emissions
means, with respect to this subpart, results of any required measurements outside the applicable range (e.g., emissions limitations, parametric operating limits) that is permitted by this subpart. The values of measurements will be in the same units and averaging time as the values specified in this subpart for the limitations.
(f)
Operating day
means a 24-hour period beginning at 12:00 midnight during which the kiln produces clinker at any time. For calculating 30 day rolling average emissions, an
operating day
does not include the hours of operation during startup or shutdown.
(g)
Rolling average
means the weighted average of all data, meeting QA/QC requirements or otherwise normalized, collected during the applicable averaging period. The period of a rolling average stipulates the frequency of data averaging and reporting. To demonstrate compliance with an operating parameter a 30-day rolling average period requires calculation of a new average value each operating day and shall include the average of all the hourly averages of the specific operating parameter. For demonstration of compliance with an emissions limit based on pollutant concentration, a 30-day rolling average is comprised of the average of all the hourly average concentrations over the previous 30 operating days. For demonstration of compliance with an emissions limit based on lbs-pollutant per production unit, the 30-day rolling average is calculated by summing the hourly mass emissions over the previous 30 operating days, then dividing that sum by the total production during the same period.
(h)
Run average
means the average of the recorded parameter values for a run.
[36 FR 24877, Dec. 23, 1971, as amended at 39 FR 20793, June 13, 1974; 53 FR 50363, Dec. 14, 1988; 78 FR 10032, Feb. 12, 2013; 80 FR 44776, July 27, 2015]
§ 60.62
Standards.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, you may not discharge into the atmosphere from any kiln any gases which:
(1) Contain particulate matter (PM) in excess of:
(i) 0.30 pounds per ton of feed (dry basis) to the kiln for kilns constructed, reconstructed, or modified after August 17, 1971 but on or before June 16, 2008.
(ii) 0.02 pound per ton of clinker if construction or reconstruction of the kiln commenced after June 16, 2008.
(iii) Kilns that have undergone a modification may not discharge into the atmosphere any gases which contain PM in excess of 0.07 pound per ton of clinker.
(2) Exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity for kilns constructed, reconstructed, or modified after August 17, 1971 but on or before June 16, 2008, except that this opacity limit does not apply to any kiln subject to a PM limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section that uses a PM continuous parametric monitoring system (CPMS).
(3) Exceed 1.50 pounds of nitrogen oxide (NO
X
) per ton of clinker on a 30-operating day rolling average if construction, reconstruction, or modification of the kiln commences after June 16, 2008, except this limit does not apply to any alkali bypass installed on the kiln. An operating day includes all valid data obtained in any daily 24-hour period during which the kiln operates and excludes any measurements made during the daily 24-hour period when the kiln was not operating.
(4) Exceed 0.4 pounds of sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) per ton of clinker on a 30-operating day rolling average if construction, reconstruction, or modification commences after June 16, 2008, unless you are demonstrating a 90 percent SO
2
emissions reduction measured across the SO
2
control device. An operating day includes all valid data obtained in any daily 24-hour period during which the kiln operates, and excludes any measurements made during the daily 24-hour period when the kiln was not operating.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, you may not discharge into the atmosphere from any clinker cooler any gases which:
(1) Contain PM in excess of:
(i) 0.02 pound per ton of clinker if construction or reconstruction of the clinker cooler commences after June 16, 2008.
(ii) 0.07 pound per ton of clinker if the clinker cooler has undergone a modification.
(iii) 0.10 lb per ton of feed (dry basis) for clinker coolers constructed, reconstructed, or modified after August 17, 1971, but on or before June 16, 2008.
(iv) 10 percent opacity for clinker coolers constructed, reconstructed, or modified after August 17, 1971, but on or before June 16, 2008, except that this opacity limit does not apply to any clinker cooler subject to a PM limit in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that uses a PM continuous parametric monitoring system (CPMS).
(2) If the kiln and clinker cooler exhaust are combined for energy efficiency purposes and sent to a single control device, the appropriate kiln PM limit may be adjusted using the procedures in § 63.1343(b) of this chapter.
(3) If the kiln has a separated alkali bypass stack and/or an inline coal mill with a separate stack, you must combine the PM emissions from the bypass stack and/or the inline coal mill stack with the PM emissions from the main kiln exhaust to determine total PM emissions.
(c) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, you may not discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility other than the kiln and clinker cooler any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity, or greater.
(d) If you have an affected source subject to this subpart with a different emissions limit or requirement for the same pollutant under another regulation in title 40 of this chapter, once you are in compliance with the most stringent emissions limit or requirement, you are not subject to the less stringent requirement. Until you are in compliance with the more stringent limit, the less stringent limit continues to apply.
(e) The compliance date for all revised monitoring and recordkeeping requirements contained in this rule will be the same as listed in 63.1351(c) unless you commenced construction as of June 16, 2008, at which time the compliance date is November 8, 2010 or upon startup, whichever is later.
[75 FR 55034, Sept. 9, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 10032, Feb. 12, 2013; 80 FR 44777, July 27, 2015]
§ 60.63
Monitoring of operations.
(a) [Reserved]
(b)
Clinker production monitoring requirements.
For any kiln subject to an emissions limitation on PM, NO
X
, or SO
2
emissions (lb/ton of clinker), you must:
(1) Determine hourly clinker production by one of two methods:
(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a permanent weigh scale system to measure and record weight rates of the amount of clinker produced in tons of mass per hour. The system of measuring hourly clinker production must be maintained within ±5 percent accuracy or
(ii) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a permanent weigh scale system to measure and record weight rates of the amount of feed to the kiln in tons of mass per hour. The system of measuring feed must be maintained within ±5 percent accuracy. Calculate your hourly clinker production rate using a kiln specific feed-to-clinker ratio based on reconciled clinker production rates determined for accounting purposes and recorded feed rates. This ratio should be updated monthly. Note that if this ratio changes at clinker reconciliation, you must use the new ratio going forward, but you do not have to retroactively change clinker production rates previously estimated.
(iii) For each kiln operating hour for which you do not have data on clinker production or the amount of feed to the kiln, use the value from the most recent previous hour for which valid data are available.
(2) Determine, record, and maintain a record of the accuracy of the system of measuring hourly clinker production rates or feed rates before initial use (for new sources) or by the effective compliance date of this rule (for existing sources). During each quarter of source operation, you must determine, record, and maintain a record of the
ongoing accuracy of the system of measuring hourly clinker production rates or feed rates.
(3) If you measure clinker production directly, record the daily clinker production rates; if you measure the kiln feed rates and calculate clinker production, record the daily kiln feed and clinker production rates.
(c)
PM Emissions Monitoring Requirements.
(1) For each kiln or clinker cooler subject to a PM emissions limit in §§ 60.62(a)1(ii) and 60.62(a)1(iii) or §§ 60.62(b)(1)(i) and 60.62(b)(1)(ii), you must demonstrate compliance through an initial performance test. You will conduct your performance test using Method 5 or Method 5I at appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter. You must also monitor continuous performance through use of a PM CPMS.
(2) For your PM CPMS, you will establish a site-specific operating limit. If your PM performance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test, the milliamp equivalent of zero output from your PM CPMS, and the average PM result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit equivalent to 75 percent of the standard. If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test demonstrating compliance with the PM limit to establish your operating limit. You will use the PM CPMS to demonstrate continuous compliance with your operating limit. You must repeat the performance test annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.
(i) Your PM CPMS must provide a 4-20 milliamp or digital signal output and the establishment of its relationship to manual reference method measurements must be determined in units of milliamps or the monitors digital equivalent.
(ii) Your PM CPMS operating range must be capable of reading PM concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to two times your allowable emission limit. If your PM CPMS is an auto-ranging instrument capable of multiple scales, the primary range of the instrument must be capable of reading PM concentration from zero to a level equivalent to two times your allowable emission limit.
(iii) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, record and average all milliamp or digital output values from the PM CPMS for the periods corresponding to the compliance test runs (
e.g.,
average all your PM CPMS output values for three corresponding 2-hour Method 5I test runs).
(3) Determine your operating limit as specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (c)(5) of this section. If your PM performance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit, you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test, the milliamp or digital equivalent of zero output from your PM CPMS, and the average PM result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit, you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test to establish your operating limit. You must verify an existing or establish a new operating limit after each repeated performance test. You must repeat the performance test at least annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.
(4) If the average of your three Method 5 or 5I compliance test runs are below 75 percent of your PM emission limit, you must calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of PM CPMS signal to PM concentration using the PM CPMS instrument zero, the average PM CPMS values corresponding to the three compliance test runs, and the average PM concentration from the Method 5 or 5I compliance test with the procedures in (c)(4)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.
(i) Determine your PM CPMS instrument zero output with one of the following procedures.
(A) Zero point data for in-situ instruments should be obtained by removing the instrument from the stack and monitoring ambient air on a test bench.
(B) Zero point data for extractive instruments should be obtained by removing the extractive probe from the stack and drawing in clean ambient air.
(C) The zero point can also can be obtained by performing manual reference method measurements when the flue gas is free of PM emissions or contains very low PM concentrations (e.g., when your process is not operating, but the fans are operating or your source is combusting only natural gas) and plotting these with the compliance data to find the zero intercept.
(D) If none of the steps in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section are possible, you must use a zero output value provided by the manufacturer.
(ii) Determine your PM CPMS instrument average in milliamps or digital equivalent and the average of your corresponding three PM compliance test runs, using equation 1.
ER27JY15.006
Where:
X
1
= The PM CPMS data points for the three runs constituting the performance test,
Y
1
= The PM concentration value for the three runs constituting the performance test, and
n = The number of data points.
(iii) With your PM CPMS instrument zero expressed in milliamps or a digital value, your three run average PM CPMS milliamp or digital signal value, and your three run average PM concentration from your three PM performance test runs, determine a relationship of lb/ton-clinker per milliamp or digital signal with equation 2.
ER27JY15.007
Where:
R = The relative lb/ton clinker per milliamp or digital equivalent for your PM CPMS.
Y
1
= The three run average PM lb/ton clinker.
X
1
= The three run average milliamp or digital signal output from your PM CPMS.
z = The milliamp or digital equivalent of your instrument zero determined from (c)(4)(i) of this section.
(iv) Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using the lb/ton-clinker per milliamp or digital signal value from Equation 2 above in Equation 3, below. This sets your operating limit at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.
ER27JY15.008
Where:
O
l
= The operating limit for your PM CPMS on a 30-day rolling average, in milliamps or the digital equivalent.
L = Your source emission limit expressed in lb/ton clinker.
z = Your instrument zero in milliamps or a digital equivalent, determined from (1)(i).
R = The relative lb/ton-clinker per milliamp or digital equivalent, for your PM CPMS, from Equation 2.
(5) If the average of your three PM compliance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your PM emission limit, you must determine your operating limit by averaging the PM CPMS milliamp or digital equivalent output corresponding to your three PM performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using Equation 4.
ER27JY15.009
Where:
X
1
= The PM CPMS data points for all runs i.
n = The number of data points.
O
h
= Your site specific operating limit, in milliamps or digital equivalent.
(6) To determine continuous compliance, you must record the PM CPMS output data for all periods when the process is operating, and use all the PM CPMS data for calculations when the source is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the PM CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (milliamps or the digital equivalent) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 5 to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.
ER27JY15.010
Where:
Hpvi = The hourly parameter value for hour i.
n = The number of valid hourly parameter values collected over the previous 30 kiln operating days.
(7) Use EPA Method 5 or Method 5I of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine PM emissions. For each performance test, conduct at least three separate runs each while the mill is on and the mill is off under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur. Conduct each test run to collect a minimum sample volume of 2 dscm for determining compliance with a new source limit and 1 dscm for determining compliance with an existing source limit. Calculate the time weighted average of the results from three consecutive runs to determine compliance. You need not determine the particulate matter collected in the impingers (“back half”) of the Method 5 or Method 5I particulate sampling train to demonstrate compliance with the PM standards of this subpart. This shall not preclude the permitting authority from requiring a determination of the “back half” for other purposes.
(8) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (
e.g.
beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp or digital signal value equivalent to the instrument zero output,
technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp or digital equivalent signals corresponding to each PM compliance test run.
(d) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a CEMS continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume of NO
X
emissions into the atmosphere for any kiln subject to the NO
X
emissions limit in § 60.62(a)(3). If the kiln has an alkali bypass, NO
X
emissions from the alkali bypass do not need to be monitored, and NO
X
emission monitoring of the kiln exhaust may be done upstream of any commingled alkali bypass gases.
(e) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a CEMS for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume of SO
2
emissions into the atmosphere for any kiln subject to the SO
2
emissions limit in § 60.62(a)(4). If you are complying with the alternative 90 percent SO
2
emissions reduction emissions limit, you must also continuously monitor and record the concentration by volume of SO
2
present at the wet scrubber inlet.
(f) The NO
X
and SO
2
CEMS required under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section must be installed, operated and maintained according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B of this part and the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) The span value of each NO
X
CEMS monitor must be set at 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential NO
X
emission concentration that translates to the applicable emissions limit at full clinker production capacity.
(2) You must conduct performance evaluations of each NO
X
CEMS monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part. You must use Methods 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to this part.
(3) The span value for the SO
2
CEMS monitor is the SO
2
emission concentration that corresponds to 125 percent of the applicable emissions limit at full clinker production capacity and the expected maximum fuel sulfur content.
(4) You must conduct performance evaluations of each SO
2
CEMS monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part. You must use Methods 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to this part.
(5) You must comply with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to this part for each NO
X
and SO
2
CEMS, including quarterly accuracy determinations for monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
(g) For each CPMS or CEMS required under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section:
(1) You must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected source is operating, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments).
(2) You may not use data recorded during the monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. An owner or operator must use all the data collected during all other periods in reporting emissions or operating levels.
(3) You must meet the requirements of § 60.13(h) when determining the 1-hour averages of emissions data.
(h) You must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain instruments for continuously measuring and recording the stack gas flow rate to allow determination of the pollutant mass emissions rate to the atmosphere for each kiln subject to the PM emissions limits in § 60.62(a)(1)(ii) and (iii) and (b)(1)(i) and (ii), the NO
X
emissions limit in § 60.62(a)(3), or the SO
2
emissions limit in § 60.62(a)(4) according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (10), where appropriate, of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must install each sensor of the flow rate monitoring system in a location that provides representative measurement of the exhaust gas flow rate at the sampling location of the NO
X
and/or SO
2
CEMS, taking into account the manufacturer's recommendations. The flow rate sensor is that portion of the system that senses the volumetric flow rate and generates an output proportional to that flow rate.
(2) The flow rate monitoring system must be designed to measure the exhaust gas flow rate over a range that extends from a value of at least 20 percent less than the lowest expected exhaust flow rate to a value of at least 20 percent greater than the highest expected exhaust gas flow rate.
(3) The flow rate monitoring system must have a minimum accuracy of 5 percent of the flow rate.
(4) The flow rate monitoring system must be equipped with a data acquisition and recording system that is capable of recording values over the entire range specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.
(5) The signal conditioner, wiring, power supply, and data acquisition and recording system for the flow rate monitoring system must be compatible with the output signal of the flow rate sensors used in the monitoring system.
(6) The flow rate monitoring system must be designed to measure a minimum of one cycle of operational flow for each successive 15-minute period.
(7) The flow rate sensor must be able to determine the daily zero and upscale calibration drift (CD) (see sections 3.1 and 8.3 of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B to this part for a discussion of CD).
(i) Conduct the CD tests at two reference signal levels, zero (e.g., 0 to 20 percent of span) and upscale (e.g., 50 to 70 percent of span).
(ii) The absolute value of the difference between the flow monitor response and the reference signal must be equal to or less than 3 percent of the flow monitor span.
(8) You must perform an initial relative accuracy test of the flow rate monitoring system according to section 8.2 of Performance Specification 6 of appendix B to this part, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (h)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) The relative accuracy test is to evaluate the flow rate monitoring system alone rather than a continuous emission rate monitoring system.
(ii) The relative accuracy of the flow rate monitoring system shall be no greater than 10 percent of the mean value of the reference method data.
(9) You must verify the accuracy of the flow rate monitoring system at least once per year by repeating the relative accuracy test specified in paragraph (h)(8) of this section.
(10) You must operate the flow rate monitoring system and record data during all periods of operation of the affected facility including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments.
(i)
Development and Submittal (Upon Request) of Monitoring Plans.
To demonstrate compliance with any applicable emissions limit through performance stack testing or other emissions monitoring (including PM CPMS), you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 60.13(3)(i). If you use a bag leak detector system (BLDS), you must also meet the requirements specified in paragraph § 63.1350(m)(10) of this chapter.
(1) For each continuous monitoring system (CMS) required in this section, you must develop, and submit to the permitting authority for approval upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must submit this site-specific monitoring plan, if requested, at least 30 days before the initial performance evaluation of your CMS.
(i) Installation of the CMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device);
(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems; and
(iii) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (e.g., calibrations).
(2) In your site-specific monitoring plan, you must also address paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1), (c)(3), and (c)(4)(ii);
(ii) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d); and
(iii) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).
(3) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.
(4) You must operate and maintain the CMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
[75 FR 55035, Sept. 9, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 10032, Feb. 12, 2013; 80 FR 44777, July 27, 2015]
§ 60.64
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests and relative accuracy tests required in § 60.8, you must use reference methods and procedures and the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b)(1)You must demonstrate compliance with the PM standards in § 60.62 using EPA method 5 or method 5I.
(2) Use Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 to determine opacity.
(3) Any sources other than kilns (including associated alkali bypass and clinker cooler) that are subject to the 10 percent opacity limit must follow the appropriate monitoring procedures in § 63.1350(f), (m)(1)through (4), (10) and (11), (o), and (p) of this chapter.
(c) Calculate and record the rolling 30 kiln operating day average emission rate daily of NO
X
and SO
2
according to the procedures in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(1) Calculate the rolling 30 kiln operating day average emissions according to equation 6:
ER12FE13.005
Where:
E
30D
= 30 kiln operating day average emission rate of NO
X
or SO
2
, lb/ton of clinker.
C
i
= Concentration of NO
X
or SO
2
for hour i, ppm.
Q
i
= Volumetric flow rate of effluent gas for hour i, where
C
i
and Q
i
are on the same basis (either wet or dry), scf/hr.
P = 30 days of clinker production during the same time period as the NO
X
or SO
2
emissions measured, tons.
k = Conversion factor, 1.194 × 10
−7
for NO
X
and 1.660 × 10
−7
for SO
2
, lb/scf/ppm.
n = Number of kiln operating hours over 30 kiln operating days.
(2) [Reserved]
(d)(1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (see § 60.8) as required by this subpart you must submit the results of the performance tests conducted to demonstrate compliance under this subpart to the EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
http://www.epa.gov/cdx
). Performance test data must be submitted in the file format generated through use of the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (see
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html
). Only data collected using test methods on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports, including the CBI, to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. For any performance test conducted using test methods that are not listed on the ERT Web site, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(2) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS performance evaluation test as defined in § 63.2, you must submit relative accuracy test audit (RATA) data to the EPA's CDX by using CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Only RATA pollutants that can be documented with the ERT (as listed on the ERT Web site) are subject to this requirement. For any performance evaluations with no corresponding RATA pollutants listed on the ERT Web site, you must submit the results of the performance evaluation to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.
(3) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (e.g. beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp value equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp signals corresponding to each PM compliance test run.
(4) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. The Administrator or the delegated authority may request a report in any form suitable for the specific case (e.g., by commonly used electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy). The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (d)(1) and (2) of this section in paper format.
[78 FR 10035, Feb. 12, 2013, as amended at 80 FR 44778, July 27, 2015]
§ 60.65
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator required to install a CPMS or CEMS under sections § 60.63(c) through (e) shall submit reports of excess emissions. The content of these reports must comply with the requirements in § 60.7(c). Notwithstanding the provisions of § 60.7(c), such reports shall be submitted semiannually.
(b) Each owner or operator of facilities subject to the provisions of § 60.63(c) through (e) shall submit semiannual reports of the malfunction information required to be recorded by § 60.7(b). These reports shall include the frequency, duration, and cause of any incident resulting in deenergization of any device controlling kiln emissions
or in the venting of emissions directly to the atmosphere.
(c) The requirements of this section remain in force until and unless the Agency, in delegating enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7411, approves reporting requirements or an alternative means of compliance surveillance adopted by such States. In that event, affected sources within the State will be relieved of the obligation to comply with this section, provided that they comply with the requirements established by the State.
[78 FR 10035, Feb. 12, 2013]
§ 60.66
Delegation of authority.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or Tribal agency. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency within your State.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, the approval authorities contained paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(1) Approval of an alternative to any non-opacity emissions standard.
(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 60.8(b). A “major change to test method” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 60.13(i). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 60.7(b) through (f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
[75 FR 55037, Sept. 9, 2010]

# Subpart G—Standards of Performance for Nitric Acid Plants
§ 60.70
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to each nitric acid production unit, which is the affected facility.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after August 17, 1971, and on or before October 14, 2011 is subject to the requirements of this subpart. Any facility that commences construction or modification after October 14, 2011 is subject to subpart Ga of this part.
[42 FR 37936, July 25, 1977, as amended at 77 FR 48445, Aug. 14, 2012]
§ 60.71
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Nitric acid production unit
means any facility producing weak nitric acid by either the pressure or atmospheric pressure process.
(b)
Weak nitric acid
means acid which is 30 to 70 percent in strength.
§ 60.72
Standard for nitrogen oxides.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which:
(1) Contain nitrogen oxides, expressed as NO
2
, in excess of 1.5 kg per metric ton of acid produced (3.0 lb per ton), the production being expressed as 100 percent nitric acid.
(2) Exhibit 10 percent opacity, or greater.
[39 FR 20794, June 14, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46258, Oct. 6, 1975]
§ 60.73
Emission monitoring.
(a) The source owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system for measuring nitrogen oxides (NO
X
). The pollutant gas mixtures under Performance Specification 2 and for calibration checks under § 60.13(d) of
this part shall be nitrogen dioxide (NO
2
). The span value shall be 500 ppm of NO
2
. Method 7 shall be used for the performance evaluations under § 60.13(c). Acceptable alternative methods to Method 7 are given in § 60.74(c).
(b) The owner or operator shall establish a conversion factor for the purpose of converting monitoring data into units of the applicable standard (kg/metric ton, lb/ton). The conversion factor shall be established by measuring emissions with the continuous monitoring system concurrent with measuring emissions with the applicable reference method tests. Using only that portion of the continuous monitoring emission data that represents emission measurements concurrent with the reference method test periods, the conversion factor shall be determined by dividing the reference method test data averages by the monitoring data averages to obtain a ratio expressed in units of the applicable standard to units of the monitoring data, i.e., kg/metric ton per ppm (lb/ton per ppm). The conversion factor shall be reestablished during any performance test under § 60.8 or any continuous monitoring system performance evaluation under § 60.13(c).
(c) The owner or operator shall record the daily production rate and hours of operation.
(d) [Reserved]
(e) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as any 3-hour period during which the average nitrogen oxides emissions (arithmetic average of three contiguous 1-hour periods) as measured by a continuous monitoring system exceed the standard under § 60.72(a).
[39 FR 20794, June 14, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46258, Oct. 6, 1975; 50 FR 15894, Apr. 22, 1985; 54 FR 6666, Feb. 14, 1989]
§ 60.74
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the NO
X
standard in § 60.72 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of NO
X
shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = (C
s
Q
sd
)/(P K)
where:
E = emission rate of NO
X
as NO
2
, kg/metric ton (lb/ton) of 100 percent nitric acid.
C
s
= concentration of NO
X
as NO
2
, g/dscm (lb/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = acid production rate, metric ton/hr (ton/hr) or 100 percent nitric acid.
K = conversion factor, 1000 g/kg (1.0 lb/lb).
(2) Method 7 shall be used to determine the NO
X
concentration of each grab sample. Method 1 shall be used to select the sampling site, and the sampling point shall be the centroid of the stack or duct or at a point no closer to the walls than 1 m (3.28 ft). Four grab samples shall be taken at approximately 15-minute intervals. The arithmetic mean of the four sample concentrations shall constitute the run value (C
s
).
(3) Method 2 shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The measurement site shall be the same as for the NO
X
sample. A velocity traverse shall be made once per run within the hour that the NO
X
samples are taken.
(4) The methods of § 60.73(c) shall be used to determine the production rate (P) of 100 percent nitric acid for each run. Material balance over the production system shall be used to confirm the production rate.
(c) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:
(1) For Method 7, Method 7A, 7B, 7C, or 7D may be used. If Method 7C or 7D is used, the sampling time shall be at least 1 hour.
(d) The owner or operator shall use the procedure in § 60.73(b) to determine the conversion factor for converting the monitoring data to the units of the standard.
[54 FR 6666, Feb. 14, 1989]

# Subpart Ga—Standards of Performance for Nitric Acid Plants for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After October 14, 2011

# Source:
77 FR 48445, Aug. 14, 2012, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.70a
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to each nitric acid production unit, which is the affected facility.
(b) This subpart applies to any nitric acid production unit that commences construction or modification after October 14, 2011.
§ 60.71a
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Affirmative defense
means, in the context of an enforcement proceeding, a response or defense put forward by a defendant, regarding which the defendant has the burden of proof, and the merits of which are independently and objectively evaluated in a judicial or administrative proceeding.
Monitoring system malfunction
means a sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. You are required to implement monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.
Nitric acid production unit
means any facility producing weak nitric acid by either the pressure or atmospheric pressure process.
Operating day
means a 24-hour period beginning at 12:00 a.m. during which the nitric acid production unit operated at any time during this period.
Weak nitric acid
means acid which is 30 to 70 percent in strength.
§ 60.72a
Standards.
Nitrogen oxides.
On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.73a(e) is completed, you may not discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which contain NO
X
, expressed as NO
2
, in excess of 0.50 pounds (lb) per ton of nitric acid produced, as a 30-day emission rate calculated based on 30 consecutive operating days, the production being expressed as 100 percent nitric acid. The emission standard applies at all times.
§ 60.73a
Emissions testing and monitoring.
(a)
General emissions monitoring requirements.
You must install and operate a NO
X
concentration (ppmv) continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS). You must also install and operate a stack gas flow rate monitoring system. With measurements of stack gas NO
X
concentration and stack gas flow rate, you will determine hourly NO
X
emissions rate (e.g., lb/hr) and with measured data of the hourly nitric acid production (tons), calculate emissions in units of the applicable emissions limit (lb/ton of 100 percent acid produced). You must operate the monitoring system and report emissions during all operating periods including unit startup and shutdown, and malfunction.
(b)
Nitrogen oxides concentration continuous emissions monitoring system.
(1) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring and recording the concentration of NO
X
emissions in accordance with the provisions of § 60.13 and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B and Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part. You must use cylinder gas audits to fulfill the quarterly auditing requirement at section 5.1 of Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part for the NO
X
concentration CEMS.
(2) For the NO
X
concentration CEMS, use a span value, as defined in Performance Specification 2, section 3.11, of appendix B of this part, of 500 ppmv (as NO
2
). If you emit NO
X
at concentrations higher than 600 ppmv (e.g., during startup or shutdown periods), you must apply a second CEMS or dual range CEMS and a second span value equal to
125 percent of the maximum estimated NO
X
emission concentration to apply to the second CEMS or to the higher of the dual analyzer ranges during such periods.
(3) For conducting the relative accuracy test audits, per Performance Specification 2, section 8.4, of appendix B of this part and Procedure 1, section 5.1.1, of appendix F of this part, use either EPA Reference Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 of this part; EPA Reference Method 320 of appendix A of part 63 of this chapter; or ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17). To verify the operation of the second CEMS or the higher range of a dual analyzer CEMS described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you need not conduct a relative accuracy test audit but only the calibration drift test initially (found in Performance Specification 2, section 8.3.1, of appendix B of this part) and the cylinder gas audit thereafter (found in Procedure 1, section 5.1.2, of appendix F of this part).
(4) If you use EPA Reference Method 7E of appendix A-4 of this part, you must mitigate loss of NO
2
in water according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section and verify performance by conducting the system bias checks required in EPA Reference Method 7E, section 8, of appendix A-4 of this part according to (b)(4)(iv) of this section, or follow the dynamic spike procedure according to paragraph (b)(4)(v) of this section.
(i) For a wet-basis measurement system, you must measure and report temperature of sample line and components (up to analyzer inlet) to demonstrate that the temperatures remain above the sample gas dew point at all times during the sampling.
(ii) You may use a dilution probe to reduce the dew point of the sample gas.
(iii) You may use a refrigerated-type condenser or similar device (e.g., permeation dryer) to remove condensate continuously from sample gas while maintaining minimal contact between condensate and sample gas.
(iv) If your analyzer measures nitric oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO
2
) separately, you must use both NO and NO
2
calibration gases. Otherwise, you must substitute NO
2
calibration gas for NO calibration gas in the performance of system bias checks.
(v) You must conduct dynamic spiking according to EPA Reference Method 7E, section 16.1, of appendix A-4 of this part using NO
2
as the spike gas.
(5) Instead of a NO
X
concentration CEMS meeting Performance Specification 2, you may apply an FTIR CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of appendix B of this part to measure NO
X
concentrations. Should you use an FTIR CEMS, you must replace the Relative Accuracy Test Audit requirements of Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part with the validation requirements and criteria of Performance Specification 15, sections 11.1.1 and 12.0, of appendix B of this part.
(c)
Determining NO
X
mass emissions rate values.
You must use the NO
X
concentration CEMS, acid production, gas flow rate monitor and other monitoring data to calculate emissions data in units of the applicable limit (lb NO
X
/ton of acid produced expressed as 100 percent nitric acid).
(1) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a CEMS for measuring and recording the stack gas flow rates to use in combination with data from the CEMS for measuring emissions concentrations of NO
X
to produce data in units of mass rate (e.g., lb/hr) of NO
X
on an hourly basis. You will operate and certify the continuous emissions rate monitoring system (CERMS) in accordance with the provisions of § 60.13 and Performance Specification 6 of appendix B of this part. You must comply with the following provisions in (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) You must use a stack gas flow rate sensor with a full scale output of at least 125 percent of the maximum expected exhaust volumetric flow rate (see Performance Specification 6, section 8, of appendix B of this part).
(ii) For conducting the relative accuracy test audits, per Performance Specification 6, section 8.2 of appendix B of this part and Procedure 1, section 5.1.1, of appendix F of this part, you must use either EPA Reference Method 2, 2F, or 2G of appendix A-4 of this part. You may also apply Method 2H in conjunction with other velocity measurements.
(iii) You must verify that the CERMS complies with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F of this part. You must conduct relative accuracy testing to provide for calculating the relative accuracy for RATA and RAA determinations in units of lb/hour.
(2) You must determine the nitric acid production parameters (production rate and concentration) by installing, calibrating, maintaining, and operating a permanent monitoring system (e.g., weigh scale, volume flow meter, mass flow meter, tank volume) to measure and record the weight rates of nitric acid produced in tons per hour. If your nitric acid production rate measurements are for periods longer than hourly (e.g., daily values), you will determine average hourly production values, tons acid/hr, by dividing the total acid production by the number of hours of process operation for the subject measurement period. You must comply with the following provisions in (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) You must verify that each component of the monitoring system has an accuracy and precision of no more than ±5 percent of full scale.
(ii) You must analyze product concentration via titration or by determining the temperature and specific gravity of the nitric acid. You may also use ASTM E1584-11 (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17), for determining the concentration of nitric acid in percent. You must determine product concentration daily.
(iii) You must use the acid concentration to express the nitric acid production as 100 percent nitric acid.
(iv) You must record the nitric acid production, expressed as 100 percent nitric acid, and the hours of operation.
(3) You must calculate hourly NO
X
emissions rates in units of the standard (lb/ton acid) for each hour of process operation. For process operating periods for which there is little or no acid production (e.g., startup or shutdown), you must use the average hourly acid production rate determined from the data collected over the previous 30 days of normal acid production periods (see § 60.75a).
(d)
Continuous monitoring system.
For each continuous monitoring system, including NO
X
concentration measurement, volumetric flow rate measurement, and nitric acid production measurement equipment, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) You must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected facility is operating except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods as defined in appendix F, sections 4 and 5, of this part, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments.
(2) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating emissions and the status of compliance with the applicable emissions limit in accordance with § 60.72a(a).
(e)
Initial performance testing.
You must conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the NO
X
emissions limit under § 60.72a(a) beginning in the calendar month following initial certification of the NO
X
and flow rate monitoring CEMS. The initial performance test consists of collection of hourly NO
X
average concentration, mass flow rate recorded with the certified NO
X
concentration and flow rate CEMS and the corresponding acid generation (tons) data for all of the hours of operation for the first 30 days beginning on the first day of the first month following completion of the CEMS installation and certification as described above. You must assure that the CERMS meets all of the data quality assurance requirements as per § 60.13 and appendix F, Procedure 1, of this part and you must use the data from the CERMS for this compliance determination.
§ 60.74a
Affirmative defense for violations of emission standards during malfunction.
In response to an action to enforce the standards set forth in § 60.72a, you may assert an affirmative defense to a claim for civil penalties for violations of such standards that are caused by malfunction, as defined at 40 CFR 60.2. Appropriate penalties may be assessed, however, if you fail to meet your burden of proving all of the requirements in the affirmative defense. The affirmative defense shall not be available for claims for injunctive relief.
(a) To establish the affirmative defense in any action to enforce such a standard, you must timely meet the reporting requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, and must prove by a preponderance of evidence that:
(1) The violation:
(i) Was caused by a sudden, infrequent, and unavoidable failure of air pollution control equipment, process equipment, or a process to operate in a normal or usual manner; and
(ii) Could not have been prevented through careful planning, proper design or better operation and maintenance practices; and
(iii) Did not stem from any activity or event that could have been foreseen and avoided, or planned for; and
(iv) Was not part of a recurring pattern indicative of inadequate design, operation, or maintenance; and
(2) Repairs were made as expeditiously as possible when a violation occurred. Off-shift and overtime labor were used, to the extent practicable to make these repairs; and
(3) The frequency, amount, and duration of the violation (including any bypass) were minimized to the maximum extent practicable; and
(4) If the violation resulted from a bypass of control equipment or a process, then the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; and
(5) All possible steps were taken to minimize the impact of the violation on ambient air quality, the environment, and human health; and
(6) All emissions monitoring and control systems were kept in operation if at all possible, consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices; and
(7) All of the actions in response to the violation were documented by properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs; and
(8) At all times, the affected facility was operated in a manner consistent with good practices for minimizing emissions; and
(9) A written root cause analysis has been prepared, the purpose of which is to determine, correct, and eliminate the primary causes of the malfunction and the violation resulting from the malfunction event at issue. The analysis shall also specify, using best monitoring methods and engineering judgment, the amount of any emissions that were the result of the malfunction.
(b)
Report.
The owner or operator seeking to assert an affirmative defense shall submit a written report to the Administrator with all necessary supporting documentation, that it has met the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section. This affirmative defense report shall be included in the first periodic compliance, deviation report or excess emission report otherwise required after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard (which may be the end of any applicable averaging period). If such compliance, deviation report or excess emission report is due less than 45 days after the initial occurrence of the violation, the affirmative defense report may be included in the second compliance, deviation report or excess emission report due after the initial occurrence of the violation of the relevant standard.
§ 60.75a
Calculations.
(a) You must calculate the 30 operating day rolling arithmetic average emissions rate in units of the applicable emissions standard (lb NO
X
/ton 100 percent acid produced) at the end of each operating day using all of the quality assured hourly average CEMS data for the previous 30 operating days.
(b) You must calculate the 30 operating day average emissions rate according to Equation 1:
ER06MY14.000
Where:
E
30
= 30 operating day average emissions rate of NO
X
, lb NO
X
/ton of 100 percent HNO
3
;
C
i
= concentration of NO
X
for hour i, ppmv;
Q
i
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas for hour i, where C
i
and Q
i
are on the same basis (either wet or dry), scf/hr;
P
i
= total acid produced during production hour i, tons 100 percent HNO
3
;
k = conversion factor, 1.194 × 10
−7
for NO
X
; and
n = number of operating hours in the 30 operating day period, i.e., n is between 30 and 720.
[77 FR 48445, Aug. 14, 2012; 79 FR 25681, May 6, 2014]
§ 60.76a
Recordkeeping.
(a) For the NO
X
emissions rate, you must keep records for and results of the performance evaluations of the continuous emissions monitoring systems.
(b) You must maintain records of the following information for each 30 operating day period:
(1) Hours of operation.
(2) Production rate of nitric acid, expressed as 100 percent nitric acid.
(3) 30 operating day average NO
X
emissions rate values.
(c) You must maintain records of the following time periods:
(1) Times when you were not in compliance with the emissions standards.
(2) Times when the pollutant concentration exceeded full span of the NO
X
monitoring equipment.
(3) Times when the volumetric flow rate exceeded the high value of the volumetric flow rate monitoring equipment.
(d) You must maintain records of the reasons for any periods of noncompliance and description of corrective actions taken.
(e) You must maintain records of any modifications to CEMS which could affect the ability of the CEMS to comply with applicable performance specifications.
(f) For each malfunction, you must maintain records of the following information:
(1) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (i.e., process equipment) or the air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
(2) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
§ 60.77a
Reporting.
(a) The performance test data from the initial and subsequent performance tests and from the performance evaluations of the continuous monitors must be submitted to the Administrator at the appropriate address as shown in 40 CFR 60.4.
(b) The following information must be reported to the Administrator for each 30 operating day period where you were not in compliance with the emissions standard:
(1) Time period;
(2) NO
X
emission rates (lb/ton of acid produced);
(3) Reasons for noncompliance with the emissions standard; and
(4) Description of corrective actions taken.
(c) You must also report the following whenever they occur:
(1) Times when the pollutant concentration exceeded full span of the NO
X
pollutant monitoring equipment.
(2) Times when the volumetric flow rate exceeded the high value of the volumetric flow rate monitoring equipment.
(d) You must report any modifications to CERMS which could affect the ability of the CERMS to comply with applicable performance specifications.
(e) Within 60 days of completion of the relative accuracy test audit (RATA) required by this subpart, you must submit the data from that audit to EPA's WebFIRE database by using the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) that is accessed through EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/SSL/cdx/EPA__Home.asp
). You must submit performance test data in the file format generated through use of EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) (
http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html
). Only data collected using test methods listed on the ERT Web site are subject to this requirement for submitting reports electronically to WebFIRE. Owners or operators who claim that some of the information being submitted for performance tests is confidential business information (CBI) must submit a complete ERT file including information claimed to be CBI on a compact disk or other commonly used electronic storage media (including, but not limited to, flash drives) by registered letter to EPA and the same ERT file with the CBI omitted to EPA via CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. Mark the compact disk or other commonly used electronic storage media clearly as CBI and mail to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: WebFIRE Administrator, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. At the discretion of the delegated authority, you must also submit these reports to the delegated authority in the format specified by the delegated authority. You must submit the other information as required in the performance evaluation as described in § 60.2 and as required in this chapter.
(f) If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, you must submit a report that contains the following:
(1) The number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded.
(2) A description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected facility to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.

# Subpart H—Standards of Performance for Sulfuric Acid Plants
§ 60.80
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to each sulfuric acid production unit, which is the affected facility.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after August 17, 1971, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37936, July 25, 1977]
§ 60.81
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Sulfuric acid production unit
means any facility producing sulfuric acid by the contact process by burning elemental sulfur, alkylation acid, hydrogen sulfide, organic sulfides and mercaptans, or acid sludge, but does not include facilities where conversion to sulfuric acid is utilized primarily as a means of preventing emissions to the atmosphere of sulfur dioxide or other sulfur compounds.
(b)
Acid mist
means sulfuric acid mist, as measured by Method 8 of appendix A to this part or an equivalent or alternative method.
[36 FR 24877, Dec. 23, 1971, as amended at 39 FR 20794, June 14, 1974]
§ 60.82
Standard for sulfur dioxide.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which contain sulfur dioxide in excess of 2 kg per metric ton of acid produced (4 lb
per ton), the production being expressed as 100 percent H
2
SO
4
.
[39 FR 20794, June 14, 1974]
§ 60.83
Standard for acid mist.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which:
(1) Contain acid mist, expressed as H
2
SO
4
, in excess of 0.075 kg per metric ton of acid produced (0.15 lb per ton), the production being expressed as 100 percent H
2
SO
4
.
(2) Exhibit 10 percent opacity, or greater.
[39 FR 20794, June 14, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46258, Oct. 6, 1975]
§ 60.84
Emission monitoring.
(a) A continuous monitoring system for the measurement of sulfur dioxide shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated by the owner or operator. The pollutant gas used to prepare calibration gas mixtures under Performance Specification 2 and for calibration checks under § 60.13(d), shall be sulfur dioxide (SO
2
). Method 8 shall be used for conducting monitoring system performance evaluations under § 60.13(c) except that only the sulfur dioxide portion of the Method 8 results shall be used. The span value shall be set at 1000 ppm of sulfur dioxide.
(b) The owner or operator shall establish a conversion factor for the purpose of converting monitoring data into units of the applicable standard (kg/metric ton, lb/ton). The conversion factor shall be determined, as a minimum, three times daily by measuring the concentration of sulfur dioxide entering the converter using suitable methods (e.g., the Reich test, National Air Pollution Control Administration Publication No. 999-AP-13) and calculating the appropriate conversion factor for each eight-hour period as follows:
CF = k[(1.000−0.015r)/(r−s)]
where:
CF = conversion factor (kg/metric ton per ppm, lb/ton per ppm).
k = constant derived from material balance. For determining CF in metric units, k = 0.0653. For determining CF in English units, k = 0.1306.
r = percentage of sulfur dioxide by volume entering the gas converter. Appropriate corrections must be made for air injection plants subject to the Administrator's approval.
s = percentage of sulfur dioxide by volume in the emissions to the atmosphere determined by the continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) The owner or operator shall record all conversion factors and values under paragraph (b) of this section from which they were computed (i.e., CF, r, and s).
(d) Alternatively, a source that processes elemental sulfur or an ore that contains elemental sulfur and uses air to supply oxygen may use the following continuous emission monitoring approach and calculation procedures in determining SO
2
emission rates in terms of the standard. This procedure is not required, but is an alternative that would alleviate problems encountered in the measurement of gas velocities or production rate. Continuous emission monitoring systems for measuring SO
2
, O
2
, and CO
2
(if required) shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated by the owner or operator and subjected to the certification procedures in Performance Specifications 2 and 3. The calibration procedure and span value for the SO
2
monitor shall be as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The span value for CO
2
(if required) shall be 10 percent and for O
2
shall be 20.9 percent (air). A conversion factor based on process rate data is not necessary. Calculate the SO
2
emission rate as follows:
E
s
= (C
s
S)/[0.265 − (0.0126 %O
2
) − (A %CO
2
)]
where:
E
s
= emission rate of SO
2
, kg/metric ton (lb/ton) of 100 percent of H
2
SO
4
produced.
C
s
= concentration of SO
2
, kg/dscm (lb/dscf).
S = acid production rate factor, 368 dscm/metric ton (11,800 dscf/ton) of 100 percent H
2
SO
4
produced.
%O
2
= oxygen concentration, percent dry basis.
A = auxiliary fuel factor,
= 0.00 for no fuel.
= 0.0226 for methane.
= 0.0217 for natural gas.
= 0.0196 for propane.
= 0.0172 for No 2 oil.
= 0.0161 for No 6 oil.
= 0.0148 for coal.
= 0.0126 for coke.
%CO
2
= carbon dioxide concentration, percent dry basis.

# Note:
It is necessary in some cases to convert measured concentration units to other units for these calculations:
Use the following table for such conversions:
From—
To—
Multiply by—
g/scm
kg/scm
10
−3
mg/scm
kg/scm
10
−6
ppm (SO
2
)
kg/scm
2.660 × 10
−6
ppm (SO
2
)
lb/scf
1.660 × 10
−7
(e) For the purpose of reports under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions shall be all three-hour periods (or the arithmetic average of three consecutive one-hour periods) during which the integrated average sulfur dioxide emissions exceed the applicable standards under § 60.82.
[39 FR 20794, June 14, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46258, Oct. 6, 1975; 48 FR 23611, May 25, 1983; 48 FR 4700, Sept. 29, 1983; 48 FR 48669, Oct. 20, 1983; 54 FR 6666, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61753, Oct. 17, 2000; 79 FR 11250, Feb. 27, 2014]
§ 60.85
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b). Acceptable alternative methods and procedures are given in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SO
2
acid mist, and visible emission standards in §§ 60.82 and 60.83 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of acid mist or SO
2
shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E = (CQ
sd
) / (PK)
where:
E = emission rate of acid mist or SO
2
kg/metric ton (lb/ton) of 100 percent H
2
SO
4
produced.
C = concentration of acid mist or SO
2
, g/dscm (lb/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of the effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = production rate of 100 percent H
2
SO
4
, metric ton/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 g/kg (1.0 lb/lb).
(2) Method 8 shall be used to determine the acid mist and SO
2
concentrations (C's) and the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The moisture content may be considered to be zero. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 1.15 dscm (40.6 dscf).
(3) Suitable methods shall be used to determine the production rate (P) of 100 percent H
2
SO
4
for each run. Material balance over the production system shall be used to confirm the production rate.
(4) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(c) The owner or operator may use the following as alternatives to the reference methods and procedures specified in this section:
(1) If a source processes elemental sulfur or an ore that contains elemental sulfur and uses air to supply oxygen, the following procedure may be used instead of determining the volumetric flow rate and production rate:
(i) The integrated technique of Method 3 is used to determine the O
2
concentration and, if required, CO
2
concentration.
(ii) The SO
2
or acid mist emission rate is calculated as described in § 60.84(d), substituting the acid mist concentration for C
s
as appropriate.
[54 FR 6666, Feb. 14, 1989]

# Subpart I—Standards of Performance for Hot Mix Asphalt Facilities
§ 60.90
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each hot mix asphalt facility. For the purpose of this subpart, a hot mix asphalt facility is comprised only of any combination of the following: dryers; systems for screening, handling, storing, and weighing hot aggregate; systems for loading, transferring, and storing mineral filler, systems for mixing hot mix asphalt; and the loading, transfer,
and storage systems associated with emission control systems.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after June 11, 1973, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37936, July 25, 1977, as amended at 51 FR 12325, Apr. 10, 1986]
§ 60.91
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Hot mix asphalt facility
means any facility, as described in § 60.90, used to manufacture hot mix asphalt by heating and drying aggregate and mixing with asphalt cements.
[51 FR 12325, Apr. 10, 1986]
§ 60.92
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which:
(1) Contain particulate matter in excess of 90 mg/dscm (0.04 gr/dscf).
(2) Exhibit 20 percent opacity, or greater.
[39 FR 9314, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46259, Oct. 6, 1975]
§ 60.93
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.92 as follows:
(1) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf).
(2) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
[54 FR 6667, Feb. 14, 1989]

# Subpart J—Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries
§ 60.100
Applicability, designation of affected facility, and reconstruction.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in petroleum refineries: fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerators, fuel gas combustion devices, and all Claus sulfur recovery plants except Claus plants with a design capacity for sulfur feed of 20 long tons per day (LTD) or less. The Claus sulfur recovery plant need not be physically located within the boundaries of a petroleum refinery to be an affected facility, provided it processes gases produced within a petroleum refinery.
(b) Any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator or fuel gas combustion device under paragraph (a) of this section other than a flare which commences construction, reconstruction or modification after June 11, 1973, and on or before May 14, 2007, or any fuel gas combustion device under paragraph (a) of this section that is also a flare which commences construction, reconstruction or modification after June 11, 1973, and on or before June 24, 2008, or any Claus sulfur recovery plant under paragraph (a) of this section which commences construction, reconstruction or modification after October 4, 1976, and on or before May 14, 2007, is subject to the requirements of this subpart except as provided under paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.
(c) Any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator under paragraph (b) of this section which commences construction, reconstruction, or modification on or before January 17, 1984, is exempted from § 60.104(b).
(d) Any fluid catalytic cracking unit in which a contact material reacts with petroleum derivatives to improve feedstock quality and in which the contact material is regenerated by burning off coke and/or other deposits and that
commences construction, reconstruction, or modification on or before January 17, 1984, is exempt from this subpart.
(e) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the applicable provisions of subpart Ja of this part to satisfy the requirements of this subpart for an affected facility.
(f) For purposes of this subpart, under § 60.15, the “fixed capital cost of the new components” includes the fixed capital cost of all depreciable components which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement which are commenced within any 2-year period following January 17, 1984. For purposes of this paragraph, “commenced” means that an owner or operator has undertaken a continuous program of component replacement or that an owner or operator has entered into a contractual obligation to undertake and complete, within a reasonable time, a continuous program of component replacement.
[43 FR 10868, Mar. 15, 1978, as amended at 44 FR 61543, Oct. 25, 1979; 54 FR 34026, Aug. 17, 1989; 73 FR 35865, June 24, 2008; 77 FR 56463, Sep. 12, 2012]
§ 60.101
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A.
(a)
Petroleum refinery
means any facility engaged in producing gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, or other products through distillation of petroleum or through redistillation, cracking or reforming of unfinished petroleum derivatives.
(b)
Petroleum
means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.
(c)
Process gas
means any gas generated by a petroleum refinery process unit, except fuel gas and process upset gas as defined in this section.
(d)
Fuel gas
means any gas which is generated at a petroleum refinery and which is combusted. Fuel gas includes natural gas when the natural gas is combined and combusted in any proportion with a gas generated at a refinery. Fuel gas does not include gases generated by catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerators and fluid coking burners. Fuel gas does not include vapors that are collected and combusted in a thermal oxidizer or flare installed to control emissions from wastewater treatment units or marine tank vessel loading operations.
(e)
Process upset gas
means any gas generated by a petroleum refinery process unit as a result of start-up, shut-down, upset or malfunction.
(f)
Refinery process unit
means any segment of the petroleum refinery in which a specific processing operation is conducted.
(g)
Fuel gas combustion device
means any equipment, such as process heaters, boilers and flares used to combust fuel gas, except facilities in which gases are combusted to produce sulfur or sulfuric acid.
(h)
Coke burn-off
means the coke removed from the surface of the fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst by combustion in the catalyst regenerator. The rate of coke burn-off is calculated by the formula specified in § 60.106.
(i)
Claus sulfur recovery plant
means a process unit which recovers sulfur from hydrogen sulfide by a vapor-phase catalytic reaction of sulfur dioxide and hydrogen sulfide.
(j)
Oxidation control system
means an emission control system which reduces emissions from sulfur recovery plants by converting these emissions to sulfur dioxide.
(k)
Reduction control system
means an emission control system which reduces emissions from sulfur recovery plants by converting these emissions to hydrogen sulfide.
(l)
Reduced sulfur compounds
means hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S), carbonyl sulfide (COS) and carbon disulfide (CS
2
).
(m)
Fluid catalytic cracking unit
means a refinery process unit in which petroleum derivatives are continuously charged; hydrocarbon molecules in the presence of a catalyst suspended in a fluidized bed are fractured into smaller molecules, or react with a contact material suspended in a fluidized bed to improve feedstock quality for additional processing; and the catalyst or contact material is continuously regenerated by burning off coke and
other deposits. The unit includes the riser, reactor, regenerator, air blowers, spent catalyst or contact material stripper, catalyst or contact material recovery equipment, and regenerator equipment for controlling air pollutant emissions and for heat recovery.
(n)
Fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator
means one or more regenerators (multiple regenerators) which comprise that portion of the fluid catalytic cracking unit in which coke burn-off and catalyst or contact material regeneration occurs, and includes the regenerator combustion air blower(s).
(o)
Fresh feed
means any petroleum derivative feedstock stream charged directly into the riser or reactor of a fluid catalytic cracking unit except for petroleum derivatives recycled within the fluid catalytic cracking unit, fractionator, or gas recovery unit.
(p)
Contact material
means any substance formulated to remove metals, sulfur, nitrogen, or any other contaminant from petroleum derivatives.
(q)
Valid day
means a 24-hour period in which at least 18 valid hours of data are obtained. A “valid hour” is one in which at least 2 valid data points are obtained.
[39 FR 9315, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 43 FR 10868, Mar. 15, 1978; 44 FR 13481, Mar. 12, 1979; 45 FR 79453, Dec. 1, 1980; 54 FR 34027, Aug. 17, 1989; 73 FR 35865, June 24, 2008; 77 FR 56463, Sep. 12, 2012]
§ 60.102
Standard for particulate matter.
Each owner or operator of any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator that is subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with the emission limitations set forth in this section on and after the date on which the initial performance test, required by § 60.8, is completed, but not later than 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator will be operated, or 180 days after initial startup, whichever comes first.
(a) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator:
(1) Particulate matter in excess of 1.0 kg/Mg (2.0 lb/ton) of coke burn-off in the catalyst regenerator.
(2) Gases exhibiting greater than 30 percent opacity, except for one six-minute average opacity reading in any one hour period.
(b) Where the gases discharged by the fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator pass through an incinerator or waste heat boiler in which auxiliary or supplemental liquid or solid fossil fuel is burned, particulate matter in excess of that permitted by paragraph (a)(1) of this section may be emitted to the atmosphere, except that the incremental rate of particulate matter emissions shall not exceed 43 grams per Gigajoule (g/GJ) (0.10 lb/million British thermal units (Btu)) of heat input attributable to such liquid or solid fossil fuel.
[39 FR 9315, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 42 FR 32427, June 24, 1977; 42 FR 39389, Aug. 4, 1977; 43 FR 10868, Feb. 15, 1978; 54 FR 34027, Aug. 17, 1989; 65 FR 61753, Oct. 17, 2000; 73 FR 35866, June 24, 2008]
§ 60.103
Standard for carbon monoxide.
Each owner or operator of any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator that is subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with the emission limitations set forth in this section on and after the date on which the initial performance test, required by § 60.8, is completed, but not later than 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator will be operated, or 180 days after initial startup, whichever comes first.
(a) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator any gases that contain carbon monoxide (CO) in excess of 500 ppm by volume (dry basis).
[54 FR 34027, Aug. 17, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 40175, Oct. 2, 1990]
§ 60.104
Standards for sulfur oxides.
Each owner or operator that is subject to the requirements of this subpart
shall comply with the emission limitations set forth in this section on and after the date on which the initial performance test, required by § 60.8, is completed, but not later than 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated, or 180 days after initial startup, whichever comes first.
(a) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall:
(1) Burn in any fuel gas combustion device any fuel gas that contains hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S) in excess of 230 mg/dscm (0.10 gr/dscf). The combustion in a flare of process upset gases or fuel gas that is released to the flare as a result of relief valve leakage or other emergency malfunctions is exempt from this paragraph.
(2) Discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere from any Claus sulfur recovery plant containing in excess of:
(i) For an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by incineration, 250 ppm by volume (dry basis) of sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) at zero percent excess air.
(ii) For a reduction control system not followed by incineration, 300 ppm by volume of reduced sulfur compounds and 10 ppm by volume of hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S), each calculated as ppm SO
2
by volume (dry basis) at zero percent excess air.
(b) Each owner or operator that is subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with one of the following conditions for each affected fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator:
(1) With an add-on control device, reduce SO
2
emissions to the atmosphere by 90 percent or maintain SO
2
emissions to the atmosphere less than or equal to 50 ppm by volume (ppmv), whichever is less stringent; or
(2) Without the use of an add-on control device to reduce SO
2
emission, maintain sulfur oxides emissions calculated as SO
2
to the atmosphere less than or equal to 9.8 kg/Mg (20 lb/ton) coke burn-off; or
(3) Process in the fluid catalytic cracking unit fresh feed that has a total sulfur content no greater than 0.30 percent by weight.
(c) Compliance with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section is determined daily on a 7-day rolling average basis using the appropriate procedures outlined in § 60.106.
(d) A minimum of 22 valid days of data shall be obtained every 30 rolling successive calendar days when complying with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
[43 FR 10869, Mar. 15, 1978, as amended at 54 FR 34027, Aug. 17, 1989; 55 FR 40175, Oct. 2, 1990; 65 FR 61754, Oct. 17, 2000; 73 FR 35866, June 24, 2008]
§ 60.105
Monitoring of emissions and operations.
(a) Continuous monitoring systems shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated by the owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart as follows:
(1) For fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerators subject to § 60.102(a)(2), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the opacity of emissions into the atmosphere. The instrument shall be spanned at 60, 70, or 80 percent opacity.
(2) For fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerators subject to § 60.103(a), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis) of CO emissions into the atmosphere, except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) (ii) of this section.
(i) The span value for this instrument is 1,000 ppm CO.
(ii) A CO continuous monitoring system need not be installed if the owner or operator demonstrates that the average CO emissions are less than 50 ppm (dry basis) and also files a written request for exemption to the Administrator and receives such an exemption. The demonstration shall consist of continuously monitoring CO emissions for 30 days using an instrument that shall meet the requirements of Performance Specification 4 of appendix B of this part. The span value shall be 100 ppm CO instead of 1,000 ppm, and the relative accuracy limit shall be 10 percent of the average CO emissions or 5 ppm CO, whichever is greater. For instruments that are identical to Method 10 and employ the sample conditioning system of Method 10A, the alternative
relative accuracy test procedure in § 10.1 of Performance Specification 2 may be used in place of the relative accuracy test.
(3) For fuel gas combustion devices subject to § 60.104(a)(1), either an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of SO
2
emissions into the atmosphere or monitoring as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section). The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess.
(i) The span values for this monitor are 50 ppm SO
2
and 25 percent oxygen (O
2
).
(ii) The SO
2
monitoring level equivalent to the H
2
S standard under § 60.104(a)(1) shall be 20 ppm (dry basis, zero percent excess air).
(iii) The performance evaluations for this SO
2
monitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 2. Methods 6 or 6C and 3 or 3A shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. Method 6 samples shall be taken at a flow rate of approximately 2 liters/min for at least 30 minutes. The relative accuracy limit shall be 20 percent or 4 ppm, whichever is greater, and the calibration drift limit shall be 5 percent of the established span value.
(iv) Fuel gas combustion devices having a common source of fuel gas may be monitored at only one location (i.e., after one of the combustion devices), if monitoring at this location accurately represents the SO
2
emissions into the atmosphere from each of the combustion devices.
(4) Instead of the SO
2
monitor in paragraph (a)(3) of this section for fuel gas combustion devices subject to § 60.104(a)(1), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis) of H
2
S in fuel gases before being burned in any fuel gas combustion device.
(i) The span value for this instrument is 425 mg/dscm H
2
S.
(ii) Fuel gas combustion devices having a common source of fuel gas may be monitored at only one location, if monitoring at this location accurately represents the concentration of H
2
S in the fuel gas being burned.
(iii) The performance evaluations for this H
2
S monitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 7. Method 11, 15, 15A, or 16 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.
(iv) The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device is not required to comply with paragraph (a)(3) or (4) of this section for fuel gas streams that are exempt under § 60.104(a)(1) and fuel gas streams combusted in a fuel gas combustion device that are inherently low in sulfur content. Fuel gas streams meeting one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section will be considered inherently low in sulfur content. If the composition of a fuel gas stream changes such that it is no longer exempt under § 60.104(a)(1) or it no longer meets one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section, the owner or operator must begin continuous monitoring under paragraph (a)(3) or (4) of this section within 15 days of the change.
(A) Pilot gas for heaters and flares.
(B) Fuel gas streams that meet a commercial-grade product specification for sulfur content of 30 ppmv or less. In the case of a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) product specification in the pressurized liquid state, the gas phase sulfur content should be evaluated assuming complete vaporization of the LPG and sulfur containing-compounds at the product specification concentration.
(C) Fuel gas streams produced in process units that are intolerant to sulfur contamination, such as fuel gas streams produced in the hydrogen plant, the catalytic reforming unit, the isomerization unit, and HF alkylation process units.
(D) Other fuel gas streams that an owner or operator demonstrates are low-sulfur according to the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.
(5) For Claus sulfur recovery plants with oxidation control systems or reduction control systems followed by incineration subject to § 60.104(a)(2)(i), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of SO
2
emissions into the atmosphere. The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess air.
(i) The span values for this monitor are 500 ppm SO
2
and 25 percent O
2
.
(ii) The performance evaluations for this SO
2
monitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 2. Methods 6 or 6C and 3 or 3A shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.
(6) For Claus sulfur recovery plants with reduction control systems not followed by incineration subject to § 60.104(a)(2)(ii), an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of reduced sulfur and O
2
emissions into the atmosphere. The reduced sulfur emissions shall be calculated as SO
2
(dry basis, zero percent excess air).
(i) The span values for this monitor are 450 ppm reduced sulfur and 25 percent O
2
.
(ii) The performance evaluations for this reduced sulfur (and O
2
) monitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 5 of appendix B of this part(and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B of this partfor the O
2
analyzer). Methods 15 or 15A and Method 3 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. If Method 3 yields O
2
concentrations below 0.25 percent during the performance specification test, the O
2
concentration may be assumed to be zero and the reduced sulfur CEMS need not include an O
2
monitor.
(7) In place of the reduced sulfur monitor under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, an instrument using an air or O
2
dilution and oxidation system to convert the reduced sulfur to SO
2
for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of the resultant SO
2
. The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess oxygen.
(i) The span values for this monitor are 375 ppm SO
2
and 25 percent O
2
.
(ii) For reporting purposes, the SO
2
exceedance level for this monitor is 250 ppm (dry basis, zero percent excess air).
(iii) The performance evaluations for this SO
2
(and O
2
) monitor under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 5. Methods 15 or 15A and Method 3 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.
(8) An instrument for continuously monitoring and recording concentrations of SO
2
in the gases at both the inlet and outlet of the SO
2
control device from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator seeks to comply specifically with the 90 percent reduction option under § 60.104(b)(1).
(i) The span value of the inlet monitor shall be set at 125 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SO
2
emission concentration entering the control device, and the span value of the outlet monitor shall be set at 50 percent of the maximum estimated hourly potential SO
2
emission concentration entering the control device.
(ii) The performance evaluations for these SO
2
monitors under § 60.13(c) shall use Performance Specification 2. Methods 6 or 6C and 3 or 3A shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.
(9) An instrument for continuously monitoring and recording concentrations of SO
2
in the gases discharged into the atmosphere from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator seeks to comply specifically with the 50 ppmv emission limit under § 60.104 (b)(1).
(i) The span value of the monitor shall be set at 50 percent of the maximum hourly potential SO
2
emission concentration of the control device.
(ii) The performance evaluations for this SO
2
monitor under § 60.13 (c) shall use Performance Specification 2. Methods 6 or 6C and 3 or 3A shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.
(10) An instrument for continuously monitoring and recording concentrations of oxygen (O
2
) in the gases at both the inlet and outlet of the sulfur dioxide control device (or the outlet only if specifically complying with the 50 ppmv standard) from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with § 60.104(b)(1). The span of this continuous monitoring system shall be set at 10 percent.
(11) The continuous monitoring systems under paragraphs (a)(8), (a)(9), and (a)(10) of this section are operated
and data recorded during all periods of operation of the affected facility including periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, except for continuous monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments.
(12) The owner or operator shall use the following procedures to evaluate the continuous monitoring systems under paragraphs (a)(8), (a)(9), and (a)(10) of this section.
(i) Method 3 or 3A and Method 6 or 6C for the relative accuracy evaluations under the § 60.13(e) performance evaluation.
(ii) Appendix F, Procedure 1, including quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests.
(13) When seeking to comply with § 60.104(b)(1), when emission data are not obtained because of continuous monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks and zero and span adjustments, emission data will be obtained by using one of the following methods to provide emission data for a minimum of 18 hours per day in at least 22 out of 30 rolling successive calendar days.
(i) The test methods as described in § 60.106(k);
(ii) A spare continuous monitoring system; or
(iii) Other monitoring systems as approved by the Administrator.
(b) An owner or operator may demonstrate that a fuel gas stream combusted in a fuel gas combustion device subject to § 60.104(a)(1) that is not specifically exempted in § 60.105(a)(4)(iv) is inherently low in sulfur. A fuel gas stream that is determined to be low-sulfur is exempt from the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section until there are changes in operating conditions or stream composition.
(1) The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator a written application for an exemption from monitoring. The application must contain the following information:
(i) A description of the fuel gas stream/system to be considered, including submission of a portion of the appropriate piping diagrams indicating the boundaries of the fuel gas stream/system, and the affected fuel gas combustion device(s) to be considered;
(ii) A statement that there are no crossover or entry points for sour gas (high H
2
S content) to be introduced into the fuel gas stream/system (this should be shown in the piping diagrams);
(iii) An explanation of the conditions that ensure low amounts of sulfur in the fuel gas stream (i.e., control equipment or product specifications) at all times;
(iv) The supporting test results from sampling the requested fuel gas stream/system demonstrating that the sulfur content is less than 5 ppmv. Sampling data must include, at minimum, 2 weeks of daily monitoring (14 grab samples) for frequently operated fuel gas streams/systems; for infrequently operated fuel gas streams/systems, seven grab samples must be collected unless other additional information would support reduced sampling. The owner or operator shall use detector tubes (“length-of-stain tube” type measurement) following the “Gas Processors Association Standard 2377-86 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17), using tubes with a maximum span between 10 and 40 ppmv inclusive when 1≤N≤10, where N = number of pump strokes, to test the applicant fuel gas stream for H
2
S; and
(v) A description of how the 2 weeks (or seven samples for infrequently operated fuel gas streams/systems) of monitoring results compares to the typical range of H
2
S concentration (fuel quality) expected for the fuel gas stream/system going to the affected fuel gas combustion device (e.g., the 2 weeks of daily detector tube results for a frequently operated loading rack included the entire range of products loaded out, and, therefore, should be representative of typical operating conditions affecting H
2
S content in the fuel gas stream going to the loading rack flare).
(2) The effective date of the exemption is the date of submission of the information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section).
(3) No further action is required unless refinery operating conditions change in such a way that affects the exempt fuel gas stream/system (e.g.,
the stream composition changes). If such a change occurs, the owner or operator will follow the procedures in paragraph (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(i) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is still within the range of concentrations included in the original application, the owner or operator shall conduct an H
2
S test on a grab sample and record the results as proof that the concentration is still within the range.
(ii) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is outside the range of concentrations included in the original application, the owner or operator may submit new information following the procedures of paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 60 days (or within 30 days after the seventh grab sample is tested for infrequently operated process units).
(iii) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is outside the range of concentrations included in the original application and the owner or operator chooses not to submit new information to support an exemption, the owner or operator must begin H
2
S monitoring using daily stain sampling to demonstrate compliance using length-of stain tubes with a maximum span between 200 and 400 ppmv inclusive when 1≤N≤5, where N = number of pump strokes. The owner or operator must begin monitoring according to the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section as soon as practicable but in no case later than 180 days after the operation change. During daily stain tube sampling, a daily sample exceeding 162 ppmv is an exceedance of the 3-hour H
2
S concentration limit.
(c) The average coke burn-off rate (Mg (tons) per hour) and hours of operation shall be recorded daily for any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator subject to § 60.102, § 60.103, or § 60.104(b)(2).
(d) For any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator under § 60.102 that uses an incinerator-waste heat boiler to combust the exhaust gases from the catalyst regenerator, the owner or operator shall record daily the rate of combustion of liquid or solid fossil-fuels and the hours of operation during which liquid or solid fossil-fuels are combusted in the incinerator-waste heat boiler.
(e) For the purpose of reports under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be determined and reported are defined as follows:

# Note:
All averages, except for opacity, shall be determined as the arithmetic average of the applicable 1-hour averages, e.g., the rolling 3-hour average shall be determined as the arithmetic average of three contiguous 1-hour averages.
(1)
Opacity.
All 1-hour periods that contain two or more 6-minute periods during which the average opacity as measured by the continuous monitoring system under § 60.105(a)(1) exceeds 30 percent.
(2)
Carbon monoxide.
All 1-hour periods during which the average CO concentration as measured by the CO continuous monitoring system under § 60.105(a)(2) exceeds 500 ppm.
(3)
Sulfur dioxide from fuel gas combustion.
(i) All rolling 3-hour periods during which the average concentration of SO
2
as measured by the SO
2
continuous monitoring system under § 60.105(a)(3) exceeds 20 ppm (dry basis, zero percent excess air); or
(ii) All rolling 3-hour periods during which the average concentration of H
2
S as measured by the H
2
S continuous monitoring system under § 60.105(a)(4) exceeds 230 mg/dscm (0.10 gr/dscf).
(4)
Sulfur dioxide from Claus sulfur recovery plants.
(i) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of SO
2
as measured by the SO
2
continuous monitoring system under § 60.105(a)(5) exceeds 250 ppm (dry basis, zero percent excess air); or
(ii) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of reduced sulfur (as SO
2
) as measured by the reduced sulfur continuous monitoring system under § 60.105(a)(6) exceeds 300 ppm; or
(iii) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of SO
2
as
measured by the SO
2
continuous monitoring system under § 60.105(a)(7) exceeds 250 ppm (dry basis, zero percent excess air).
[39 FR 9315, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46259, Oct. 6, 1975; 42 FR 32427, June 24, 1977; 42 FR 39389, Aug. 4, 1977; 43 FR 10869, Mar. 15, 1978; 48 FR 23611, May 25, 1983; 50 FR 31701, Aug. 5, 1985; 54 FR 34028, Aug. 17, 1989; 55 FR 40175, Oct. 2, 1990; 65 FR 61754, Oct. 17, 2000; 73 FR 35866, June 24, 2008; 80 FR 75229, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 60.106
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter (PM) standards in § 60.102(a) as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of PM shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
ER17OC00.000
Where:
E = Emission rate of PM, kg/Mg (lb/ton) of coke burn-off.
c
s
= Concentration of PM, g/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sd
= Volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
R
c
= Coke burn-off rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr) coke.
K = Conversion factor, 1,000 g/kg (7,000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 5B or 5F is to be used to determine particulate matter emissions and associated moisture content from affected facilities without wet FGD systems; only Method 5B is to be used after wet FGD systems. The sampling time for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and the sampling rate shall be at least 0.015 dscm/min (0.53 dscf/min), except that shorter sampling times may be approved by the Administrator when process variables or other factors preclude sampling for at least 60 minutes.
(3) The coke burn-off rate (R
c
) shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
R
c
= K
1
Q
r
(%CO
2
+ %CO) + K
2
Q
a
−K
3
Q
r
(%CO/2 + %CO
2
+ %O
2
) + K
3
Q
oxy
(%O
oxy
)
Where:
R
c
= Coke burn-off rate, kilograms per hour (kg/hr) (lb/hr).
Q
r
= Volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator before entering the emission control system, dscm/min (dscf/min).
Q
a
= Volumetric flow rate of air to fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator, as determined from the fluid catalytic cracking unit control room instrumentation, dscm/min (dscf/min).
Q
oxy
= Volumetric flow rate of O
2
enriched air to fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator, as determined from the fluid catalytic cracking unit control room instrumentation, dscm/min (dscf/min).
%CO
2
= Carbon dioxide concentration in fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis).
%CO = CO concentration in FCCU regenerator exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis).
%O
2
= O
2
concentration in fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis).
%O
oxy
= O
2
concentration in O
2
enriched air stream inlet to the fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator, percent by volume (dry basis).
K
1
= Material balance and conversion factor, 0.2982 (kg-min)/(hr-dscm-%) [0.0186 (lb-min)/(hr-dscf-%)].
K
2
= Material balance and conversion factor, 2.088 (kg-min)/(hr-dscm) [0.1303 (lb-min)/(hr-dscf)].
K
3
= Material balance and conversion factor, 0.0994 (kg-min)/(hr-dscm-%) [0.00624 (lb-min)/(hr-dscf-%)].
(i) Method 2 shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate (Q
r
).
(ii) The emission correction factor, integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3B shall be used to determine CO
2
, CO, and O
2
concentrations.
(4) Method 9 and the procedures of § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(c) If auxiliary liquid or solid fossil-fuels are burned in an incinerator-waste heat boiler, the owner or operator shall determine the emission rate of PM permitted in § 60.102(b) as follows:
(1) The allowable emission rate (E
s
) of PM shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E
s
= F + A (H/R
c
)
Where:
E
s
= Emission rate of PM allowed, kg/Mg (lb/ton) of coke burn-off in catalyst regenerator.
F = Emission standard, 1.0 kg/Mg (2.0 lb/ton) of coke burn-off in catalyst regenerator.
A = Allowable incremental rate of PM emissions, 43 g/GJ (0.10 lb/million Btu).
H = Heat input rate from solid or liquid fossil fuel, GJ/hr (million Btu/hr).
R
c
= Coke burn-off rate, Mg coke/hr (ton coke/hr).
(2) Procedures subject to the approval of the Administrator shall be used to determine the heat input rate.
(3) The procedure in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be used to determine the coke burn-off rate (R
c
).
(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the CO standard in § 60.103(a) by using the integrated sampling technique of Method 10 to determine the CO concentration (dry basis). The sampling time for each run shall be 60 minutes.
(e)(1) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the H
2
S standard in § 60.104(a)(1) as follows: Method 11, 15, 15A, or 16 shall be used to determine the H
2
S concentration. The gases entering the sampling train should be at about atmospheric pressure. If the pressure in the refinery fuel gas lines is relatively high, a flow control valve may be used to reduce the pressure. If the line pressure is high enough to operate the sampling train without a vacuum pump, the pump may be eliminated from the sampling train. The sample shall be drawn from a point near the centroid of the fuel gas line.
(i) For Method 11, the sampling time and sample volume shall be at least 10 minutes and 0.010 dscm (0.35 dscf). Two samples of equal sampling times shall be taken at about 1-hour intervals. The arithmetic average of these two samples shall constitute a run. For most fuel gases, sampling times exceeding 20 minutes may result in depletion of the collection solution, although fuel gases containing low concentrations of H
2
S may necessitate sampling for longer periods of time.
(ii) For Method 15 or 16, at least three injects over a 1-hour period shall constitute a run.
(iii) For Method 15A, a 1-hour sample shall constitute a run.
(2) Where emissions are monitored by § 60.105(a)(3), compliance with § 60.104(a)(1) shall be determined using Method 6 or 6C and Method 3 or 3A. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6. A 1-hour sample shall constitute a run. Method 6 samples shall be taken at a rate of approximately 2 liters/min. The ppm correction factor (Method 6) and the sampling location in paragraph (f)(1) of this section apply. Method 4 shall be used to determine the moisture content of the gases. The sampling point for Method 4 shall be adjacent to the sampling point for Method 6 or 6C.
(f) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SO
2
and the H
2
S and reduced sulfur standards in § 60.104(a)(2) as follows:
(1) Method 6 shall be used to determine the SO
2
concentration. The concentration in mg/dscm obtained by Method 6 or 6C is multiplied by 0.3754 to obtain the concentration in ppm. The sampling point in the duct shall be the centroid of the cross section if the cross-sectional area is less than 5.00 m
2
(53.8 ft
2
) or at a point no closer to the walls than 1.00 m (39.4 in.) if the cross-sectional area is 5.00 m
2
or more and the centroid is more than 1 m from the wall. The sampling time and sample volume shall be at least 10 minutes and 0.010 dscm (0.35 dscf) for each sample. Eight samples of equal sampling times shall be taken at about 30-minute intervals. The arithmetic average of these eight samples shall constitute a run. For Method 6C, a run shall consist of the arithmetic average of four 1-hour samples. Method 4 shall be used to determine the moisture content of the gases. The sampling point for Method 4 shall be adjacent to the sampling point for Method 6 or 6C. The sampling time for each sample shall be equal to the time it takes for two Method 6 samples. The moisture content from this sample shall be used to correct the corresponding Method 6 samples for moisture. For documenting the oxidation efficiency of the control device for reduced sulfur compounds, Method 15 shall be used following the procedures of paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(2) Method 15 shall be used to determine the reduced sulfur and H
2
S concentrations. Each run shall consist of 16 samples taken over a minimum of 3 hours. The sampling point shall be the same as that described for Method 6 in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. To ensure minimum residence time for the sample inside the sample lines, the sampling rate shall be at least 3.0 lpm (0.10 cfm). The SO
2
equivalent for each run shall be calculated after being corrected for moisture and oxygen as the arithmetic average of the SO
2
equivalent for each sample during the run. Method 4 shall be used to determine the moisture content of the gases as the paragraph (f)(1) of this section. The sampling time for each sample shall be equal to the time it takes for four Method 15 samples.
(3) The oxygen concentration used to correct the emission rate for excess air shall be obtained by the integrated sampling and analysis procedure of Method 3 or 3A. The samples shall be taken simultaneously with the SO
2
, reduced sulfur and H
2
S, or moisture samples. The SO
2
, reduced sulfur, and H
2
S samples shall be corrected to zero percent excess air using the equation in paragraph (h)(6) of this section.
(g) Each performance test conducted for the purpose of determining compliance under § 60.104(b) shall consist of all testing performed over a 7-day period using Method 6 or 6C and Method 3 or 3A. To determine compliance, the arithmetic mean of the results of all the tests shall be compared with the applicable standard.
(h) For the purpose of determining compliance with § 60.104(b)(1), the following calculation procedures shall be used:
(1) Calculate each 1-hour average concentration (dry, zero percent oxygen, ppmv) of sulfur dioxide at both the inlet and the outlet to the add-on control device as specified in § 60.13(h). These calculations are made using the emission data collected under § 60.105(a).
(2) Calculate a 7-day average (arithmetic mean) concentration of sulfur dioxide for the inlet and for the outlet to the add-on control device using all of the 1-hour average concentration values obtained during seven successive 24-hour periods.
(3) Calculate the 7-day average percent reduction using the following equation:
Rso
2
= 100(Cso
2
(i) − Cso
2
(o)) / Cso
2
(i)
where:
Rso
2
= 7-day average sulfur dioxide emission reduction, percent
Cso
2
(i) = sulfur dioxide emission concentration determined in § 60.106(h)(2) at the inlet to the add-on control device, ppmv
Cso
2
(o) = sulfur dioxide emission concentration determined in § 60.106(h)(2) at the outlet to the add-on control device, ppmv
100 = conversion factor, decimal to percent
(4) Outlet concentrations of sulfur dioxide from the add-on control device for compliance with the 50 ppmv standard, reported on a dry, O
2
-free basis, shall be calculated using the procedures outlined in § 60.106(h)(1) and (2) above, but for the outlet monitor only.
(5) If supplemental sampling data are used for determining the 7-day averages under paragraph (h) of this section and such data are not hourly averages, then the value obtained for each supplemental sample shall be assumed to represent the hourly average for each hour over which the sample was obtained.
(6) For the purpose of adjusting pollutant concentrations to zero percent oxygen, the following equation shall be used:
C
adj
= C
meas
[20.9
c
/(20.9−%O
2
)]
where:
C
adj
= pollutant concentration adjusted to zero percent oxygen, ppm or g/dscm
C
meas
= pollutant concentration measured on a dry basis, ppm or g/dscm
20.9
c
= 20.9 percent oxygen−0.0 percent oxygen (defined oxygen correction basis), percent
20.9 = oxygen concentration in air, percent
%O
2
= oxygen concentration measured on a dry basis, percent
(i) For the purpose of determining compliance with § 60.104(b)(2), the following reference methods and calculation procedures shall be used except as provided in paragraph (i)(12) of this section:
(1) One 3-hour test shall be performed each day.
(2) For gases released to the atmosphere from the fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator:
(i) Method 8 as modified in § 60.106(i)(3) for moisture content and for the concentration of sulfur oxides calculated as sulfur dioxide,
(ii) Method 1 for sample and velocity traverses,
(iii) Method 2 calculation procedures (data obtained from Methods 3 and 8) for velocity and volumetric flow rate, and
(iv) Method 3 for gas analysis.
(3) Method 8 shall be modified by the insertion of a heated glass fiber filter between the probe and first impinger. The probe liner and glass fiber filter temperature shall be maintained above 160 °C (320 °F). The isopropanol impinger shall be eliminated. Sample recovery procedures described in Method 8 for container No. 1 shall be eliminated. The heated glass fiber filter also shall be excluded; however, rinsing of all connecting glassware after the heated glass fiber filter shall be retained and included in container No. 2. Sampled volume shall be at least 1 dscm.
(4) For Method 3, the integrated sampling technique shall be used.
(5) Sampling time for each run shall be at least 3 hours.
(6) All testing shall be performed at the same location. Where the gases discharged by the fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator pass through an incinerator-waste heat boiler in which auxiliary or supplemental gaseous, liquid, or solid fossil fuel is burned, testing shall be conducted at a point between the regenerator outlet and the incinerator-waste heat boiler. An alternative sampling location after the waste heat boiler may be used if alternative coke burn-off rate equations, and, if requested, auxiliary/supplemental fuel SO
X
credits, have been submitted to and approved by the Administrator prior to sampling.
(7) Coke burn-off rate shall be determined using the procedures specified under paragraph (b)(3) of this section, unless paragraph (i)(6) of this section applies.
(8) Calculate the concentration of sulfur oxides as sulfur dioxide using equation 8-3 in Section 6.5 of Method 8 to calculate and report the total concentration of sulfur oxides as sulfur dioxide (Cso
x
).
(9) Sulfur oxides emission rate calculated as sulfur dioxide shall be determined for each test run by the following equation:
ER17OC00.003
Where:
E
SOx
= sulfur oxides emission rate calculated as sulfur dioxide, kg/hr (lb/hr)
C
SOx
= sulfur oxides emission concentration calculated as sulfur dioxide, g/dscm (gr/dscf)
Q
sd
= dry volumetric stack gas flow rate corrected to standard conditions, dscm/hr (dscf/hr)
K = 1,000 g/kg (7,000 gr/lb)
(10) Sulfur oxides emissions calculated as sulfur dioxide shall be determined for each test run by the following equation:
ER17OC00.004
Where:
R
SOx
= Sulfur oxides emissions calculated as kg sulfur dioxide per Mg (lb/ton) coke burn-off.
E
SOx
= Sulfur oxides emission rate calculated as sulfur dioxide, kg/hr (lb/hr).
R
c
= Coke burn-off rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
(11) Calculate the 7-day average sulfur oxides emission rate as sulfur dioxide per Mg (ton) of coke burn-off by dividing the sum of the individual daily rates by the number of daily rates summed.
(12) An owner or operator may, upon approval by the Administrator, use an alternative method for determining compliance with § 60.104(b)(2), as provided in § 60.8(b). Any requests for approval must include data to demonstrate to the Administrator that the alternative method would produce results adequate for the determination of compliance.
(j) For the purpose of determining compliance with § 60.104(b)(3), the following analytical methods and calculation procedures shall be used:
(1) One fresh feed sample shall be collected once per 8-hour period.
(2) Fresh feed samples shall be analyzed separately by using any one of the following applicable analytical test methods: ASTM D129-64, 78, or 95,
ASTM D1552-83 or 95, ASTM D2622-87, 94, or 98, or ASTM D1266-87, 91, or 98. (These methods are incorporated by reference: see § 60.17.) The applicable range of some of these ASTM methods is not adequate to measure the levels of sulfur in some fresh feed samples. Dilution of samples prior to analysis with verification of the dilution ratio is acceptable upon prior approval of the Administrator.
(3) If a fresh feed sample cannot be collected at a single location, then the fresh feed sulfur content shall be determined as follows:
(i) Individual samples shall be collected once per 8-hour period for each separate fresh feed stream charged directly into the riser or reactor of the fluid catalytic cracking unit. For each sample location the fresh feed volumetric flow rate at the time of collecting the fresh feed sample shall be measured and recorded. The same method for measuring volumetric flow rate shall be used at all locations.
(ii) Each fresh feed sample shall be analyzed separately using the methods specified under paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
(iii) Fresh feed sulfur content shall be calculated for each 8-hour period using the following equation:
EC16NO91.005
where:
S
f
= fresh feed sulfur content expressed in percent by weight of fresh feed.
n = number of separate fresh feed streams charged directly to the riser or reactor of the fluid catalytic cracking unit.
Q
f
= total volumetric flow rate of fresh feed charged to the fluid catalytic cracking unit.
S
i
= fresh feed sulfur content expressed in percent by weight of fresh feed for the “ith” sampling location.
Q
i
= volumetric flow rate of fresh feed stream for the “ith” sampling location.
(4) Calculate a 7-day average (arithmetic mean) sulfur content of the fresh feed using all of the fresh feed sulfur content values obtained during seven successive 24-hour periods.
(k) The test methods used to supplement continuous monitoring system data to meet the minimum data requirements in § 60.104(d) will be used as described below or as otherwise approved by the Administrator.
(1) Methods 6, 6B, or 8 are used. The sampling location(s) are the same as those specified for the monitor.
(2) For Method 6, the minimum sampling time is 20 minutes and the minimum sampling volume is 0.02 dscm (0.71 dscf) for each sample. Samples are taken at approximately 60-minute intervals. Each sample represents a 1-hour average. A minimum of 18 valid samples is required to obtain one valid day of data.
(3) For Method 6B, collection of a sample representing a minimum of 18 hours is required to obtain one valid day of data.
(4) For Method 8, the procedures as outlined in this section are used. The equivalent of 16 hours of sampling is required to obtain one valid day of data.
[39 FR 9315, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 43 FR 10869, Mar. 15, 1978; 51 FR 42842, Nov. 26, 1986; 52 FR 20392, June 1, 1987; 53 FR 41333, Oct. 21, 1988; 54 FR 34028, Aug. 17, 1989; 55 FR 40176, Oct. 2, 1990; 56 FR 4176, Feb. 4, 1991; 65 FR 61754, Oct. 17, 2000; 71 FR 55127, Sept. 21, 2006; 73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008; 77 FR 56463, Sep. 12, 2012]
§ 60.107
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to § 60.104(b) shall notify the Administrator of the specific provisions of § 60.104(b) with which the owner or operator seeks to comply. Notification shall be submitted with the notification of initial startup required by § 60.7(a)(3). If an owner or operator elects at a later date to comply with an alternative provision of § 60.104(b), then the Administrator shall be notified by the owner or operator in the report described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(b) Each owner or operator subject to § 60.104(b) shall record and maintain the following information:
(1) If subject to § 60.104(b)(1),
(i) All data and calibrations from continuous monitoring systems located at the inlet and outlet to the control device, including the results of the daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy assessments required under appendix F, Procedure 1;
(ii) Measurements obtained by supplemental sampling (refer to
§ 60.105(a)(13) and § 60.106(k)) for meeting minimum data requirements; and
(iii) The written procedures for the quality control program required by appendix F, Procedure 1.
(2) If subject to § 60.104(b)(2), measurements obtained in the daily Method 8 testing, or those obtained by alternative measurement methods, if § 60.106(i)(12) applies.
(3) If subject to § 60.104(b)(3), data obtained from the daily feed sulfur tests.
(4) Each 7-day rolling average compliance determination.
(c) Each owner or operator subject to § 60.104(b) shall submit a report except as provided by paragraph (d) of this section. The following information shall be contained in the report:
(1) Any 7-day period during which:
(i) The average percent reduction and average concentration of sulfur dioxide on a dry, O
2
-free basis in the gases discharged to the atmosphere from any fluid cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator seeks to comply with § 60.104(b)(1) is below 90 percent and above 50 ppmv, as measured by the continuous monitoring system prescribed under § 60.105(a)(8), or above 50 ppmv, as measured by the outlet continuous monitoring system prescribed under § 60.105(a)(9). The average percent reduction and average sulfur dioxide concentration shall be determined using the procedures specified under § 60.106(h);
(ii) The average emission rate of sulfur dioxide in the gases discharged to the atmosphere from any fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator for which the owner or operator seeks to comply with § 60.104(b)(2) exceeds 9.8 kg SO
X
per 1,000 kg coke burn-off, as measured by the daily testing prescribed under § 60.106(i). The average emission rate shall be determined using the procedures specified under § 60.106(i); and
(iii) The average sulfur content of the fresh feed for which the owner or operator seeks to comply with § 60.104(b)(3) exceeds 0.30 percent by weight. The fresh feed sulfur content, a 7-day rolling average, shall be determined using the procedures specified under § 60.106(j).
(2) Any 30-day period in which the minimum data requirements specified in § 60.104(d) are not obtained.
(3) For each 7-day period during which an exceedance has occurred as defined in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iii) and (c)(2) of this section:
(i) The date that the exceedance occurred;
(ii) An explanation of the exceedance;
(iii) Whether the exceedance was concurrent with a startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the fluid catalytic cracking unit or control system; and
(iv) A description of the corrective action taken, if any.
(4) If subject to § 60.104(b)(1),
(i) The dates for which and brief explanations as to why fewer than 18 valid hours of data were obtained for the inlet continuous monitoring system;
(ii) The dates for which and brief explanations as to why fewer than 18 valid hours of data were obtained for the outlet continuous monitoring system;
(iii) Identification of times when hourly averages have been obtained based on manual sampling methods;
(iv) Identification of the times when the pollutant concentration exceeded full span of the continuous monitoring system; and
(v) Description of any modifications to the continuous monitoring system that could affect the ability of the continuous monitoring system to comply with Performance Specifications 2 or 3.
(vi) Results of daily drift tests and quarterly accuracy assessments as required under appendix F, Procedure 1.
(5) If subject to § 60.104(b)(2), for each day in which a Method 8 sample result required by § 60.106(i) was not obtained, the date for which and brief explanation as to why a Method 8 sample result was not obtained, for approval by the Administrator.
(6) If subject to § 60.104(b)(3), for each 8-hour period in which a feed sulfur measurement required by § 60.106(j) was not obtained, the date for which and brief explanation as to why a feed sulfur measurement was not obtained, for approval by the Administrator.
(d) For any periods for which sulfur dioxide or oxides emissions data are not available, the owner or operator of
the affected facility shall submit a signed statement indicating if any changes were made in operation of the emission control system during the period of data unavailability which could affect the ability of the system to meet the applicable emission limit. Operations of the control system and affected facility during periods of data unavailability are to be compared with operation of the control system and affected facility before and following the period of data unavailability.
(e) For each fuel gas stream combusted in a fuel gas combustion device subject to § 60.104(a)(1), if an owner or operator determines that one of the exemptions listed in § 60.105(a)(4)(iv) applies to that fuel gas stream, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the specific exemption chosen for each fuel gas stream. If the owner or operator applies for the exemption described in § 60.105(a)(4)(iv)(D), the owner or operator must keep a copy of the application as well as the letter from the Administrator granting approval of the application.
(f) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the reports required under this subpart to the Administrator semiannually for each six-month period. All semiannual reports shall be postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each six-month period.
(g) The owner or operator of the affected facility shall submit a signed statement certifying the accuracy and completeness of the information contained in the report.
[54 FR 34029, Aug. 17, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 40178, Oct. 2, 1990; 64 FR 7465, Feb. 12, 1999; 65 FR 61755, Oct. 17, 2000; 73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008]
§ 60.108
Performance test and compliance provisions.
(a) Section 60.8(d) shall apply to the initial performance test specified under paragraph (c) of this section, but not to the daily performance tests required thereafter as specified in § 60.108(d). Section 60.8(f) does not apply when determining compliance with the standards specified under § 60.104(b). Performance tests conducted for the purpose of determining compliance under § 60.104(b) shall be conducted according to the applicable procedures specified under § 60.106.
(b) Owners or operators who seek to comply with § 60.104(b)(3) shall meet that standard at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunctions.
(c) The initial performance test shall consist of the initial 7-day average calculated for compliance with § 60.104(b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3).
(d) After conducting the initial performance test prescribed under § 60.8, the owner or operator of a fluid catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator subject to § 60.104(b) shall conduct a performance test for each successive 24-hour period thereafter. The daily performance tests shall be conducted according to the appropriate procedures specified under § 60.106. In the event that a sample collected under § 60.106(i) or (j) is accidentally lost or conditions occur in which one of the samples must be discontinued because of forced shutdown, failure of an irreplaceable portion of the sample train, extreme meteorological conditions, or other circumstances, beyond the owner or operators' control, compliance may be determined using available data for the 7-day period.
(e) Each owner or operator subject to § 60.104(b) who has demonstrated compliance with one of the provisions of § 60.104(b) but a later date seeks to comply with another of the provisions of § 60.104(b) shall begin conducting daily performance tests as specified under paragraph (d) of this section immediately upon electing to become subject to one of the other provisions of § 60.104(b). The owner or operator shall furnish the Administrator with a written notification of the change in the semiannual report required by § 60.107(f).
[54 FR 34030, Aug. 17, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 40178, Oct. 2, 1990; 64 FR 7466, Feb. 12, 1999; 73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008]
§ 60.109
Delegation of authority.
(a) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, the authorities contained in paragraph (b) of this section shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State.
(b) Authorities which shall not be delegated to States:
(1) Section 60.105(a)(13)(iii),
(2) Section 60.106(i)(12).
[54 FR 34031, Aug. 17, 1989, as amended at 55 FR 40178, Oct. 2, 1990]

# Subpart Ja—Standards of Performance for Petroleum Refineries for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 14, 2007

# Source:
73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.100a
Applicability, designation of affected facility, and reconstruction.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the following affected facilities in petroleum refineries: fluid catalytic cracking units (FCCU), fluid coking units (FCU), delayed coking units, fuel gas combustion devices (including process heaters), flares and sulfur recovery plants. The sulfur recovery plant need not be physically located within the boundaries of a petroleum refinery to be an affected facility, provided it processes gases produced within a petroleum refinery.
(b) Except for flares and delayed coking units, the provisions of this subpart apply only to affected facilities under paragraph (a) of this section which either commence construction, modification or reconstruction after May 14, 2007, or elect to comply with the provisions of this subpart in lieu of complying with the provisions in subpart J of this part. For flares, the provisions of this subpart apply only to flares which commence construction, modification or reconstruction after June 24, 2008. For the purposes of this subpart, a modification to a flare commences when a project that includes any of the activities in paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section is commenced. For delayed coking units, the provisions of this subpart apply to delayed coking units that commence construction, reconstruction or modification on the earliest of the following dates:
(1) May 14, 2007, for such activities that involve a “delayed coking unit” defined as follows: one or more refinery process units in which high molecular weight petroleum derivatives are thermally cracked and petroleum coke is produced in a series of closed, batch system reactors;
(2) December 22, 2008, for such activities that involve a “delayed coking unit” defined as follows: a refinery process unit in which high molecular weight petroleum derivatives are thermally cracked and petroleum coke is produced in a series of closed, batch system reactors. A delayed coking unit consists of the coke drums and associated fractionator;
(3) September 12, 2012, for such activities that involve a “delayed coking unit” as defined in § 60.101a.
(c) For all affected facilities other than flares, the provisions in § 60.14 regarding modification apply. As provided in § 60.14(f), the special provisions set forth under this subpart shall supersede the provisions in § 60.14 with respect to flares. For the purposes of this subpart, a modification to a flare occurs as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Any new piping from a refinery process unit, including ancillary equipment, or a fuel gas system is physically connected to the flare (
e.g.,
for direct emergency relief or some form of continuous or intermittent venting). However, the connections described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section are not considered modifications of a flare.
(i) Connections made to install monitoring systems to the flare.
(ii) Connections made to install a flare gas recovery system or connections made to upgrade or enhance components of a flare gas recovery system (
e.g.,
addition of compressors or recycle lines).
(iii) Connections made to replace or upgrade existing pressure relief or safety valves, provided the new pressure relief or safety valve has a set point opening pressure no lower and an internal diameter no greater than the existing equipment being replaced or upgraded.
(iv) Connections made for flare gas sulfur removal.
(v) Connections made to install back-up (redundant) equipment associated with the flare (such as a back-up compressor) that does not increase the capacity of the flare.
(vi) Replacing piping or moving an existing connection from a refinery process unit to a new location in the same flare, provided the new pipe diameter is less than or equal to the diameter of the pipe/connection being replaced/moved.
(vii) Connections that interconnect two or more flares.
(2) A flare is physically altered to increase the flow capacity of the flare.
(d) For purposes of this subpart, under § 60.15, the “fixed capital cost of the new components” includes the fixed capital cost of all depreciable components which are or will be replaced pursuant to all continuous programs of component replacement which are commenced within any 2-year period following the relevant applicability date specified in paragraph (b) of this section.
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56464, Sep. 12, 2012; 80 FR 75230, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 60.101a
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Clean Air Act (CAA), in § 60.2 and in this section.
Air preheat
means a device used to heat the air supplied to a process heater generally by use of a heat exchanger to recover the sensible heat of exhaust gas from the process heater.
Ancillary equipment
means equipment used in conjunction with or that serve a refinery process unit.
Ancillary equipment
includes, but is not limited to, storage tanks, product loading operations, wastewater treatment systems, steam- or electricity-producing units (including coke gasification units), pressure relief valves, pumps, sampling vents and continuous analyzer vents.
Cascaded flare system
means a series of flares connected to one flare gas header system arranged with increasing pressure set points so that discharges will be initially directed to the first flare in the series (
i.e.,
the primary flare). If the discharge pressure exceeds a set point at which the flow to the primary flare would exceed the primary flare's capacity, flow will be diverted to the second flare in the series. Similarly, flow would be diverted to a third (or fourth) flare if the pressure in the flare gas header system exceeds a threshold where the flow to the first two (or three) flares would exceed their capacities.
Co-fired process heater
means a process heater that employs burners that are designed to be supplied by both gaseous and liquid fuels on a routine basis. Process heaters that have gas burners with emergency oil back-up burners are not considered co-fired process heaters.
Coke burn-off
means the coke removed from the surface of the FCCU catalyst by combustion in the catalyst regenerator. The rate of coke burn-off is calculated by the formula specified in § 60.104a.
Contact material
means any substance formulated to remove metals, sulfur, nitrogen, or any other contaminant from petroleum derivatives.
Corrective action
means the design, operation and maintenance changes that one takes consistent with good engineering practice to reduce or eliminate the likelihood of the recurrence of the primary cause and any other contributing cause(s) of an event identified by a root cause analysis as having resulted in a discharge of gases from an affected facility in excess of specified thresholds.
Corrective action analysis
means a description of all reasonable interim and long-term measures, if any, that are available, and an explanation of why the selected corrective action(s) is/are the best alternative(s), including, but not limited to, considerations of cost effectiveness, technical feasibility, safety and secondary impacts.
Delayed coking unit
means a refinery process unit in which high molecular weight petroleum derivatives are thermally cracked and petroleum coke is produced in a series of closed, batch system reactors. A
delayed coking unit
includes, but is not limited to, all of the coke drums associated with a single fractionator; the fractionator, including the bottoms receiver and the overhead condenser; the coke drum cutting water and quench system, including the jet pump and coker quench
water tank; and the coke drum blowdown recovery compressor system.
Emergency flare
means a flare that combusts gas exclusively released as a result of malfunctions (and not startup, shutdown, routine operations or any other cause) on four or fewer occasions in a rolling 365-day period. For purposes of this rule, a flare cannot be categorized as an
emergency flare
unless it maintains a water seal.
Flare
means a combustion device that uses an uncontrolled volume of air to burn gases. The
flare
includes the foundation, flare tip, structural support, burner, igniter, flare controls, including air injection or steam injection systems, flame arrestors and the flare gas header system. In the case of an interconnected flare gas header system, the
flare
includes each individual flare serviced by the interconnected flare gas header system and the interconnected flare gas header system.
Flare gas header system
means all piping and knockout pots, including those in a subheader system, used to collect and transport gas to a flare either from a process unit or a pressure relief valve from the fuel gas system, regardless of whether or not a flare gas recovery system draws gas from the
flare gas header system.
The
flare gas header system
includes piping inside the battery limit of a process unit if the purpose of the piping is to transport gas to a flare or knockout pot that is part of the flare.
Flare gas recovery system
means a system of one or more compressors, piping and the associated water seal, rupture disk or similar device used to divert gas from the flare and direct the gas to the fuel gas system or to a fuel gas combustion device.
Flexicoking unit
means a refinery process unit in which high molecular weight petroleum derivatives are thermally cracked and petroleum coke is continuously produced and then gasified to produce a synthetic fuel gas.
Fluid catalytic cracking
unit means a refinery process unit in which petroleum derivatives are continuously charged and hydrocarbon molecules in the presence of a catalyst suspended in a fluidized bed are fractured into smaller molecules, or react with a contact material suspended in a fluidized bed to improve feedstock quality for additional processing and the catalyst or contact material is continuously regenerated by burning off coke and other deposits. The unit includes the riser, reactor, regenerator, air blowers, spent catalyst or contact material stripper, catalyst or contact material recovery equipment, and regenerator equipment for controlling air pollutant emissions and for heat recovery. When
fluid catalyst cracking unit
regenerator exhaust from two separate fluid catalytic cracking units share a common exhaust treatment (e.g., CO boiler or wet scrubber), the
fluid catalytic cracking unit
is a single affected facility.
Fluid coking unit
means a refinery process unit in which high molecular weight petroleum derivatives are thermally cracked and petroleum coke is continuously produced in a fluidized bed system. The
fluid coking unit
includes the coking reactor, the coking burner, and equipment for controlling air pollutant emissions and for heat recovery on the fluid coking burner exhaust vent.
Forced draft process heater
means a process heater in which the combustion air is supplied under positive pressure produced by a fan at any location in the inlet air line prior to the point where the combustion air enters the process heater or air preheat. For the purposes of this subpart, a process heater that uses fans at both the inlet air side and the exhaust air side (
i.e.,
balanced draft system) is considered to be a
forced draft process heater.
Fuel gas
means any gas which is generated at a petroleum refinery and which is combusted.
Fuel gas
includes natural gas when the natural gas is combined and combusted in any proportion with a gas generated at a refinery.
Fuel gas
does not include gases generated by catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerators, coke calciners (used to make premium grade coke) and fluid coking burners, but does include gases from flexicoking unit gasifiers and other gasifiers.
Fuel gas
does not include vapors that are collected and combusted in a thermal oxidizer or flare installed to control emissions from wastewater treatment units other than those processing sour water, marine tank vessel loading operations or
asphalt processing units (
i.e.,
asphalt blowing stills).
Fuel gas combustion device
means any equipment, such as process heaters and boilers, used to combust fuel gas. For the purposes of this subpart,
fuel gas combustion device
does not include flares or facilities in which gases are combusted to produce sulfur or sulfuric acid.
Fuel gas system
means a system of compressors, piping, knock-out pots, mix drums, and units used to remove sulfur contaminants from the fuel gas (e.g., amine scrubbers) that collects refinery fuel gas from one or more sources for treatment as necessary prior to combusting in process heaters or boilers. A
fuel gas system
may have an overpressure vent to a flare but the primary purpose for a fuel gas system is to provide fuel to the refinery.
Natural draft process heater
means any process heater in which the combustion air is supplied under ambient or negative pressure without the use of an inlet air (forced draft) fan. For the purposes of this subpart, a
natural draft process heater
is any process heater that is not a forced draft process heater, including induced draft systems.
Non-emergency flare
means any flare that is not an emergency flare as defined in this subpart.
Oxidation control system
means an emission control system which reduces emissions from sulfur recovery plants by converting these emissions to sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) and recycling the SO
2
to the reactor furnace or the first-stage catalytic reactor of the Claus sulfur recovery plant or converting the SO
2
to a sulfur product.
Petroleum
means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.
Petroleum refinery
means any facility engaged in producing gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, asphalt (bitumen) or other products through distillation of petroleum or through redistillation, cracking or reforming of unfinished petroleum derivatives. A facility that produces only oil shale or tar sands-derived crude oil for further processing at a petroleum refinery using only solvent extraction and/or distillation to recover diluent is not a
petroleum refinery.
Primary flare
means the first flare in a cascaded flare system.
Process heater
means an enclosed combustion device used to transfer heat indirectly to process stream materials (liquids, gases, or solids) or to a heat transfer material for use in a process unit instead of steam.
Process upset gas
means any gas generated by a petroleum refinery process unit or by ancillary equipment as a result of startup, shutdown, upset or malfunction.
Purge gas
means gas introduced between a flare's water seal and a flare's tip to prevent oxygen infiltration (backflow) into the flare tip. For flares with no water seals, the function of
purge gas
is performed by sweep gas (
i.e.,
flares without water seals do not use
purge gas
).
Reduced sulfur compounds
means hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S), carbonyl sulfide, and carbon disulfide.
Reduction control system
means an emission control system which reduces emissions from sulfur recovery plants by converting these emissions to H
2
S and either recycling the H
2
S to the reactor furnace or the first-stage catalytic reactor of the Claus sulfur recovery plant or converting the H
2
S to a sulfur product.
Refinery process unit
means any segment of the petroleum refinery in which a specific processing operation is conducted.
Root cause analysis
means an assessment conducted through a process of investigation to determine the primary cause, and any other contributing cause(s), of a discharge of gases in excess of specified thresholds.
Secondary flare
means a flare in a cascaded flare system that provides additional flare capacity and pressure relief to a flare gas system when the flare gas flow exceeds the capacity of the primary flare. For purposes of this subpart, a
secondary flare
is characterized by infrequent use and must maintain a water seal.
Sour water
means water that contains sulfur compounds (usually H
2
S) at concentrations of 10 parts per million by weight or more.
Sulfur pit
means the storage vessel in which sulfur that is condensed after each Claus catalytic reactor is initially accumulated and stored.
A sulfur pit
does not include secondary sulfur storage vessels downstream of the initial Claus reactor sulfur pits.
Sulfur recovery plant
means all process units which recover sulfur from H
2
S and/or SO
2
from a common source of sour gas produced at a petroleum refinery. The
sulfur recovery plant
also includes sulfur pits used to store the recovered sulfur product, but it does not include secondary sulfur storage vessels or loading facilities downstream of the sulfur pits. For example, a Claus sulfur recovery plant includes: Reactor furnace and waste heat boiler, catalytic reactors, sulfur pits and, if present, oxidation or reduction control systems or incinerator, thermal oxidizer or similar combustion device. Multiple sulfur recovery units are a single affected facility only when the units share the same source of sour gas.
Sulfur recovery plants
that receive source gas from completely segregated sour gas treatment systems are separate affected facilities.
Sweep gas
means the gas introduced in a flare gas header system to maintain a constant flow of gas to prevent oxygen buildup in the flare header. For flares with no water seals,
sweep gas
also performs the function of preventing oxygen infiltration (backflow) into the flare tip.
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56464, Sep. 12, 2012; 78 FR 76756, Dec. 19, 2013; 80 FR 75230, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 60.102a
Emissions limitations.
(a) Each owner or operator that is subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with the emissions limitations in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section on and after the date on which the initial performance test, required by § 60.8, is completed, but not later than 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the affected facility will be operated or 180 days after initial startup, whichever comes first.
(b) An owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall not discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any FCCU or FCU:
(1) Particulate matter (PM) in excess of the limits in paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.
(i) 1.0 gram per kilogram (g/kg) (1 pound (lb) per 1,000 lb) coke burn-off or, if a PM continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) is used, 0.040 grain per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf) corrected to 0 percent excess air for each modified or reconstructed FCCU.
(ii) 0.5 gram per kilogram (g/kg) coke burn-off (0.5 lb PM/1,000 lb coke burn-off) or, if a PM CEMS is used, 0.020 gr/dscf corrected to 0 percent excess air for each newly constructed FCCU.
(iii) 1.0 g/kg (1 lb/1,000 lb) coke burn-off or, if a PM CEMS is used, 0.040 grain per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf) corrected to 0 percent excess air for each affected FCU.
(2) Nitrogen oxides (NO
X
) in excess of 80 parts per million by volume (ppmv), dry basis corrected to 0 percent excess air, on a 7-day rolling average basis.
(3) Sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) in excess of 50 ppmv dry basis corrected to 0 percent excess air, on a 7-day rolling average basis and 25 ppmv, dry basis corrected to 0 percent excess air, on a 365-day rolling average basis.
(4) Carbon monoxide (CO) in excess of 500 ppmv, dry basis corrected to 0 percent excess air, on an hourly average basis.
(c) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that uses a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) according to § 60.105a(b)(1) shall comply with the applicable control device parameter operating limit in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) If the FCCU or FCU is controlled using an electrostatic precipitator:
(i) The 3-hour rolling average total power and secondary current to the entire system must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test; and
(ii) The daily average exhaust coke burn-off rate must not exceed the level established during the most recent performance test.
(2) If the FCCU or FCU is controlled using a wet scrubber:
(i) The 3-hour rolling average pressure drop must not fall below the level
established during the most recent performance test; and
(ii) The 3-hour rolling average liquid-to-gas ratio must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.
(d) If an FCCU or FCU uses a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) according to the alternative monitoring option in § 60.105a(e), the 3-hour rolling average opacity of emissions from the FCCU or FCU as measured by the COMS must not exceed the site-specific opacity limit established during the most recent performance test.
(e) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is exempted from the requirement for a CO continuous emissions monitoring system under § 60.105a(h)(3) shall comply with the parameter operating limits in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) For a FCCU or FCU with no post-combustion control device:
(i) The hourly average temperature of the exhaust gases exiting the FCCU or FCU must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.
(ii) The hourly average oxygen (O
2
) concentration of the exhaust gases exiting the FCCU or FCU must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.
(2) For a FCCU or FCU with a post-combustion control device:
(i) The hourly average temperature of the exhaust gas vent stream exiting the control device must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.
(ii) The hourly average O
2
concentration of the exhaust gas vent stream exiting the control device must not fall below the level established during the most recent performance test.
(f) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, each owner or operator of an affected sulfur recovery plant shall comply with the applicable emission limits in paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) For a sulfur recovery plant with a design production capacity greater than 20 long tons per day (LTD), the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. If the sulfur recovery plant consists of multiple process trains or release points, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit for each process train or release point individually or comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) as a flow rate weighted average for a group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant provided that flow is monitored as specified in § 60.106a(a)(7); if flow is not monitored as specified in § 60.106a(a)(7), the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(1)(i) or (ii) for each process train or release point individually. For a sulfur recovery plant with a design production capacity greater than 20 long LTD and a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall also comply with the H
2
S emission limit in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section for each individual release point.
(i) For a sulfur recovery plant with an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases containing SO
2
into the atmosphere in excess of the emission limit calculated using Equation 1 of this section. For Claus units that use only ambient air in the Claus burner or that elect not to monitor O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, this SO
2
emissions limit is 250 ppmv (dry basis) at zero percent excess air.
ER01DE15.000
Where:
E
LS
= Emission limit for large sulfur recovery plant, ppmv (as SO
2
, dry basis at zero percent excess air);
k
1
= Constant factor for emission limit conversion: k
1
= 1 for converting to the SO
2
limit for a sulfur recovery plant with an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by incineration and k
1
= 1.2 for converting to the reduced sulfur compounds limit for a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration; and
%O
2
= O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner, percent by volume (dry basis). If only ambient air is used for the Claus burner or if the owner or operator elects not to monitor O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, use 20.9% for %O
2
.
(ii) For a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing reduced sulfur compounds in excess of the emission limit calculated using Equation 1 of this section. For Claus units that use only ambient air in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, this reduced sulfur compounds emission limit is 300 ppmv calculated as ppmv SO
2
(dry basis) at 0-percent excess air.
(iii) For a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing hydrogen sulfide (H
2
S) in excess of 10 ppmv calculated as ppmv SO
2
(dry basis) at zero percent excess air.
(2) For a sulfur recovery plant with a design production capacity of 20 LTD or less, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. If the sulfur recovery plant consists of multiple process trains or release points, the owner or operator may comply with the applicable emission limit for each process train or release point individually or comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) as a flow rate weighted average for a group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant provided that flow is monitored as specified in § 60.106a(a)(7); if flow is not monitored as specified in § 60.106a(a)(7), the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable emission limit in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) for each process train or release point individually. For a sulfur recovery plant with a design production capacity of 20 LTD or less and a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall also comply with the H
2
S emission limit in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section for each individual release point.
(i) For a sulfur recovery plant with an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing SO
2
in excess of the emission limit calculated using Equation 2 of this section. For Claus units that use only ambient air in the Claus burner or that elect not to monitor O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, this SO
2
emission limit is 2,500 ppmv (dry basis) at zero percent excess air.
ER01DE15.001
Where:
E
SS
= Emission limit for small sulfur recovery plant, ppmv (as SO
2
, dry basis at zero percent excess air);
k
1
= Constant factor for emission limit conversion: k
1
= 1 for converting to the SO
2
limit for a sulfur recovery plant with an oxidation control system or a reduction control system followed by incineration and k
1
= 1.2 for converting to the reduced sulfur compounds limit for a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration; and
%O
2
= O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner, percent by volume (dry basis). If only
ambient air is used in the Claus burner or if the owner or operator elects not to monitor O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, use 20.9% for %O
2
.
(ii) For a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing reduced sulfur compounds in excess of the emission limit calculated using Equation 2 of this section. For Claus units that use only ambient air in the Claus burner or for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, this reduced sulfur compounds emission limit is 3,000 ppmv calculated as ppmv SO
2
(dry basis) at zero percent excess air.
(iii) For a sulfur recovery plant with a reduction control system not followed by incineration, the owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere containing H
2
S in excess of 100 ppmv calculated as ppmv SO
2
(dry basis) at zero percent excess air.
(3) The emission limits in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section shall not apply during periods of maintenance of the sulfur pit, which shall not exceed 240 hours per year. The owner or operator must document the time periods during which the sulfur pit vents were not controlled and measures taken to minimize emissions during these periods. Examples of these measures include not adding fresh sulfur or shutting off vent fans.
(g) Each owner or operator of an affected fuel gas combustion device shall comply with the emissions limits in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Except as provided in (g)(1)(iii) of this section, for each fuel gas combustion device, the owner or operator shall comply with either the emission limit in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section or the fuel gas concentration limit in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section. For CO boilers or furnaces that are part of a fluid catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit affected facility, the owner or operator shall comply with the fuel gas concentration limit in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for all fuel gas streams combusted in these units.
(i) The owner or operator shall not discharge or cause the discharge of any gases into the atmosphere that contain SO
2
in excess of 20 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined hourly on a 3-hour rolling average basis and SO
2
in excess of 8 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air), determined daily on a 365 successive calendar day rolling average basis; or
(ii) The owner or operator shall not burn in any fuel gas combustion device any fuel gas that contains H
2
S in excess of 162 ppmv determined hourly on a 3-hour rolling average basis and H
2
S in excess of 60 ppmv determined daily on a 365 successive calendar day rolling average basis.
(iii) The combustion in a portable generator of fuel gas released as a result of tank degassing and/or cleaning is exempt from the emissions limits in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(2) For each process heater with a rated capacity of greater than 40 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/hr) on a higher heating value basis, the owner or operator shall not discharge to the atmosphere any emissions of NO
X
in excess of the applicable limits in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) For each natural draft process heater, comply with the limit in either paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. The owner or operator may comply with either limit at any time, provided that the appropriate parameters for each alternative are monitored as specified in § 60.107a; if fuel gas composition is not monitored as specified in § 60.107a(d), the owner or operator must comply with the concentration limits in paragraph (g)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
(A) 40 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined daily on a 30-day rolling average basis; or
(B) 0.040 pounds per million British thermal units (lb/MMBtu) higher heating value basis determined daily on a 30-day rolling average basis.
(ii) For each forced draft process heater, comply with the limit in either paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section. The owner or operator may comply with either limit at any time,
provided that the appropriate parameters for each alternative are monitored as specified in § 60.107a; if fuel gas composition is not monitored as specified in § 60.107a(d), the owner or operator must comply with the concentration limits in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.
(A) 60 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined daily on a 30-day rolling average basis; or
(B) 0.060 lb/MMBtu higher heating value basis determined daily on a 30-day rolling average basis.
(iii) For each co-fired natural draft process heater, comply with the limit in either paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section. The owner or operator must choose one of the emissions limits with which to comply at all times:
(A) 150 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined daily on a 30 successive operating day rolling average basis; or
(B) The daily average emissions limit calculated using Equation 3 of this section:
ER12SE12.001
Where:
ER
NOx
= Daily allowable average emission rate of NO
X
, lb/MMBtu (higher heating value basis);
Q
gas
= Daily average volumetric flow rate of fuel gas, standard cubic feet per day (scf/day);
Q
oil
= Daily average volumetric flow rate of fuel oil, scf/day;
HHV
gas
= Daily average higher heating value of gas fired to the process heater, MMBtu/scf; and
HHV
oil
= Daily average higher heating value of fuel oil fired to the process heater, MMBtu/scf.
(iv) For each co-fired forced draft process heater, comply with the limit in either paragraph (g)(2)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section. The owner or operator must choose one of the emissions limits with which to comply at all times:
(A) 150 ppmv (dry basis, corrected to 0-percent excess air) determined daily on a 30 successive operating day rolling average basis; or
(B) The daily average emissions limit calculated using Equation 4 of this section:
ER12SE12.002
Where:
ER
NOx
= Daily allowable average emission rate of NO
X
, lb/MMBtu (higher heating value basis);
Q
gas
= Daily average volumetric flow rate of fuel gas, scf/day;
Q
oil
= Daily average volumetric flow rate of fuel oil, scf/day;
HHV
gas
= Daily average higher heating value of gas fired to the process heater, MMBtu/scf; and
HHV
oil
= Daily average higher heating value of fuel oil fired to the process heater, MMBtu/scf.
(h) [Reserved]
(i) For a process heater that meets any of the criteria of paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, an owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator for a NO
X
emissions limit which shall apply specifically to that affected facility. The request shall include information as described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. The request shall be submitted and followed as described in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.
(1) A process heater that meets one of the criteria in paragraphs (i)(1)(i)
through (iv) of this section may apply for a site-specific NO
X
emissions limit:
(i) A modified or reconstructed process heater that lacks sufficient space to accommodate installation and proper operation of combustion modification-based technology (e.g., ultra-low NO
X
burners); or
(ii) A modified or reconstructed process heater that has downwardly firing induced draft burners; or
(iii) A co-fired process heater; or
(iv) A process heater operating at reduced firing conditions for an extended period of time (
i.e.,
operating in turndown mode). The site-specific NO
X
emissions limit will only apply for those operating conditions.
(2) The request shall include sufficient and appropriate data, as determined by the Administrator, to allow the Administrator to confirm that the process heater is unable to comply with the applicable NO
X
emissions limit in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. At a minimum, the request shall contain the information described in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The design and dimensions of the process heater, evaluation of available combustion modification-based technology, description of fuel gas and, if applicable, fuel oil characteristics, information regarding the combustion conditions (temperature, oxygen content, firing rates) and other information needed to demonstrate that the process heater meets one of the four classes of process heaters listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
(ii) An explanation of how the data in paragraph (i)(2)(i) demonstrate that ultra-low NO
X
burners, flue gas recirculation, control of excess air or other combustion modification-based technology (including combinations of these combustion modification-based technologies) cannot be used to meet the applicable emissions limit in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(iii) Results of a performance test conducted under representative conditions using the applicable methods specified in § 60.104a(i) to demonstrate the performance of the technology the owner or operator will use to minimize NO
X
emissions.
(iv) The means by which the owner or operator will document continuous compliance with the site-specific emissions limit.
(3) The request shall be submitted and followed as described in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator of a process heater that meets one of the criteria in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section may request approval from the Administrator within 180 days after initial startup of the process heater for a NO
X
emissions limit which shall apply specifically to that affected facility.
(ii) The request must be submitted to the Administrator for approval. The owner or operator must comply with the request as submitted until it is approved.
(iii) The request shall also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (E143-01), Attention: Refinery Sector Lead, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies may also be submitted to
refinerynsps@epa.gov.
(4) The approval process for a request for a facility-specific NO
X
emissions limit is described in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Approval by the Administrator of a facility-specific NO
X
emissions limit request will be based on the completeness, accuracy and reasonableness of the request. Factors that the EPA will consider in reviewing the request for approval include, but are not limited to, the following:
(A) A demonstration that the process heater meets one of the four classes of process heaters outlined in paragraphs (i)(1) of this section;
(B) A description of the low-NO
X
burner designs and other combustion modifications considered for reducing NO
X
emissions;
(C) The combustion modification option selected; and
(D) The operating conditions (firing rate, heater box temperature and excess oxygen concentration) at which the NO
X
emission level was established.
(ii) If the request is approved by the Administrator, a facility-specific NO
X
emissions limit will be established at the NO
X
emission level demonstrated in the approved request.
(iii) If the Administrator finds any deficiencies in the request, the request must be revised to address the deficiencies and be re-submitted for approval.
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56466, Sep. 12, 2012; 80 FR 75230, Dec. 1, 2015; 81 FR 45240, July 13, 2016]
§ 60.103a
Design, equipment, work practice or operational standards.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator that operates a flare that is subject to this subpart shall develop and implement a written flare management plan no later than the date specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The flare management plan must include the information described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) A listing of all refinery process units, ancillary equipment, and fuel gas systems connected to the flare for each affected flare.
(2) An assessment of whether discharges to affected flares from these process units, ancillary equipment and fuel gas systems can be minimized. The flare minimization assessment must (at a minimum) consider the items in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. The assessment must provide clear rationale in terms of costs (capital and annual operating), natural gas offset credits (if applicable), technical feasibility, secondary environmental impacts and safety considerations for the selected minimization alternative(s) or a statement, with justifications, that flow reduction could not be achieved. Based upon the assessment, each owner or operator of an affected flare shall identify the minimization alternatives that it has implemented by the due date of the flare management plan and shall include a schedule for the prompt implementation of any selected measures that cannot reasonably be completed as of that date.
(i) Elimination of process gas discharge to the flare through process operating changes or gas recovery at the source.
(ii) Reduction of the volume of process gas to the flare through process operating changes.
(iii) Installation of a flare gas recovery system or, for facilities that are fuel gas rich, a flare gas recovery system and a co-generation unit or combined heat and power unit.
(iv) Minimization of sweep gas flow rates and, for flares with water seals, purge gas flow rates.
(3) A description of each affected flare containing the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) A general description of the flare, including the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(A) through (G) of this section.
(A) Whether it is a ground flare or elevated (including height).
(B) The type of assist system (e.g., air, steam, pressure, non-assisted).
(C) Whether it is simple or complex flare tip (e.g., staged, sequential).
(D) Whether the flare is part of a cascaded flare system (and if so, whether the flare is primary or secondary).
(E) Whether the flare serves as a backup to another flare.
(F) Whether the flare is an emergency flare or a non-emergency flare.
(G) Whether the flare is equipped with a flare gas recovery system.
(ii) Description and simple process flow diagram showing the interconnection of the following components of the flare: flare tip (date installed, manufacturer, nominal and effective tip diameter, tip drawing); knockout or surge drum(s) or pot(s) (including dimensions and design capacities); flare header(s) and subheader(s); assist system; and ignition system.
(iii) Flare design parameters, including the maximum vent gas flow rate; minimum sweep gas flow rate; minimum purge gas flow rate (if any); maximum supplemental gas flow rate; maximum pilot gas flow rate; and, if the flare is steam-assisted, minimum total steam rate.
(iv) Description and simple process flow diagram showing all gas lines (including flare, purge (if applicable), sweep, supplemental and pilot gas) that are associated with the flare. For purge, sweep, supplemental and pilot
gas, identify the type of gas used. Designate which lines are exempt from sulfur, H
2
S or flow monitoring and why (e.g., natural gas, inherently low sulfur, pilot gas). Designate which lines are monitored and identify on the process flow diagram the location and type of each monitor.
(v) For each flow rate, H
2
S, sulfur content, pressure or water seal monitor identified in paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section, provide a detailed description of the manufacturer's specifications, including, but not limited to, make, model, type, range, precision, accuracy, calibration, maintenance and quality assurance procedures.
(vi) For emergency flares, secondary flares and flares equipped with a flare gas recovery system designed, sized and operated to capture all flows except those resulting from startup, shutdown or malfunction:
(A) Description of the water seal, including the operating range for the liquid level.
(B) Designation of the monitoring option elected (flow and sulfur monitoring or pressure and water seal liquid level monitoring).
(vii) For flares equipped with a flare gas recovery system:
(A) A description of the flare gas recovery system, including number of compressors and capacity of each compressor.
(B) A description of the monitoring parameters used to quantify the amount of flare gas recovered.
(C) For systems with staged compressors, the maximum time period required to begin gas recovery with the secondary compressor(s), the monitoring parameters and procedures used to minimize the duration of releases during compressor staging and a justification for why the maximum time period cannot be further reduced.
(4) An evaluation of the baseline flow to the flare. The baseline flow to the flare must be determined after implementing the minimization assessment in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Baseline flows do not include pilot gas flow or purge gas flow (
i.e.,
gas introduced after the flare's water seal) provided these gas flows remain reasonably constant (
i.e.,
separate flow monitors for these streams are not required). Separate baseline flow rates may be established for different operating conditions provided that the management plan includes:
(i) A primary baseline flow rate that will be used as the default baseline for all conditions except those specifically delineated in the plan;
(ii) A description of each special condition for which an alternate baseline is established, including the rationale for each alternate baseline, the daily flow for each alternate baseline and the expected duration of the special conditions for each alternate baseline; and
(iii) Procedures to minimize discharges to the affected flare during each special condition described in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, unless procedures are already developed for these cases under paragraph (a)(5) through (7) of this section, as applicable.
(5) Procedures to minimize or eliminate discharges to the flare during the planned startup and shutdown of the refinery process units and ancillary equipment that are connected to the affected flare, together with a schedule for the prompt implementation of any procedures that cannot reasonably be implemented as of the date of the submission of the flare management plan.
(6) Procedures to reduce flaring in cases of fuel gas imbalance (
i.e.,
excess fuel gas for the refinery's energy needs), together with a schedule for the prompt implementation of any procedures that cannot reasonably be implemented as of the date of the submission of the flare management plan.
(7) For flares equipped with flare gas recovery systems, procedures to minimize the frequency and duration of outages of the flare gas recovery system and procedures to minimize the volume of gas flared during such outages, together with a schedule for the prompt implementation of any procedures that cannot reasonably be implemented as of the date of the submission of the flare management plan.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, each owner or operator required to develop and implement a written flare management plan as described in paragraph (a) of this section must submit the plan to the
Administrator as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator of a newly constructed or reconstructed flare must develop and implement the flare management plan by no later than the date that the flare becomes an affected facility subject to this subpart, except for the selected minimization alternatives in paragraph (a)(2) and/or the procedures in paragraphs (a)(5) though (a)(7) of this section that cannot reasonably be implemented by that date, which the owner or operator must implement in accordance with the schedule in the flare management plan. The owner or operator of a modified flare must develop and implement the flare management plan by no later than November 11, 2015 or upon startup of the modified flare, whichever is later.
(2) The owner or operator must comply with the plan as submitted by the date specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The plan should be updated periodically to account for changes in the operation of the flare, such as new connections to the flare or the installation of a flare gas recovery system, but the plan need be re-submitted to the Administrator only if the owner or operator adds an alternative baseline flow rate, revises an existing baseline as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, installs a flare gas recovery system or is required to change flare designations and monitoring methods as described in § 60.107a(g). The owner or operator must comply with the updated plan as submitted.
(3) All versions of the plan submitted to the Administrator shall also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (E143-01), Attention: Refinery Sector Lead, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies may also be submitted to
refinerynsps@epa.gov.
(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, each owner or operator that operates a fuel gas combustion device, flare or sulfur recovery plant subject to this subpart shall conduct a root cause analysis and a corrective action analysis for each of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) For a flare:
(i) Any time the SO
2
emissions exceed 227 kilograms (kg) (500 lb) in any 24-hour period; or
(ii) Any discharge to the flare in excess of 14,160 standard cubic meters (m
3
) (500,000 standard cubic feet (scf)) above the baseline, determined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, in any 24-hour period; or
(iii) If the monitoring alternative in § 60.107a(g) is elected, any period when the flare gas line pressure exceeds the water seal liquid depth, except for periods attributable to compressor staging that do not exceed the staging time specified in paragraph (a)(3)(vii)(C) of this section.
(2) For a fuel gas combustion device, each exceedance of an applicable short-term emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(1) if the SO
2
discharge to the atmosphere is 227 kg (500 lb) greater than the amount that would have been emitted if the emissions limits had been met during one or more consecutive periods of excess emissions or any 24-hour period, whichever is shorter.
(3) For a sulfur recovery plant, each time the SO
2
emissions are more than 227 kg (500 lb) greater than the amount that would have been emitted if the SO
2
or reduced sulfur concentration was equal to the applicable emissions limit in § 60.102a(f)(1) or (2) during one or more consecutive periods of excess emissions or any 24-hour period, whichever is shorter.
(d) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, a root cause analysis and corrective action analysis must be completed as soon as possible, but no later than 45 days after a discharge meeting one of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. Special circumstances affecting the number of root cause analyses and/or corrective action analyses are provided in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) If a single continuous discharge meets any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section for 2 or more consecutive 24-
hour periods, a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis may be conducted.
(2) If a single discharge from a flare triggers a root cause analysis based on more than one of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis may be conducted.
(3) If the discharge from a flare is the result of a planned startup or shutdown of a refinery process unit or ancillary equipment connected to the affected flare and the procedures in paragraph (a)(5) of this section were followed, a root cause analysis and corrective action analysis is not required; however, the discharge must be recorded as described in § 60.108a(c)(6) and reported as described in § 60.108a(d)(5).
(4) If both the primary and secondary flare in a cascaded flare system meet any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section in the same 24-hour period, a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis may be conducted.
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, if discharges occur that meet any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section for more than one affected facility in the same 24-hour period, initial root cause analyses shall be conducted for each affected facility. If the initial root cause analyses indicate that the discharges have the same root cause(s), the initial root cause analyses can be recorded as a single root cause analysis and a single corrective action analysis may be conducted.
(e) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, each owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device, flare or sulfur recovery plant subject to this subpart shall implement the corrective action(s) identified in the corrective action analysis conducted pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section in accordance with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) All corrective action(s) must be implemented within 45 days of the discharge for which the root cause and corrective action analyses were required or as soon thereafter as practicable. If an owner or operator concludes that corrective action should not be conducted, the owner or operator shall record and explain the basis for that conclusion no later than 45 days following the discharge as specified in § 60.108a(c)(6)(ix).
(2) For corrective actions that cannot be fully implemented within 45 days following the discharge for which the root cause and corrective action analyses were required, the owner or operator shall develop an implementation schedule to complete the corrective action(s) as soon as practicable.
(3) No later than 45 days following the discharge for which a root cause and corrective action analyses were required, the owner or operator shall record the corrective action(s) completed to date, and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates as specified in § 60.108a(c)(6)(x).
(f) Modified flares shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section by November 11, 2015 or at startup of the modified flare, whichever is later. Modified flares that were not affected facilities subject to subpart J of this part prior to becoming affected facilities under § 60.100a shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section and the requirements of § 60.107a(a)(2) by November 11, 2015 or at startup of the modified flare, whichever is later. Modified flares that were affected facilities subject to subpart J of this part prior to becoming affected facilities under § 60.100a shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section and the requirements of § 60.107a(a)(2) by November 13, 2012 or at startup of the modified flare, whichever is later, except that modified flares that have accepted applicability of subpart J under a federal consent decree shall comply with the subpart J requirements as specified in the consent decree, but shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section and the requirements of § 60.107a(a)(2) by no later than November 11, 2015.
(g) An affected flare subject to this subpart located in the Bay Area Air Quality Management District (BAAQMD) may elect to comply with
both BAAQMD Regulation 12, Rule 11 and BAAQMD Regulation 12, Rule 12 as an alternative to complying with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. An affected flare subject to this subpart located in the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) may elect to comply with SCAQMD Rule 1118 as an alternative to complying with the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected flare must notify the Administrator that the flare is in compliance with BAAQMD Regulation 12, Rule 11 and BAAQMD Regulation 12, Rule 12 or SCAQMD Rule 1118. The owner or operator of an affected flare shall also submit the existing flare management plan to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (E143-01), Attention: Refinery Sector Lead, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies may also be submitted to
refinerynsps@epa.gov.
(h) Each owner or operator shall not burn in any affected flare any fuel gas that contains H
2
S in excess of 162 ppmv determined hourly on a 3-hour rolling average basis. The combustion in a flare of process upset gases or fuel gas that is released to the flare as a result of relief valve leakage or other emergency malfunctions is exempt from this limit.
(i) Each owner or operator of a delayed coking unit shall depressure each coke drum to 5 lb per square inch gauge (psig) or less prior to discharging the coke drum steam exhaust to the atmosphere. Until the coke drum pressure reaches 5 psig, the coke drum steam exhaust must be managed in an enclosed blowdown system and the uncondensed vapor must either be recovered (e.g., sent to the delayed coking unit fractionators) or vented to the fuel gas system, a fuel gas combustion device or a flare.
(j)
Alternative means of emission limitation.
(1) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this section may apply to the Administrator for a determination of equivalence for any means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of a specified pollutant at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions of that pollutant achieved by the controls required in this section.
(2) Determination of equivalence to the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements of this section will be evaluated by the following guidelines:
(i) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data to demonstrate the equivalence of the alternative means of emission limitation.
(ii) For each affected facility for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements shall be demonstrated.
(iii) For each affected facility for which a determination of equivalence is requested, the emission reduction achieved by the alternative means of emission limitation shall be demonstrated.
(iv) Each owner or operator applying for a determination of equivalence to a work practice standard shall commit in writing to work practice(s) that provide for emission reductions equal to or greater than the emission reductions achieved by the required work practice.
(v) The Administrator will compare the demonstrated emission reduction for the alternative means of emission limitation to the demonstrated emission reduction for the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements and, if applicable, will consider the commitment in paragraph (j)(2)(iv) of this section.
(vi) The Administrator may condition the approval of the alternative means of emission limitation on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emissions reduction as the design, equipment, work practice or operational requirements.
(3) An owner or operator may offer a unique approach to demonstrate the equivalence of any equivalent means of emission limitation.
(4) Approval of the application for equivalence to the design, equipment,
work practice or operational requirements of this section will be evaluated by the following guidelines:
(i) After a request for determination of equivalence is received, the Administrator will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
and provide the opportunity for public hearing if the Administrator judges that the request may be approved.
(ii) After notice and opportunity for public hearing, the Administrator will determine the equivalence of a means of emission limitation and will publish the determination in the
Federal Register.
(iii) Any equivalent means of emission limitations approved under this section shall constitute a required work practice, equipment, design or operational standard within the meaning of section 111(h)(1) of the CAA.
(5) Manufacturers of equipment used to control emissions may apply to the Administrator for determination of equivalence for any alternative means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions achieved by the equipment, design and operational requirements of this section. The Administrator will make an equivalence determination according to the provisions of paragraphs (j)(2) through (4) of this section.
[77 FR 56467, Sep. 12, 2012]
§ 60.104a
Performance tests.
(a) The owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for each FCCU, FCU, sulfur recovery plant and fuel gas combustion device to demonstrate initial compliance with each applicable emissions limit in § 60.102a and conduct a performance test for each flare to demonstrate initial compliance with the H
2
S concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) according to the requirements of § 60.8. The notification requirements of § 60.8(d) apply to the initial performance test and to subsequent performance tests required by paragraph (b) of this section (or as required by the Administrator), but does not apply to performance tests conducted for the purpose of obtaining supplemental data because of continuous monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks and zero and span adjustments.
(b) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that elects to monitor control device operating parameters according to the requirements in § 60.105a(b), to use bag leak detectors according to the requirements in § 60.105a(c), or to use COMS according to the requirements in § 60.105a(e) shall conduct a PM performance test at least annually (
i.e.
, once per calendar year, with an interval of at least 8 months but no more than 16 months between annual tests) and furnish the Administrator a written report of the results of each test.
(c) In conducting the performance tests required by this subpart (or as requested by the Administrator), the owner or operator shall use the test methods in 40 CFR part 60, Appendices A-1 through A-8 or other methods as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(d) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the PM, NO
X
, SO
2
, and CO emissions limits in § 60.102a(b) for FCCU and FCU using the following methods and procedures:
(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses.
(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.
(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(4) Method 5, 5B, or 5F of appendix A-3 to part 60 for determining PM emissions and associated moisture content from a FCCU or FCU without a wet scrubber subject to the emissions limit in § 63.102a(b)(1). Use Method 5 or 5B of appendix A-3 to part 60 for determining PM emissions and associated moisture content from a FCCU or FCU with a wet scrubber subject to the emissions limit in § 63.102a(b)(1).
(i) The PM performance test consists of 3 valid test runs; the duration of each test run must be no less than 60 minutes.
(ii) The emissions rate of PM (E
PM
) is computed for each run using Equation 5 of this section:
ER12SE12.003
Where:
E = Emission rate of PM, g/kg (lb/1,000 lb) of coke burn-off;
c
s
= Concentration of total PM, grams per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm) (gr/dscf);
Q
sd
= Volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dry standard cubic meters per hour (dry standard cubic feet per hour);
R
c
= Coke burn-off rate, kilograms per hour (kg/hr) [lb per hour (lb/hr)] coke; and
K = Conversion factor, 1.0 grams per gram (7,000 grains per lb).
(iii) The coke burn-off rate (R
c
) is computed for each run using Equation 6 of this section:
ER12SE12.004
Where:
R
c
= Coke burn-off rate, kg/hr (lb/hr);
Q
r
= Volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner before any emissions control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuel, dry standard cubic meters per minute (dscm/min) [dry standard cubic feet per minute (dscf/min)];
Q
a
= Volumetric flow rate of air to FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner, as determined from the unit's control room instrumentation, dscm/min (dscf/min);
Q
oxy
= Volumetric flow rate of O
2
enriched air to FCCU regenerator or fluid coking unit, as determined from the unit's control room instrumentation, dscm/min (dscf/min);
%CO
2
= Carbon dioxide (CO
2
) concentration in FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis);
%CO = CO concentration in FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis);
%O
2
= O
2
concentration in FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis);
%O
oxy
= O
2
concentration in O
2
enriched air stream inlet to the FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner, percent by volume (dry basis);
K
1
= Material balance and conversion factor, 0.2982 (kg-min)/(hr-dscm-%) [0.0186 (lb-min)/(hr-dscf-%)];
K
2
= Material balance and conversion factor, 2.088 (kg-min)/(hr-dscm) [0.1303 (lb-min)/(hr-dscf)]; and
K
3
= Material balance and conversion factor, 0.0994 (kg-min)/(hr-dscm-%) [0.00624 (lb-min)/(hr-dscf-%)].
(iv) During the performance test, the volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from catalyst regenerator (Q
r
) before any emission control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuel is measured using Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60.
(v) For subsequent calculations of coke burn-off rates or exhaust gas flow rates, the volumetric flow rate of Q
r
is calculated using average exhaust gas concentrations as measured by the monitors required in § 60.105a(b)(2), if applicable, using Equation 7 of this section:
ER12SE12.005
Where:
Q
r
= Volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner before any emission control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuel, dscm/min (dscf/min);
Q
a
= Volumetric flow rate of air to FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner, as determined from the unit's control room instrumentation, dscm/min (dscf/min);
Q
oxy
= Volumetric flow rate of O
2
enriched air to FCCU regenerator or fluid coking unit, as determined from the unit's control room instrumentation, dscm/min (dscf/min);
%CO
2
= Carbon dioxide concentration in FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis);
%CO = CO concentration FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis). When no auxiliary fuel is burned and a continuous CO monitor is not required in accordance with § 60.105a(h)(3), assume %CO to be zero;
%O
2
= O
2
concentration in FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner exhaust, percent by volume (dry basis); and
%O
oxy
= O
2
concentration in O
2
enriched air stream inlet to the FCCU regenerator or fluid coking burner, percent by volume (dry basis).
(5) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of SO
2
; the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.
(6) Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of NO
X
calculated as nitrogen dioxide (NO
2
); the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.
(7) Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of CO. The sampling time for each run must be 60 minutes.
(8) The owner or operator shall adjust PM, NO
X
, SO
2
and CO pollutant concentrations to 0-percent excess air or 0-percent O
2
using Equation 8 of this section:
ER12SE12.006
Where:
C
adj
= pollutant concentration adjusted to 0-percent excess air or O
2
, parts per million (ppm) or g/dscm;
C
meas
= pollutant concentration measured on a dry basis, ppm or g/dscm;
20.9
c
= 20.9 percent O
2
−0.0 percent O
2
(defined O
2
correction basis), percent;
20.9 = O
2
concentration in air, percent; and
%O
2
= O
2
concentration measured on a dry basis, percent.
(e) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is controlled by an electrostatic precipitator or wet scrubber and that is subject to control device operating parameter limits in § 60.102a(c) shall establish the limits based on the performance test results according to the following procedures:
(1) Reduce the parameter monitoring data to hourly averages for each test run;
(2) Determine the hourly average operating limit for each required parameter as the average of the three test runs.
(f) The owner or operator of an FCCU or FCU that uses cyclones to comply with the PM per coke burn-off emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) shall establish a site-specific opacity operating limit according to the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Collect COMS data every 10 seconds during the entire period of the PM performance test and reduce the data to 6-minute averages.
(2) Determine and record the hourly average opacity from all the 6-minute averages.
(3) Compute the site-specific limit using Equation 9 of this section:
ER12SE12.007
Where:
Opacity limit = Maximum permissible 3-hour average opacity, percent, or 10 percent, whichever is greater;
Opacity
st
= Hourly average opacity measured during the source test, percent; and
PMEmR
st
= PM emission rate measured during the source test, lb/1,000 lb coke burn.
(g) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is exempt from the requirement to install and operate a CO CEMS pursuant to § 60.105a(h)(3) and that is subject to control device operating parameter limits in § 60.102a(c) shall establish the limits based on the performance test results using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) Reduce the temperature and O
2
concentrations from the parameter monitoring systems to hourly averages for each test run.
(2) Determine the operating limit for temperature and O
2
concentrations as the average of the average temperature and O
2
concentration for the three test runs.
(h) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SO
2
emissions limits for sulfur recovery plants in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) and (f)(2)(i) and the reduced sulfur compounds and H
2
S emissions limits for sulfur recovery plants in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii), (f)(1)(iii), (f)(2)(ii), and (f)(2)(iii) using the following methods and procedures:
(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses.
(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate.
(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(4) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 to determine the SO
2
concentration. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.
(5) Method 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 or Method 16 of appendix A-6 to part 60 to determine the reduced sulfur compounds and H
2
S concentrations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.
(i) Each run consists of 16 samples taken over a minimum of 3 hours.
(ii) The owner or operator shall calculate the average H
2
S concentration after correcting for moisture and O
2
as the arithmetic average of the H
2
S concentration for each sample during the run (ppmv, dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air).
(iii) The owner or operator shall calculate the SO
2
equivalent for each run after correcting for moisture and O
2
as the arithmetic average of the SO
2
equivalent of reduced sulfur compounds for each sample during the run (ppmv, dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air).
(iv) The owner or operator shall use Equation 8 of this section to adjust pollutant concentrations to 0-percent O
2
or 0- percent excess air.
(6) If oxygen or oxygen-enriched air is used in the Claus burner and either Equation 1 or 2 of this subpart is used to determine the applicable emissions limit, determine the average O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner, in percent by volume (dry basis), for the performance test using all hourly average O
2
concentrations determined during the test runs using the procedures in § 60.106a(a)(5) or (6).
(i) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the SO
2
and NO
X
emissions limits in § 60.102a(g) for a fuel gas combustion device according to the following test methods and procedures:
(1) Method 1 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for sample and velocity traverses;
(2) Method 2 of appendix A-1 to part 60 for velocity and volumetric flow rate;
(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for gas analysis. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60;
(4) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 to determine the SO
2
concentration. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.
(i) The performance test consists of 3 valid test runs; the duration of each test run must be no less than 1 hour.
(ii) If a single fuel gas combustion device having a common source of fuel gas is monitored as allowed under § 60.107a(a)(1)(v), only one performance test is required. That is, performance tests are not required when a new affected fuel gas combustion device is added to a common source of fuel gas that previously demonstrated compliance.
(5) Method 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for moisture content and for the concentration of NO
X
calculated as NO
2
; the duration of each test run must be no less than 4 hours. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.
(6) For process heaters with a rated heat capacity between 40 and 100 MMBtu/hr that elect to demonstrate continuous compliance with a maximum excess oxygen limit as provided in § 60.107a(c)(6) or (d)(8), the owner or operator shall establish the O
2
operating limit or O
2
operating curve based on the performance test results according to the requirements in paragraph (i)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, respectively.
(i) If a single O
2
operating limit will be used:
(A) Conduct the performance test following the methods provided in paragraphs (i)(1), (2), (3) and (5) of this section when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity. For co-fired process heaters, conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied by both fuel gas and fuel oil and conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied solely by fuel gas.
(B) Each test will consist of three test runs. Calculate the NO
X
concentration for the performance test as the average of the NO
X
concentrations from each of the three test runs. If the NO
X
concentration for the performance test is less than or equal to the numerical value of the applicable NO
X
emissions limit (regardless of averaging time), then the test is considered to be a valid test.
(C) Determine the average O
2
concentration for each test run of a valid test.
(D) Calculate the O
2
operating limit as the average O
2
concentration of the three test runs from a valid test.
(ii) If an O
2
operating curve will be used:
(A) Conduct a performance test following the methods provided in paragraphs (i)(1), (2), (3) and (5) of this section at a representative condition for each operating range for which different O
2
operating limits will be established. Different operating conditions may be defined as different firing rates (e.g., above 50 percent of rated heat capacity and at or below 50 percent of rated heat capacity) and/or, for co-fired process heaters, different fuel mixtures (e.g., primarily gas fired, primarily oil fired, and equally co-fired,
i.e.,
approximately 50 percent of the input heating value is from fuel gas and approximately 50 percent of the input heating value is from fuel oil). Performance tests for different operating ranges may be conducted at different times.
(B) Each test will consist of three test runs. Calculate the NO
X
concentration for the performance test as the average of the NO
X
concentrations from each of the three test runs. If the NO
X
concentration for the performance test is less than or equal to the numerical value of the applicable NO
X
emissions limit (regardless of averaging time),
then the test is considered to be a valid test.
(C) If an operating curve is developed for different firing rates, conduct at least one test when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity and at least one test under turndown conditions (
i.e.,
when the process heater is firing at 50 percent or less of the rated heat capacity). If O
2
operating limits are developed for co-fired process heaters based only on overall firing rates (and not by fuel mixtures), conduct at least one of the test runs for each test while the process heater is being supplied by both fuel gas and fuel oil and conduct at least one of the test runs while the process heater is being supplied solely by fuel gas.
(D) Determine the average O
2
concentration for each test run of a valid test.
(E) Calculate the O
2
operating limit for each operating range as the average O
2
concentration of the three test runs from a valid test conducted at the representative conditions for that given operating range.
(F) Identify the firing rates for which the different operating limits apply. If only two operating limits are established based on firing rates, the O
2
operating limits established when the process heater is firing at no less than 70 percent of the rated heat capacity must apply when the process heater is firing above 50 percent of the rated heat capacity and the O
2
operating limits established for turndown conditions must apply when the process heater is firing at 50 percent or less of the rated heat capacity.
(G) Operating limits associated with each interval will be valid for 2 years or until another operating limit is established for that interval based on a more recent performance test specific for that interval, whichever occurs first. Owners and operators must use the operating limits determined for a given interval based on the most recent performance test conducted for that interval.
(7) The owner or operator of a process heater complying with a NO
X
limit in terms of lb/MMBtu as provided in § 60.102a(g)(2)(i)(B), (g)(2)(ii)(B), (g)(2)(iii)(B) or (g)(2)(iv)(B) or a process heater with a rated heat capacity between 40 and 100 MMBtu/hr that elects to demonstrate continuous compliance with a maximum excess O
2
limit, as provided in § 60.107a(c)(6) or (d)(8), shall determine heat input to the process heater in MMBtu/hr during each performance test run by measuring fuel gas flow rate, fuel oil flow rate (as applicable) and heating value content according to the methods provided in § 60.107a(d)(5), (d)(6), and (d)(4) or (d)(7), respectively.
(8) The owner or operator shall use Equation 8 of this section to adjust pollutant concentrations to 0-percent O
2
or 0- percent excess air.
(j) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the applicable H
2
S emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(1) for a fuel gas combustion device or the concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) for a flare according to the following test methods and procedures:
(1)—(3) [Reserved]
(4) EPA Method 11, 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 or EPA Method 16 of appendix A-6 to part 60 for determining the H
2
S concentration for affected facilities using an H
2
S monitor as specified in § 60.107a(a)(2). The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60. The owner or operator may demonstrate compliance based on the mixture used in the fuel gas combustion device or flare or for each individual fuel gas stream used in the fuel gas combustion device or flare.
(i) For Method 11 of appendix A-5 to part 60, the sampling time and sample volume must be at least 10 minutes and 0.010 dscm (0.35 dscf). Two samples of equal sampling times must be taken at about 1-hour intervals. The arithmetic average of these two samples constitutes a run. For most fuel gases, sampling times exceeding 20 minutes may result in depletion of the collection solution, although fuel gases containing low concentrations of H
2
S may necessitate sampling for longer periods of time.
(ii) For Method 15 of appendix A-5 to part 60, at least three injects over a 1-hour period constitutes a run.
(iii) For Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60, a 1-hour sample constitutes a run. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.
(iv) If monitoring is conducted at a single point in a common source of fuel gas as allowed under § 60.107a(a)(2)(iv), only one performance test is required. That is, performance tests are not required when a new affected fuel gas combustion device or flare is added to a common source of fuel gas that previously demonstrated compliance.
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56470, Sep. 12, 2012; 80 FR 75231, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 60.105a
Monitoring of emissions and operations for fluid catalytic cracking units (FCCU) and fluid coking units (FCU).
(a)
FCCU and FCU subject to PM emissions limit.
Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall monitor each FCCU and FCU subject to the PM emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) according to the requirements in paragraph (b), (c), (d), or (e) of this section.
(b)
Control device operating parameters.
Each owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU subject to the PM per coke burn-off emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) that uses a control device other than fabric filter or cyclone shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain continuous parameter monitor systems (CPMS) to measure and record operating parameters for each control device according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) For units controlled using an electrostatic precipitator, the owner or operator shall use CPMS to measure and record the hourly average total power input and secondary current to the entire system.
(ii) For units controlled using a wet scrubber, the owner or operator shall use CPMS to measure and record the hourly average pressure drop, liquid feed rate, and exhaust gas flow rate. As an alternative to a CPMS, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) As an alternative to pressure drop, the owner or operator of a jet ejector type wet scrubber or other type of wet scrubber equipped with atomizing spray nozzles must conduct a daily check of the air or water pressure to the spray nozzles and record the results of each check. Faulty (
e.g.
, leaking or plugged) air or water lines must be repaired within 12 hours of identification of an abnormal pressure reading.
(B) As an alternative to exhaust gas flow rate, the owner or operator shall comply with the approved alternative for monitoring exhaust gas flow rate in 40 CFR 63.1573(a) of the National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units.
(iii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the manufacturer's specifications and requirements.
(iv) The owner or operator shall determine and record the average coke burn-off rate and hours of operation for each FCCU or FCU using the procedures in § 60.104a(d)(4)(iii).
(v) If you use a control device other than an electrostatic precipitator, wet scrubber, fabric filter, or cyclone, you may request approval to monitor parameters other than those required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section by submitting an alternative monitoring plan to the Administrator. The request must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1)(v)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) A description of each affected facility and the parameter(s) to be monitored to determine whether the affected facility will continuously comply with the emission limitations and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).
(B) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter(s) can be used to determine whether the affected facility will continuously comply with
the emission limitations and the schedule for this demonstration. The owner or operator must certify that an operating limit will be established for the monitored parameter(s) that represents the conditions in existence when the control device is being properly operated and maintained to meet the emission limitation.
(C) The frequency and content of the recordkeeping, recording, and reporting, if monitoring and recording are not continuous. The owner or operator also must include the rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting requirements.
(D) Supporting calculations.
(E) Averaging time for the alternative operating parameter.
(2) For use in determining the coke burn-off rate for an FCCU or FCU, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring the concentrations of CO
2
, O
2
(dry basis), and if needed, CO in the exhaust gases prior to any control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuels. A CO monitor is not required for determining coke burn-off rate when no auxiliary fuel is burned and a continuous CO monitor is not required in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CO
2
and O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.
(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each CO
2
and O
2
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Method 3, 3A or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(iii) If a CO monitor is required, the owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CO monitor according to Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. If this CO monitor also serves to demonstrate compliance with the CO emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(4), the span value for this instrument is 1,000 ppm; otherwise, the span value for this instrument should be set at approximately 2 times the typical CO concentration expected in the FCCU of FCU flue gas prior to any emission control or energy recovery system that burns auxiliary fuels.
(iv) If a CO monitor is required, the owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each CO monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 4 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Method 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-3 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.
(v) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements of procedure 1 of appendix F to this part, including quarterly accuracy determinations for CO
2
and CO monitors, annual accuracy determinations for O
2
monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
(c)
Bag leak detection systems.
Each owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each baghouse or similar fabric filter control device that is used to comply with the PM per coke burn-off emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) for an FCCU or FCU according to paragraph (c)(1) of this section; prepare and operate by a site-specific monitoring plan according to paragraph (c)(2) of this section; take action according to paragraph (c)(3) of this section; and record information according to paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g.,
using a strip chart recorder or a data logger).
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, the owner or operator must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(v) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator shall not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Once per quarter, the owner or operator may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(vii) The owner or operator shall install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) The owner or operator shall develop and submit to the Administrator for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each baghouse and bag leak detection system. The owner or operator shall operate and maintain each baghouse and bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored;
(vi) Procedures as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners and operators more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrates that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable; and
(vii) How the baghouse system will be operated and maintained, including monitoring of pressure drop across baghouse cells and frequency of visual inspections of the baghouse interior and baghouse components such as fans and dust removal and bag cleaning mechanisms.
(3) For each bag leak detection system, the owner or operator shall initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, the owner or operator shall alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever action(s) are necessary. Actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in particulate emissions;
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(4) The owner or operator shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section for each bag leak detection system.
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.
(d)
Continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS).
An owner or operator subject to the PM concentration emission limit (in gr/dscf) in § 60.102a(b)(1) for an FCCU or FCU shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (0 percent excess air) of PM in the exhaust gases prior to release to the atmosphere. The monitor must include an O
2
monitor for correcting the data for excess air.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each PM monitor according to Performance Specification 11 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this PM monitor is 0.08 gr/dscf PM.
(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each PM monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 11 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use EPA Methods 5 or 5I of appendix A-3 to part 60 or Method 17 of appendix A-6 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.
(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this O
2
monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each O
2
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements of Procedure 2 of appendix B to part 60 for each PM CEMS and Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each O
2
monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for each PM monitor, annual accuracy determinations for each O
2
monitor, and daily calibration drift tests.
(e)
Alternative monitoring option for FCCU and FCU—COMS.
Each owner or operator of an FCCU or FCU that uses cyclones to comply with the PM emission limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) shall monitor the opacity of emissions according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the opacity of emissions from the FCCU or the FCU exhaust vent.
(2) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each COMS according to Performance Specification 1 of appendix B to part 60. The instrument shall be spanned at 20 to 60 percent opacity.
(3) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each COMS according to § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 1 of appendix B to part 60.
(f)
FCCU and FCU subject to NO
X
limit.
Each owner or operator subject to the NO
X
emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(2) for an FCCU or FCU shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis, 0 percent excess air) of NO
X
emissions into the atmosphere. The monitor must include an O
2
monitor for correcting the data for excess air.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each NO
X
monitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this NO
X
monitor is 200 ppmv NO
X
.
(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each NO
X
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.
(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this O
2
monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each O
2
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements of Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each NO
X
and O
2
monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for NO
X
monitors, annual accuracy determinations for O
2
monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
(g)
FCCU and FCU subject to SO
2
limit.
The owner or operator subject to the SO
2
emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(3) for an FCCU or an FCU shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis, corrected to 0 percent excess air) of SO
2
emissions into the atmosphere. The monitor shall include an O
2
monitor for correcting the data for excess air.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each SO
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this SO
2
monitor is 200 ppmv SO
2
.
(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SO
2
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI / ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to part 60.
(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this O
2
monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each O
2
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each SO
2
and O
2
monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for SO
2
monitors, annual accuracy determinations for O
2
monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
(h)
FCCU and fluid coking units subject to CO emissions limit.
Except as specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume
(dry basis) of CO emissions into the atmosphere from each FCCU and FCU subject to the CO emissions limit in § 60.102a(b)(4).
(1) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CO monitor according to Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. The span value for this instrument is 1,000 ppmv CO.
(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each CO monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 10, 10A, or 10B of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations.
(3) A CO CEMS need not be installed if the owner or operator demonstrates that all hourly average CO emissions are and will remain less than 50 ppmv (dry basis) corrected to 0 percent excess air. The Administrator may revoke this exemption from monitoring upon a determination that CO emissions on an hourly average basis have exceeded 50 ppmv (dry basis) corrected to 0 percent excess air, in which case a CO CEMS shall be installed within 180 days.
(i) The demonstration shall consist of continuously monitoring CO emissions for 30 days using an instrument that meets the requirements of Performance Specification 4 or 4A of appendix B to this part. The span value shall be 100 ppmv CO instead of 1,000 ppmv, and the relative accuracy limit shall be 10 percent of the average CO emissions or 5 ppmv CO, whichever is greater. For instruments that are identical to Method 10 of appendix A-4 to this part and employ the sample conditioning system of Method 10A of appendix A-4 to this part, the alternative relative accuracy test procedure in section 10.1 of Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part may be used in place of the relative accuracy test.
(ii) The owner or operator must submit the following information to the Administrator:
(A) The measurement data specified in paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section along with all other operating data known to affect CO emissions; and
(B) Descriptions of the CPMS for exhaust gas temperature and O
2
monitor required in paragraph (h)(4) of this section and operating limits for those parameters to ensure combustion conditions remain similar to those that exist during the demonstration period.
(iii) The effective date of the exemption from installation and operation of a CO CEMS is the date of submission of the information and data required in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.
(4) The owner or operator of a FCCU or FCU that is exempted from the requirement to install and operate a CO CEMS in paragraph (h)(3) of this section shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain CPMS to measure and record the operating parameters in paragraph (h)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the manufacturer's specifications.
(i) For a FCCU or FCU with no post-combustion control device, the temperature and O
2
concentration of the exhaust gas stream exiting the unit.
(ii) For a FCCU or FCU with a post-combustion control device, the temperature and O
2
concentration of the exhaust gas stream exiting the control device.
(i)
Excess emissions.
For the purpose of reports required by § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions for a FCCU or FCU subject to the emissions limitations in § 60.102a(b) are defined as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (6) of this section. Note: Determine all averages, except for opacity, as the arithmetic average of the applicable 1-hour averages, e.g., determine the rolling 3-hour average as the arithmetic average of three contiguous 1-hour averages.
(1) If a CPMS is used according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, all 3-hour periods during which the average PM control device operating characteristics, as measured by the continuous monitoring systems under paragraph (b)(1), fall below the levels established during the performance test. If the alternative to pressure drop CPMS is used for the owner or operator of a jet ejector type wet scrubber or other type of wet scrubber equipped with atomizing spray nozzles, each day in which abnormal pressure readings are not
corrected within 12 hours of identification.
(2) If a bag leak detection system is used according to paragraph (c) of this section, each day in which the cause of an alarm is not alleviated within the time period specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(3) If a PM CEMS is used according to § 60.105a(d), all 7-day periods during which the average PM emission rate, as measured by the continuous PM monitoring system under § 60.105a(d) exceeds 0.040 gr/dscf corrected to 0 percent excess air for a modified or reconstructed FCCU, 0.020 gr/dscf corrected to 0 percent excess air for a newly constructed FCCU, or 0.040 gr/dscf for an affected fluid coking unit.
(4) If a COMS is used according to § 60.105a(e), all 3-hour periods during which the average opacity, as measured by the COMS under § 60.105a(e), exceeds the site-specific limit established during the most recent performance test.
(5) All rolling 7-day periods during which the average concentration of NO
X
as measured by the NO
X
CEMS under § 60.105a(f) exceeds 80 ppmv for an affected FCCU or FCU.
(6) All rolling 7-day periods during which the average concentration of SO
2
as measured by the SO
2
CEMS under § 60.105a(g) exceeds 50 ppmv, and all rolling 365-day periods during which the average concentration of SO
2
as measured by the SO
2
CEMS exceeds 25 ppmv.
(7) All 1-hour periods during which the average CO concentration as measured by the CO continuous monitoring system under paragraph (h) of this section exceeds 500 ppmv or, if applicable, all 1-hour periods during which the average temperature and O
2
concentration as measured by the continuous monitoring systems under paragraph (h)(4) of this section fall below the operating limits established during the performance test.
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56473, Sep. 12, 2012; 80 FR 75232, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 60713, Nov. 26, 2018]
§ 60.106a
Monitoring of emissions and operations for sulfur recovery plants.
(a) The owner or operator of a sulfur recovery plant that is subject to the emissions limits in § 60.102a(f)(1) or § 60.102a(f)(2) shall:
(1) For sulfur recovery plants subject to the SO
2
emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) or § 60.102a(f)(2)(i), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, zero percent excess air) of any SO
2
emissions into the atmosphere. The monitor shall include an oxygen monitor for correcting the data for excess air.
(i) The span value for the SO
2
monitor is two times the applicable SO
2
emission limit at the highest O
2
concentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.
(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each SO
2
CEMS according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60.
(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SO
2
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Method 6 or 6C of appendix A-4 to part 60. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6.
(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.
(v) The span value for the O
2
monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O
2
monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an
acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.
(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each O
2
monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.
(2) For sulfur recovery plants that are subject to the reduced sulfur compounds emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii) or (f)(2)(ii), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of reduced sulfur compounds and O
2
emissions into the atmosphere. The reduced sulfur compounds emissions shall be calculated as SO
2
(dry basis, zero percent excess air).
(i) The span value for the reduced sulfur compounds monitor is two times the applicable reduced sulfur compounds emission limit as SO
2
at the highest O
2
concentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.
(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each reduced sulfur compounds CEMS according to Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to this part.
(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each reduced sulfur compounds monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.
(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60.
(v) The span value for the O
2
monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O
2
monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to part 60 for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each O
2
monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.
(3) In place of the reduced sulfur compounds monitor required in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator may install, calibrate, operate, and maintain an instrument using an air or O
2
dilution and oxidation system to convert any reduced sulfur to SO
2
for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0 percent excess air) of the total resultant SO
2
. The monitor must include an O
2
monitor for correcting the data for excess O
2
.
(i) The span value for this monitor is two times the applicable reduced sulfur compounds emission limit as SO
2
at the highest O
2
concentration in the air/oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, if applicable.
(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each SO
2
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.
(iii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60.
(iv) The span value for the O
2
monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(v) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the
O
2
monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(vi) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to part 60 for each monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for each SO
2
monitor, annual accuracy determinations for each O
2
monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.
(4) For sulfur recovery plants that are subject to the H
2
S emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(iii) or (f)(2)(iii), the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of H
2
S, and O
2
emissions into the atmosphere. The H
2
S emissions shall be calculated as SO
2
(dry basis, zero percent excess air).
(i) The span value for this monitor is two times the applicable H
2
S emission limit.
(ii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each H
2
S CEMS according to Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to this part.
(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for each H
2
S monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 11 or 15 of appendix A-5 to this part or Method 16 of appendix A-6 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part.
(iv) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.
(v) The span value for the O
2
monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(vi) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O
2
monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.
(vii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each O
2
monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.
(5) For sulfur recovery plants that use oxygen or oxygen enriched air in the Claus burner and that elects to monitor O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture supplied to the Claus burner in order to determine the allowable emissions limit.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part.
(ii) The span value for the O
2
monitor shall be 100 percent.
(iii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O
2
monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to this part.
(iv) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures of appendix F to this part for each monitor, including annual accuracy determinations for each O
2
monitor, and daily calibration drift determinations.
(v) The owner or operator shall use the hourly average O
2
concentration from this monitor for use in Equation 1 or 2 of § 60.102a(f), as applicable, for each hour and determine the allowable emission limit as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages (
i.e.
, the rolling 12-hour average).
(6) As an alternative to the O
2
monitor required in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the owner or operator may install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CPMS to measure and record the volumetric gas flow rate of ambient air and oxygen-enriched gas supplied to the Claus burner and calculate the hourly average O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section in order to determine the allowable emissions limit as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(v) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate and maintain each flow monitor according to the manufacturer's procedures and specifications and the following requirements.
(A) Locate the monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the total gas flow rate.
(B) Use a flow sensor meeting an accuracy requirement of ±5 percent over the normal range of flow measured or 10 cubic feet per minute, whichever is greater.
(C) Use a flow monitor that is maintainable online, is able to continuously correct for temperature, pressure and, for ambient air flow monitor, moisture content, and is able to record dry flow in standard conditions (as defined in § 60.2) over one-minute averages.
(D) At least quarterly, perform a visual inspection of all components of the monitor for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if the flow monitor is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.
(E) Recalibrate the flow monitor in accordance with the manufacturer's procedures and specifications biennially (every two years) or at the frequency specified by the manufacturer.
(ii) The owner or operator shall use 20.9 percent as the oxygen content of the ambient air.
(iii) The owner or operator shall use product specifications (
e.g.,
as reported in material safety data sheets) for percent oxygen for purchased oxygen. For oxygen produced onsite, the percent oxygen shall be determined by periodic measurements or process knowledge.
(iv) The owner or operator shall calculate the hourly average O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner using Equation 10 of this section:
ER01DE15.002
Where:
%O
2
= O
2
concentration of the air/oxygen mixture used in the Claus burner, percent by volume (dry basis);
20.9 = O
2
concentration in air, percent dry basis;
Q
air
= Volumetric flow rate of ambient air used in the Claus burner, dscfm;
%O
2,oxy
= O
2
concentration in the enriched oxygen stream, percent dry basis; and
Q
oxy
= Volumetric flow rate of enriched oxygen stream used in the Claus burner, dscfm.
(v) The owner or operator shall use the hourly average O
2
concentration determined using Equation 8 of § 60.104a(d)(8) for use in Equation 1 or 2 of § 60.102a(f), as applicable, for each hour and determine the allowable emission limit as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages (
i.e.,
the rolling 12-hour average).
(7) Owners or operators of a sulfur recovery plant that elects to comply with the SO
2
emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) or (f)(2)(i) or the reduced sulfur compounds emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii) or (f)(2)(ii) as a flow rate weighted average for a group of release points from the sulfur recovery
plant rather than for each process train or release point individually shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a CPMS to measure and record the volumetric gas flow rate of each release point within the group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant as specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate and maintain each flow monitor according to the manufacturer's procedures and specifications and the following requirements.
(A) Locate the monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the total gas flow rate.
(B) Use a flow sensor meeting an accuracy requirement of ±5 percent over the normal range of flow measured or 10 cubic feet per minute, whichever is greater.
(C) Use a flow monitor that is maintainable online, is able to continuously correct for temperature, pressure, and moisture content, and is able to record dry flow in standard conditions (as defined in § 60.2) over one-minute averages.
(D) At least quarterly, perform a visual inspection of all components of the monitor for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if the flow monitor is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.
(E) Recalibrate the flow monitor in accordance with the manufacturer's procedures and specifications biennially (every two years) or at the frequency specified by the manufacturer.
(ii) The owner or operator shall correct the flow to 0 percent excess air using Equation 11 of this section:
ER01DE15.003
Where:
Q
adj
= Volumetric flow rate adjusted to 0 percent excess air, dry standard cubic feet per minute (dscfm);
C
meas
= Volumetric flow rate measured by the flow meter corrected to dry standard conditions, dscfm;
20.9
c
= 20.9 percent O
2
−0.0 percent O
2
(defined O
2
correction basis), percent;
20.9 = O
2
concentration in air, percent; and
%O
2
= O
2
concentration measured on a dry basis, percent.
(iii) The owner or operator shall calculate the flow weighted average SO
2
or reduced sulfur compounds concentration for each hour using Equation 12 of this section:
ER01DE15.004
Where:
C
ave
= Flow weighted average concentration of the pollutant, ppmv (dry basis, zero percent excess air). The pollutant is either SO
2
(if complying with the SO
2
emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(i) or (f)(2)(i)) or reduced sulfur compounds (if complying with the reduced sulfur compounds emission limit in § 60.102a(f)(1)(ii) or (f)(2)(ii));
N = Number of release points within the group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant for which emissions averaging is elected;
C
n
= Pollutant concentration in the n
th
release point within the group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant for
which emissions averaging is elected, ppmv (dry basis, zero percent excess air);
Q
adj,n
= Volumetric flow rate of the n
th
release point within the group of release points from the sulfur recovery plant for which emissions averaging is elected, dry standard cubic feet per minute (dscfm, adjusted to 0 percent excess air).
(iv) For sulfur recovery plants that use oxygen or oxygen enriched air in the Claus burner, the owner or operator shall use Equation 10 of this section and the hourly emission limits determined in paragraph (a)(5)(v) or (a)(6)(v) of this section in-place of the pollutant concentration to determine the flow weighted average hourly emission limit for each hour. The allowable emission limit shall be calculated as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages (
i.e.,
the rolling 12-hour average).
(b)
Excess emissions.
For the purpose of reports required by § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions for sulfur recovery plants subject to the emissions limitations in § 60.102a(f) are defined as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

# Note:
Determine all averages as the arithmetic average of the applicable 1-hour averages, e.g., determine the rolling 12-hour average as the arithmetic average of 12 contiguous 1-hour averages.
(1) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of SO
2
as measured by the SO
2
continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section exceeds the applicable emission limit (dry basis, zero percent excess air); or
(2) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of reduced sulfur compounds (as SO
2
) as measured by the reduced sulfur compounds continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section exceeds the applicable emission limit; or
(3) All 12-hour periods during which the average concentration of H
2
S as measured by the H
2
S continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(4) of this section exceeds the applicable emission limit (dry basis, 0 percent excess air).
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 80 FR 75232, Dec. 1, 2015; 83 FR 60713, Nov. 26, 2018]
§ 60.107a
Monitoring of emissions and operations for fuel gas combustion devices and flares.
(a)
Fuel gas combustion devices subject to
SO
2
or H
2
S
limit and flares subject to
H
2
S
concentration requirements.
The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device that is subject to § 60.102a(g)(1) and elects to comply with the SO
2
emission limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(i) shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device that is subject to § 60.102a(g)(1) and elects to comply with the H
2
S concentration limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(ii) or a flare that is subject to the H
2
S concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) shall comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device that elects to comply with the SO
2
emissions limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(i) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0-percent excess air) of SO
2
emissions into the atmosphere. The monitor must include an O
2
monitor for correcting the data for excess air.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each SO
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part. The span value for the SO
2
monitor is 50 ppmv SO
2
.
(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the SO
2
monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use Methods 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 6 or 6A of appendix A-4 to this part. Samples taken by Method 6 of appendix A-4 to this part shall be taken at a flow rate of approximately 2 liters/min for at least 30 minutes. The relative accuracy limit shall be 20 percent or 4 ppmv, whichever is greater, and the calibration drift limit shall be 5 percent of the established span value.
(iii) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value for the O
2
monitor must be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(iv) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for the O
2
monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(v) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures in appendix F to part 60, including quarterly accuracy determinations for SO
2
monitors, annual accuracy determinations for O
2
monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
(vi) Fuel gas combustion devices having a common source of fuel gas may be monitored at only one location (i.e., after one of the combustion devices), if monitoring at this location accurately represents the SO
2
emissions into the atmosphere from each of the combustion devices.
(2) The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device that elects to comply with the H
2
S concentration limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(ii) or a flare that is subject to the H
2
S concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis) of H
2
S in the fuel gases before being burned in any fuel gas combustion device or flare.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each H
2
S monitor according to Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to part 60. The span value for this instrument is 300 ppmv H
2
S.
(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations for each H
2
S monitor according to the requirements of § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Method 11, 15, or 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60 or Method 16 of appendix A-6 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60.
(iii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures in appendix F to part 60 for each H
2
S monitor.
(iv) Fuel gas combustion devices or flares having a common source of fuel gas may be monitored at only one location, if monitoring at this location accurately represents the concentration of H
2
S in the fuel gas being burned in the respective fuel gas combustion devices or flares.
(v) The owner or operator of a flare subject to § 60.103a(c) through (e) may use the instrument required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the H
2
S concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) if the owner or operator complies with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1)(i) through (iv) and if the instrument has a span (or dual span, if necessary) capable of accurately measuring concentrations between 20 and 300 ppmv. If the instrument required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is used to demonstrate compliance with the H
2
S concentration requirement, the concentration directly measured by the instrument must meet the numeric concentration in § 60.103a(h).
(vi) The owner or operator of modified flare that meets all three criteria in paragraphs (a)(2)(vi)(A) through (C) of this section shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section no later than November 11, 2015. The owner or operator shall comply with the approved alternative monitoring plan or plans pursuant to § 60.13(i) until the flare is in compliance with requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(A) The flare was an affected facility subject to subpart J of this part prior to becoming an affected facility under § 60.100a.
(B) The owner or operator had an approved alternative monitoring plan or plans pursuant to § 60.13(i) for all fuel gases combusted in the flare.
(C) The flare did not have in place on or before September 12, 2012 an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration by volume (dry basis) of H
2
S in the fuel gases that is capable of complying with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(3) The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device or flare is not required to comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for fuel gas streams that are exempt under §§ 60.102a(g)(1)(iii) or 60.103a(h) or, for fuel gas streams combusted in a process heater, other fuel gas combustion device or flare that are inherently low in sulfur content. Fuel gas streams meeting one of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section will be considered inherently low in sulfur content.
(i) Pilot gas for heaters and flares.
(ii) Fuel gas streams that meet a commercial-grade product specification for sulfur content of 30 ppmv or less. In the case of a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) product specification in the pressurized liquid state, the gas phase sulfur content should be evaluated assuming complete vaporization of the LPG and sulfur containing-compounds at the product specification concentration.
(iii) Fuel gas streams produced in process units that are intolerant to sulfur contamination, such as fuel gas streams produced in the hydrogen plant, catalytic reforming unit, isomerization unit, and HF alkylation process units.
(iv) Other fuel gas streams that an owner or operator demonstrates are low-sulfur according to the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.
(4) If the composition of an exempt fuel gas stream changes, the owner or operator must follow the procedures in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(b)
Exemption from H
2
S monitoring requirements for low-sulfur fuel gas streams.
The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device or flare may apply for an exemption from the H
2
S monitoring requirements in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for a fuel gas stream that is inherently low in sulfur content. A fuel gas stream that is demonstrated to be low-sulfur is exempt from the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section until there are changes in operating conditions or stream composition.
(1) The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator a written application for an exemption from monitoring. The application must contain the following information:
(i) A description of the fuel gas stream/system to be considered, including submission of a portion of the appropriate piping diagrams indicating the boundaries of the fuel gas stream/system and the affected fuel gas combustion device(s) or flare(s) to be considered;
(ii) A statement that there are no crossover or entry points for sour gas (high H
2
S content) to be introduced into the fuel gas stream/system (this should be shown in the piping diagrams);
(iii) An explanation of the conditions that ensure low amounts of sulfur in the fuel gas stream (i.e., control equipment or product specifications) at all times;
(iv) The supporting test results from sampling the requested fuel gas stream/system demonstrating that the sulfur content is less than 5 ppmv H
2
S. Sampling data must include, at minimum, 2 weeks of daily monitoring (14 grab samples) for frequently operated fuel gas streams/systems; for infrequently operated fuel gas streams/systems, seven grab samples must be collected unless other additional information would support reduced sampling. The owner or operator shall use detector tubes (“length-of-stain tube” type measurement) following the “Gas Processors Association Standard 2377-86 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17), using tubes with a maximum span between 10 and 40 ppmv inclusive when 1≤N≤10, where N = number of pump strokes, to test the applicant fuel gas stream for H
2
S; and
(v) A description of how the 2 weeks (or seven samples for infrequently operated fuel gas streams/systems) of monitoring results compares to the typical range of H
2
S concentration
(fuel quality) expected for the fuel gas stream/system going to the affected fuel gas combustion device or flare (e.g., the 2 weeks of daily detector tube results for a frequently operated loading rack included the entire range of products loaded out and, therefore, should be representative of typical operating conditions affecting H
2
S content in the fuel gas stream going to the loading rack flare).
(2) The effective date of the exemption is the date of submission of the information required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) No further action is required unless refinery operating conditions change in such a way that affects the exempt fuel gas stream/system (e.g., the stream composition changes). If such a change occurs, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures in paragraph (b)(3)(i), (b)(3)(ii), or (b)(3)(iii) of this section.
(i) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is still within the range of concentrations included in the original application, the owner or operator shall conduct an H
2
S test on a grab sample and record the results as proof that the concentration is still within the range.
(ii) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is outside the range of concentrations included in the original application, the owner or operator may submit new information following the procedures of paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 60 days (or within 30 days after the seventh grab sample is tested for infrequently operated process units).
(iii) If the operation change results in a sulfur content that is outside the range of concentrations included in the original application and the owner or operator chooses not to submit new information to support an exemption, the owner or operator must begin H
2
S monitoring using daily stain sampling to demonstrate compliance using length-of-stain tubes with a maximum span between 200 and 400 ppmv inclusive when 1≤N≤5, where N = number of pump strokes. The owner or operator must begin monitoring according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section as soon as practicable, but in no case later than 180 days after the operation change. During daily stain tube sampling, a daily sample exceeding 162 ppmv is an exceedance of the 3-hour H
2
S concentration limit. The owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device must also determine a rolling 365-day average using the stain sampling results; an average H
2
S concentration of 5 ppmv must be used for days within the rolling 365-day period prior to the operation change.
(c)
Process heaters complying with the NO
X
concentration-based limit.
The owner or operator of a process heater subject to the NO
X
emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(2) and electing to comply with the applicable emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(2)(i)(A), (g)(2)(ii)(A), (g)(2)(iii)(A) or (g)(2)(iv)(A) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0-percent excess air) of NO
X
emissions into the atmosphere according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. The monitor must include an O
2
monitor for correcting the data for excess air.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each NO
X
monitor according to Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this NO
X
monitor must be between 2 and 3 times the applicable emissions limit, inclusive.
(2) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each NO
X
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to part 60. The owner or operator shall use Methods 7, 7A, 7C, 7D, or 7E of appendix A-4 to part 60 for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 7 or 7C of appendix A-4 to part 60.
(3) The owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain each O
2
monitor according to Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. The span value of this O
2
monitor must
be selected between 10 and 25 percent, inclusive.
(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each O
2
monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 3 of appendix B to part 60. Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60 shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses,” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A-2 to part 60.
(5) The owner or operator shall comply with the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 for each NO
X
and O
2
monitor, including quarterly accuracy determinations for NO
X
monitors, annual accuracy determinations for O
2
monitors, and daily calibration drift tests.
(6) The owner or operator of a process heater that has a rated heating capacity of less than 100 MMBtu and is equipped with combustion modification-based technology to reduce NO
X
emissions (
i.e.,
low-NO
X
burners, ultra-low-NO
X
burners) may elect to comply with the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section or, alternatively, the owner or operator of such a process heater shall conduct biennial performance tests according to the requirements in § 60.104a(i), establish a maximum excess O
2
operating limit or operating curve according to the requirements in § 60.104a(i)(6) and comply with the O
2
monitoring requirements in paragraphs (c)(3) through (5) of this section to demonstrate compliance. If an O
2
operating curve is used (
i.e.,
if different O
2
operating limits are established for different operating ranges), the owner or operator of the process heater must also monitor fuel gas flow rate, fuel oil flow rate (as applicable) and heating value content according to the methods provided in paragraphs (d)(5), (d)(6), and (d)(4) or (d)(7) of this section, respectively.
(d)
Process heaters complying with the NO
X
heating value-based or mass-based limit.
The owner or operator of a process heater subject to the NO
X
emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(2) and electing to comply with the applicable emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(2)(i)(B) or (g)(2)(ii)(B) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0-percent excess air) of NO
X
emissions into the atmosphere and shall determine the F factor of the fuel gas stream no less frequently than once per day according to the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section. The owner or operator of a co-fired process heater subject to the NO
X
emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(2) and electing to comply with the heating value-based limit in § 60.102a(g)(2)(iii)(B) or (g)(2)(iv)(B) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration (dry basis, 0-percent excess air) of NO
X
emissions into the atmosphere according to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the flow rate of the fuel gas and fuel oil fed to the process heater according to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (d)(5) and (6) of this section; for fuel gas streams, determine gas composition according to the requirements in paragraph (d)(4) of this section or the higher heating value according to the requirements in paragraph (d)(7) of this section; and for fuel oil streams, determine the heating value according to the monitoring requirements in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(8) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each NO
X
monitor according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. The monitor must include an O
2
monitor for correcting the data for excess air.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall sample and analyze each fuel stream fed to the process heater using the methods and equations in section 12.3.2 of EPA Method 19 of appendix A-7 to part 60 to determine the F factor on a dry basis. If a single fuel gas system provides fuel gas to several process heaters, the F factor may be determined at a single location in the fuel
gas system provided it is representative of the fuel gas fed to the affected process heater(s).
(3) As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the owner or operator of a gas-fired process heater shall install, operate and maintain a gas composition analyzer and determine the average F factor of the fuel gas using the factors in Table 1 of this subpart and Equation 13 of this section. If a single fuel gas system provides fuel gas to several process heaters, the F factor may be determined at a single location in the fuel gas system provided it is representative of the fuel gas fed to the affected process heater(s).
ER01DE15.005
Where:
F
d
= F factor on dry basis at 0% excess air, dscf/MMBtu.
X
i
= mole or volume fraction of each component in the fuel gas.
MEV
i
= molar exhaust volume, dry standard cubic feet per mole (dscf/mol).
MHC
i
= molar heat content, Btu per mole (Btu/mol).
1,000,000 = unit conversion, Btu per MMBtu.
(4) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each compositional monitor according to the requirements in Performance Specification 9 of appendix B to part 60. Any of the following methods shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations:
(i) EPA Method 18 of appendix A-6 to part 60;
(ii) ASTM D1945-03 (Reapproved 2010)(incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(iii) ASTM D1946-90 (Reapproved 2006)(incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(iv) ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2004)(incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(v) GPA 2261-00 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17); or
(vi) ASTM UOP539-97 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(5) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain fuel gas flow monitors according to the manufacturer's recommendations. For volumetric flow meters, temperature and pressure monitors must be installed in conjunction with the flow meter or in a representative location to correct the measured flow to standard conditions (
i.e.,
68 °F and 1 atmosphere). For mass flow meters, use gas compositions determined according to paragraph (d)(4) of this section to determine the average molecular weight of the fuel gas and convert the mass flow to a volumetric flow at standard conditions (
i.e.,
68 °F and 1 atmosphere). The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each fuel gas flow monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13 and Performance Specification 6 of appendix B to part 60. Any of the following methods shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations:
(i) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2B, 2C or 2D of appendix A-2 to part 60;
(ii) ASME MFC-3M-2004 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(iii) ANSI/ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 2008) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(iv) ASME MFC-6M-1998 (Reaffirmed 2005) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(v) ASME/ANSI MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(vi) ASME MFC-11M-2006 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(vii) ASME MFC-14M-2003 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(viii) ASME MFC-18M-2001 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(ix) AGA Report No. 3, Part 1 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(x) AGA Report No. 3, Part 2 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(xi) AGA Report No. 11 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(xii) AGA Report No. 7 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17); and
(xiii) API Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 22, Section 2 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(6) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each fuel oil flow monitor according to the manufacturer's recommendations. The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each fuel oil flow monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13 and Performance Specification 6 of appendix B to part 60. Any of the following methods shall be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations:
(i) Any one of the methods listed in paragraph (d)(5) of this section that are applicable to fuel oil (
i.e.,
“fluids”);
(ii) ANSI/ASME-MFC-5M-1985 (Reaffirmed 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(iii) ASME/ANSI MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(iv) ASME MFC-16-2007 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17);
(v) ASME MFC-22-2007 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17); or
(vi) ISO 8316 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(7) The owner or operator shall determine the higher heating value of each fuel fed to the process heater using any of the applicable methods included in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) through (ix) of this section. If a common fuel supply system provides fuel gas or fuel oil to several process heaters, the higher heating value of the fuel in each fuel supply system may be determined at a single location in the fuel supply system provided it is representative of the fuel fed to the affected process heater(s). The higher heating value of each fuel fed to the process heater must be determined no less frequently than once per day except as provided in paragraph (d)(7)(x) of this section.
(i) ASTM D240-02 (Reapproved 2007) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(ii) ASTM D1826-94 (Reapproved 2003) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(iii) ASTM D1945-03 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(iv) ASTM D1946-90 (Reapproved 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(v) ASTM D3588-98 (Reapproved 2003) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(vi) ASTM D4809-06 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(vii) ASTM D4891-89 (Reapproved 2006) (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(viii) GPA 2172-09 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17).
(ix) Any of the methods specified in section 2.2.7 of appendix D to part 75.
(x) If the fuel oil supplied to the affected co-fired process heater originates from a single storage tank, the owner or operator may elect to use the storage tank sampling method in section 2.2.4.2 of appendix D to part 75 instead of daily sampling, except that the most recent value for heating content must be used.
(8) The owner or operator of a process heater that has a rated heating capacity of less than 100 MMBtu and is equipped with combustion modification based technology to reduce NO
X
emissions (
i.e.,
low-NO
X
burners or ultra-low NO
X
burners) may elect to comply with the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section or, alternatively, the owner or operator of such a process heater shall conduct biennial performance tests according to the requirements in § 60.104a(i), establish a maximum excess O
2
operating limit or operating curve according to the requirements in § 60.104a(i)(6) and comply with the O
2
monitoring requirements in paragraphs (c)(3) through (5) of this section to demonstrate compliance. If an O
2
operating curve is used (
i.e.,
if different O
2
operating limits are established for different operating ranges), the owner or operator of the process heater must also monitor fuel gas flow rate, fuel oil flow rate (as applicable) and heating value content according to the methods provided in paragraphs (d)(5), (d)(6), and (d)(4) or (d)(7) of this section, respectively.
(e)
Sulfur monitoring for assessing root cause analysis threshold for affected flares.
Except as described in paragraphs (e)(4) and (h) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected flare subject to § 60.103a(c) through (e) shall determine the total reduced sulfur concentration for each gas line directed to the affected flare in accordance with
either paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section. Different options may be elected for different gas lines. If a monitoring system is in place that is capable of complying with the requirements related to either paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of a modified flare must comply with the requirements related to either paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section upon startup of the modified flare. If a monitoring system is not in place that is capable of complying with the requirements related to either paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of a modified flare must comply with the requirements related to either paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section no later than November 11, 2015 or upon startup of the modified flare, whichever is later.
(1)
Total reduced sulfur monitoring requirements.
The owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain an instrument or instruments for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of total reduced sulfur in gas discharged to the flare.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each total reduced sulfur monitor according to Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to part 60. The span value should be determined based on the maximum sulfur content of gas that can be discharged to the flare (e.g., roughly 1.1 to 1.3 times the maximum anticipated sulfur concentration), but may be no less than 5,000 ppmv. A single dual range monitor may be used to comply with the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (a)(2) of this section provided the applicable span specifications are met.
(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each total reduced sulfur monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 5 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator of each total reduced sulfur monitor shall use EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part. The alternative relative accuracy procedures described in section 16.0 of Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part (cylinder gas audits) may be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations, except that it is not necessary to include as much of the sampling probe or sampling line as practical.
(iii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures in appendix F to part 60 for each total reduced sulfur monitor.
(2)
H
2
S monitoring requirements.
The owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument or instruments for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of H
2
S in gas discharged to the flare according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section and shall collect and analyze samples of the gas and calculate total sulfur concentrations as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(iv) through (ix) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator shall install, operate and maintain each H
2
S monitor according to Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to part 60. The span value should be determined based on the maximum sulfur content of gas that can be discharged to the flare (e.g., roughly 1.1 to 1.3 times the maximum anticipated sulfur concentration), but may be no less than 5,000 ppmv. A single dual range H
2
S monitor may be used to comply with the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (a)(2) of this section provided the applicable span specifications are met.
(ii) The owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluations of each H
2
S monitor according to the requirements in § 60.13(c) and Performance Specification 7 of appendix B to this part. The owner or operator shall use EPA Method 11, 15 or 15A of appendix A-5 to this part for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations. The method ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to this part. The alternative relative accuracy procedures described in section 16.0 of Performance Specification 2 of appendix B
to this part (cylinder gas audits) may be used for conducting the relative accuracy evaluations, except that it is not necessary to include as much of the sampling probe or sampling line as practical.
(iii) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable quality assurance procedures in appendix F to part 60 for each H
2
S monitor.
(iv) In the first 10 operating days after the date the flare must begin to comply with § 60.103a(c)(1), the owner or operator shall collect representative daily samples of the gas discharged to the flare. The samples may be grab samples or integrated samples. The owner or operator shall take subsequent representative daily samples at least once per week or as required in paragraph (e)(2)(ix) of this section.
(v) The owner or operator shall analyze each daily sample for total sulfur using either EPA Method 15A of appendix A-5 to part 60, EPA Method 16A of appendix A-6 to part 60, ASTM Method D4468-85 (Reapproved 2006) (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) or ASTM Method D5504-08 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
(vi) The owner or operator shall develop a 10-day average total sulfur-to-H
2
S ratio and 95-percent confidence interval as follows:
(A) Calculate the ratio of the total sulfur concentration to the H
2
S concentration for each day during which samples are collected.
(B) Determine the 10-day average total sulfur-to-H
2
S ratio as the arithmetic average of the daily ratios calculated in paragraph (e)(2)(vi)(A) of this section.
(C) Determine the acceptable range for subsequent weekly samples based on the 95-percent confidence interval for the distribution of daily ratios based on the 10 individual daily ratios using Equation 14 of this section.
ER01DE15.006
Where:
AR = Acceptable range of subsequent ratio determinations, unitless.
Ratio
Avg
= 10-day average total sulfur-to-H
2
S concentration ratio, unitless.
2.262 = t-distribution statistic for 95-percent 2-sided confidence interval for 10 samples (9 degrees of freedom).
SDev = Standard deviation of the 10 daily average total sulfur-to-H
2
S concentration ratios used to develop the 10-day average total sulfur-to-H
2
S concentration ratio, unitless.
(vii) For each day during the period when data are being collected to develop a 10-day average, the owner or operator shall estimate the total sulfur concentration using the measured total sulfur concentration measured for that day.
(viii) For all days other than those during which data are being collected to develop a 10-day average, the owner or operator shall multiply the most recent 10-day average total sulfur-to-H
2
S ratio by the daily average H
2
S concentrations obtained using the monitor as required by paragraph (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section to estimate total sulfur concentrations.
(ix) If the total sulfur-to-H
2
S ratio for a subsequent weekly sample is outside the acceptable range for the most recent distribution of daily ratios, the owner or operator shall develop a new 10-day average ratio and acceptable range based on data for the outlying weekly sample plus data collected over the following 9 operating days.
(3)
SO
2
monitoring requirements.
The owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously monitoring and recording the concentration of SO
2
from a process heater or other fuel gas combustion device that is combusting gas representative of the fuel gas in the flare gas line according to the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, determine the F factor of the fuel gas at least daily according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2) through (4) of this section, determine the higher heating value of the fuel gas
at least daily according to the requirements in paragraph (d)(7) of this section, and calculate the total sulfur content (as SO
2
) in the fuel gas using Equation 15 of this section.
ER01DE15.007
Where:
TS
FG
= Total sulfur concentration, as SO
2
, in the fuel gas, ppmv.
C
SO2
= Concentration of SO
2
in the exhaust gas, ppmv (dry basis at 0-percent excess air).
F
d
= F factor gas on dry basis at 0-percent excess air, dscf/MMBtu.
HHV
FG
= Higher heating value of the fuel gas, MMBtu/scf.
(4)
Exemptions from sulfur monitoring requirements.
Flares identified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section are exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. For each such flare, except as provided in paragraph (e)(4)(iv), engineering calculations shall be used to calculate the SO
2
emissions in the event of a discharge that may trigger a root cause analysis under § 60.103a(c)(1).
(i) Flares that can only receive:
(A) Fuel gas streams that are inherently low in sulfur content as described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section; and/or
(B) Fuel gas streams that are inherently low in sulfur content for which the owner or operator has applied for an exemption from the H
2
S monitoring requirements as described in paragraph (b) of this section.
(ii) Emergency flares, provided that for each such flare, the owner or operator complies with the monitoring alternative in paragraph (g) of this section.
(iii) Flares equipped with flare gas recovery systems designed, sized and operated to capture all flows except those resulting from startup, shutdown or malfunction, provided that for each such flare, the owner or operator complies with the monitoring alternative in paragraph (g) of this section.
(iv) Secondary flares that receive gas diverted from the primary flare. In the event of a discharge from the secondary flare, the sulfur content measured by the sulfur monitor on the primary flare should be used to calculate SO
2
emissions, regardless of whether or not the monitoring alternative in paragraph (g) of this section is selected for the secondary flare.
(f)
Flow monitoring for flares.
Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2) and (h) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected flare subject to § 60.103a(c) through (e) shall install, operate, calibrate and maintain, in accordance with the specifications in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a CPMS to measure and record the flow rate of gas discharged to the flare. If a flow monitor is not already in place, the owner or operator of a modified flare shall comply with the requirements of this paragraph by no later than November 11, 2015 or upon startup of the modified flare, whichever is later.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate and maintain each flow monitor according to the manufacturer's procedures and specifications and the following requirements.
(i) Locate the monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the total gas flow rate.
(ii) Use a flow sensor meeting an accuracy requirement of ±20 percent of the flow rate at velocities ranging from 0.1 to 1 feet per second and an accuracy of ±5 percent of the flow rate for velocities greater than 1 feet per second.
(iii) Use a flow monitor that is maintainable online, is able to continuously correct for temperature and pressure and is able to record flow in standard conditions (as defined in § 60.2) over one-minute averages.
(iv) At least quarterly, perform a visual inspection of all components of the monitor for physical and operational integrity and all electrical connections for oxidation and galvanic corrosion if the flow monitor is not equipped with a redundant flow sensor.
(v) Recalibrate the flow monitor in accordance with the manufacturer's
procedures and specifications biennially (every two years) or at the frequency specified by the manufacturer.
(2) Emergency flares, secondary flares and flares equipped with flare gas recovery systems designed, sized and operated to capture all flows except those resulting from startup, shutdown or malfunction are not required to install continuous flow monitors; provided, however, that for any such flare, the owner or operator shall comply with the monitoring alternative in paragraph (g) of this section.
(g)
Alternative monitoring for certain flares equipped with water seals.
The owner or operator of an affected flare subject to § 60.103a(c) through (e) that can be classified as either an emergency flare, a secondary flare or a flare equipped with a flare gas recovery system designed, sized and operated to capture all flows except those resulting from startup, shutdown or malfunction may, as an alternative to the sulfur and flow monitoring requirements of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, install, operate, calibrate and maintain, in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section, a CPMS to measure and record the pressure in the flare gas header between the knock-out pot and water seal and to measure and record the water seal liquid level. If the required monitoring systems are not already in place, the owner or operator of a modified flare shall comply with the requirements of this paragraph by no later than November 11, 2015 or upon startup of the modified flare, whichever is later.
(1) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure and locate the liquid seal level monitor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the water column height.
(2) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration and internal and external corrosion.
(3) Use a pressure sensor and level monitor with a minimum tolerance of 1.27 centimeters of water.
(4) Using a manometer, check pressure sensor calibration quarterly.
(5) Conduct calibration checks any time the pressure sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.
(6) In a cascaded flare system that employs multiple secondary flares, pressure and liquid level monitoring is required only on the first secondary flare in the system (
i.e.,
the secondary flare with the lowest pressure release set point).
(7) This alternative monitoring option may be elected only for flares with four or fewer pressure exceedances required to be reported under § 60.108a(d)(5) (“reportable pressure exceedances”) in any 365 consecutive calendar days. Following the fifth reportable pressure exceedance in a 365-day period, the owner or operator must comply with the sulfur and flow monitoring requirements of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section as soon as practical, but no later than 180 days after the fifth reportable pressure exceedance in a 365-day period.
(h)
Alternative monitoring for flares located in the BAAQMD or SCAQMD.
An affected flare subject to this subpart located in the BAAQMD may elect to comply with the monitoring requirements in both BAAQMD Regulation 12, Rule 11 and BAAQMD Regulation 12, Rule 12 as an alternative to complying with the requirements of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. An affected flare subject to this subpart located in the SCAQMD may elect to comply with the monitoring requirements in SCAQMD Rule 1118 as an alternative to complying with the requirements of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section.
(i)
Excess emissions.
For the purpose of reports required by § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions for fuel gas combustion devices subject to the emissions limitations in § 60.102a(g) and flares subject to the concentration requirement in § 60.103a(h) are defined as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section. Determine a rolling 3-hour or a rolling daily average as the arithmetic average of the applicable 1-hour averages (e.g., a rolling 3-hour average is the arithmetic average of three contiguous 1-hour averages). Determine a rolling 30-day or a rolling 365-day average as the arithmetic average of the
applicable daily averages (e.g., a rolling 30-day average is the arithmetic average of 30 contiguous daily averages).
(1)
SO
2
or
H
2
S limits for fuel gas combustion devices.
(i) If the owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device elects to comply with the SO
2
emission limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(i), each rolling 3-hour period during which the average concentration of SO
2
as measured by the SO
2
continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section exceeds 20 ppmv, and each rolling 365-day period during which the average concentration of SO
2
as measured by the SO
2
continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section exceeds 8 ppmv.
(ii) If the owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device elects to comply with the H
2
S concentration limits in § 60.102a(g)(1)(ii), each rolling 3-hour period during which the average concentration of H
2
S as measured by the H
2
S continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds 162 ppmv and each rolling 365-day period during which the average concentration as measured by the H
2
S continuous monitoring system under paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds 60 ppmv.
(iii) If the owner or operator of a fuel gas combustion device becomes subject to the requirements of daily stain tube sampling in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, each day during which the daily concentration of H
2
S exceeds 162 ppmv and each rolling 365-day period during which the average concentration of H
2
S exceeds 60 ppmv.
(2) H
2
S concentration limits for flares. (i) Each rolling 3-hour period during which the average concentration of H
2
S as measured by the H
2
S continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds 162 ppmv.
(ii) If the owner or operator of a flare becomes subject to the requirements of daily stain tube sampling in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, each day during which the daily concentration of H
2
S exceeds 162 ppmv.
(3)
Rolling 30-day average NO
X
limits for fuel gas combustion devices.
Each rolling 30-day period during which the average concentration of NO
X
as measured by the NO
X
continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section exceeds:
(i) For a natural draft process heater, 40 ppmv and, if monitored according to § 60.107a(d), 0.040 lb/MMBtu;
(ii) For a forced draft process heater, 60 ppmv and, if monitored according to § 60.107a(d), 0.060 lb/MMBtu; and
(iii) For a co-fired process heater electing to comply with the NO
X
limit in § 60.102a(g)(2)(iii)(A) or (g)(2)(iv)(A), 150 ppmv.
(iv) The site-specific limit determined by the Administrator under § 60.102a(i).
(4)
Daily NO
X
limits for fuel gas combustion devices.
Each day during which the concentration of NO
X
as measured by the NO
X
continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (d) of this section exceeds the daily average emissions limit calculated using Equation 3 in § 60.102a(g)(2)(iii)(B) or Equation 4 in § 60.102a(g)(2)(iv)(B).
(5)
Daily O
2
limits for fuel gas combustion devices.
Each day during which the concentration of O
2
as measured by the O
2
continuous monitoring system required under paragraph (c)(6) or (d)(8) of this section exceeds the O
2
operating limit or operating curve determined during the most recent biennial performance test.
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56473, Sep. 12, 2012; 80 FR 75235, Dec. 1, 2015]
§ 60.108a
Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
(a) Each owner or operator subject to the emissions limitations in § 60.102a shall comply with the notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in § 60.7 and other requirements as specified in this section.
(b) Each owner or operator subject to an emissions limitation in § 60.102a shall notify the Administrator of the specific monitoring provisions of §§ 60.105a, 60.106a and 60.107a with which the owner or operator intends to comply. Each owner or operator of a co-fired process heater subject to an emissions limitation in § 60.102a(g)(2)(iii) or (iv) shall submit to the Administrator documentation showing that the process heater meets the definition of a co-fired process heater in § 60.101a. Notifications required by this paragraph
shall be submitted with the notification of initial startup required by § 60.7(a)(3).
(c) The owner or operator shall maintain the following records:
(1) A copy of the flare management plan.
(2) Records of information to document conformance with bag leak detection system operation and maintenance requirements in § 60.105a(c).
(3) Records of bag leak detection system alarms and actions according to § 60.105a(c).
(4) For each FCCU and fluid coking unit subject to the monitoring requirements in § 60.105a(b)(1), records of the average coke burn-off rate and hours of operation.
(5) For each fuel gas stream to which one of the exemptions listed in § 60.107a(a)(3) applies, records of the specific exemption determined to apply for each fuel stream. If the owner or operator applies for the exemption described in § 60.107a(a)(3)(iv), the owner or operator must keep a copy of the application as well as the letter from the Administrator granting approval of the application.
(6) Records of discharges greater than 500 lb SO
2
in any 24-hour period from any affected flare, discharges greater than 500 lb SO
2
in excess of the allowable limits from a fuel gas combustion device or sulfur recovery plant and discharges to an affected flare in excess of 500,000 scf above baseline in any 24-hour period as required by § 60.103a(c). If the monitoring alternative provided in § 60.107a(g) is selected, the owner or operator shall record any instance when the flare gas line pressure exceeds the water seal liquid depth, except for periods attributable to compressor staging that do not exceed the staging time specified in § 60.103a(a)(3)(vii)(C). The following information shall be recorded no later than 45 days following the end of a discharge exceeding the thresholds:
(i) A description of the discharge.
(ii) The date and time the discharge was first identified and the duration of the discharge.
(iii) The measured or calculated cumulative quantity of gas discharged over the discharge duration. If the discharge duration exceeds 24 hours, record the discharge quantity for each 24-hour period. For a flare, record the measured or calculated cumulative quantity of gas discharged to the flare over the discharge duration. If the discharge duration exceeds 24 hours, record the quantity of gas discharged to the flare for each 24-hour period. Engineering calculations are allowed for fuel gas combustion devices, but are not allowed for flares, except for those complying with the alternative monitoring requirements in § 60.107a(g).
(iv) For each discharge greater than 500 lb SO
2
in any 24-hour period from a flare, the measured total sulfur concentration or both the measured H
2
S concentration and the estimated total sulfur concentration in the fuel gas at a representative location in the flare inlet.
(v) For each discharge greater than 500 lb SO
2
in excess of the applicable short-term emissions limit in § 60.102a(g)(1) from a fuel gas combustion device, either the measured concentration of H
2
S in the fuel gas or the measured concentration of SO
2
in the stream discharged to the atmosphere. Process knowledge can be used to make these estimates for fuel gas combustion devices, but cannot be used to make these estimates for flares, except as provided in § 60.107a(e)(4).
(vi) For each discharge greater than 500 lb SO
2
in excess of the allowable limits from a sulfur recovery plant, either the measured concentration of reduced sulfur or SO
2
discharged to the atmosphere.
(vii) For each discharge greater than 500 lb SO
2
in any 24-hour period from any affected flare or discharge greater than 500 lb SO
2
in excess of the allowable limits from a fuel gas combustion device or sulfur recovery plant, the cumulative quantity of H
2
S and SO
2
released into the atmosphere. For releases controlled by flares, assume 99-percent conversion of reduced sulfur or total sulfur to SO
2
. For fuel gas combustion devices, assume 99-percent conversion of H
2
S to SO
2
.
(viii) The steps that the owner or operator took to limit the emissions during the discharge.
(ix) The root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 60.103a(d), including an identification of the affected facility, the date and duration of the discharge, a statement noting whether the discharge resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 60.103a(e).
(x) For any corrective action analysis for which corrective actions are required in § 60.103a(e), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.
(xi) For each discharge from any affected flare that is the result of a planned startup or shutdown of a refinery process unit or ancillary equipment connected to the affected flare, a statement that a root cause analysis and corrective action analysis are not necessary because the owner or operator followed the flare management plan.
(7) If the owner or operator elects to comply with § 60.107a(e)(2) for a flare, records of the H
2
S and total sulfur analyses of each grab or integrated sample, the calculated daily total sulfur-to-H
2
S ratios, the calculated 10-day average total sulfur-to-H
2
S ratios and the 95-percent confidence intervals for each 10-day average total sulfur-to-H
2
S ratio.
(d) Each owner or operator subject to this subpart shall submit an excess emissions report for all periods of excess emissions according to the requirements of § 60.7(c) except that the report shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The date that the exceedance occurred;
(2) An explanation of the exceedance;
(3) Whether the exceedance was concurrent with a startup, shutdown, or malfunction of an affected facility or control system; and
(4) A description of the action taken, if any.
(5) The information described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section for all discharges listed in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. For a flare complying with the monitoring alternative under § 60.107a(g), following the fifth discharge required to be recorded under paragraph (c)(6) of this section and reported under this paragraph, the owner or operator shall include notification that monitoring systems will be installed according to § 60.107a(e) and (f) within 180 days following the fifth discharge.
(6) For any periods for which monitoring data are not available, any changes made in operation of the emission control system during the period of data unavailability which could affect the ability of the system to meet the applicable emission limit. Operations of the control system and affected facility during periods of data unavailability are to be compared with operation of the control system and affected facility before and following the period of data unavailability.
(7) A written statement, signed by a responsible official, certifying the accuracy and completeness of the information contained in the report.
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56479, Sep. 12, 2012]
§ 60.109a
Delegation of authority.
(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency within your State.
(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local or tribal agency, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the state, local or tribal agency.
(1) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 60.8(b). A “major change to test method” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
(2) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 60.13(i). A “major change to monitoring” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
(3) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 60.7(b)
through (f). A “major change to recordkeeping/reporting” is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.
(4) Approval of an application for an alternative means of emission limitation under § 60.103a(j) of this subpart.
[73 FR 35867, June 24, 2008, as amended at 77 FR 56480, Sep. 12, 2012]
Pt. 60, Subpt. Ja, Table 1

# Table 1 to Subpart Ja of Part 60—Molar Exhaust Volumes and Molar Heat Content of Fuel Gas Constituents
Constituent
MEV
a
dscf/mol
MHC
b
Btu/mol
Methane (CH
4
)
7.29
842
Ethane (C
2
H
6
)
12.96
1,475
Hydrogen (H
2
)
1.61
269
Ethene (C
2
H
4
)
11.34
1,335
Propane (C
3
H
8
)
18.62
2,100
Propene (C
3
H
6
)
17.02
1,947
Butane (C
4
H
10
)
24.30
2,717
Butene (C
4
H
8
)
22.69
2,558
Inerts
0.85
0
a
MEV = molar exhaust volume, dry standard cubic feet per gram-mole (dscf/g-mol) at standard conditions of 68 °F and 1 atmosphere.
b
MHC = molar heat content (higher heating value basis), Btu per gram-mole (Btu/g-mol).
[77 FR 56480, Sep. 12, 2012]

# Subpart K—Standards of Performance for Storage Vessels for Petroleum Liquids for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After June 11, 1973, and Prior to May 19, 1978
§ 60.110
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) Except as provided in § 60.110(b), the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel for petroleum liquids which has a storage capacity greater than 151,412 liters (40,000 gallons).
(b) This subpart does not apply to storage vessels for petroleum or condensate stored, processed, and/or treated at a drilling and production facility prior to custody transfer.
(c) Subject to the requirements of this subpart is any facility under paragraph (a) of this section which:
(1) Has a capacity greater than 151, 416 liters (40,000 gallons), but not exceeding 246,052 liters (65,000 gallons), and commences construction or modification after March 8, 1974, and prior to May 19, 1978.
(2) Has a capacity greater than 246,052 liters (65,000 gallons) and commences construction or modification after June 11, 1973, and prior to May 19, 1978.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980]
§ 60.111
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Storage vessel
means any tank, reservoir, or container used for the storage of petroleum liquids, but does not include:
(1) Pressure vessels which are designed to operate in excess of 15 pounds per square inch gauge without emissions to the atmosphere except under emergency conditions,
(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs, or
(3) Underground tanks if the total volume of petroleum liquids added to and taken from a tank annually does not exceed twice the volume of the tank.
(b)
Petroleum liquids
means petroleum, condensate, and any finished or intermediate products manufactured in a petroleum refinery but does not mean Nos. 2 through 6 fuel oils as specified in ASTM D396-78, 89, 90, 92, 96, or 98, gas turbine fuel oils Nos. 2-GT through 4-GT as specified in ASTM D2880-78 or 96, or diesel fuel oils Nos. 2-D and 4-D as specified in ASTM D975-78, 96, or 98a. (These three methods are incorporated by reference—see § 60.17.)
(c)
Petroleum refinery
means each facility engaged in producing gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, or other products through distillation of petroleum or through redistillation, cracking, extracting, or reforming of unfinished petroleum derivatives.
(d)
Petroleum
means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.
(e)
Hydrocarbon
means any organic compound consisting predominantly of carbon and hydrogen.
(f)
Condensate
means hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas which condenses due to changes in the
temperature and/or pressure and remains liquid at standard conditions.
(g)
Custody transfer
means the transfer of produced petroleum and/or condensate, after processing and/or treating in the producing operations, from storage tanks or automatic transfer facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.
(h)
Drilling and production facility
means all drilling and servicing equipment, wells, flow lines, separators, equipment, gathering lines, and auxiliary nontransportation-related equipment used in the production of petroleum but does not include natural gasoline plants.
(i)
True vapor pressure
means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by a petroleum liquid as determined in accordance with methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517, Evaporation Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks, Second Edition, February 1980 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
(j)
Floating roof
means a storage vessel cover consisting of a double deck, pontoon single deck, internal floating cover or covered floating roof, which rests upon and is supported by the petroleum liquid being contained, and is equipped with a closure seal or seals to close the space between the roof edge and tank wall.
(k)
Vapor recovery system
means a vapor gathering system capable of collecting all hydrocarbon vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel and a vapor disposal system capable of processing such hydrocarbon vapors and gases so as to prevent their emission to the atmosphere.
(l)
Reid vapor pressure
is the absolute vapor pressure of volatile crude oil and volatile nonviscous petroleum liquids, except liquified petroleum gases, as determined by ASTM D323-82 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
[39 FR 9317, Mar. 8, 1974; 39 FR 13776, Apr. 17, 1974, as amended at 39 FR 20794, June 14, 1974; 45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980; 48 FR 3737, Jan. 27, 1983; 52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987; 65 FR 61755, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.112
Standard for volatile organic compounds (VOC).
(a) The owner or operator of any storage vessel to which this subpart applies shall store petroleum liquids as follows:
(1) If the true vapor pressure of the petroleum liquid, as stored, is equal to or greater than 78 mm Hg (1.5 psia) but not greater than 570 mm Hg (11.1 psia), the storage vessel shall be equipped with a floating roof, a vapor recovery system, or their equivalents.
(2) If the true vapor pressure of the petroleum liquid as stored is greater than 570 mm Hg (11.1 psia), the storage vessel shall be equipped with a vapor recovery system or its equivalent.
[39 FR 9317, Mar. 8, 1974; 39 FR 13776, Apr. 17, 1974, as amended at 45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980]
§ 60.113
Monitoring of operations.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator subject to this subpart shall maintain a record of the petroleum liquid stored, the period of storage, and the maximum true vapor pressure of that liquid during the respective storage period.
(b) Available data on the typical Reid vapor pressure and the maximum expected storage temperature of the stored product may be used to determine the maximum true vapor pressure from nomographs contained in API Bulletin 2517, unless the Administrator specifically requests that the liquid be sampled, the actual storage temperature determined, and the Reid vapor pressure determined from the sample(s).
(c) The true vapor pressure of each type of crude oil with a Reid vapor pressure less than 13.8 kPa (2.0 psia) or whose physical properties preclude determination by the recommended method is to be determined from available data and recorded if the estimated true vapor pressure is greater than 6.9 kPa (1.0 psia).
(d) The following are exempt from the requirements of this section:
(1) Each owner or operator of each affected facility which stores petroleum liquids with a Reid vapor pressure of less than 6.9 kPa (1.0 psia) provided the maximum true vapor pressure does not exceed 6.9 kPa (1.0 psia).
(2) Each owner or operator of each affected facility equipped with a vapor recovery and return or disposal system
in accordance with the requirements of § 60.112.
[45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980]

# Subpart Ka—Standards of Performance for Storage Vessels for Petroleum Liquids for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After May 18, 1978, and Prior to July 23, 1984
§ 60.110a
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a)
Affected facility.
Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel with a storage capacity greater than 151,416 liters (40,000 gallons) that is used to store petroleum liquids for which construction is commenced after May 18, 1978.
(b) Each petroleum liquid storage vessel with a capacity of less than 1,589,873 liters (420,000 gallons) used for petroleum or condensate stored, processed, or treated prior to custody transfer is not an affected facility and, therefore, is exempt from the requirements of this subpart.
(c)
Alternative means of compliance
—(1)
Option to comply with part 65.
Owners or operators may choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.112a through 60.114a for storage vessels that are subject to this subpart that store petroleum liquids that, as stored, have a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 10.3 kPa (1.5 psia). Other provisions applying to owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1.
(2)
Part 60, subpart A.
Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for those storage vessels. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (c)(2) do not apply to owners or operators of storage vessels complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.
[45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 78275, Dec. 14, 2000]
§ 60.111a
Definitions.
In addition to the terms and their definitions listed in the Act and subpart A of this part the following definitions apply in this subpart:
(a)
Storage vessel
means each tank, reservoir, or container used for the storage of petroleum liquids, but does not include:
(1) Pressure vessels which are designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kPa (15 psig) without emissions to the atmosphere except under emergency conditions.
(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs, or
(3) Underground tanks if the total volume of petroleum liquids added to and taken from a tank annually does not exceed twice the volume of the tank.
(b)
Petroleum liquids
means petroleum, condensate, and any finished or intermediate products manufactured in a petroleum refinery but does not mean Nos. 2 through 6 fuel oils as specified in ASTM D396-78, 89, 90, 92, 96, or 98, gas turbine fuel oils Nos. 2-GT through 4-GT as specified in ASTM D2880-78 or 96, gas turbine fuel oils Nos. 2-GT through 4-GT as specified in ASTM D2880-78 or 96, or diesel fuel oils Nos. 2-D and 4-D as specified in ASTM D975-78, 96, or 98a. (These three methods are incorporated by reference—see § 60.17.)
(c)
Petroleum refinery
means each facility engaged in producing gasoline, kerosene, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, lubricants, or other products through distillation of petroleum or through redistillation, cracking, extracting, or reforming of unfinished petroleum derivatives.
(d)
Petroleum
means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.
(e)
Condensate
means hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas which condenses due to changes in the temperature or pressure, or both, and remains liquid at standard conditions.
(f)
True vapor pressure
means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by a petroleum liquid such as determined in accordance with methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517, Evaporation Loss from External Floating-Roof Tanks, Second Edition, February 1980 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
(g)
Reid vapor pressure
is the absolute vapor pressure of volatile crude oil and nonviscous petroleum liquids, except liquified petroleum gases, as determined by ASTM D323-82 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
(h)
Liquid-mounted seal
means a foam or liquid-filled primary seal mounted in contact with the liquid between the tank wall and the floating roof continuously around the circumference of the tank.
(i)
Metallic shoe seal
includes but is not limited to a metal sheet held vertically against the tank wall by springs or weighted levers and is connected by braces to the floating roof. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.
(j)
Vapor-mounted seal
means a foam-filled primary seal mounted continuously around the circumference of the tank so there is an annular vapor space underneath the seal. The annular vapor space is bounded by the bottom of the primary seal, the tank wall, the liquid surface, and the floating roof.
(k)
Custody transfer
means the transfer of produced petroleum and/or condensate, after processing and/or treating in the producing operations, from storage tanks or automatic transfer facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.
[45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 48 FR 3737, Jan. 27, 1983; 52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.112a
Standard for volatile organic compounds (VOC).
(a) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies which contains a petroleum liquid which, as stored, has a true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 10.3 kPa (1.5 psia) but not greater than 76.6 kPa (11.1 psia) shall equip the storage vessel with one of the following:
(1) An external floating roof, consisting of a pontoon-type or double-deck-type cover that rests on the surface of the liquid contents and is equipped with a closure device between the tank wall and the roof edge. Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(D) of this section, the closure device is to consist of two seals, one above the other. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal. The roof is to be floating on the liquid at all times (i.e., off the roof leg supports) except during initial fill and when the tank is completely emptied and subsequently refilled. The process of emptying and refilling when the roof is resting on the leg supports shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible.
(i) The primary seal is to be either a metallic shoe seal, a liquid-mounted seal, or a vapor-mounted seal. Each seal is to meet the following requirements:
(A) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the metallic shoe seal or the liquid-mounted seal shall not exceed 212 cm
2
per meter of tank diameter (10.0 in
2
per ft of tank diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 3.81 cm (1
1/2
in).
(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the vapor-mounted seal shall not exceed 21.2 cm
2
per meter of tank diameter (1.0 in
2
per ft of tank diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 cm (
1/2
in).
(C) One end of the metallic shoe is to extend into the stored liquid and the other end is to extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 cm (24 in) above the stored liquid surface.
(D) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope.
(ii) The secondary seal is to meet the following requirements:
(A) The secondary seal is to be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the tank wall except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.
(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary
seal used in combination with a metallic shoe or liquid-mounted primary seal shall not exceed 21.2 cm
2
per meter of tank diameter (1.0 in
2
per ft. of tank diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 cm (
1/2
in.). There shall be no gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal used in combination with a vapor-mounted primary seal.
(C) There are to be no holes, tears or other openings in the seal or seal fabric.
(D) The owner or operator is exempted from the requirements for secondary seals and the secondary seal gap criteria when performing gap measurements or inspections of the primary seal.
(iii) Each opening in the roof except for automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface. Each opening in the roof except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents and leg sleeves is to be equipped with a cover, seal or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use or as described in pargraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section. Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating, except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports. Rim vents are to be set to open when the roof is being floated off the roof legs supports or at the manufacturer's recommended setting.
(iv) Each emergency roof drain is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening.
(2) A fixed roof with an internal floating type cover equipped with a continuous closure device between the tank wall and the cover edge. The cover is to be floating at all times, (i.e., off the leg supports) except during initial fill and when the tank is completely emptied and subsequently refilled. The process of emptying and refilling when the cover is resting on the leg supports shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible. Each opening in the cover except for automatic bleeder vents and the rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface. Each opening in the cover except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, stub drains and leg sleeves is to be equipped with a cover, seal, or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use. Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the cover is floating except when the cover is being floated off or is being landed on the leg supports. Rim vents are to be set to open only when the cover is being floated off the leg supports or at the manufacturer's recommended setting.
(3) A vapor recovery system which collects all VOC vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel, and a vapor return or disposal system which is designed to process such VOC vapors and gases so as to reduce their emission to the atmosphere by at least 95 percent by weight.
(4) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section as provided in § 60.114a.
(b) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies which contains a petroleum liquid which, as stored, has a true vapor pressure greater than 76.6 kPa (11.1 psia), shall equip the storage vessel with a vapor recovery system which collects all VOC vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel, and a vapor return or disposal system which is designed to process such VOC vapors and gases so as to reduce their emission to the atmosphere by at least 95 percent by weight.
[45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 45 FR 83229, Dec. 18, 1980]
§ 60.113a
Testing and procedures.
(a) Except as provided in § 60.8(b) compliance with the standard prescribed in § 60.112a shall be determined as follows or in accordance with an equivalent procedure as provided in § 60.114a.
(1) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies which has an external floating roof shall meet the following requirements:
(i) Determine the gap areas and maximum gap widths between the primary seal and the tank wall and between the secondary seal and the tank wall according to the following frequency:
(A) For primary seals, gap measurements shall be performed within 60 days of the initial fill with petroleum liquid and at least once every five years thereafter. All primary seal inspections or gap measurements which require the removal or dislodging of the secondary seal shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible and the secondary seal shall be replaced as soon as possible.
(B) For secondary seals, gap measurements shall be performed within 60 days of the initial fill with petroleum liquid and at least once every year thereafter.
(C) If any storage vessel is out of service for a period of one year or more, subsequent refilling with petroleum liquid shall be considered initial fill for the purposes of paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) and (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.
(D) Keep records of each gap measurement at the plant for a period of at least 2 years following the date of measurement. Each record shall identify the vessel on which the measurement was performed and shall contain the date of the seal gap measurement, the raw data obtained in the measurement process required by paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section and the calculation required by paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section.
(E) If either the seal gap calculated in accord with paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section or the measured maximum seal gap exceeds the limitations specified by § 60.112a of this subpart, a report shall be furnished to the Administrator within 60 days of the date of measurements. The report shall identify the vessel and list each reason why the vessel did not meet the specifications of § 60.112a. The report shall also describe the actions necessary to bring the storage vessel into compliance with the specifications of § 60.112a.
(ii) Determine gap widths in the primary and secondary seals individually by the following procedures:
(A) Measure seal gaps, if any, at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is floating off the roof leg supports.
(B) Measure seal gaps around the entire circumference of the tank in each place where a
1/8
″ diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against seal) between the seal and the tank wall and measure the circumferential distance of each such location.
(C) The total surface area of each gap described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(B) of this section shall be determined by using probes of various widths to accurately measure the actual distance from the tank wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.
(iii) Add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually. Divide the sum for each seal by the nominal diameter of the tank and compare each ratio to the appropriate ratio in the standard in § 60.112a(a)(1)(i) and § 60.112a(a)(1)(ii).
(iv) Provide the Administrator 30 days prior notice of the gap measurement to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.
(2) The owner or operator of each storage vessel to which this subpart applies which has a vapor recovery and return or disposal system shall provide the following information to the Administrator on or before the date on which construction of the storage vessel commences:
(i) Emission data, if available, for a similar vapor recovery and return or disposal system used on the same type of storage vessel, which can be used to determine the efficiency of the system. A complete description of the emission measurement method used must be included.
(ii) The manufacturer's design specifications and estimated emission reduction capability of the system.
(iii) The operation and maintenance plan for the system.
(iv) Any other information which will be useful to the Administrator in evaluating the effectiveness of the system in reducing VOC emissions.
[45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987]
§ 60.114a
Alternative means of emission limitation.
(a) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an alternative means of emission limitation will achieve a reduction in emissions at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions achieved by any requirement in § 60.112a, the Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice permitting the use of the alternative means for purposes of compliance with that requirement.
(b) Any notice under paragraph (a) of this section will be published only after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
(c) Any person seeking permission under this section shall submit to the Administrator a written application including:
(1) An actual emissions test that uses a full-sized or scale-model storage vessel that accurately collects and measures all VOC emissions from a given control device and that accurately simulates wind and accounts for other emission variables such as temperature and barometric pressure.
(2) An engineering evaluation that the Administrator determines is an accurate method of determining equivalence.
(d) The Administrator may condition the permission on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emissions reduction as specified in § 60.112a.
(e) The primary vapor-mounted seal in the “Volume-Maximizing Seal” manufactured by R.F.I. Services Corporation is approved as equivalent to the vapor-mounted seal required by § 60.112a(a)(1)(i) and must meet the gap criteria specified in § 60.112a(a)(1)(i)(B). There shall be no gaps between the tank wall and any secondary seal used in conjunction with the primary seal in the “Volume-Maximizing Seal”.
[52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987]
§ 60.115a
Monitoring of operations.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator subject to this subpart shall maintain a record of the petroleum liquid stored, the period of storage, and the maximum true vapor pressure of that liquid during the respective storage period.
(b) Available data on the typical Reid vapor pressure and the maximum expected storage temperature of the stored product may be used to determine the maximum true vapor pressure from nomographs contained in API Bulletin 2517, unless the Administrator specifically requests that the liquid be sampled, the actual storage temperature determined, and the Reid vapor pressure determined from the sample(s).
(c) The true vapor pressure of each type of crude oil with a Reid vapor pressure less than 13.8 kPa (2.0 psia) or whose physical properties preclude determination by the recommended method is to be determined from available data and recorded if the estimated true vapor pressure is greater than 6.9 kPa (1.0 psia).
(d) The following are exempt from the requirements of this section:
(1) Each owner or operator of each storage vessel storing a petroleum liquid with a Reid vapor pressure of less than 6.9 kPa (1.0 psia) provided the maximum true vapor pressure does not exceed 6.9 kPa (1.0 psia).
(2) The owner or operator of each storage vessel equipped with a vapor recovery and return or disposal system in accordance with the requirements of § 60.112a(a)(3) and (b), or a closed vent system and control device meeting the specifications of 40 CFR 65.42(b)(4), (b)(5), or (c).
[45 FR 23379, Apr. 4, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 78275, Dec. 14, 2000]

# Subpart Kb—Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After July 23, 1984, and On or Before October 4, 2023

# Source:
52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.110b
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel with a capacity greater than or equal to 75 cubic meters (m
3
) that is used to store volatile organic liquids (VOL) for which construction, reconstruction, or modification is commenced after July 23, 1984, and on or before October 4, 2023.
(b) This subpart does not apply to storage vessels with a capacity greater than or equal to 151 m
3
storing a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure less than 3.5 kilopascals (kPa) or with a capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
but less than 151 m
3
storing a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure less than 15.0 kPa.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) This subpart does not apply to the following:
(1) Vessels at coke oven by-product plants.
(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kPa and without emissions to the atmosphere.
(3) Vessels permanently attached to mobile vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships.
(4) Vessels with a design capacity less than or equal to 1,589.874 m
3
used for petroleum or condensate stored, processed, or treated prior to custody transfer.
(5) Vessels located at bulk gasoline plants.
(6) Storage vessels located at gasoline service stations.
(7) Vessels used to store beverage alcohol.
(8) Vessels subject to subpart GGGG of 40 CFR part 63.
(e)
Alternative means of compliance
—(1)
Option to comply with part 65.
Owners or operators may choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b for storage vessels that are subject to this subpart that meet the specifications in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. When choosing to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, the monitoring requirements of § 60.116b(c), (e), (f)(1), and (g) still apply. Other provisions applying to owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65 are provided in 40 CFR 65.1.
(i) A storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 m
3
containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 5.2 kPa; or
(ii) A storage vessel with a design capacity greater than 75 m
3
but less than 151 m
3
containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 27.6 kPa.
(2)
Part 60, subpart A.
Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must also comply with §§ 60.1, 60.2, 60.5, 60.6, 60.7(a)(1) and (4), 60.14, 60.15, and 60.16 for those storage vessels. All sections and paragraphs of subpart A of this part that are not mentioned in this paragraph (e)(2) do not apply to owners or operators of storage vessels complying with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, except that provisions required to be met prior to implementing 40 CFR part 65 still apply. Owners and operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, must comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart A.
(3)
Internal floating roof report.
If an owner or operator installs an internal floating roof and, at initial startup, chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, a report shall be furnished to the Administrator stating that the control equipment meets the specifications of 40 CFR 65.43. This report shall be an attachment to the notification required by 40 CFR 65.5(b).
(4)
External floating roof report.
If an owner or operator installs an external floating roof and, at initial startup, chooses to comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart C, a report shall be furnished to the Administrator stating that the control equipment meets the specifications of 40 CFR 65.44. This report shall be an attachment to the notification required by 40 CFR 65.5(b).
(5)
Option to comply with part 63, subpart WW, of this chapter.
Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, owners or operators may choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, to satisfy the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b for storage vessels either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151
m
3
containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 5.2 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa, or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
but less than 151 m
3
containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 27.6 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa.
(i) The general provisions in subpart A of this part apply instead of the general provisions in subpart A of part 63 of this chapter.
(ii) Where terms are defined in both this subpart and 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, the definitions in this subpart apply.
(iii) Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, also must comply with the monitoring requirements of § 60.116b(a), (c), (e), and (f)(1), except as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) The reference to all records applies only to the records required by § 60.116b(c);
(B) The reference to § 60.116b(b) does not apply; and
(C) The reference to § 60.116b(g) does not apply.
(iv) Owners or operators who choose to comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW, must also keep records and furnish reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(iv)(A) through (F) of this section.
(A) For each affected facility, the owner or operator must notify the Administrator at least 30 days before the first inspection is conducted under 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW. After this notification is submitted to the Administrator, the owner or operator must continue to comply with the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) until the owner or operator submits another notification to the Administrator indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b instead of the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5). The compliance schedule for events does not reset upon switching between compliance with this subpart and 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW.
(B) Keep a record of each affected facility using the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) when conducting an inspection required by § 63.1063(c)(1) of this chapter.
(C) Keep a record of each affected facility using the alternative standard described in this paragraph (e)(5) when conducting an inspection required by § 63.1063(c)(2) of this chapter.
(D) Copies of all records and reports kept pursuant to § 60.115b(a) and (b) that have not met the 2-year record retention required by the introductory text of § 60.115b must be kept for an additional 2 years after the date of submittal of the inspection notification specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW.
(E) Copies of all records and reports kept pursuant to § 63.1065 of this chapter that have not met the 5-year record retention required by the introductory text of § 63.1065 must be kept for an additional 5 years after the date of submittal of the notification specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iv)(A) of this section, indicating the affected facility is using the requirements of §§ 60.112b through 60.117b.
(F) The following exceptions to the reporting requirements of § 63.1066 of this chapter apply:
(
1
) The notification of initial startup required under § 63.1066(a)(1) and (2) of this chapter must be submitted as an attachment to the notification required by §§ 60.7(a)(3) and 60.115b(a)(1);
(
2
) The reference in § 63.1066(b)(2) of this chapter to periodic reports “when inspection failures occur” means to submit inspections results within 60 days of the initial gap measurements required by § 63.1063(c)(2)(i) of this chapter and within 30 days of all other inspections required by § 63.1063(c)(1) and (2) of this chapter.
[52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 32973, Aug. 11, 1989; 65 FR 78275, Dec. 14, 2000; 68 FR 59332, Oct. 15, 2003; 86 FR 5019, Jan. 19, 2021; 89 FR 83317, Oct. 15, 2024]
§ 60.111b
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this subpart as follows:
Bulk gasoline plant
means any gasoline distribution facility that has a gasoline throughput less than or equal to 75,700 liters per day. Gasoline
throughput shall be the maximum calculated design throughput as may be limited by compliance with an enforceable condition under Federal requirement or Federal, State or local law, and discoverable by the Administrator and any other person.
Condensate
means hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas that condenses due to changes in the temperature or pressure, or both, and remains liquid at standard conditions.
Custody transfer
means the transfer of produced petroleum and/or condensate, after processing and/or treatment in the producing operations, from storage vessels or automatic transfer facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.
Fill
means the introduction of VOL into a storage vessel but not necessarily to complete capacity.
Gasoline service station
means any site where gasoline is dispensed to motor vehicle fuel tanks from stationary storage tanks.
Maximum true vapor pressure
means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by the volatile organic compounds (as defined in 40 CFR 51.100) in the stored VOL at the temperature equal to the highest calendar-month average of the VOL storage temperature for VOL's stored above or below the ambient temperature or at the local maximum monthly average temperature as reported by the National Weather Service for VOL's stored at the ambient temperature, as determined:
(1) In accordance with methods described in American Petroleum institute Bulletin 2517, Evaporation Loss From External Floating Roof Tanks, (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17); or
(2) As obtained from standard reference texts; or
(3) As determined by ASTM D2879-83, 96, or 97 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17);
(4) Any other method approved by the Administrator.
Petroleum
means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.
Petroleum liquids
means petroleum, condensate, and any finished or intermediate products manufactured in a petroleum refinery.
Process tank
means a tank that is used within a process (including a solvent or raw material recovery process) to collect material discharged from a feedstock storage vessel or equipment within the process before the material is transferred to other equipment within the process, to a product or by-product storage vessel, or to a vessel used to store recovered solvent or raw material. In many process tanks, unit operations such as reactions and blending are conducted. Other process tanks, such as surge control vessels and bottoms receivers, however, may not involve unit operations.
Reid vapor pressure
means the absolute vapor pressure of volatile crude oil and volatile nonviscous petroleum liquids except liquified petroleum gases, as determined by ASTM D323-82 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
Storage vessel
means each tank, reservoir, or container used for the storage of volatile organic liquids but does not include:
(1) Frames, housing, auxiliary supports, or other components that are not directly involved in the containment of liquids or vapors;
(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs; or
(3) Process tanks.
Volatile organic liquid (VOL)
means any organic liquid which can emit volatile organic compounds (as defined in 40 CFR 51.100) into the atmosphere.
Waste
means any liquid resulting from industrial, commercial, mining or agricultural operations, or from community activities that is discarded or is being accumulated, stored, or physically, chemically, or biologically treated prior to being discarded or recycled.
[52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 32973, Aug. 11, 1989; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000; 68 FR 59333, Oct. 15, 2003]
§ 60.112b
Standard for volatile organic compounds (VOC).
(a) The owner or operator of each storage vessel either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 m
3
containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 5.2 kPa but less than
76.6 kPa or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
but less than 151 m
3
containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 27.6 kPa but less than 76.6 kPa, shall equip each storage vessel with one of the following:
(1) A fixed roof in combination with an internal floating roof meeting the following specifications:
(i) The internal floating roof shall rest or float on the liquid surface (but not necessarily in complete contact with it) inside a storage vessel that has a fixed roof. The internal floating roof shall be floating on the liquid surface at all times, except during initial fill and during those intervals when the storage vessel is completely emptied or subsequently emptied and refilled. When the roof is resting on the leg supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible.
(ii) Each internal floating roof shall be equipped with one of the following closure devices between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof:
(A) A foam- or liquid-filled seal mounted in contact with the liquid (liquid-mounted seal). A liquid-mounted seal means a foam- or liquid-filled seal mounted in contact with the liquid between the wall of the storage vessel and the floating roof continuously around the circumference of the tank.
(B) Two seals mounted one above the other so that each forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof. The lower seal may be vapor-mounted, but both must be continuous.
(C) A mechanical shoe seal. A mechanical shoe seal is a metal sheet held vertically against the wall of the storage vessel by springs or weighted levers and is connected by braces to the floating roof. A flexible coated fabric (envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.
(iii) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and the rim space vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface.
(iv) Each opening in the internal floating roof except for leg sleeves, automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, column wells, ladder wells, sample wells, and stub drains is to be equipped with a cover or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use. The cover or lid shall be equipped with a gasket. Covers on each access hatch and automatic gauge float well shall be bolted except when they are in use.
(v) Automatic bleeder vents shall be equipped with a gasket and are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports.
(vi) Rim space vents shall be equipped with a gasket and are to be set to open only when the internal floating roof is not floating or at the manufacturer's recommended setting.
(vii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof for the purpose of sampling shall be a sample well. The sample well shall have a slit fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the opening.
(viii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof shall have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover.
(ix) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a ladder shall have a gasketed sliding cover.
(2) An external floating roof. An external floating roof means a pontoon-type or double-deck type cover that rests on the liquid surface in a vessel with no fixed roof. Each external floating roof must meet the following specifications:
(i) Each external floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the storage vessel and the roof edge. The closure device is to consist of two seals, one above the other. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal, and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal.
(A) The primary seal shall be either a mechanical shoe seal or a liquid-mounted seal. Except as provided in
§ 60.113b(b)(4), the seal shall completely cover the annular space between the edge of the floating roof and tank wall.
(B) The secondary seal shall completely cover the annular space between the external floating roof and the wall of the storage vessel in a continuous fashion except as allowed in § 60.113b(b)(4).
(ii) Except for automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents, each opening in a noncontact external floating roof shall provide a projection below the liquid surface. Except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, roof drains, and leg sleeves, each opening in the roof is to be equipped with a gasketed cover, seal, or lid that is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (i.e., no visible gap) except when the device is in actual use. Automatic bleeder vents are to be closed at all times when the roof is floating except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports. Rim vents are to be set to open when the roof is being floated off the roof legs supports or at the manufacturer's recommended setting. Automatic bleeder vents and rim space vents are to be gasketed. Each emergency roof drain is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening.
(iii) The roof shall be floating on the liquid at all times (i.e., off the roof leg supports) except during initial fill until the roof is lifted off leg supports and when the tank is completely emptied and subsequently refilled. The process of filling, emptying, or refilling when the roof is resting on the leg supports shall be continuous and shall be accomplished as rapidly as possible.
(3) A closed vent system and control device meeting the following specifications:
(i) The closed vent system shall be designed to collect all VOC vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel and operated with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background and visual inspections, as determined in part 60, subpart VV, § 60.485(b).
(ii) The control device shall be designed and operated to reduce inlet VOC emissions by 95 percent or greater. If a flare is used as the control device, it shall meet the specifications described in the general control device requirements (§ 60.18) of the General Provisions.
(4) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section as provided in § 60.114b of this subpart.
(b) The owner or operator of each storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
which contains a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure greater than or equal to 76.6 kPa shall equip each storage vessel with one of the following:
(1) A closed vent system and control device as specified in § 60.112b(a)(3).
(2) A system equivalent to that described in paragraph (b)(1) as provided in § 60.114b of this subpart.
(c)
Site-specific standard for Merck
Co., Inc.'s Stonewall Plant in Elkton, Virginia.
This paragraph applies only to the pharmaceutical manufacturing facility, commonly referred to as the Stonewall Plant, located at Route 340 South, in Elkton, Virginia (“site”).
(1) For any storage vessel that otherwise would be subject to the control technology requirements of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the site shall have the option of either complying directly with the requirements of this subpart, or reducing the site-wide total criteria pollutant emissions cap (total emissions cap) in accordance with the procedures set forth in a permit issued pursuant to 40 CFR 52.2454. If the site chooses the option of reducing the total emissions cap in accordance with the procedures set forth in such permit, the requirements of such permit shall apply in lieu of the otherwise applicable requirements of this subpart for such storage vessel.
(2) For any storage vessel at the site not subject to the requirements of 40 CFR 60.112b (a) or (b), the requirements of 40 CFR 60.116b (b) and (c) and the General Provisions (subpart A of this part) shall not apply.
[52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 62 FR 52641, Oct. 8, 1997]
§ 60.113b
Testing and procedures.
The owner or operator of each storage vessel as specified in § 60.112b(a) shall meet the requirements of paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. The applicable paragraph for a particular storage vessel depends on the control equipment installed to meet the requirements of § 60.112b.
(a) After installing the control equipment required to meet § 60.112b(a)(1) (permanently affixed roof and internal floating roof), each owner or operator shall:
(1) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, and the secondary seal (if one is in service), prior to filling the storage vessel with VOL. If there are holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric or defects in the internal floating roof, or both, the owner or operator shall repair the items before filling the storage vessel.
(2) For Vessels equipped with a liquid-mounted or mechanical shoe primary seal, visually inspect the internal floating roof and the primary seal or the secondary seal (if one is in service) through manholes and roof hatches on the fixed roof at least once every 12 months after initial fill. If the internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the VOL inside the storage vessel, or there is liquid accumulated on the roof, or the seal is detached, or there are holes or tears in the seal fabric, the owner or operator shall repair the items or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, a 30-day extension may be requested from the Administrator in the inspection report required in § 60.115b(a)(3). Such a request for an extension must document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of actions the company will take that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.
(3) For vessels equipped with a double-seal system as specified in § 60.112b(a)(1)(ii)(B):
(i) Visually inspect the vessel as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section at least every 5 years; or
(ii) Visually inspect the vessel as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(4) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is in service), gaskets, slotted membranes and sleeve seals (if any) each time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed. If the internal floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the gaskets no longer close off the liquid surfaces from the atmosphere, or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before refilling the storage vessel with VOL. In no event shall inspections conducted in accordance with this provision occur at intervals greater than 10 years in the case of vessels conducting the annual visual inspection as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section and at intervals no greater than 5 years in the case of vessels specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.
(5) Notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 days prior to the filling or refilling of each storage vessel for which an inspection is required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(4) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If the inspection required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of refilling the tank, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling of the storage vessel. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, this notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent by express
mail so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling.
(b) After installing the control equipment required to meet § 60.112b(a)(2) (external floating roof), the owner or operator shall:
(1) Determine the gap areas and maximum gap widths, between the primary seal and the wall of the storage vessel and between the secondary seal and the wall of the storage vessel according to the following frequency.
(i) Measurements of gaps between the tank wall and the primary seal (seal gaps) shall be performed during the hydrostatic testing of the vessel or within 60 days of the initial fill with VOL and at least once every 5 years thereafter.
(ii) Measurements of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal shall be performed within 60 days of the initial fill with VOL and at least once per year thereafter.
(iii) If any source ceases to store VOL for a period of 1 year or more, subsequent introduction of VOL into the vessel shall be considered an initial fill for the purposes of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) Determine gap widths and areas in the primary and secondary seals individually by the following procedures:
(i) Measure seal gaps, if any, at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is floating off the roof leg supports.
(ii) Measure seal gaps around the entire circumference of the tank in each place where a 0.32-cm diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against seal) between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel and measure the circumferential distance of each such location.
(iii) The total surface area of each gap described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section shall be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the tank wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.
(3) Add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually and divide the sum for each seal by the nominal diameter of the tank and compare each ratio to the respective standards in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(4) Make necessary repairs or empty the storage vessel within 45 days of identification in any inspection for seals not meeting the requirements listed in (b)(4) (i) and (ii) of this section:
(i) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the mechanical shoe or liquid-mounted primary seal shall not exceed 212 cm
2
per meter of tank diameter, and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 3.81 cm.
(A) One end of the mechanical shoe is to extend into the stored liquid, and the other end is to extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 cm above the stored liquid surface.
(B) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope.
(ii) The secondary seal is to meet the following requirements:
(A) The secondary seal is to be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the tank wall except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal shall not exceed 21.2 cm
2
per meter of tank diameter, and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 cm.
(C) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric.
(iii) If a failure that is detected during inspections required in paragraph (b)(1) of § 60.113b(b) cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, a 30-day extension may be requested from the Administrator in the inspection report required in § 60.115b(b)(4). Such extension request must include a demonstration of unavailability of alternate storage capacity and a specification of a schedule that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.
(5) Notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of any gap measurements required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section to afford the Administrator the
opportunity to have an observer present.
(6) Visually inspect the external floating roof, the primary seal, secondary seal, and fittings each time the vessel is emptied and degassed.
(i) If the external floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before filling or refilling the storage vessel with VOL.
(ii) For all the inspections required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in writing at least 30 days prior to the filling or refilling of each storage vessel to afford the Administrator the opportunity to inspect the storage vessel prior to refilling. If the inspection required by paragraph (b)(6) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of refilling the tank, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling of the storage vessel. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, this notification including the written documentation may be made in writing and sent by express mail so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling.
(c) The owner or operator of each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and control device as required in § 60.112b (a)(3) or (b)(2) (other than a flare) is exempt from § 60.8 of the General Provisions and shall meet the following requirements.
(1) Submit for approval by the Administrator as an attachment to the notification required by § 60.7(a)(1) or, if the facility is exempt from § 60.7(a)(1), as an attachment to the notification required by § 60.7(a)(2), an operating plan containing the information listed below.
(i) Documentation demonstrating that the control device will achieve the required control efficiency during maximum loading conditions. This documentation is to include a description of the gas stream which enters the control device, including flow and VOC content under varying liquid level conditions (dynamic and static) and manufacturer's design specifications for the control device. If the control device or the closed vent capture system receives vapors, gases, or liquids other than fuels from sources that are not designated sources under this subpart, the efficiency demonstration is to include consideration of all vapors, gases, and liquids received by the closed vent capture system and control device. If an enclosed combustion device with a minimum residence time of 0.75 seconds and a minimum temperature of 816 °C is used to meet the 95 percent requirement, documentation that those conditions will exist is sufficient to meet the requirements of this paragraph.
(ii) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device will be operated in conformance with its design and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters).
(2) Operate the closed vent system and control device and monitor the parameters of the closed vent system and control device in accordance with the operating plan submitted to the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, unless the plan was modified by the Administrator during the review process. In this case, the modified plan applies.
(d) The owner or operator of each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and a flare to meet the requirements in § 60.112b (a)(3) or (b)(2) shall meet the requirements as specified in the general control device requirements, § 60.18 (e) and (f).
[52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 54 FR 32973, Aug. 11, 1989]
§ 60.114b
Alternative means of emission limitation.
(a) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an alternative means of emission limitation will achieve a reduction in emissions at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions achieved by any
requirement in § 60.112b, the Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register
a notice permitting the use of the alternative means for purposes of compliance with that requirement.
(b) Any notice under paragraph (a) of this section will be published only after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
(c) Any person seeking permission under this section shall submit to the Administrator a written application including:
(1) An actual emissions test that uses a full-sized or scale-model storage vessel that accurately collects and measures all VOC emissions from a given control device and that accurately simulates wind and accounts for other emission variables such as temperature and barometric pressure.
(2) An engineering evaluation that the Administrator determines is an accurate method of determining equivalence.
(d) The Administrator may condition the permission on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emissions reduction as specified in § 60.112b.
§ 60.115b
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
The owner or operator of each storage vessel as specified in § 60.112b(a) shall keep records and furnish reports as required by paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section depending upon the control equipment installed to meet the requirements of § 60.112b. The owner or operator shall keep copies of all reports and records required by this section, except for the record required by (c)(1), for at least 2 years. The record required by (c)(1) will be kept for the life of the control equipment.
(a) After installing control equipment in accordance with § 60.112b(a)(1) (fixed roof and internal floating roof), the owner or operator shall meet the following requirements.
(1) Furnish the Administrator with a report that describes the control equipment and certifies that the control equipment meets the specifications of § 60.112b(a)(1) and § 60.113b(a)(1). Prior to October 15, 2024, this report shall be an attachment to the notification required by § 60.7(a)(3). Beginning October 15, 2024, the owner or operator must submit all subsequent reports in PDF format following the procedures specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Keep a record of each inspection performed as required by § 60.113b(a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4). Each record shall identify the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed and shall contain the date the vessel was inspected and the observed condition of each component of the control equipment (seals, internal floating roof, and fittings).
(3) If any of the conditions described in § 60.113b(a)(2) are detected during the annual visual inspection required by § 60.113b(a)(2), a report shall be furnished to the Administrator within 30 days of the inspection. Each report shall identify the storage vessel, the nature of the defects, and the date the storage vessel was emptied or the nature of and date the repair was made. Beginning October 15, 2024, all subsequent reports must be submitted in PDF format following the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4) After each inspection required by § 60.113b(a)(3) that finds holes or tears in the seal or seal fabric, or defects in the internal floating roof, or other control equipment defects listed in § 60.113b(a)(3)(ii), a report shall be furnished to the Administrator within 30 days of the inspection. The report shall identify the storage vessel and the reason it did not meet the specifications of § 60.112b(a)(1) or § 60.113b(a)(3) and list each repair made. Beginning October 15, 2024, all subsequent reports must be submitted in PDF format following the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) After installing control equipment in accordance with § 60.112b(a)(2) (external floating roof), the owner or operator shall meet the following requirements.
(1) Furnish the Administrator with a report that describes the control equipment and certifies that the control equipment meets the specifications of § 60.112b(a)(2) and § 60.113b(b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4). Prior to October 15, 2024, this report shall be an attachment to the notification required by § 60.7(a)(3). Beginning October 15, 2024, the owner
or operator must submit all subsequent reports in PDF format following the procedures specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Within 60 days of performing the seal gap measurements required by § 60.113b(b)(1), furnish the Administrator with a report that contains the following information. Beginning October 15, 2024, all subsequent reports must be submitted in PDF format following the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section.
(i) The date of measurement;
(ii) The raw data obtained in the measurement; and
(iii) The calculations described in § 60.113b(b)(2) and (b)(3).
(3) Keep a record of each gap measurement performed as required by § 60.113b(b). Each record shall identify the storage vessel in which the measurement was performed and shall contain:
(i) The date of measurement;
(ii) The raw data obtained in the measurement; and
(iii) The calculations described in § 60.113b(b)(2) and (b)(3).
(4) After each seal gap measurement that detects gaps exceeding the limitations specified by § 60.113b(b)(4), submit a report to the Administrator within 30 days of the inspection. The report will identify the vessel and contain the information specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section and the date the vessel was emptied or the repairs made and date of repair. Beginning October 15, 2024, all subsequent reports must be submitted in PDF format following the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section.
(c) After installing control equipment in accordance with § 60.112b (a)(3) or (b)(1) (closed vent system and control device other than a flare), the owner or operator shall keep the following records.
(1) A copy of the operating plan.
(2) A record of the measured values of the parameters monitored in accordance with § 60.113b(c)(2).
(d) After installing a closed vent system and flare to comply with § 60.112b, the owner or operator shall meet the following requirements.
(1) A report containing the measurements required by § 60.18(f)(1) through (6) shall be furnished to the Administrator as required by § 60.8 of the General Provisions. This report shall be submitted within 6 months of the initial start-up date. Beginning October 15, 2024, all subsequent reports must be submitted in PDF format following the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Records shall be kept of all periods of operation during which the flare pilot flame is absent.
(3) Semiannual reports of all periods recorded under § 60.115b(d)(2) in which the pilot flame was absent shall be furnished to the Administrator. Beginning October 15, 2024, all subsequent reports must be submitted in PDF format following the procedures specified in paragraph (e) of this section.
(e) An owner or operator required to submit notifications or reports following the procedures specified in this paragraph (e) must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information the owner or operator claims as CBI. Although the EPA does not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if an owner or operator wishes to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report or notification, the owner or operator must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information claimed to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to
make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. The owner or operator must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (e).
(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described above, should include clear CBI markings, and be flagged to the attention of the NSPS Kb Lead. Owners and operators who do not have their own file sharing service and who require assistance with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments should email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(2) If an owner or operator cannot transmit the file electronically, the owner or operator may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer and NSPS Kb Lead, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(f) Owners and operators required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, owners and operators must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the report was submitted.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(g) Owners and operators required to electronically submit notifications or reports through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the electronic submittal requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) An owner or operator may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected
facility that prevents the owner or operator from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the force majeure event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the report was submitted.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
[52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 86 FR 5019, Jan. 19, 2021; 89 FR 83317, Oct. 15, 2024]
§ 60.116b
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator shall keep copies of all records required by this section, except for the record required by paragraph (b) of this section, for at least 2 years. The record required by paragraph (b) of this section will be kept for the life of the source.
(b) The owner or operator of each storage vessel as specified in § 60.110b(a) shall keep readily accessible records showing the dimension of the storage vessel and an analysis showing the capacity of the storage vessel.
(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, the owner or operator of each storage vessel either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 m
3
storing a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure greater than or equal to 3.5 kPa or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
but less than 151 m
3
storing a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure greater than or equal to 15.0 kPa shall maintain a record of the VOL stored, the period of storage, and the maximum true vapor pressure of that VOL during the respective storage period.
(d) Except as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator of each storage vessel either with a design capacity greater than or equal to 151 m
3
storing a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure that is normally less than 5.2 kPa or with a design capacity greater than or equal to 75 m
3
but less than 151 m
3
storing a liquid with a maximum true vapor pressure that is normally less than 27.6 kPa shall notify the Administrator within 30 days when the maximum true vapor pressure of the liquid exceeds the respective maximum true vapor pressure values for each volume range. Beginning October 15, 2024, all subsequent notifications must be submitted in PDF format following the procedures specified in § 60.115b(e).
(e) Available data on the storage temperature may be used to determine the maximum true vapor pressure as determined below.
(1) For vessels operated above or below ambient temperatures, the maximum true vapor pressure is calculated based upon the highest expected calendar-month average of the storage temperature. For vessels operated at ambient temperatures, the maximum true vapor pressure is calculated based upon the maximum local monthly average ambient temperature as reported by the National Weather Service.
(2) For crude oil or refined petroleum products the vapor pressure may be obtained by the following:
(i) Available data on the Reid vapor pressure and the maximum expected
storage temperature based on the highest expected calendar-month average temperature of the stored product may be used to determine the maximum true vapor pressure from nomographs contained in API Bulletin 2517 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17), unless the Administrator specifically requests that the liquid be sampled, the actual storage temperature determined, and the Reid vapor pressure determined from the sample(s).
(ii) The true vapor pressure of each type of crude oil with a Reid vapor pressure less than 13.8 kPa or with physical properties that preclude determination by the recommended method is to be determined from available data and recorded if the estimated maximum true vapor pressure is greater than 3.5 kPa.
(3) For other liquids, the vapor pressure:
(i) May be obtained from standard reference texts, or
(ii) Determined by ASTM D2879-83, 96, or 97 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17); or
(iii) Measured by an appropriate method approved by the Administrator; or
(iv) Calculated by an appropriate method approved by the Administrator.
(f) The owner or operator of each vessel storing a waste mixture of indeterminate or variable composition shall be subject to the following requirements.
(1) Prior to the initial filling of the vessel, the highest maximum true vapor pressure for the range of anticipated liquid compositions to be stored will be determined using the methods described in paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) For vessels in which the vapor pressure of the anticipated liquid composition is above the cutoff for monitoring but below the cutoff for controls as defined in § 60.112b(a), an initial physical test of the vapor pressure is required; and a physical test at least once every 6 months thereafteris required as determined by the following methods:
(i) ASTM D2879-83, 96, or 97 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17); or
(ii) ASTM D323-82 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17); or
(iii) As measured by an appropriate method as approved by the Administrator.
(g) The owner or operator of each vessel equipped with a closed vent system and control device meeting the specification of § 60.112b or with emissions reductions equipment as specified in 40 CFR 65.42(b)(4), (b)(5), (b)(6), or (c) is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.
[52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000; 65 FR 78276, Dec. 14, 2000; 68 FR 59333, Oct. 15, 2003; 89 FR 83319, Oct. 15, 2024]
§ 60.117b
Delegation of authority.
(a) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, the authorities contained in paragraph (b) of this section shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State.
(b) Authorities which will not be delegated to States: §§ 60.111b(f)(4), 60.114b, 60.116b(e)(3)(iii), 60.116b(e)(3)(iv), and 60.116b(f)(2)(iii), and approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
[52 FR 11429, Apr. 8, 1987, as amended at 52 FR 22780, June 16, 1987; 89 FR 83319, Oct. 15, 2024]

# Subpart Kc—Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After October 4, 2023

# Source:
89 FR 83319, Oct. 15, 2024, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.110c
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the affected facility to which this subpart applies is each storage vessel with a capacity greater than or equal to 20,000 gallons (gal) (75.7 cubic meters (m
3
)) that is used to store volatile organic liquids (VOL) for which construction, reconstruction, or
modification is commenced after October 4, 2023.
(b) This subpart does not apply to the following:
(1) Vessels at coke oven by-product plants;
(2) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 29.7 pounds per square inch absolute (psia) (204.9 kilopascals (kPa) absolute) and without emissions to the atmosphere;
(3) Vessels permanently attached to mobile vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships;
(4) Vessels with a design capacity less than or equal to 420,000 gal (1,589.874 m
3
) used for petroleum or condensate stored, processed, or treated prior to custody transfer;
(5) Vessels located at bulk gasoline plants as defined in 40 CFR 63.11100;
(6) Vessels located at gasoline service stations;
(7) Vessels used to store beverage alcohol; or
(8) Vessels that only store VOL with a maximum true vapor pressure less than 0.25 psia (1.7 kPa absolute).
(c) Storage vessels that are affected facilities according to paragraph (a) of this section for which construction or reconstruction commenced after October 4, 2023 are subject to the standards in § 60.112c and the corresponding requirements in §§ 60.113c through 60.116c as new sources any time they meet the specifications in either paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, regardless of whether they initially contained VOL with a maximum true vapor pressure below the applicable threshold in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Storage vessels with a capacity greater than or equal to 40,000 gal (151 m
3
) containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 0.5 psia (3.4 kPa).
(2) Storage vessels with a capacity greater than or equal to 20,000 gal (75.7 m
3
) but less than 40,000 gal (151 m
3
) containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 1.5 psia (10.3 kPa).
(d) Storage vessels that are affected facilities according to paragraph (a) of this section for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before October 4, 2023, (“existing storage vessels”) and are modified after October 4, 2023, are subject to the standards in § 60.112c and the corresponding requirements in §§ 60.113c through 60.116c as modified sources any time they meet the specifications in either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) For an existing storage vessel with a capacity greater than or equal to 40,000 gal (151 m
3
), containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 0.5 psia (3.4 kPa).
(2) For an existing storage vessel with a capacity greater than or equal to 20,000 gal (75.7 m
3
) but less than 40,000 gal (151 m
3
), containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 1.5 psia (10.3 kPa).
(e) For the purposes of this subpart,
(1) The phrase “change in the method of operation of, an existing facility which increases the amount of any air pollutant” in the definition of modification in § 60.2 or “operational change to an existing facility which results in an increase in the emission rate to the atmosphere of any pollutant to which a standard applies” in § 60.14(a) means a change in operation occurs if the storage vessel is used to store a VOL that has a greater maximum true vapor pressure than all VOL historically stored or permitted; and
(2) The exemption in § 60.14(e)(4) regarding alternative fuel or raw material does not apply to storage vessels.
(f) Storage vessels that are affected facilities according to paragraph (a) of this section and do not meet the criteria in either paragraph (c)(1), (c)(2), (d)(1), or (d)(2) of this section are subject to the requirements in § 60.113c(d), if applicable, and § 60.115c(b).
(g) All standards including emission limitations shall apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction. As provided in § 60.11(f), this paragraph (g) supersedes the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction in subpart A of this part.
(h) Owners or operators may choose to comply with the provisions of this subpart to demonstrate compliance with subparts K, Ka, and Kb of this part. Compliance with the provisions of
this subpart, including all control requirements, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, will constitute compliance with the applicable storage vessel provisions in subparts K, Ka, and Kb.
(i) Owners or operators may choose to comply with this subpart to demonstrate compliance with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW for storage vessels equipped with an internal or external floating roof that is subject to this subpart and 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW. Compliance with this subpart, including all floating roof requirements, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, will constitute compliance with the applicable storage vessel provisions in 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW.
§ 60.111c
Definitions.
Terms used in this subpart are defined in the Act, in subpart A of this part, or in this section as follows:
Access hatch
means an opening in the roof with a vertical well and a cover attached to it. Access hatch provides passage for workers and materials through the roof for construction or maintenance.
Closed vent system
means a system that is not open to the atmosphere and is composed of piping, ductwork, connections, and, if necessary, flow inducing devices that transport gas or vapor from an emission point to a control device. Closed vent system does not include the vapor collection system that is part of any tank truck or railcar.
Condensate
means hydrocarbon liquid separated from natural gas that condenses due to changes in the temperature or pressure, or both, and remains liquid at standard conditions.
Custody transfer
means the transfer of produced petroleum and/or condensate, after processing and/or treatment in the producing operations, from storage vessels or automatic transfer facilities to pipelines or any other forms of transportation.
Degassing
means the process of removing VOL vapors from a storage vessel during, or in preparation of, cleaning or when taking the storage vessel out of service for inspection, repair, or other reason.
Enclosed combustion device
means a thermal combustion device used to mix and ignite fuel, air pollutants, and air to provide a flame to heat and oxidize air pollutants and that emits the oxidized pollutants through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test. An
enclosed combustion device
may have recovery heat to preheat combustion air, but its primary purpose is for emission control and not to produce useful heat.
Enclosed combustion devices
include, but are not limited to, thermal oxidizers and incinerators. For the purpose of this subpart, process heaters and boilers are not
enclosed combustion devices.
External floating roof
means a pontoon-type or double-deck type cover that rests on the liquid surface in a storage vessel without a fixed roof.
Fill
means the introduction of VOL into a storage vessel but not necessarily to complete capacity.
Flare
means a thermal combustion device using an open or shrouded flame (without full enclosure) such that the pollutants are not emitted through a conveyance suitable to conduct a performance test.
Fuel gas system
means the offsite and onsite piping and control system that gathers gaseous stream(s) generated by onsite operations, may blend them with other sources of gas, and transports the gaseous stream for use as fuel gas in combustion devices, or in- process combustion equipment such as furnaces and gas turbines, either singly or in combination.
Gasoline service station
means any site where gasoline is dispensed to motor vehicle fuel tanks from stationary storage vessels.
Gauge float
means a device that is used to indicate the level of liquid within the storage vessel. The float rests on the liquid surface and is housed inside a well that is closed by a removable cover.
Gauge hatch/sample port/sample well
means an opening in the roof that provides access for gauging or sampling. A gauge hatch is usually equipped with a closing cover or a funnel and slit-fabric seal to cover the opening.
Internal floating roof
means a floating roof located in a storage vessel with a fixed roof. For the purposes of this subpart, an external floating roof located in a storage vessel to which a fixed roof
has been added is considered to be an internal floating roof.
Liquid-mounted primary seal
means a liquid or foam-filled seal mounted in continuous contact with the liquid between the wall of the storage vessel and the floating roof around the entire circumference of the storage vessel.
Maximum true vapor pressure
means the equilibrium partial pressure exerted by the volatile organic compounds (as defined in 40 CFR 51.100) in the stored VOL at the temperature equal to the highest calendar-month average of the VOL storage temperature for VOLs stored above or below the ambient temperature or at the local maximum monthly average temperature as reported by the National Weather Service for VOLs stored at the ambient temperature, as determined using the procedures specified in § 60.113c(d).
Mechanical shoe primary seal
means a metal sheet (the shoe) held vertically against the wall of the storage vessel by springs or weighted levels and is connected by braces to the floating roof. A flexible coated fabric (the envelope) spans the annular space between the metal sheet and the floating roof.
Petroleum
means the crude oil removed from the earth and the oils derived from tar sands, shale, and coal.
Petroleum liquids
means petroleum, condensate, and any finished or intermediate products manufactured in a petroleum refinery.
Pressure release
means the emission of materials resulting from the system pressure being greater than the set pressure of the pressure relief device or resulting from vacuum breaking device failing to close prior to the system reaching atmospheric pressure. This release can be one release or a series of releases over a short time period.
Pressure relief device
means a valve, rupture disk, or similar device used only to release an unplanned, nonroutine discharge of gas from process equipment in order to avoid safety hazards or equipment damage. Devices with low opening pressures must be monitored as bypass lines. A pressure relief device discharge can result from an operator error, a malfunction such as a power failure or equipment failure, or other unexpected cause. Such devices include conventional, spring-actuated relief valves, balanced bellows relief valves, pilot-operated relief valves, rupture disks, and breaking, buckling, or shearing pin devices. Devices that are actuated only by a vacuum are not pressure relief devices. If a device has both a pressure relief function and a vacuum breaking function, such as a conservation vent, the portion of the conservation vent that acts to relieve pressure is considered a pressure relief device and the portion of the conservation vent that acts to relieve vacuum is a vacuum breaking device and not a pressure relief device.
Process tank
means a tank that is used within a process (including a solvent or raw material recovery process) to collect material discharged from a feedstock storage vessel or equipment within the process before the material is transferred to other equipment within the process, to a product or by-product storage vessel, or to a vessel used to store recovered solvent or raw material. In many process tanks, unit operations such as reactions and blending are conducted. Other process tanks, such as surge control vessels and bottoms receivers, however, may not involve unit operations.
Reid vapor pressure
means the absolute vapor pressure of volatile crude oil and volatile nonviscous petroleum liquids except liquified petroleum gases.
Rim-mounted secondary seal
means a secondary seal mounted on the rim of the floating roof of a storage vessel and forms continuous seal from the rim of the floating roof to the wall of the storage vessel.
Rim seal system
means a primary seal or a primary and secondary seal, which is mounted above the primary seal, and is attached to the deck perimeter and contacts the storage vessel wall.
Rim vent
means a device consisting of a weighted pallet that rests on a valve seat. Rim vents are used to release any excess pressure or vacuum present in the vapor pocket between the seal and the rim area of a floating roof storage vessel.
Routed to a process or route to a process
means the emissions are conveyed by hardpiping or a closed vent system to any enclosed portion of a process unit where the emissions are predominately
recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in the process; and/or transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not volatile organic liquids; and/or incorporated into a product; and/or recovered.
Storage vessel
means each tank, reservoir, or container used for the storage of volatile organic liquids but does not include:
(1) Frames, housing, auxiliary supports, or other components that are not directly involved in the containment of liquids or vapors;
(2) Subsurface caverns or porous rock reservoirs; or
(3) Process tanks.
Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vent
means a device used to equalize the pressure of the vapor space across the deck of a floating roof as the floating roof is either being landed on or floated off its roof supports. A vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vent consists of a well with a cover. The cover is designed to open as the floating roof is landed. Opening of the cover may be accomplished by mechanisms such as leg actuation or pressure actuation.
Vacuum breaking device
means a device on a fixed roof of a storage vessel used to prevent mechanical failure of the storage vessel due to vacuum created as liquids are withdrawn from the storage vessel. If a device has both a pressure relief function and a vacuum breaking function, such as a conservation vent, the portion of the conservation vent that acts to relieve vacuum is considered a vacuum breaking device and the portion of the conservation vent that acts to relieve excess pressure is a pressure relief device and not a vacuum breaking device.
Volatile organic liquid (VOL)
means any organic liquid which can emit volatile organic compounds (as defined in 40 CFR 51.100) into the atmosphere.
Waste
means any liquid resulting from industrial, commercial, mining, or agricultural operations, or from community activities that is discarded or is being accumulated, stored, or physically, chemically, or biologically treated prior to being discarded or recycled.
§ 60.112c
Standard for volatile organic compounds (VOC).
(a)
General storage vessel control requirements.
You must equip and operate each storage vessel affected facility meeting the thresholds in § 60.110c(c)(1), (c)(2), (d)(1), or (d)(2) as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
(1) For each storage vessel affected facility containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure less than 11.1 psia (76.6 kPa), you may elect to install and operate either an internal floating roof meeting the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, an external floating roof meeting the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section, or a closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) For each storage vessel affected facility containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure of 11.1 psia (76.6 kPa) or more, you must install and operate a closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.
(3) For each storage vessel affected facility complying with the closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process provisions specified in paragraph (d) of this section regardless of size and for each storage vessel with a design capacity greater than or equal to 1,000,000 gal (3,790 m
3
) containing a VOL that, as stored, has a maximum true vapor pressure equal to or greater than 1.5 psia (10.3 kPa), you must also comply with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.
(4) You must meet the applicable testing, monitoring, and inspection requirements specified in § 60.113c, recordkeeping requirements specified in § 60.115c, and reporting requirements specified in § 60.116c.
(b)
Requirements for an internal floating roof.
You must equip and operate each internal floating roof as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (16) of this section, as applicable.
(1) The internal floating roof must rest or float on the liquid surface (but not necessarily in complete contact with it) inside a storage vessel that has a fixed roof. The internal floating roof
must be floating on the liquid surface at all times, except during initial fill and during those intervals when the storage vessel is completely emptied or subsequently emptied and refilled. When the roof is resting on the roof supports, the process of filling, emptying, or refilling must be continuous and must be accomplished as rapidly as possible.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(14) of this section, each internal floating roof must be equipped with the following closure devices between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof:
(i) Two seals mounted one above the other so that each forms a continuous closure that completely covers the space between the wall of the storage vessel and the edge of the internal floating roof. The lower seal is referred to as the primary seal, and the upper seal is referred to as the secondary seal.
(ii) The primary seal must be either a mechanical shoe seal or a liquid-mounted seal. If a mechanical shoe seal is used, it must be installed so that one end of the shoe extends into the stored VOL and the other end extends a minimum vertical distance of 6 inches (15 centimeters) above the stored organic liquid surface.
(iii) The secondary seal must be rim-mounted.
(3) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and the rim vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface.
(4) Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents must be equipped with a gasket and are to be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, when the roof is floating. Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents must be set to open only when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof supports.
(5) Rim vents must be equipped with a gasket and must be closed at all times with no visible gaps when the roof is floating. Rim vents must be set to open only when the internal floating roof is not floating or when the pressure beneath the rim seal system exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.
(6) Each penetration of the internal floating roof for the purpose of sampling must be a gauge hatch/sample well. Except as specified in paragraph (b)(14) of this section, the gauge hatch/sample well must have a gasketed cover, which must be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.
(7) Each access hatch and gauge float well must be equipped with a cover that is gasketed and that is bolted or otherwise mechanically secured. The cover must be closed and must be bolted or otherwise mechanically secured at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.
(8) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof must have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover.
(9) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of an unslotted leg ladder or unslotted ladder/guidepole combination must have a gasketed sliding cover. The cover must be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the well must be opened for access.
(10) Each slotted guidepole must be equipped with one of the controls specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (v) of this section. The covers must be designed to be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the cover must be opened for access.
(i) Gasketed sliding well cover, with pole sleeve. The sleeve must extend into the stored liquid.
(ii) Gasketed sliding well cover, with pole sleeve and pole wiper. The sleeve must extend into the stored liquid.
(iii) Gasketed sliding well cover, with pole float and pole wiper. The wiper or seal of the pole float must be at or above the height of the pole wiper.
(iv) Gasketed sliding well cover, with pole float, pole sleeve, and pole wiper. The sleeve must extend into the stored liquid. The wiper or seal of the pole float must be at or above the height of the pole wiper.
(v) A flexible device that completely encloses the slotted guidepole and eliminates the hydrocarbon vapor emissions pathway from inside the
storage vessel through the guidepole slots to the outside air; a gasketed guidepole cover at the top of the guidepole; and a gasketed sliding well cover positioned at the top of the guidepole well that seals any openings between the well cover and the guidepole (
e.g.,
pole wiper), any openings between the well cover and any other objects that pass through the well cover, and any other openings in the top of the guidepole well.
(11) Ladder-slotted guidepole combination wells must be equipped with a gasketed sliding well cover and a ladder sleeve. The sliding well cover must be designed to be closed at all times with no visible gaps, except when gauging or sampling.
(12) Unslotted guidepoles must be equipped with one of the controls specified in paragraph (b)(12)(i) or (ii) of this section. The controls must be designed to be closed at all times with no visible gaps.
(i) A gasketed guidepole cover at the top of the guidepole; a gasketed sliding well cover; and a pole sleeve. The guidepole cover must be closed at all times, except when required to be opened for access. The gasketed sliding well cover must seal any openings between the well cover and the guidepole, any openings between the well cover and any other objects that pass through the well cover, and any other openings in the top of the guidepole well.
(ii) A gasketed guidepole cover at the top of the guidepole; a gasketed sliding well cover; and a pole wiper. The guidepole cover must be closed at all times, except when required to be opened for access. The gasketed sliding well cover must seal any openings between the well cover and the guidepole (
e.g.,
pole wiper), any openings between the well cover and any other objects that pass through the well cover, and any other openings in the top of the guidepole well.
(13) Except for leg sleeves and stub drains, each opening in the internal floating roof not specified in paragraphs (b)(4) through (12) of this section, must be equipped with a cover or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (
i.e.,
no visible gap) except when the device must be opened for access. The cover or lid must be equipped with a gasket.
(14) For each modified storage vessel as specified in § 60.110c(d) with an existing internal floating roof, you may elect to comply with the rim seal system requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(ii) or § 60.110b(e) instead of the requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and you may elect to comply with the gauge hatch/sample well requirements in § 60.112b(a)(1)(vii) or § 60.110b(e) instead of the requirements in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
(15) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (b)(1) though (14) of this section, as applicable, as provided in § 60.114c.
(16) Equip, maintain, and operate each internal floating roof control system to maintain the vapor concentration above the floating roof at or below 25 percent of the lower explosive limit (LEL) on a 5-minute rolling average basis without the use of purge gas. This standard may require additional controls, such as improved seam seals, beyond those specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (15) of this section. Compliance with this paragraph (b)(16) must be determined using the methods in § 60.113c(a)(3). Exceeding the LEL is considered an inspection failure under § 60.113c(a)(2)(i) and must be remedied as such. Any repairs made must be confirmed effective through re-monitoring of the LEL and meeting the limits in this paragraph (b)(16) within the timeframes specified in § 60.113c(a)(2)(i).
(c)
Requirements for an external floating roof.
You must equip and operate each external floating roof as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The roof must be floating on the liquid at all times (
i.e.,
off the roof supports) except during initial fill until the roof is lifted off roof supports and when the storage vessel is completely emptied or subsequently emptied and refilled. The process of filling, emptying, or refilling when the roof is resting on the roof supports must be continuous and must be accomplished as rapidly as possible.
(2) Each external floating roof must be equipped with a primary and secondary rim seal system as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, except
that if a mechanical shoe primary seal is used, it must be installed so that one end of the shoe extends into the stored VOL and the other end extends a minimum vertical distance of 24 inches (61 centimeters) above the stored organic liquid surface. The external floating roof also must have welded deck seams, and it must have deck fitting controls as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section, as applicable. References to an internal floating roof in paragraph (b)(2) of this section means an external floating roof for the purposes of this paragraph (c)(2).
(i) Each opening in an external floating roof except for vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and the rim vents is to provide a projection below the liquid surface.
(ii) Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents must be equipped with a gasket and are to be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, when the roof is floating. Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents must be set to open only when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof supports.
(iii) Rim vents must be equipped with a gasket and must be closed at all times with no visible gaps when the roof is floating. Rim vents must be set to open only when the external floating roof is not floating or when the pressure beneath the rim seal system exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.
(iv) Each penetration of the external floating roof for the purpose of sampling must be a gauge hatch/sample well. The gauge hatch/sample well must have a gasketed cover, which must be closed at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.
(v) Each access hatch and gauge float well must be equipped with a cover that is gasketed and that is bolted or otherwise mechanically secured. The cover must be closed and must be bolted or otherwise mechanically secured at all times, with no visible gaps, except when the hatch or well must be opened for access.
(vi) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if the external floating roof does not have a liquid-mounted primary seal, all guidepoles must be unslotted and must be equipped as specified in paragraph (b)(12) of this section.
(vii) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, if the external floating roof has a liquid-mounted primary seal, equip each guidepole as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) Each slotted guidepole must be equipped as specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(ii) or (iv) of this section.
(B) Each unslotted guidepole must be equipped as specified in paragraph (b)(12) of this section.
(viii) Each emergency roof drain is to be provided with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening.
(ix) Except for leg sleeves, each opening in the external floating roof not subject to controls specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section must be equipped with a cover or lid which is to be maintained in a closed position at all times (
i.e.,
no visible gap), except when the device must be opened for access. The cover or lid must be equipped with a gasket.
(3) For each modified storage vessel as specified in § 60.110c(d) with an existing external floating roof, you may elect to comply with any of the guidepole controls specified in paragraphs (b)(10) and (12) of this section regardless of the type of primary seal used.
(4) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section as provided in § 60.114c.
(d)
Requirements for closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process.
You must design, install, and operate each affected storage vessel with a closed vent system that routes to a control device, fuel gas system, or process as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The storage vessel must be designed and operated to be routed through a closed vent system to a control device, fuel gas system, or process at all times the storage vessel contains
VOL without venting to the atmosphere through either meeting the storage vessel design requirements specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section or the vapor recovery system design requirements specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section. Compliance with this requirement must be demonstrated according to paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section. Any vacuum breaking device on the storage vessel must close while the storage vessel is still under vacuum of at least −0.1 inches of water (−0.0036 psig or −0.025 kPa gauge).
(i) The storage vessel must be designed to operate at a gauge pressure of no less than 1 psi greater than the maximum true vapor pressure of the stored liquid and any back pressure anticipated when the storage vessel is filled at its maximum rate without venting to the atmosphere.
(ii) The vapor recovery system must be designed and operated to maintain the pressure in each storage vessel routed to a control device below the venting pressure of that storage vessel.
(iii) You must equip each pressure relief device and vacuum breaking device on a storage vessel with a device(s) or use a monitoring system that is capable of meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section. If all emissions from a pressure relief device are routed through a closed vent system to a control device, process, or fuel gas system, then you are not required to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (d)(1)(iii).
(A) Identifying the pressure release.
(B) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release.
(C) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring. The device or monitoring system must be either specific to the pressure relief device or vacuum breaking device itself or must be associated with each storage vessel to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. Examples of these types of devices and systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, or pressure monitor.
(2) Except for closed vent systems operated and maintained under negative pressure, each closed vent system must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) The closed vent system must be designed to collect all VOC vapors and gases discharged from the storage vessel and operated with no detectable emissions as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million by volume (ppmv) above background, as determined using Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part as specified in § 60.113c(c)(2) and (3), and as determined by observations for visible, audible, and olfactory indications of leaks. Visible, audible, and olfactory inspections must be performed quarterly and Method 21 of appendix A-7 instrument monitoring must be conducted at least annually.
(ii) Except for pressure relief devices and except for open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as § 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c), you must comply with the provisions of either paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section for each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream to the atmosphere.
(A) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that is capable of taking readings every 15 minutes. Install the flow indicator at the entrance to any bypass line.
(B) Secure the bypass line valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration.
(iii) You must equip each pressure relief device on a closed vent system with a device(s) or use a monitoring system that is capable of meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section. If all releases and potential leaks from a pressure relief device are routed through a closed vent system to a control device, process, or fuel gas system, then you are not required to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (d)(2)(iii).
(A) Identifying the pressure release.
(B) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release.
(C) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring. The device or monitoring system must be either specific to the pressure relief device itself or must be associated with the process system or piping, sufficient to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. Examples of these types of devices and systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, or pressure monitor.
(3) If you route emissions from a storage vessel to a control device, the control device must be designed and operated to reduce inlet VOC emissions by 98 percent or greater. If a flare is used as the control device or if an enclosed combustion device is used for which you elect to comply with the flare operating limits, you must meet the specifications described in paragraph (d)(5) of this section. The control device must be operated at all times when emissions from an affected storage vessel are routed to it except as provided in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(4) A system equivalent to those described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section as provided in § 60.114c.
(5) If you route from a storage vessel to a flare or enclosed combustion device for with you elect to comply with these flare operating limits, you must meet all applicable requirements specified in 40 CFR 63.670(b) through (g) and (i) through (n) except as provided in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) For the purpose of this subpart,
(A) The term “regulated materials” refers to “vapors from a storage vessel affected facility”;
(B) The term “pilot flame” means “pilot flame or flare flame”;
(C) The terms “petroleum refinery” and “refinery” mean “storage vessel affected facility”.
(ii) For visible emissions, use the following text instead of 40 CFR 63.670(c): The owner or operator shall operate with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of five (5) minutes during any two (2) consecutive hours, when regulated material is routed to the flare. You must monitor for visible emissions from the flare as specified in § 60.113c(c)(1)(iv)(A).
(iii) The phrase “and the flare vent gas flow rate is less than the smokeless design capacity of the flare” in 40 CFR 63.670(d) for flare tip velocity requirements does not apply.
(6) If you route emissions from a storage vessel to a fuel gas system or process, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.
(i) The fuel gas system or process must be operating at all times when emissions from an affected storage vessel are routed to it.
(ii) If all emissions are routed to a process, the VOL in the emissions must meet one or more of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section and you must comply with the compliance demonstration requirements in paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.
(A) Recycled and/or consumed in the same manner as a material that fulfills the same function in that process.
(B) Transformed by chemical reaction into materials that are not regulated materials.
(C) Incorporated into a product.
(D) Recovered.
(iii) To demonstrate compliance with paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section for an affected storage vessel, you must prepare a design evaluation (or engineering assessment) that demonstrates the extent to which one or more of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section are being met.
(iv) If emissions from an affected storage vessel are routed to a fuel gas system, you must submit the statement of connection for fuel gas systems specified in § 60.116c(a)(7).
(7) To the extent practical, routine maintenance on the control device should be conducted when the storage vessel(s) is(are) out of VOL service. If you comply with all the provisions in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section, you may conduct routine maintenance on a control device while one or more storage vessels vented to the control device are storing a VOL.
(i) The storage vessel(s) storing VOL must be designed to operate above the
maximum true vapor pressure of the stored VOL according to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section.
(ii) The control device must be isolated from the storage vessel(s) using valves(s), blind flange(s), or similar device(s) at the control device or in the closed vent system as near as practical to the control device. You may purge the control device and downstream portion of the closed vent system to remove potentially explosive vapors and create a safe work environment only after the control device is isolated from the storage vessel(s).
(iii) You must continue to comply with the bypass and pressure relief device monitoring requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii), (d)(2)(ii), and (d)(2)(iii) of this section and their associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements. If there are multiple storage vessels connected to the closed vent system with significantly different pressure design limits, you must isolate individual storage vessels to prevent venting during planned maintenance. Compliance with this paragraph (d)(7)(iii) may limit VOL addition to the storage vessel. If VOL is added to the storage vessel, there must be an approximately equivalent withdrawal of VOL such that the liquid level does not rise sufficiently to increase the pressure in the storage vessel to cause a pressure release from the storage vessel or the closed vent system.
(iv) During this routine maintenance period the affected storage vessels cannot be actively degassed. If the storage vessel is to be emptied and actively degassed, the planned maintenance activity must be conducted when the storage vessel is out of VOL service.
(e)
Requirements for storage vessel degassing.
For each storage vessel meeting the specifications in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section during emptying and degassing of a storage vessel until the vapor space concentration in the storage vessel is less than 10 percent of the LEL or, for nonflammable liquids, 5,000 ppmv as methane. You must determine the LEL or methane concentration using process instrumentation or a portable measurement device and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications. You must check instrument calibration and check the instrumental offset response each day the instrument is used and prior to discontinuing controlled degassing to confirm the accuracy of the instrument's readings.
(1) Remove liquids from the storage vessel as much as practicable. Chemicals or a diluent such as a distillate fuel may be introduced into the storage vessel for the purpose of reducing vapor concentration before or during active degassing.
(2) Comply with one of the following:
(i) Reduce total VOC emissions by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a flare or enclosed combustion device for which you elect to comply with the flare provisions and meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.
(ii) Reduce total VOC emissions by 98 weight percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of non-flare control devices.
(iii) Reduce total VOC emissions by routing emissions to a fuel gas system or process and meet the requirements specified in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(3) For floating roof storage vessels, the storage vessel may be opened to set up equipment (
e.g.,
making connections to a temporary control device) for the shutdown operations but must not be actively degassed during this time period.
§ 60.113c
Testing, monitoring, and inspection procedures.
For each storage vessel subject to the provision in § 60.112c(a), you must meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if you installed an internal floating roof, paragraph (b) of this section if you installed an external floating roof, or paragraph (c) of this section if you route emissions through a closed vent system to a control device, fuel gas system, or process. You must also meet the applicable requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.
(a)
Requirements for an internal floating roof.
After installing the control equipment for an internal floating roof
to meet the provisions in § 60.112c(b), you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is in service), and deck fittings prior to filling the storage vessel with VOL. Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section constitutes inspection failure. You must repair the items before filling the storage vessel.
(i) Holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric;
(ii) Defects in the internal floating roof; or
(iii) A rim seal or deck fitting control not meeting the applicable requirements in § 60.112c(b)(2) through (13).
(2) Inspect the internal floating roof as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section at least once every 12 calendar months after initial fill, and inspect the internal floating roof as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section each time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed, or at a frequency no greater than every 120 calendar months, whichever occurs first.
(i) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is service), and deck fittings, through openings in the fixed roof and conduct LEL monitoring. Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (F) of this section constitutes inspection failure. Identification of holes or tears in the rim seal is required only for the seal that is visible from the top of the storage vessel. You must repair the items or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph (a)(2)(i) cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the storage vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, you may request a 30-day extension from the Administrator. Such a request for an extension must document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of actions the company will take that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the storage vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.
(A) Stored liquid on the floating roof;
(B) The internal floating roof is not resting on the surface of the VOL inside the storage vessel;
(C) Holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric;
(D) Defects in the internal floating roof;
(E) A rim seal or deck fitting control not meeting the applicable requirements in § 60.112c(b)(2) through (13); or
(F) The concentration measured according to paragraph (a)(3) of this section exceeds 25 percent of the LEL.
(ii) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, the primary seal, the secondary seal (if one is in service), gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any). Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section constitutes an inspection failure. You must repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) exist before refilling the storage vessel with VOL. The inspection may be performed entirely from the top side of the floating roof, as long as there is visual access to all deck fittings and rim seal system specified in § 60.112c(b). You must repair the items or empty and remove the storage vessel from service within 45 days. If a failure that is detected during inspections required in this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the storage vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, you may request a 30-day extension from the Administrator. Such a request for an extension must document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable and specify a schedule of actions the company will take that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the storage vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.
(A) Defects in the internal floating roof;
(B) Holes, tears, or other openings in the primary seal, the secondary seal, or the seal fabric; or
(C) A rim seal or deck fitting control not meeting the applicable requirements in § 60.112c(b)(2) through (13).
(3) Compliance with the LEL limit for internal floating roof storage vessels at § 60.112c(b)(16) must be determined based on the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section. If tubing is necessary to obtain the measurements, the tubing must be non-crimping and made of Teflon or other inert material.
(i) You must conduct LEL monitoring as part of the annual inspection specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and at other times upon request by the Administrator. If the measurement cannot be performed during the visual inspection due to wind speeds exceeding those specified in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(C) of this section, the measurement must be performed within 30 days of the visual inspection. If there is an exceedance of the LEL limit, you must re-monitor in accordance with § 60.112c(b)(16) within 30 days after repair or placing the storage vessel back in service.
(ii) The calibration of the LEL meter must be checked per manufacturer specifications immediately before and after the measurements as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. If tubing will be used for the measurements, the tubing must be attached during calibration so that the calibration gas travels through the entire measurement system.
(A) Conduct the span check using a calibration gas recommended by the LEL meter manufacturer. The calibration gas must contain a single hydrocarbon at a concentration of the vapor corresponding to 50 percent of the LEL (
e.g.,
2.50 percent by volume when using methane as the calibration gas). The vendor must provide a Certificate of Analysis for the gas, and the certified concentration must be within ±2 percent (
e.g.,
2.45 percent-2.55 percent by volume when using methane as the calibration gas). The LEL span response must be between 49 percent and 51 percent. If the span check prior to the measurements does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced. If the span check after the measurements does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced, and the measurements must be repeated.
(B) Check the instrumental offset response using a certified compressed gas cylinder of zero air or an ambient environment that is free of organic compounds. The pre-measurement instrumental offset response must be 0 percent LEL. If the LEL meter does not meet this requirement, the LEL meter must be recalibrated or replaced.
(iii) Conduct the monitoring measurements as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.
(A) Measurements of the vapors within the internal floating roof storage vessel must be collected no more than 3 feet above the internal floating roof.
(B) Measurements must be taken for a minimum of 20 minutes, logging the measurements at least once every 15 seconds, or until one 5-minute average as determined according to paragraph (a)(3)(v)(B) of this section exceeds the limit specified in § 60.112c(b)(16).
(C) Measurements shall be taken when the wind speed at the top of the storage vessel is 5 mph or less to the extent practicable, but in no case shall measurements be taken when the sustained wind speed at top of storage vessel is greater than the annual average wind speed at the site or 15 mph, whichever is less.
(D) Measurements should be conducted when the internal floating roof is floating with limited product movement (limited filling or emptying of the storage vessel).
(iv) To determine the actual concentration of the vapor within the storage vessel, the percent of the LEL “as the calibration gas” must be corrected according to one of the procedures in paragraph (a)(3)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section. Alternatively, if the LEL meter used has correction factors that can be selected from the meter's program, you may enable this feature to automatically apply one of the correction factors in paragraph (a)(3)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section.
(A) Multiply the measurement by the published vapor correction factor for the specific LEL meter, stored VOL, and calibration gas used; or
(B) If there is no published correction factor for the specific LEL meter used
and the vapors of the stored VOL, multiply the measurement by the published correction factor for butane as a surrogate for determining the LEL of the vapors of the stored VOL. The correction factor must correspond to the calibration gas used.
(v) Use the calculation procedures in paragraphs (a)(3)(v)(A) through (C) of this section to determine compliance with the LEL limit.
(A) For each minute while measurements are being taken, determine the 1-minute average reading as the arithmetic average of the corrected individual measurements (taken at least once every 15 seconds) during the minute.
(B) Starting with the end of the fifth minute of data, calculate a 5-minute rolling average as the arithmetic average of the previous five 1-minute readings determined under paragraph (a)(3)(v)(A) of this section. Determine a new 5-minute average reading for every subsequent 1-minute reading.
(C) Each 5-minute rolling average must meet the LEL limit specified in § 60.112c(b)(16).
(4) Notify the Administrator as specified in § 60.116c(b) at least 30 days prior to the inspection of each storage vessel for which an inspection is required by paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2)(ii) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.
(5) You must equip each affected storage vessel that has an internal floating roof with an alarm system that provides a visual or audible signal that alerts the operator when the internal floating roof is approaching the landed height and that provides a separate visual or audible signal to alert the operator when the roof has landed. The roof is considered landed when the floating roof first rests on supports or when the vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vent begins to open, whichever is first (for example, when using a leg-actuated vent that triggers the vent prior to resting on the roof supports).
(b)
Requirements for an external floating roof.
After installing the control equipment for an external floating roof to meet the provisions in § 60.112c(c), you must inspect the external floating roof according to the specifications in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) Determine the gap areas and maximum gap widths, between the primary seal and the wall of the storage vessel and between the secondary seal and the wall of the storage vessel according to the frequency provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. You must visually inspect all roof fittings to ensure that covers are closed and gasketed with no visible gaps and that there are no tears in sleeves, wipers, or similar controls used for a given fitting during each measurement of gaps as required under this paragraph (b)(1).
(i) Measurements of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the primary seal (seal gaps) must be performed during the hydrostatic testing of the storage vessel or within 60 days of the initial fill with VOL and at least once every 60 calendar months thereafter.
(ii) Measurements of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the secondary seal must be performed within 60 days of the initial fill with VOL and at least once every 12 calendar months thereafter.
(iii) If any source ceases to store VOL for a period of 12 calendar months or more, subsequent introduction of VOL into the storage vessel must be considered an initial fill for the purposes of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.
(2) Determine gap widths and areas in the primary and secondary seals individually by the following procedures:
(i) Measure seal gaps, if any, at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is floating off the roof supports.
(ii) Measure seal gaps around the entire circumference of the storage vessel in each place where a 0.125-inch (0.32-centimeter (cm)) diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against seal) between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel and measure the circumferential distance of each such location.
(iii) The total surface area of each gap described in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section must be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the storage vessel wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.
(3) Add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually and divide the sum for each seal by the nominal diameter of the storage vessel and compare each ratio to the respective standards in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
(4) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, make necessary repairs or empty the storage vessel within 45 days of identification in any inspection failure as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) For primary seals, any deviation of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (D) of this section is an inspection failure.
(A) The accumulated area of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the mechanical shoe or liquid-mounted primary seal must not exceed 10 square inches (in
2
) per foot of storage vessel diameter (212 square centimeters (cm
2
) per meter of storage vessel diameter).
(B) The maximum width of any portion of any gap must not exceed 1.5 inches (3.81 cm).
(C) If a mechanical shoe seal is used, one end of the mechanical shoe is to extend into the stored liquid, and the other end is to extend a minimum vertical distance of 2 feet (61 cm) above the stored liquid surface.
(D) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope.
(ii) For secondary seals, any deviation of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section is an inspection failure.
(A) The secondary seal is to be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the storage vessel wall except for allowed gaps as provided in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section.
(B) The accumulated area of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the secondary seal must not exceed 1 in
2
per foot (21.2 cm
2
per meter) of storage vessel diameter.
(C) The maximum width of any portion of any gap must not exceed 0.5 inches (1.27 cm).
(D) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric.
(iii) For roof fittings (
e.g.,
vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and rim vents, gauge hatch/sample wells, access hatches, guidepoles, ladders, and emergency roof drains), any deviation of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section is an inspection failure.
(A) Each opening in an external floating roof except for vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and the rim vents provides a projection below the liquid surface.
(B) Vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vents and rim vents are equipped with a gasket and are closed with no visible gaps when the roof is floating.
(C) The gauge hatch/sample well, access hatch, and gauge float must have a gasketed cover and closed with no visible gaps.
(D) There are to be no tears or visible defects of sleeves, wipers, or fabric covers used to control emissions from a roof fitting.
(5) If a failure that is detected as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the storage vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, you may request a 30-day extension from the Administrator. Such extension request must include a demonstration of unavailability of alternate storage capacity and a specification of a schedule that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the storage vessel will be emptied as soon as possible.
(6) Notify the Administrator, as specified in § 60.116c(b)(2), 30 days in advance of any gap measurements required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.
(7) Visually inspect the external floating roof, primary seal, secondary seal, and fittings each time the vessel is emptied and degassed.
(i) If the external floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the
seal or the seal fabric, covers have visible openings or missing or torn gaskets, or there are tears or other visible defects in flexible covers, sleeves, wipers, or other fitting controls, you must repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph (b)(7)(i) exist before filling or refilling the storage vessel with VOL.
(ii) For each inspection required by paragraph (b)(7) of this section, notify the Administrator as specified in § 60.116c(b)(1) at least 30 days prior to the inspection of each storage vessel to afford the Administrator the opportunity to inspect the storage vessel.
(8) You must equip each affected storage vessel that has an external floating roof with an alarm system that provides a visual or audible signal that alerts the operator when the external floating roof is approaching the landed height and that provides a separate visual or audible signal to alert the operator when the roof has landed. The roof is considered landed when the floating roof first rests on supports or when the vacuum breaker/automatic bleeder vent begins to open, whichever is first (for example, when using a leg-actuated vent that triggers the vent prior to resting on the roof supports).
(c)
Requirements for closed vent systems routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process.
For each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and routes to a control device, fuel gas system, or process to meet the requirements in § 60.112c(d), you must conduct performance testing and monitoring of the control device as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, conduct monitoring and inspections of the closed vent system as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, repair leaks as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and develop a monitoring plan as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(1) For each control device used to meet the requirements in § 60.112c(d), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.
(i) For each enclosed combustion device or flare, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a backpressure regulator valve calibrated to open at the minimum pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate. The set point must be consistent with manufacturer specifications for minimum flow or pressure and must be supported by an engineering evaluation. At least annually, you must confirm that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications and that the valve fully closes when not in the open position.
(ii) For each control device other than a flare, except as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, you must conduct a performance test as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section not later than 180 days after becoming subject to § 60.112c(d). You must conduct subsequent performance tests within 60 calendar months after each previous performance test. Submit the results of all performance tests following the procedures in § 60.116c(e).
(A) Each performance test must demonstrate that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control device performance level specified in § 60.112c(d)(3). Performance tests must be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent the entire range of normal operation, including operational conditions for maximum emissions if such emissions are not expected during maximum production. You must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
(B) You must conduct a minimum of three test runs. Each test run must be at least 1 hour long.
(C) The following methods in appendix A to this part, except as provided in § 60.8(b), must be used as reference methods to determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement.
(
1
) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to this part, as appropriate, for selection of the sampling sites. Sampling sites must be located at the inlet of the first control device and at the outlet of the final control device to determine compliance with a control device percent reduction requirement.
(
2
) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A-1 to this part, as appropriate to determine the gas volumetric flow rate.
(
3
) Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part. Use propane as the calibration gas. You must use Method 4 of appendix A-3 to this part to convert the Method 25A of appendix A-7 results to a dry basis.
(D) You must use the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(D)(
1
) and (
2
) of this section to calculate percent reduction efficiency.
(
1
) You must compute the mass rate of TOC using the following equations:
E
i
=
K
2
C
i
M
p
Q
i
E
o
=
K
2
C
o
M
p
Q
o

# Equations 1 and 2 to Paragraph (
c

# )(1)(
ii

# )(D)(
1

# )
Where:
E
i
, E
o
= Mass rate of TOC at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, dry basis, kilograms per hour.
K
2
= Constant, 2.494 × 10
−6
(parts per million) (gram-mole per standard cubic meter) (kilogram/gram) (minute/hour), where standard temperature (gram-mole per standard cubic meter) is 20 degrees Celsius.
C
i
, C
o
= Concentration of TOC, as propane, of the gas stream as measured by Method 25A of appendix A-7 to this part at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, dry basis, parts per million by volume.
M
p
= Molecular weight of propane, 44.1 gram/gram-mole.
Q
i
, Q
o
= Flowrate of gas stream at the inlet and outlet of the control device, respectively, dry standard cubic meter per minute.
(
2
) You must calculate the percent reduction in TOC as follows:
ER15OC24.000
Equation 3 to Paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(D)(
2
)
Where:
R
cd
= Control efficiency of control device, percent.
E
i
= Mass rate of TOC at the inlet to the control device as calculated under paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(D)(
1
) of this section, kilograms per hour.
E
o
= Mass rate of TOC at the outlet of the control device, as calculated under paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(D)(
1
) of this section, kilograms per hour.
(E) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(E)(
5
) of this section, you must establish the applicable operating parameter limit as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(E)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section by calculating the value(s) as the arithmetic average of operating parameter measurements recorded during the three test runs conducted for the most recent performance test (the average of the test run averages). You may operate outside of the established operating parameter limit(s) during subsequent performance tests in order to establish new operating limits. You must include the updated operating limits with the performance test results submitted to the Administrator pursuant to § 60.116c(e). Upon establishment of a new operating limit, you must thereafter operate under the new operating limit. You must demonstrate compliance with your operating parameter according to paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(E)(
4
) of this section.
(
1
) If you use an enclosed combustion device, a boiler, or a process heater other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section to control emissions, you must set a minimum firebox temperature limit during the performance test. You must continuously monitor the firebox temperature with a temperature monitoring device installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream from
the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs and equipped with a continuous recorder that records a reading at least once every 15 minutes. The monitoring device must have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 degrees Celsius, whichever value is greater.
(
2
) If you use a catalytic incinerator other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section to control emissions, you must set a minimum temperature limit on the temperature at the inlet of the catalyst bed and a minimum temperature limit on the temperature difference between the catalyst bed outlet and inlet. You must continuously monitor the temperatures with a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder that records a reading at least once every 15 minutes. The device must be capable of monitoring temperature at two locations and have a minimum accuracy of ±1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or ±2.5 degrees Celsius, whichever value is greater. You must install one temperature sensor in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed inlet, and you must install a second temperature sensor in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed outlet. You must install the temperature sensor at a location representative of the firebox temperature.
(
3
) If you use a control device other than a flare or other than a device listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(E)(
1
), (c)(1)(ii)(E)(
2
), (c)(1)(ii)(E)(
5
), or (c)(1)(iii) to control emissions, you must submit the operating parameters you plan to monitor in the performance test notice you provide to the Administrator pursuant to § 60.8(d).
(
4
) Using the continuous monitoring system (CMS) data, you must calculate the hourly average of each operating parameter. You must demonstrate compliance by maintaining the operating parameter at or above the minimum operating parameter limit on a 3-hour rolling average basis. For each hour, calculate the hourly value of the operating parameter from your CMS. Average the three most recent hours of data to determine the 3-hour average. Determine the 3-hour rolling average by recalculating the 3-hour average each hour. You must not include periods of data collected during monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, maintenance periods, instrument adjustments, or checks to maintain precision and accuracy in the operating parameter averages.
(
5
) For enclosed combustion devices for which you elect to comply with the flare requirements in § 60.112c(d)(5), you must comply with the monitoring provisions in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section instead of paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(E)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section.
(iii) No performance test is required for the control devices identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.
(A) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) or greater.
(B) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel.
(C) A boiler, process heater, or incinerator burning hazardous waste, which is regulated under 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE; part 264; part 265; or part 266.
(iv) For each source that is equipped with a closed vent system and a flare to meet the requirements in § 60.112c(d) or enclosed combustion device electing to comply with the requirements in § 60.112c(d)(5), you must conduct visible emission observations as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) of this section and install, operate, and maintain CMS for flares following the requirements specified in 40 CFR 63.671 and as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(B) and (C) of this section.
(A) If visible emissions are observed for more than 1 continuous minute during normal duties, visible emissions observation using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part must be conducted for 2 hours or until 5-minutes of visible emissions are observed.
(B) Substitute “pilot flame or flare flame” for each occurrence of “pilot flame.”
(C) As an alternative to determining the flare tip velocity rate for each 15-minute block to determine compliance
with the flare tip velocity operating limit as specified in 40 CFR 63.670(k)(2), you may elect to conduct a one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section. If the flare or storage vessel control configurations change (
e.g.,
flare tip modified or additional storage vessel or other sources are added for which vapors are directed to the flare), you must repeat this one-time assessment based on the new configuration.
(
1
) Determine the unobstructed cross-sectional area of the flare tip, in units of square feet, as specified in 40 CFR 63.670(k)(1).
(
2
) Determine the maximum flow rate, in units of cubic feet per second, based on the maximum cumulative loading rate for a 15-minute block period considering maximum filling rates for all storage vessel affected facilities controlled by the flare and, if applicable, considering the maximum release pressure of any other vapors directed to the flare.
(
3
) Calculate the maximum flare tip velocity as the maximum flow rate from paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
2
) of this section divided by the unobstructed cross-sectional area of the flare tip from paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
1
) of this section.
(
4
) Demonstrate that the maximum flare tip velocity as calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)(
3
) of this section is less than 60 feet per second.
(2) For each closed vent system, you must conduct the instrument monitoring in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must conduct the initial instrument monitoring within 180 days of an affected facility being connected to the closed vent system. Subsequent instrument inspections must be conducted within 365 days of the previous inspection. Visual, audible, and olfactory inspections must be conducted quarterly.
(i) Conduct instrument monitoring using the procedures in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part. The detection instrument must meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of appendix A-7, except that the instrument response factor criteria in section 8.1.1 of Method 21 of appendix A-7 must be for the average composition of the fluid and not for each individual organic compound in the stream. For streams that contain nitrogen, air, water, or other inerts that are not organic VOC, the representative stream response factor must be determined on an inert-free basis. The instrument reading that defines a leak is 500 ppmv (as methane). The instrument shall be calibrated before use each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7. The calibration gases in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section must be used. The drift assessment specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(C) of this section must be performed at the end of each monitoring day.
(A) Zero air (less than 10 ppm of hydrocarbon in air).
(B) A mixture of methane in air at a concentration of approximately 500 ppmv.
(C) At the end of each monitoring day, check the instrument using the same calibration gas that was used to calibrate the instrument before use. Follow the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part, section 10.1, except do not adjust the meter readout to correspond to the calibration gas value. If multiple scales are used, record the instrument reading for each scale used. Divide the arithmetic difference of the initial and post-test calibration response by the corresponding calibration gas value for each scale and multiply by 100 to express the calibration drift as a percentage. If a calibration drift assessment shows a negative drift of more than 10 percent, then re-monitor all equipment monitored since the last calibration with instrument readings between the leak definition and the leak definition multiplied by (100 minus the percent of negative drift) divided by 100. If any calibration drift assessment shows a positive drift of more than 10 percent from the initial calibration value, then, at the owner/operator's discretion, all equipment with instrument readings above the leak definition and below the leak definition multiplied by (100 plus the percent of positive drift) divided by 100 monitored since the last calibration may be re-monitored.
(ii) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe to
inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section if the conditions of paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section are met.
(A) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe-to-inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section; and
(B) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practical during safe-to-inspect times. Inspection is not required more than once annually.
(iii) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated as difficult-to-inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section if the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section apply.
(A) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface; and
(B) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 60 calendar months.
(3) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 ppmv or emissions detected by visible, audible, and olfactory methods, shall be repaired as soon as practical following the requirements outlined in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
(i) Except as allowed by paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, a first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 days after the leak is detected. Repairs shall be completed no later than 15 days after the leak is detected or at the beginning of the next introduction of vapors to the system, whichever is later.
(ii) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if repair within 15 days after a leak is detected is technically infeasible or unsafe or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be completed as soon as practical.
(4) You must develop a monitoring plan that covers each CMS used to demonstrate continuous compliance for your control device as outlined in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each CMS in accordance with the procedures in your monitoring plan.
(i) For each control device other than those specified in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, your monitoring plan must contain the information required in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(A) through (G) of this section.
(A) The parameter to be monitored and the operating limit for the parameter.
(B) Sampling interface (
e.g.,
thermocouple) location such that the monitoring system will provide representative measurements.
(C) Description of the monitoring system specifications, including the detector signal analyzer, data acquisition, and calculations.
(D) Equipment performance checks, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures, including the information in paragraphs (c)(4)(i)(D)(
1
) through (
4
) of this section.
(
1
) You must conduct the CMS equipment performance checks, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures specified in the monitoring plan at least once every 12 calendar months.
(
2
) You must also conduct calibration checks following any period of more than 24 hours throughout which the sensor exceeded the manufacturer's specified maximum range unless you install a new sensor.
(
3
) At least quarterly, you must inspect all components for integrity and all electrical connections for continuity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion, unless you use a redundant CMS.
(
4
) Daily checks for indications that the system is responding.
(E) Description of how periods of data collected during CMS breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, instrument adjustments, or checks to maintain precision and accuracy, calibration checks, and zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable), and high-level adjustments will be
excluded from operating parameter averages.
(F) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures.
(G) Ongoing recordkeeping procedures.
(ii) For each flare or enclosed combustion device for with you elect to comply with the flare provisions in § 60.112c(d)(5), your monitoring plan must contain the information required by 40 CFR 63.671(b).
(d)
Requirements for determining maximum true vapor pressure.
For each affected storage vessel, you must determine the maximum true vapor pressure of the stored VOL according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. For storage vessels operated above or below ambient temperatures, the maximum true vapor pressure is calculated based upon the highest expected calendar-month average of the storage temperature. For storage vessels operated at ambient temperatures, the maximum true vapor pressure is calculated based upon the maximum local monthly average ambient temperature as reported by the National Weather Service.
(1) Prior to the initial filling of the storage vessel or to the refilling of the storage vessel with a new VOL, the highest maximum true vapor pressure for the range of anticipated liquids to be stored, including mixtures for which you can define the range of concentrations for constituents in the mixture or with a known maximum Reid vapor pressure, must be determined using any one of the methods described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) As obtained from standard reference texts.
(ii) ASTM D6377-20 (incorporated by reference; see § 60.17). Perform the method using a vapor-to-liquid ratio of 4:1, which is expressed in the method as VPCR.
(iii) ASTM D6378-22 (incorporated by reference; see § 60.17). Perform the method using a vapor-to-liquid ratio of 4:1.
(iv) As measured by an appropriate method as approved by the Administrator.
(2) For each affected storage vessel storing a mixture of indeterminate composition or a mixture of unknown variable composition, the initial determination of the vapor pressure required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section must be a physical test using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section. Additional physical tests using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section are required at least once every 6 calendar months thereafter as long as the measured vapor pressure remains below the applicable thresholds in § 60.110c(c)(1), (c)(2), (d)(1), or (d)(2). If the vapor pressure measured under this paragraph (d)(2) exceeds the threshold defined in § 60.110c(c)(1), (c)(2), (d)(1), or (d)(2) you must meet the requirements in § 60.112c and the corresponding requirements in §§ 60.113c through 60.116c. If the storage vessel does not have controls meeting the requirements in § 60.112c, the storage vessel must be emptied and taken out of service until controls meeting the requirements in § 60.112c can be installed. Upon compliance with the provisions in § 60.112c, no additional vapor pressure monitoring is required.
§ 60.114c
Alternative means of emission limitation.
(a) If, in the Administrator's judgment, an alternative means of emission limitation will achieve a reduction in emissions at least equivalent to the reduction in emissions achieved by the applicable requirement in § 60.112c, the Administrator will publish in the
Federal Register
a document permitting the use of the alternative means for purposes of compliance with that requirement.
(b) Any document under paragraph (a) of this section will be published only after notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
(c) Any person seeking permission under this section must submit to the Administrator a written application including either:
(1) An actual emissions test that uses a full-sized or scale-model storage vessel that accurately collects and measures all VOC emissions from a given control device and that accurately simulates wind and accounts for other emission variables such as temperature and barometric pressure; or
(2) An engineering evaluation that the Administrator determines is an accurate method of determining equivalence.
(d) The Administrator may condition the permission on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same emission reduction as specified in § 60.112c.
§ 60.115c
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a) Except as otherwise specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, you must keep copies of all records required by this section and all reports required under § 60.116c for at least 5 years.
(b) For each storage vessel affected facility as specified in § 60.110c(a), you must keep readily accessible records for the life of the source showing the dimension of the storage vessel and an analysis showing the capacity of the storage vessel.
(c) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section, for each storage vessel affected facility under this subpart, you must maintain a record of the VOL currently stored, including a description of the VOL stored, the date when the VOL was first stored in the storage vessel, and the maximum true vapor pressure of that VOL.
(1) For each vessel storing a mixture of indeterminate or variable composition that meets the requirements for vapor pressure measurement at least once every 6 calendar months in § 60.113c(d), you must maintain records of each vapor pressure measurement for 5 years.
(2) Each vessel equipped with a closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process meeting the specification of § 60.112c(d) is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.
(d) For each storage vessel as specified in § 60.112c(a), you must keep records as required in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable depending upon the control equipment installed to meet the requirements of § 60.112c.
(1) After installing control equipment for an internal floating roof to meet the provisions in § 60.112c(b), you must keep the following records.
(i) Keep a record of each inspection performed as required by § 60.113c(a)(1), (a)(2)(i), and (a)(2)(ii). Each record must identify the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed and must contain the date the vessel was inspected and the observed condition of each component of the control equipment (seals, internal floating roof, and fittings).
(ii) For each LEL monitoring event, keep records as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) through (I) of this section.
(A) Date and time of the LEL monitoring, and the storage vessel being monitored.
(B) A description of the monitoring event (annual monitoring conducted concurrent with visual inspection required under § 60.113c(a)(2)(i); re-monitoring due to high winds during annual monitoring; re-monitoring after repair attempt; other monitoring event as required by the Administrator).
(C) Wind speed at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.
(D) The LEL meter manufacturer and model number used, as well as an indication of whether tubing was used during the LEL monitoring, and if so, the type and length of tubing used.
(E) Calibration checks conducted before and after making the measurements, including both the span check and instrumental offset. This includes the hydrocarbon used as the calibration gas, the Certificate of Analysis for the calibration gas(es), the results of the calibration check, and any corrective action for calibration checks that do not meet the required response.
(F) Location of the measurements and the location of the floating roof.
(G) Each measurement (taken at least once every 15 seconds). The records should indicate whether the recorded values were automatically corrected using the meter's programming. If the values were not automatically corrected, record both the raw (as the calibration gas) and corrected measurements, as well as the correction factor used.
(H) Each of the 5-minute rolling average readings.
(I) If the vapor concentration of the storage vessel was above 25 percent of the LEL on a 5-minute rolling average basis, a description of whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of service.
(2) After installing control equipment for an external floating roof to meet the provisions in § 60.112c(c), you must keep a record of each inspection and gap measurement performed as required by § 60.113c(b). The record must contain:
(i) Identification of the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed;
(ii) The date the storage vessel was inspected;
(iii) The type of inspection [inspection with gap measurements as specified in § 60.113c(b)(1) through (4); visual inspection as specified in § 60.113c(b)(7)];
(iv) The observed condition of each component of the control equipment (seals, internal floating roof, and fittings); and
(v) For each inspection with gap measurements as specified in § 60.113c(b)(1) through (4):
(A) The raw data obtained in the measurement; and
(B) The calculations described in § 60.113c(b)(2) and (b)(3).
(3) After installing a closed vent system routed to a control device, fuel gas system, or process to comply with the provisions in § 60.112c(d), you must keep the following records, as well as the records in paragraph (d)(4) or (5) of this section, as applicable.
(i) The make and model of the backpressure regulator valve, date of installation, and inlet flow rating. Maintain records of the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications that identify the pressure set point corresponding to the minimum inlet gas flow rate, the annual confirmation that the backpressure regulator valve set point is correct and consistent with the engineering evaluation and manufacturer specifications, and the annual confirmation that the backpressure regulator valve fully closes when not in open position.
(ii) The CMS monitoring plan required by § 60.113c(c)(4), if the closed vent system is routed to a control device. Retain this plan for the life of the control equipment.
(iii) Monitoring for the closed vent system conducted under § 60.113c(c)(2), including the date of inspection.
(iv) The written plan(s) required under § 60.113c(c)(2)(ii) and (iii) for unsafe-to-inspect and difficult-to-inspect portions of the closed vent system.
(v) For each leak detected during the monitoring conducted under § 60.113c(c)(2) and (3), you must record: the date the leak was detected; the location of the leak; the method used to detect the leak (Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part or visible, audible, and olfactory methods); and the maximum concentration reading obtained by Method 21 of appendix A-7, if applicable. For each repair attempt, you must record: the date of each repair attempt; the actions taken to repair the leak during each repair attempt; and date the repair was completed. If the repair is delayed, you must record the reason for the delay and the date you expect to complete the repair.
(vi) For each bypass line, maintain a record of the following, as applicable: readings from the flow indicator; each inspection of the seal or closure mechanism; the date and time of each instance when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out.
(vii) For each pressure relief device or vacuum breaking device on a storage vessel or closed vent system required to be monitored according to § 60.112c(d)(1)(iii) or (d)(2)(iii): the device type; the monitoring device or system used for the device; data from the device or system indicating whether a pressure release occurred; and the date, time, and duration of each pressure release, if applicable.
(4) After installing a closed vent system routed to a control device other than a flare or enclosed combustion device electing to comply with § 60.112c(d), you must keep the following records.
(i) Each performance test.
(ii) All CMS performance checks, audits, maintenance, and repairs.
(iii) The hourly values recorded by the CMS and all 3-hour rolling averages.
(iv) The periods when the CMS is not operational.
(5) After installing a closed vent system routed to a flare to comply with § 60.112c(d) or an enclosed combustion device for which you elected to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5), you must keep the following records.
(i) Pilot flame or flare flame monitoring as specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The output of the monitoring device used to detect the presence of a pilot flame as required in 40 CFR 63.670(b). Retain these records for a minimum of 2 years.
(B) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least 1 minute that no pilot flame was present when VOL vapors were routed to the flare. Each record must identify the start and end time and date of each 15-minute block.
(ii) Visible emissions observations as specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(A) through (B) of this section, as applicable.
(A) If visible emissions observations are performed using Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part, the record must identify the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation. If the owner or operator performs visible emissions observations more than one time during a day, include separate records for each visible emissions observation performed.
(B) For each 2-hour period for which visible emissions are observed for more than 5 minutes in 2 consecutive hours but visible emissions observations according to Method 22 of appendix A-7 to this part were not conducted for the full 2-hour period, the record must include the date, the start and end time of the visible emissions observation, and an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.
(iii) Each 15-minute block period during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in 40 CFR 63.670(d) through (f) when vapors from a storage vessel affected facility are directed to the flare for at least 15-minutes identifying each specific operating limit that was not met.
(iv) The 15-minute block average cumulative flows for the enclosed combustion device vent gas or flare vent gas and, if applicable, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air specified to be monitored under 40 CFR 63.670(i), along with the date and start and end time for the 15-minute block. If multiple monitoring locations are used to determine cumulative vent gas flow, total steam, perimeter assist air, and premix assist air, retain records of the 15-minute block average flows for each monitoring location for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years. If pressure and temperature monitoring is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average temperature, pressure and molecular weight of the flare vent gas, enclosed combustion device vent gas, or assist gas stream for each measurement location used to determine the 15-minute block average cumulative flows for a minimum of 2 years, and retain the 15-minute block average cumulative flows that are used in subsequent calculations for a minimum of 5 years.
(v) The flare vent gas or enclosed combustion device vent gas compositions specified to be monitored under 40 CFR 63.670(j). Retain records of individual component concentrations from each compositional analyses for a minimum of 2 years. If an NHV
vg
analyzer is used, retain records of the 15-minute block average values for a minimum of 5 years, as well as records of quality assurance activities conducted on the analyzer and any cylinder gas certificates. If you demonstrate your gas streams have consistent composition using the provisions in 40 CFR 63.670(j)(6), retain records of the current application for which you are using for as long as you use the fixed NHV
vg
as determined using the provisions in 40 CFR 63.670(j)(6).
(vi) Each 15-minute block average operating parameter calculated following the methods specified in 40 CFR 63.670(k) through (n), as applicable.
(vii) All periods during which you did not perform monitoring according to the procedures in 40 CFR 63.670(g), (i), and (j) as applicable. Note the start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period.
(viii) If you conduct a one-time flare tip velocity operating limit compliance assessment according to § 60.113c(c)(1)(iv)(C), a copy of the assessment, including all calculations for as long as you use this compliance method.
(ix) For each parameter monitored using a CMS, retain the records specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(ix)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable:
(A) For each deviation, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.
(B) For each period when there is a CMS outage or the CMS is out of control, record the start date and time, duration, cause, and corrective action taken.
(C) Each inspection or calibration of the CMS including a unique identifier, make, and model number of the CMS, and date of calibration check.
(x) For an enclosed combustion device for which you elected to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5), you must also keep a copy of each performance test.
(e) If you are required to meet the degassing requirements in § 60.112c(a)(3), you must maintain records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements in § 60.112c(e) including, if appropriate, records of existing standard site procedures used to empty and degas (deinventory) equipment for safety purposes.
§ 60.116c
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Initial notification requirements.
You must submit initial notifications to the Administrator within 60 days after October 15, 2024 or within 60 days after becoming an affected storage vessel, whichever is later. Once the report template for this subpart has been available on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for 1 year, you must submit all subsequent initial notifications using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (f) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. For each storage vessel affected facility subject to the standards in § 60.112c, include the following information in the initial notification:
(1) The following general facility information:
(i) Facility name;
(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, State, and zip code;
(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places; and
(iv) The following information for the facility contact person:
(A) Name;
(B) Mailing address, including city, county, State, and zip code;
(C) Telephone number; and
(D) Email address.
(2) Identification of the storage vessel(s) subject to this subpart.
(3) Capacity (in gallons) of each storage vessel.
(4) Maximum true vapor pressure of the liquid stored (in psia) in each storage vessel.
(5) Indication of the standards for which the storage vessel complies [§§ 60.112c(b); 60.112c(c); 60.112c(d); 60.112c(e)].
(6) If you route emissions to a control device, specify the design of the storage vessel and closed vent system (
i.e.,
storage vessel designed according to § 60.112c(d)(1)(i); or closed vent system designed according to § 60.112c(d)(1)(ii)), the type of control device (
i.e.,
enclosed combustion device complying with temperature operating limit; enclosed combustion device electing to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5); process heater or boiler; catalytic incinerator; flare, or other control device (specify)).
(7) If you route emissions to a process, submit the information specified in § 60.112c(d)(6)(ii) and (iii).
(8) If you route emissions to a fuel gas system, as specified in § 60.112c(d)(6)(iv), submit a statement that the emission stream is connected to the fuel gas system.
(b)
Other notifications.
Submit notifications for filling and refilling an affected storage vessel and for conducting gap measurements as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) As specified in § 60.113c(a)(4) and (b)(7)(ii), you must notify the Administrator at least 30 days prior to inspection of each storage vessel for which an inspection is required by § 60.113c(a)(1), (a)(2)(ii) or (b)(7) to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. Submit the notification using CEDRI as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. If the inspection required by § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii) or (b)(7) is not planned and you could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of refilling the storage vessel, you must notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling of the storage vessel. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation using CEDRI demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned.
(2) As specified in § 60.113c(b)(6), you must notify the Administrator 30 days in advance of any gap measurements required by § 60.113c(b)(1) to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. Submit the notification using CEDRI as specified in paragraph (f) of this section. If the inspection required by § 60.113c(b)(1) is not planned and you could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of the gap measurement, you must notify the Administrator at least 7 days prior to the conducting the gap measurement. Notification must be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation using CEDRI demonstrating why the gap measurement was unplanned.
(c)
Reporting requirements for semiannual report.
You must submit to the Administrator semiannual reports with the applicable information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section by the dates specified in paragraph (d) of this section. For this subpart, the semiannual reports supersede the excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and/or summary report form required under § 60.7. Once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri
) for 1 year, you must submit all subsequent reports using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website for this subpart and following the procedure specified in paragraph (f) of this section. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated State agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted.
(1) Report the following general facility information:
(i) Facility name;
(ii) Facility physical address, including city, county, and State;
(iii) Latitude and longitude of facility's physical location. Coordinates must be in decimal degrees with at least five decimal places;
(iv) The following information for the facility contact person:
(A) Name;
(B) Mailing address;
(C) Telephone number; and
(D) Email address.
(v) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI; and
(vi) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragraph (c)(1)(vi).
(2) For storage vessels complying with the provisions of § 60.112c(b) or (c):
(i) Identification of the storage vessel and an indication of whether you comply with § 60.112c(b) or (c).
(ii) An indication whether the storage vessel was inspected during the reporting period, and if so, the date and
type of each inspection conducted during the reporting period [the type of inspection shall be selected from the following list: initial IFR inspection according to § 60.113c(a)(1), IFR visual inspection from fixed roof according to § 60.113c(a)(2)(i), combined IFR visual inspection with LEL monitoring according to § 60.113c(a)(2)(i) and (3), internal IFR inspection according to § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii), IFR LEL monitoring according to § 60.113c(a)(3), EFR gap measurements according to § 60.113c(b)(1) through (4), or visual EFR inspection according to § 60.113c(b)(7)].
(iii) For storage vessels complying with the provisions of § 60.112c(b) that were not inspected according to § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii) during the reporting period, report the last date the storage vessel was inspected according to the provisions in § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii).
(3) For each failure of a visual inspection required under § 60.113c(a)(2)(i), report the information in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. For each failure of LEL monitoring required under § 60.113c(a)(3), report the information in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) Identification of the storage vessel;
(ii) The date of the inspection;
(iii) The nature of the defects; and
(iv) The following information regarding the LEL monitoring conducted:
(A) Date and start and end times of the LEL monitoring conducted.
(B) Wind speed in miles per hour at the top of the storage vessel on the date of LEL monitoring.
(C) The highest 5-minute rolling average reading during the monitoring event.
(D) If re-monitoring was required due to excessive wind or repair during the visual inspection, report the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section for the re-monitoring event.
(E) Whether the floating roof was repaired, replaced, or taken out of VOL service. If the storage vessel was taken out of VOL service, report the date the storage vessel was emptied. If the floating roof was replaced or repaired, report the nature of and date the repair was made and the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section for each re-monitoring conducted to confirm the repair.
(4) For each inspection required by § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii) that finds holes or tears in the seal or seal fabric, defects in the internal floating roof, or other control equipment defects listed in § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii), report:
(i) Identification of the storage vessel and date of inspection;
(ii) The reason it did not meet the specifications of § 60.112c(b) or § 60.113c(a)(2)(ii);
(iii) A description of each repair made; and
(iv) Date of repair.
(5) For each inspection required under § 60.113c(b)(1), report the following information:
(i) Identification of the storage vessel and the date of the inspection;
(ii) The accumulated area of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the primary seal (in square inches per foot of storage vessel diameter);
(iii) The maximum width of any portion of any gap in the primary seal (in inches);
(iv) The accumulated area of gaps between the storage vessel wall and the secondary seal (in square inches per foot of storage vessel diameter);
(v) The maximum width of any portion of any gap in the secondary seal (in inches); and
(vi) An indication whether there was an inspection failure. If there was an inspection failure, also include the following information in the report:
(A) An indication of the type of deviation(s) [indicating all that apply from: §§ 60.113c(b)(4)(i)(A), 60.113c(b)(4)(i)(B), 60.113c(b)(4)(i)(C), 60.113c(b)(4)(i)(D), 60.113c(b)(4)(ii)(A), 60.113c(b)(4)(ii)(B), 60.113c(b)(4)(ii)(C), 60.113c(b)(4)(ii)(D), 60.113c(b)(4)(iii)(A), 60.113c(b)(4)(iii)(B), 60.113c(b)(4)(iii)(C), 60.113c(b)(4)(iii)(D)]; and
(B) The date the storage vessel was emptied or the repairs made and date of repair.
(6) For each inspection required by § 60.113c(b)(7) that finds defects as listed in § 60.113c(b)(7)(i), report:
(i) Identification of the storage vessel and date of inspection;
(ii) The reason it did not meet the specifications of § 60.112c(c) or § 60.113c(b)(7);
(iii) A description of each repair made; and
(iv) Date of repair.
(7) For each landing of an internal floating roof or an external floating roof that triggers an alarm required by § 60.113c(a)(5) or (b)(8), report:
(i) Identification of the storage vessel;
(ii) Date the roof was landed; and
(iii) Indication of whether the roof landed because the storage vessel was being emptied.
(8) After installing a closed vent system that routes to a control device, fuel gas system, or process to comply with § 60.112c, report the following, as well as the information in paragraphs (c)(9) or (10) of this section, as applicable:
(i) Results of annual inspections that indicate a backpressure regulator valve is not set correctly or does not fully close when not in the open position. Include the date and time of the inspection, the type of deviation, the corrective action taken, and the date and time when the backpressure regulator valve is set correctly, repaired, or replaced.
(ii) For each inspection conducted under § 60.113c(c)(2), identification of the closed vent system, the date of inspection, the type of inspection (Method 21 of appendix A-7 to this part or visible, audible, and olfactory methods) and summary result of the inspection (no leaks detected or leaks were detected). For each leak detected, provide an identification of the part of the closed vent system associated with the leak, the date of the first attempt at repair, and the date of successful repair or anticipated repair if the repair is delayed.
(iii) The start date and time, duration in hours, and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of VOL released for times when flow is detected or emissions are diverted from the control device through a bypass line while a storage vessel affected facility vented to the closed vent system contains VOL or is being degassed.
(9) After installing a closed vent system and control device to comply with § 60.112c other than a flare or an enclosed combustion device electing to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5), report:
(i) For each instance when the CMS measured 3-hour rolling averages below the established operating limit:
(A) The date and start time of the deviation;
(B) The duration of the deviation in hours;
(C) The lowest 3-hour rolling average operating parameter reading during the period of the deviation;
(D) A unique identifier for the CMS;
(E) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS; and
(F) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.
(ii) For all instances when the CMS was inoperative:
(A) The date and start time of the deviation;
(B) The duration of the deviation in hours;
(C) A unique identifier for the CMS;
(D) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS; and
(E) The cause of the deviation and the corrective action taken.
(10) After installing a closed vent system and a flare to comply with § 60.112c or an enclosed combustion device electing to comply with § 60.112c(d)(5), report:
(i) The date and start and end times for each of the following instances:
(A) Each 15-minute block during which there was at least 1 minute when storage vessel vapors were routed to the flare and no pilot flame or flare flame was present.
(B) Each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes. Additionally, report the number of minutes for which visible emissions were observed during the observation or an estimate of the cumulative number of minutes in the 2-hour period for which emissions were visible based on best information available to the owner or operator.
(C) Each 15-minute period for which the applicable operating limits specified in 40 CFR 63.670(d) through (f) were not met. You must identify the specific operating limit that was not met and
report the value of the net heating value operating parameter(s) during the deviation determined following the methods in 40 CFR 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.
(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in minutes for each period when storage vessel vapors were routed to the flare or enclosed combustion device and the applicable monitoring was not performed.
(iii) For each instance reported under paragraphs (c)(10)(i) and (ii) of this section that involves CMS, report the following information:
(A) A unique identifier for the CMS;
(B) The make, model number, and date of last calibration check of the CMS; and
(C) The cause of the deviation or downtime and the corrective action taken.
(11) For pressure relief devices on a storage vessel or closed vent system subject to § 60.112c(d)(1)(iii) or (d)(2)(iii), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including pressure relief device identification name or number, the start date, start time, and duration (in minutes) of the pressure release; and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of VOL released.
(12) For vacuum breaking devices on a storage vessel subject to § 60.112c(d) and (d)(1)(iii), report the following information for each time the vacuum breaking device failed to close prior to the storage vessel reaching atmospheric pressure: identification name or number of vacuum breaking device; the start date, start time, and duration (in minutes) of the pressure release; and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of VOL released.
(d)
Timeframe for semiannual report submissions.
(1) The first semiannual report will cover the period starting with the date the source first becomes an affected facility subject to this subpart and ending June 30 or December 31, whichever date is earlier. For example, if the source becomes an affected facility on April 15, the first semiannual report would cover the period from April 15 to June 30. The first semiannual report must be submitted on or before the last day of the month 2 months after the last date covered by the semiannual report. In this example, the first semiannual report would be due August 31.
(2) Subsequent semiannual reports will cover subsequent 6 calendar month periods (January 1 through June 30 or July 1 through December 31, as applicable) with each report due on or before the last day of the month 2 months after the last date covered by the semiannual report (August 31 or February 28 or 29, as applicable).
(3) For each affected facility that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR parts 70 or 71, if the delegated authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent semiannual reports according to the dates the delegated authority has established instead of the dates in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(e)
Reporting requirements for performance tests.
Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test, you must submit the results following the procedures specified in paragraph (f) of this section. Data collected using test methods that are supported by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test must be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test must be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file.
(f)
Requirements for electronically submitting reports.
If you are required to submit notifications or reports following the procedures specified in this paragraph (f), you must submit notifications or reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov/
). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the
public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim for some of the information in the report, you must submit a complete file in the format specified in this subpart, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA following the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. Clearly mark the part or all of the information that you claim to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data are not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You must submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (f).
(1) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions must be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described above, should include clear CBI markings. ERT files should be flagged to the attention of the Measurement Policy Group Leader and all other files should be flagged to the attention of the NSPS Kc Rule Lead. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if you do not have your own file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(2) If you cannot transmit the file electronically, you may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: U.S. EPA, Attn: OAQPS Document Control Officer, Mail Drop: C404-02, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, P.O. Box 12055, RTP, NC 27711. ERT files should be sent to the secondary attention of the Measurement Policy Group Leader and all other files should be sent to the secondary attention of the NSPS Kc Rule Lead. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(g)
Claims of EPA system outage.
If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(h)
Claims of force majeure.
If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) You may submit a claim if a force majeure event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning 5 business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a force majeure event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents you from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) You must provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the force majeure event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the force majeure event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of force majeure and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting must occur as soon as possible after the force majeure event occurs.
§ 60.117c
Delegation of authority.
(a) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under section 111(c) of the Act, the authorities contained in paragraph (b) of this section shall be retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.
(b) Authorities which will not be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies: §§ 60.113c(d)(1)(iv) and 60.114c and approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.

# Subpart L—Standards of Performance for Secondary Lead Smelters for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After June 11, 1973, and On or Before December 1, 2022
§ 60.120
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in secondary lead smelters: Pot furnaces of more than 250 kg (550 lb) charging capacity, blast (cupola) furnaces, and reverberatory furnaces.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after June 11, 1973, and on or before December 1, 2022, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977, as amended at 88 FR 80610, Nov. 20, 2023]
§ 60.121
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Reverberatory furnace
includes the following types of reverberatory furnaces: stationary, rotating, rocking, and tilting.
(b)
Secondary lead smelter
means any facility producing lead from a leadbearing scrap material by smelting to the metallic form.
(c)
Lead
means elemental lead or alloys in which the predominant component is lead.
(d)
Blast furnace
means any furnace used to recover metal from slag.
[39 FR 9317, Mar. 8, 1974; 39 FR 13776, Apr. 17, 1974, as amended at 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.122
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from a blast (cupola) or reverberatory furnace any gases which:
(1) Contain particulate matter (PM) in excess of 50 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, mg/dscm (0.022 grains per dry standard cubic feet, gr/dscf).
(2) Exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any pot furnace any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater.
[39 FR 9317, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46259, Oct. 6, 1975; 88 FR 80610, Nov. 20, 2023]
§ 60.123
Test methods and procedures.
(a)
Initial performance tests.
The owner or operator shall conduct performance tests to demonstrate initial compliance with the PM emission and opacity standards specified in § 60.122.
(b)
Periodic performance tests.
After November 20, 2023, the owner or operator shall conduct periodic performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the PM emissions standards specified in § 60.122(a). The owner or operator shall conduct the first periodic test by no later than July 31, 2024. The owner or operator shall conduct subsequent periodic tests according to the schedule specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Conduct performance tests no later than 12 months following the previous compliance test.
(2) Conduct performance tests no later than 24 months following the previous compliance test if the previous compliance test measured PM emissions of 25 mg/dscm or less and the owner or operator has obtained approval from the Administrator for a written request to extend the period of the periodic performance test. The extension request will be deemed automatically approved if the owner or operator submits the results of a PM performance test of 25 mg/dscm or less, the owner or operator submits the request for the extension within 4 months after the subject compliance test, and the Administrator does not provide a response to such request within 6 months of submission.
(c)
Test methods.
In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use the following EPA reference test methods and procedures in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(1) EPA Method 1 at appendix A-1 to this part to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points.
(2) EPA Method 2 at appendix A-1 to this part or EPA Method 5D at appendix A-3 to this part, section 8.3 for positive fabric filters, to measure the volumetric flow rate of the gas stream.
(3) EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas and concentrations of carbon dioxide and oxygen in the sample gas.
(4) EPA Method 4 at appendix A-3 to this part to determine the moisture content of the gas stream.
(5) EPA Method 5 or 5D at appendix A-3 to this part to measure PM concentrations. The EPA Method 5 tests shall be conducted during representative periods of furnace operation, including charging and tapping, and the sampling time and sample volume for each test run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf), respectively. As an alternative to using EPA
Method 5, owners or operators may measure PM emissions by the following methods:
(i) EPA Method 12 at appendix A-5 to this part (see section 16.1 of Method 12) to measure PM and inorganic lead concentrations.
(ii) EPA Method 29 at appendix A-8 to this part to measure metal (lead) concentrations and PM (see section 1.2 of Method 29).
(6) EPA Method 9 at appendix A-4 to this part and the procedures specified in § 60.11 for determining opacity. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference at § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 9 with the specified conditions in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference at § 60.17), the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor shall present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).
(ii) The owner or operator shall also have standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference at § 60.17). Records shall be maintained in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review.
(iii) The owner or operator shall follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.
(iv) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor shall have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error shall not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.
(v) This approval does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference at § 60.17) and this section is on the owner or operator, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.
[88 FR 80610, Nov. 20, 2023]
§ 60.124
Monitoring requirements.
(a) The owner shall comply with the applicable monitoring requirements specified in the NSPS General provision § 60.13.
(b) The owner shall prepare, and at all times operate according to, a SOP manual that describes in detail procedures for inspection, maintenance, and bag leak detection and corrective action plans for all baghouses (fabric filters or cartridge filters) used to reduce PM and opacity emissions from any affected source subject to the emissions standards in § 60.122.
(c) The owner shall submit the SOP manual for the baghouses (fabric filters or cartridge collectors) described in paragraph (b) of this section to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval.
(d) The procedures specified in the SOP manual for inspections and routine maintenance shall, at a minimum, include the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section.
(1) Daily monitoring of the pressure drop across each baghouse cell.
(2) Weekly confirmation that dust is being removed from hoppers through visual inspection, or equivalent means of ensuring the proper functioning of removal mechanisms.
(3) Daily check of compressed air supply for pulse-jet baghouses.
(4) An appropriate methodology for monitoring cleaning cycles to ensure proper operation.
(5) Monthly check of bag cleaning mechanisms for proper functioning through visual inspection or equivalent means.
(6) Monthly check of bag tension on reverse air and shaker-type baghouses. Such checks are not required for shaker-type baghouses using self-tensioning (spring loaded) devices.
(7) Quarterly confirmation of the physical integrity of the baghouse through visual inspection of the baghouse interior for air leaks.
(8) Quarterly inspection of fans for wear, material buildup, and corrosion through visual inspection, vibration detectors, or equivalent means.
(9) Continuous operation of a bag leak detection system.
(e) The procedures specified in the SOP manual for baghouse maintenance shall include, at a minimum, a preventative maintenance schedule that is consistent with the baghouse manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance.
(f) The bag leak detection system required by paragraph (d)(9) of this section, shall meet the specification and requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The bag leak detection system shall be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 50.0 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf) or less.
(2) The bag leak detection system sensor shall provide output of relative PM loadings.
(3) The bag leak detection system shall be equipped with an alarm system that will alarm when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level.
(4) The owner shall install and operate the bag leak detection system in a manner consistent with the guidance provided in EPA-454/R-98-015, Office of Air quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS) Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance, (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) or the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations for installation, operation, and adjustment of the system.
(5) The initial adjustment of the system shall, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.
(6) Following initial adjustment, the owner shall not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in the approved SOP manual required under paragraph (b) of this section. The owner cannot increase the sensitivity by more than 100 percent or decrease the sensitivity by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete baghouse inspection that demonstrates that the baghouse is in good operating condition.
(7) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the owner shall install the bag leak detector downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet acid gas scrubber.
(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(g) The owner shall include in the SOP manual required by paragraph (b) of this section a corrective action plan that specifies the procedures to be followed in the case of a bag leak detection system alarm. The corrective action plan shall include, at a minimum, the procedures used to determine and record the time and cause of the alarm as well as the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The procedures used to determine the cause of the alarm shall be initiated within 30 minutes of the alarm.
(2) The cause of the alarm shall be alleviated by taking the necessary corrective action(s) that may include, but not be limited to, those listed in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken filter elements, or any other malfunction that may cause an increase in emissions.
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment.
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the PM emissions.
(h) Baghouses equipped with high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters as a secondary filter used to control
emissions from any source subject to the PM and opacity emission standards in § 60.122 are exempt from the requirement to be equipped with a bag leak detection system. The owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop across each HEPA filter system daily. If the pressure drop is outside the limit(s) specified by the filter manufacturer, the owner or operator shall take appropriate corrective measures, which may include but not be limited to those given in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Inspecting the filter and filter housing for air leaks and torn or broken filters.
(2) Replacing defective filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(3) Sealing off a defective control device by routing air to other control devices
(4) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(i) Baghouses followed by a wet electrostatic precipitator (WESP) used as a secondary control device for any source subject to the PM and opacity emission standards in § 60.122 are exempt from the requirement to be equipped with a bag leak detection system.
(j) If a wet scrubber is used to demonstrate continuous compliance with the PM emissions standards for blast and reverberatory furnaces specified in § 60.122(a), the owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop and water flow rate of the wet scrubber during the initial performance or periodic compliance test conducted to demonstrate compliance with the PM emissions limit under § 60.122(a). Thereafter, the owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop and water flow rate values at least once every hour and maintain the pressure drop and water flow rate at levels no lower than 30 percent below the pressure drop and water flow rate measured during the initial performance or compliance test.
(k) During the initial performance test required by § 60.123(a), or any periodic performance test required by § 60.123(b), the owner or operator shall establish the value or range of values of the monitoring parameter(s) for each control device used to comply with the PM and opacity emission standards specified in § 60.122.
(l) If an affected source is subject to the monitoring requirements specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart X (National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Secondary Lead Smelting) and those requirements are as stringent or more stringent than the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section, compliance with the monitoring requirements specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart X also demonstrates compliance with the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section.
[88 FR 80610, Nov. 20, 2023]
§ 60.125
Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable notification and recordkeeping requirements specified in § 60.7 and the reporting requirements specified in the NSPS General Provisions § 60.19.
(1) Records shall be maintained in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 60.7(f). However, electronic recordkeeping and reporting may be used if suitable for the specific case (
e.g.,
by electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy), and when required by this subpart.
(2) Records shall be kept on site for at least 2 years after the date of occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 60.7(f).
(b) The SOP manual required in § 60.124(b) shall be submitted to the Administrator in electronic format for review and approval of the initial submittal and whenever an update is made to the procedure.
(c) The owner or operator shall maintain for a period of 2 years, records of the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section.
(1) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.
(2) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions
taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.
(3) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under § 60.124(d) as part of the practices described in the SOP manual for baghouses required under § 60.124(b).
(4) Electronic records of the pressure drop and water flow rate values for wet scrubbers used to control PM emissions from blast or reverberatory furnaces as required in § 60.124(j).
(5) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (
i.e.,
process equipment) or the air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment.
(6) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(7) Records of all alarms from the bag leak detection system specified in § 60.124(d)(9).
(8) Records maintained as part of the practices described in the SOP manual for baghouses required under § 60.124(b), including an explanation of the periods when the procedures were not followed, and the corrective actions taken.
(9) Record of the periods when the pressure drop and water flow rate of wet scrubbers used to control process fugitive sources dropped below the levels established in § 60.124(j), and an explanation of the corrective actions taken.
(10) Records of the rationale for the control device monitoring parameter value(s), established as specified in § 60.124(k), monitoring frequency, and averaging time. Include all data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission standard.
(d) In addition to the reporting requirements specified in § 60.7 and § 60.19, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the initial and periodic performance tests within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, following the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (
https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert
) at the time of the test. Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov
). The data shall be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, the owner or operator may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2) Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test. The results of the performance test shall be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3) Confidential business information (CBI).
(i) The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information that the owner or operator claims as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if the owner or operator wishes to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA.
(ii) The file shall be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(iii) Clearly mark the part or all of the information that the owner or operator claims to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be
disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2.
(iv) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions shall be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described above, should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if the owner or operator does not have a file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(v) If the owner or operator cannot transmit the file electronically, the owner or operator may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(vi) All CBI claims shall be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(vii) The owner or operator shall submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA through CEDRI via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(e) Claims of EPA system outage. If the owner or operator is required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, the owner or operator may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage shall have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) The owner or operator shall submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) The owner or operator shall provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the owner or operator reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report shall be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(f)
Claims of force majeure.
If the owner or operator is required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, the owner or operator may assert a claim of
force majeure
for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of
force majeure,
the
owner or operator shall meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator may submit a claim if a
force majeure
event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a
force majeure
event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents the owner or operator from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) The owner or operator shall submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) The owner or operator shall provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the
force majeure
event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the
force majeure
event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the owner or operator reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of
force majeure
and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting shall occur as soon as possible after the
force majeure
event occurs.
[88 FR 80610, Nov. 20, 2023]

# Subpart La—Standards of Performance for Secondary Lead Smelters for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After December 1, 2022

# Source:
88 FR 80613, Nov. 20, 2023, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.120a
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in secondary lead smelters: Process fugitive emissions sources, blast (cupola) furnaces, and reverberatory furnaces.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, reconstruction, or modification after November 20, 2023, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
§ 60.121a
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Blast furnace
means any furnace used to recover metal from slag.
Lead
means elemental lead or alloys in which the predominant component is lead.
Process fugitive emissions source
means a source of particulate matter (PM) emissions at a secondary lead smelter that is associated with lead smelting or refining including, but not limited to, smelting furnace charging points; smelting furnace lead and slag taps; pot and refining furnaces; and casting kettles.
Reverberatory furnace
includes the following types of reverberatory furnaces: stationary, rotating, rocking, and tilting.
Secondary lead smelter
means any facility producing lead from a lead-bearing scrap material by smelting to the metallic form.
§ 60.122a
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no
owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from a blast (cupola) or reverberatory furnace any gases which:
(1) Contain PM in excess of 10 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, mg/dscm (0.0044 grains per dry standard cubic feet, gr/dscf).
(2) Exhibit opacity greater than 5 percent.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any process fugitive emissions source any gases which:
(1) Contain PM in excess of 4.9 mg/dscm (0.0021 grains per dry standard cubic feet, gr/dscf).
(2) Exhibit opacity greater than 5 percent.
(c) The PM and opacity emissions standards specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.
§ 60.123a
Test methods and procedures.
(a)
Initial performance tests.
The owner or operator shall conduct performance tests to demonstrate initial compliance with the PM and opacity emission standards specified in § 60.122a.
(b)
Periodic performance tests.
Following the initial compliance demonstration required by paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct periodic performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the PM and opacity emissions standards specified in § 60.122a according to the schedule specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.
(1) Conduct performance tests no later than 12 months following the previous compliance test.
(2) Conduct performance tests up to 24 calendar months following the previous compliance test if the previous compliance test measured PM emissions equal to or less than the concentrations specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and the owner or operator has obtained approval from the Administrator for a written request to extend the period of the periodic performance test. The extension request will be deemed automatically approved if the owner or operator submits the results of a PM performance test equal to or less than the applicable concentrations specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, the owner or operator submits the request for the extension within 4 months after the subject compliance test, and the Administrator does not provide a response to such request within 6 months of submission.
(i) 5 mg/dscm for blast and reverberatory furnaces.
(ii) 2.4 mg/dscm for process fugitive emissions sources.
(c)
Test methods.
In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use the following EPA reference test methods and procedures in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(1) EPA Method 1 at appendix A-1 to this part for selecting sampling port locations and the number of traverse points.
(2) EPA Method 2 at appendix A-1 to this part at appendix A-1 to this part or EPA Method 5D at appendix A-3 to this part, section 8.3 for positive fabric filters, to measure the volumetric flow rate of the gas stream.
(3) EPA Method 3, 3A, 3B, or 3C at appendix A-1 to this part to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas and the concentrations of carbon dioxide and oxygen in the sample gas.
(4) EPA Method 4 at appendix A-3 to this part to determine the moisture content of the gas stream.
(5) EPA Method 5 or 5D at appendix A-3 to this part for measuring PM concentrations. The EPA Method 5 or 5D tests shall be conducted during representative periods of furnace operation, including charging and tapping, and the sampling time and sample volume for each test run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf), respectively. As an alternative to using EPA Method 5, owners or operators may measure PM emissions by the following methods:
(i) EPA Method 12 at appendix A-5 to this part (see section 16.1 of Method 12)
to measure inorganic lead concentrations and PM.
(ii) EPA Method 29 at appendix A-8 to this part to measure metal (lead) concentrations and PM (see section 1.2 of Method 29).
(6) EPA Method 9 at appendix A-4 to this part and the procedures specified in § 60.11 for determining opacity. Owners or operators may use the following methods as alternatives to EPA Method 9 as applicable and appropriate:
(i) EPA Method 22 (Visual Determination of Fugitive Emissions) at appendix A-7 to this part for determining no visible emissions.
(ii) ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference at § 60.17) is an acceptable alternative with the specified conditions in paragraphs (c)(6)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.
(A) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference at § 60.17), the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor shall present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).
(B) The owner or operator shall also have standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference at § 60.17).
(C) The owner or operator shall follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.
(D) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor shall have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of
any one
reading and the average error shall not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.
(E) This approval does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference at § 60.17) and this section is on the owner or operator, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.
§ 60.124a
Monitoring requirements.
(a) The owner shall comply with the applicable monitoring requirements specified in § 60.13.
(b) The owner shall prepare, and at all times operate according to, an SOP manual that describes in detail procedures for inspection, maintenance, and bag leak detection and corrective action plans for all baghouses (fabric filters or cartridge filters) used to reduce PM and opacity emissions from any affected source subject to the emissions standards in § 60.122a.
(c) The owner shall submit the SOP manual for the baghouses (fabric filters or cartridge collectors) described in paragraph (b) of this section to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval.
(d) The procedures specified in the SOP manual for inspections and routine maintenance shall, at a minimum, include the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (9) of this section.
(1) Daily monitoring of the pressure drop across each baghouse cell.
(2) Weekly confirmation that dust is being removed from hoppers through visual inspection, or equivalent means of ensuring the proper functioning of removal mechanisms.
(3) Daily check of compressed air supply for pulse-jet baghouses.
(4) An appropriate methodology for monitoring cleaning cycles to ensure proper operation.
(5) Monthly check of bag cleaning mechanisms for proper functioning through visual inspection or equivalent means.
(6) Monthly check of bag tension on reverse air and shaker-type baghouses. Such checks are not required for shaker-type baghouses using self-tensioning (spring loaded) devices.
(7) Quarterly confirmation of the physical integrity of the baghouse
through visual inspection of the baghouse interior for air leaks.
(8) Quarterly inspection of fans for wear, material buildup, and corrosion through visual inspection, vibration detectors, or equivalent means.
(9) Continuous operation of a bag leak detection system.
(e) The procedures specified in the SOP manual for baghouse maintenance shall include, at a minimum, a preventative maintenance schedule that is consistent with the baghouse manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance.
(f) The bag leak detection system required by paragraph (d)(9) of this section, shall meet the specification and requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) The bag leak detection system shall be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 50.0 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf) or less.
(2) The bag leak detection system sensor shall provide output of relative PM loadings.
(3) The bag leak detection system shall be equipped with an alarm system that will alarm when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level.
(4) The owner shall install and operate the bag leak detection system in a manner consistent with the guidance provided in EPA-454/R-98-015, Office of Air quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS) Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance (incorporated by reference, see § 60.17) or the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations for installation, operation, and adjustment of the system.
(5) The initial adjustment of the system shall, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.
(6) Following initial adjustment, the owner shall not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in the approved SOP manual required under paragraph (b) of this section. The owner cannot increase the sensitivity by more than 100 percent or decrease the sensitivity by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete baghouse inspection that demonstrates that the baghouse is in good operating condition.
(7) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, the owner shall install the bag leak detector downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet acid gas scrubber.
(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(g) The owner shall include in the SOP manual required by paragraph (b) of this section a corrective action plan that specifies the procedures to be followed in the case of a bag leak detection system alarm. The corrective action plan shall include, at a minimum, the procedures used to determine and record the time and cause of the alarm as well as the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The procedures used to determine the cause of the alarm shall be initiated within 30 minutes of the alarm.
(2) The cause of the alarm shall be alleviated by taking the necessary corrective action(s) that may include, but not be limited to, those listed in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken filter elements, or any other malfunction that may cause an increase in emissions.
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment.
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the PM emissions.
(h) Baghouses equipped with high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filters as a secondary filter used to control emissions from any source subject to the PM and opacity emission standards
in § 60.122a are exempt from the requirement to be equipped with a bag leak detection system. The owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop across each HEPA filter system daily. If the pressure drop is outside the limit(s) specified by the filter manufacturer, the owner or operator shall take appropriate corrective measures, which may include but not be limited to those given in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) Inspecting the filter and filter housing for air leaks and torn or broken filters.
(2) Replacing defective filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.
(3) Sealing off a defective control device by routing air to other control devices.
(4) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
(i) Baghouses followed by a wet electrostatic precipitator (WESP) used as a secondary control device for any source subject to the PM and opacity emission standards in § 60.122a are exempt from the requirement to be equipped with a bag leak detection system.
(j) If a wet scrubber is used to demonstrate continuous compliance with the PM emissions standards for blast and reverberatory furnaces specified in § 60.122a(a), the owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop and water flow rate of the wet scrubber during the initial performance or annual compliance test conducted to demonstrate compliance with the PM emissions limit under § 60.122a(a). Thereafter, the owner or operator shall monitor and record the pressure drop and water flow rate values at least once every hour and maintain the pressure drop and water flow rate at levels no lower than 30 percent below the pressure drop and water flow rate measured during the initial performance or compliance test.
(k) During the initial performance test required by § 60.123a(a), or any periodic performance test required by § 60.123a(b), the owner or operator shall establish the value or range of values of the monitoring parameter(s) for each control device used to comply with the PM and opacity emission standards specified in § 60.122a.
(l) If an affected source is subject to the monitoring requirements specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart X (National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Secondary Lead Smelting) and those requirements are as stringent or more stringent than the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (j) of this section compliance with 40 CFR part 63, subpart X also demonstrates compliance with the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section.
§ 60.125a
Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.
(a) The owner or operator shall comply with the applicable notification and recordkeeping requirements specified in § 60.7 and the reporting requirements specified in § 60.19.
(1) Records shall be maintained in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 60.7(f). However, electronic recordkeeping and reporting may be used if suitable for the specific case (
e.g.,
by electronic media such as Excel spreadsheet, on CD or hard copy), and when required by this subpart.
(2) Records shall be kept on site for at least 2 years after the date of occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 60.7(f).
(b) The SOP manual required in § 60.124a(b) shall be submitted to the Administrator in electronic format for review and approval of the initial submittal and whenever an update is made to the procedure.
(c) The owner or operator shall maintain for a period of 2 years, records of the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section.
(1) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.
(2) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.
(3) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under
§ 60.124a(d) as part of the practices described in the SOP manual for baghouses required under § 60.124a(b).
(4) Electronic records of the pressure drop and water flow rate values for wet scrubbers used to control PM emissions from blast or reverberatory furnaces as required in § 60.124a(j).
(5) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of operation (
i.e.,
process equipment) or the air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment.
(6) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 60.11(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.
(7) Records of all alarms and corrective actions taken for the bag leak detection system specified in § 60.124a(d)(9).
(8) Records maintained as part of the practices described in the SOP manual for baghouses required under § 60.124a(b), including an explanation of the periods when the procedures were not followed, and the corrective actions taken.
(9) Record of the periods when the pressure drop and water flow rate of wet scrubbers used to control process fugitive sources dropped below the levels established in § 60.124a(j), and an explanation of the corrective actions taken.
(10) Records of the rationale for the control device monitoring parameter value(s), established as specified in § 60.124a(k), monitoring frequency, and averaging time. Include all data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission standard.
(d) In addition to the reporting requirements specified in §§ 60.7 and 60.19, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit the results of the initial and periodic performance tests following the procedures as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1)
Data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website (https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert) at the time of the test.
Submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (
https://cdx.epa.gov
). The data shall be submitted in a file format generated using the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, the owner or operator may submit an electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(2)
Data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the test.
The results of the performance test shall be included as an attachment in the ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the ERT generated package or alternative file to the EPA via CEDRI.
(3)
Confidential business information (CBI).
(i) The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to the owner or operator. Do not use CEDRI to submit information the owner or operator claims as CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if the owner or operator wishes to assert a CBI claim for some of the information submitted under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA.
(ii) The file shall be generated using the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website.
(iii) Clearly mark the part or all of the information that the owner or operator claims to be CBI. Information not marked as CBI may be authorized for public release without prior notice. Information marked as CBI will not be
disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2.
(iv) The preferred method to receive CBI is for it to be transmitted electronically using email attachments, File Transfer Protocol, or other online file sharing services. Electronic submissions shall be transmitted directly to the OAQPS CBI Office at the email address
oaqpscbi@epa.gov,
and as described above, should include clear CBI markings and be flagged to the attention of the Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. If assistance is needed with submitting large electronic files that exceed the file size limit for email attachments, and if the owner or operator does not have a file sharing service, please email
oaqpscbi@epa.gov
to request a file transfer link.
(v) If the owner or operator cannot transmit the file electronically, the owner or operator may send CBI information through the postal service to the following address: OAQPS Document Control Officer (C404-02), OAQPS, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711, Attention Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group. The mailed CBI material should be double wrapped and clearly marked. Any CBI markings should not show through the outer envelope.
(vi) All CBI claims shall be asserted at the time of submission. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.
(vii) The owner or operator shall submit the same file submitted to the CBI office with the CBI omitted to the EPA through CEDRI via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.
(e) If the owner or operator is required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, the owner or operator may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.
(2) The outage shall have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.
(3) The outage may be planned or unplanned.
(4) The owner or operator shall submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(5) The owner or operator shall provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
(i) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator propose to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the owner or operator reported.
(6) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(7) In any circumstance, the report shall be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.
(f) If the owner or operator is required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, the owner or operator may assert a claim of
force majeure
for failure to timely comply with that reporting requirement. To assert a claim of
force majeure,
the owner or operator shall meet the requirements outlined in
paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator may submit a claim if a
force majeure
event is about to occur, occurs, or has occurred or there are lingering effects from such an event within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date the submission is due. For the purposes of this section, a
force majeure
event is defined as an event that will be or has been caused by circumstances beyond the control of the affected facility, its contractors, or any entity controlled by the affected facility that prevents the owner or operator from complying with the requirement to submit a report electronically within the time period prescribed. Examples of such events are acts of nature (
e.g.,
hurricanes, earthquakes, or floods), acts of war or terrorism, or equipment failure or safety hazard beyond the control of the affected facility (
e.g.,
large scale power outage).
(2) The owner or operator shall submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date the owner or operator first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.
(3) The owner or operator shall provide to the Administrator:
(i) A written description of the
force majeure
event;
(ii) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to the
force majeure
event;
(iii) A description of measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and
(iv) The date by which the owner or operator proposes to report, or if the owner or operator has already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date the owner or operator reported.
(4) The decision to accept the claim of
force majeure
and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.
(5) In any circumstance, the reporting shall occur as soon as possible after the
force majeure
event occurs.

# Subpart M—Standards of Performance for Secondary Brass and Bronze Production Plants
§ 60.130
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in secondary brass or bronze production plants: Reverberatory and electric furnaces of 1,000 kg (2205 lb) or greater production capacity and blast (cupola) furnaces of 250 kg/h (550 lb/h) or greater production capacity. Furnaces from which molten brass or bronze are cast into the shape of finished products, such as foundry furnaces, are not considered to be affected facilities.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after June 11, 1973, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977, as amended at 49 FR 43618, Oct. 30, 1984]
§ 60.131
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Brass or bronze
means any metal alloy containing copper as its predominant constituent, and lesser amounts of zinc, tin, lead, or other metals.
(b)
Reverberatory furnace
includes the following types of reverberatory furnaces: Stationary, rotating, rocking, and tilting.
(c)
Electric furnace
means any furnace which uses electricity to produce over 50 percent of the heat required in the production of refined brass or bronze.
(d)
Blast furnace
means any furnace used to recover metal from slag.
[39 FR 9318, Mar. 8, 1974]
§ 60.132
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from a reverberatory furnace any gases which:
(1) Contain particulate matter in excess of 50 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf).
(2) Exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any blast (cupola) or electric furnace any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater.
[39 FR 9318, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46259, Oct. 6, 1975]
§ 60.133
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.132 as follows:
(1) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration during representative periods of charging and refining, but not during pouring of part of the production cycle. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 120 minutes and 1.80 dscm (63.6 dscf).
(2) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
[54 FR 6667, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart N—Standards of Performance for Primary Emissions from Basic Oxygen Process Furnaces for Which Construction is Commenced After June 11, 1973
§ 60.140
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each basic oxygen process furnace.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after June 11, 1973, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977]
§ 60.141
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Basic oxygen process furnace (BOPF)
means any furnace with a refractory lining in which molten steel is produced by charging scrap metal, molten iron, and flux materials or alloy additions into a vessel and introducing a high volume of oxygen-rich gas. Open hearth, blast, and reverberatory furnaces are not included in this definition.
(b)
Primary emissions
means particulate matter emissions from the BOPF generated during the steel production cycle and captured by the BOPF primary control system.
(c)
Primary oxygen blow
means the period in the steel production cycle of a BOPF during which a high volume of oxygen-rich gas is introduced to the bath of molten iron by means of a lance inserted from the top of the vessel or through tuyeres in the bottom or through the bottom and sides of the vessel. This definition does not include any additional or secondary oxygen blows made after the primary blow or the introduction of nitrogen or other inert gas through tuyeres in the bottom or bottom and sides of the vessel.
(d)
Steel production cycle
means the operations conducted within the BOPF steelmaking facility that are required to produce each batch of steel and includes the following operations: scrap charging, preheating (when used), hot metal charging, primary oxygen blowing, sampling (vessel turndown and turnup), additional oxygen blowing (when used), tapping, and deslagging. This definition applies to an affected facility constructed, modified, or reconstructed after January 20, 1983. For an affected facility constructed, modified, or reconstructed after June 11, 1973, but on or before January 20, 1983,
steel production cycle
means the operations conducted within the BOPF steelmaking facility that are required to produce each batch of steel and includes the following operations: scrap
charging, preheating (when used), hot metal charging, primary oxygen blowing, sampling (vessel turndown and turnup), additional oxygen blowing (when used), and tapping.
[39 FR 9318, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 51 FR 160, Jan. 2, 1986]
§ 60.142
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) Except as provided under paragraph (b) of this section, on and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which:
(1) Contain particulate matter in excess of 50 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf).
(2) Exit from a control device and exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater, except that an opacity of greater than 10 percent but less than 20 percent may occur once per steel production cycle.
(b) For affected facilities constructed, modified, or reconstructed after January 20, 1983, the following limits shall apply:
(1) On or after the date on which the performance test under § 60.8 is required to be completed, no owner or operator of an affected facility for which open hooding is the method for controlling primary emissions shall cause to be discharged to the atmosphere any gases that:
(i) Contain particulate matter in excess of 50 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf), as measured for the primary oxygen blow.
(ii) Exit from a control device not used solely for the collection of secondary emissions, as defined in § 60.141a, and exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater, except that an opacity greater than 10 percent but less than 20 percent may occur once per steel production cycle.
(2) On or after the date on which the performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator of an affected facility for which closed hooding is the method for controlling primary emissions shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere any gases that:
(i) Contain particulate matter in excess of 68 mg/dscm (0.030 gr/dscf), as measured for the primary oxygen blow.
(ii) Exit from a control device not used solely for the collection of secondary emissions, as defined in § 60.141a, and exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater, except that an opacity greater than 10 percent but less than 20 percent may occur once per steel production cycle.
(c) On and after the date on which the performance test required by § 60.8 is completed, each owner or operator of an affected facility subject to paragraph (b) of this section shall operate the primary gas cleaning system during any reblow in a manner identical to operation during the primary oxygen blow.
[39 FR 9318, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 43 FR 15602, Apr. 13, 1978; 51 FR 161, Jan. 2, 1986]
§ 60.143
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall maintain a single time-measuring instrument which shall be used in recording daily the time and duration of each steel production cycle, and the time and duration of any diversion of exhaust gases from the main stack servicing the BOPF.
(b) The owner or operator of any affected facility that uses venturi scrubber emission control equipment shall install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate monitoring devices as follows:
(1) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss through the venturi constriction of the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±250 Pa (±1 inch water).
(2) A monitoring device for the continual measurement of the water supply pressure to the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±5 percent of the design water supply pressure. The monitoring device's pressure sensor or pressure tap must be located close to the water discharge point. The Administrator must be consulted for approval in advance of selecting alternative locations for the pressure sensor or tap.
(3) All monitoring devices shall be synchronized each day with the time-measuring instrument used under paragraph (a) of this section. The chart recorder error directly after synchronization shall not exceed 0.08 cm (
1/32
inch).
(4) All monitoring devices shall use chart recorders which are operated at a minimum chart speed of 3.8 cm/hr (1.5 in/hr).
(5) All monitoring devices are to be recalibrated annually, and at other times as the Administrator may require, in accordance with the procedures under § 60.13(b).
(c) Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall report to the Administrator, on a semiannual basis, all measurements over any 3-hour period that average more than 10 percent below the average levels maintained during the most recent performance test conducted under § 60.8 in which the affected facility demonstrated compliance with the mass standards under § 60.142(a)(1), (b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(i). The accuracy of the respective measurements, not to exceed the values specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, may be taken into consideration when determining the measurement results that must be reported.
[43 FR 15602, Apr. 13, 1978, as amended at 51 FR 161, Jan. 2, 1986; 54 FR 6667, Feb. 14, 1989]
§ 60.144
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.142 as follows:
(1) The time-measuring instrument of § 60.143 shall be used to document the time and duration of each steel production cycle and each diversion period during each run.
(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 1.50 dscm (53 dscf). Sampling shall be discontinued during periods of diversions.
(i) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction on or before January 20, 1983, the sampling for each run shall continue for an integral number of steel production cycles. A cycle shall start at the beginning of either the scrap preheat or the oxygen blow and shall terminate immediately before tapping.
(ii) For affected facilities that commenced construction, modification, or reconstruction after January 20, 1983, the sampling for each run shall continue for an integral number of primary oxygen blows.
(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity. Observations taken during a diversion period shall not be used in determining compliance with the opacity standard. Opacity observations taken at 15-second intervals immediately before and after a diversion of exhaust gases from the stack may be considered to be consecutive for the purpose of computing an average opacity for a 6-minute period.
(c) The owner or operator shall use the monitoring devices of § 60.143(b)(1) and (2) for the duration of the particulate matter runs. The arithmetic average of all measurements taken during these runs shall be used to determine compliance with § 60.143(c).
[54 FR 6667, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart Na—Standards of Performance for Secondary Emissions from Basic Oxygen Process Steelmaking Facilities for Which Construction is Commenced After January 20, 1983

# Source:
51 FR 161, Jan. 2, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.140a
Applicability and designation of affected facilities.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the following affected facilities in an iron and steel plant: top-blown BOPF's and hot metal transfer stations and skimming stations used
with bottom-blown or top-blown BOPF's.
(b) This subpart applies to any facility identified in paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after January 20, 1983.
(c) Any BOPF subject to the provisions of this subpart is subject to those provisions of subpart N of this part applicable to affected facilities commencing construction, modification or reconstruction after January 20, 1983.
§ 60.141a
Definitions.
All terms in this subpart not defined below are given the same meaning as in the Clean Air Act as amended or in subpart A of this part.
Basic oxygen process furnace (BOPF)
means any furnace with a refractory lining in which molten steel is produced by charging scrap metal, molten iron, and flux materials or alloy additions into a vessel and by introducing a high volume of oxygen-rich gas. Open hearth, blast, and reverberatory furnaces are not included in this definition.
Bottom-blown furnace
means any BOPF in which oxygen and other combustion gases are introduced to the bath of molten iron through tuyeres in the bottom of the vessel or through tuyeres in the bottom and sides of the vessel.
Fume suppression system
means the equipment comprising any system used to inhibit the generation of emissions from steelmaking facilities with an inert gas, flame, or steam blanket applied to the surface of molten iron or steel.
Hot metal transfer station
means the facility where molten iron is emptied from the railroad torpedo car or hot metal car to the shop ladle. This includes the transfer of molten iron from the torpedo car or hot metal car to a mixer (or other intermediate vessel) and from a mixer (or other intermediate vessel) to the ladle. This facility is also known as the reladling station or ladle transfer station.
Primary emission control system
means the combination of equipment used for the capture and collection of primary emissions (e.g., an open hood capture system used in conjunction with a particulate matter cleaning device such as an electrostatic precipitator or a closed hood capture system used in conjunction with a particulate matter cleaning device such as a scrubber).
Primary emissions
means particulate matter emissions from the BOPF generated during the steel production cycle which are captured by, and do not thereafter escape from, the BOPF primary control system.
Primary oxygen blow
means the period in the steel production cycle of a BOPF during which a high volume of oxygen-rich gas is introduced to the bath of molten iron by means of a lance inserted from the top of the vessel. This definition does not include any additional, or secondary, oxygen blows made after the primary blow.
Secondary emission control system
means the combination of equipment used for the capture and collection of secondary emissions (e.g.,
(1) An open hood system for the capture and collection of primary and secondary emissions from the BOPF, with local hooding ducted to a secondary emission collection device such as a baghouse for the capture and collection of emissions from the hot metal transfer and skimming station; or
(2) An open hood system for the capture and collection of primary and secondary emissions from the furnace, plus a furnace enclosure with local hooding ducted to a secondary emission collection device, such as a baghouse, for additional capture and collection of secondary emissions from the furnace, with local hooding ducted to a secondary emission collection device, such as a baghouse, for the capture and collection of emissions from hot metal transfer and skimming station; or
(3) A furnace enclosure with local hooding ducted to a secondary emission collection device such as a baghouse for the capture and collection of secondary emissions from a BOPF controlled by a closed hood primary emission control system, with local hooding ducted to a secondary emission collection device, such as a baghouse, for the capture and collection of emissions from hot metal transfer and skimming stations).
Secondary emissions
means particulate matter emissions that are not captured by the BOPF primary control system, including emissions from hot metal transfer and skimming stations. This definition also includes particulate matter emissions that escape from openings in the primary emission control system, such as from lance hole openings, gaps or tears in the ductwork of the primary emission control system, or leaks in hoods.
Skimming station
means the facility where slag is mechanically raked from the top of the bath of molten iron.
Steel production cycle
means the operations conducted within the BOPF steelmaking facility that are required to produce each batch of steel, including the following operations: scrap charging, preheating (when used), hot metal charging, primary oxygen blowing, sampling (vessel turndown and turnup), additional oxygen blowing (when used), tapping, and deslagging. Hot metal transfer and skimming operations for the next steel production cycle are also included when the hot metal transfer station or skimming station is an affected facility.
Top-blown furnace
means any BOPF in which oxygen is introduced to the bath of molten iron by means of an oxygen lance inserted from the top of the vessel.
§ 60.142a
Standards for particulate matter.
(a) Except as provided under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, on and after the date on which the performance test under § 60.8 is required to be completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any secondary emissions that:
(1) Exit from the BOPF shop roof monitor (or other building openings) and exhibit greater than 10 percent opacity during the steel production cycle of any top-blown BOPF or during hot metal transfer or skimming operations for any bottom-blown BOPF; except that an opacity greater than 10 percent but less than 20 percent may occur once per steel production cycle.
(2) Exit from a control device used solely for the collection of secondary emissions from a top-blown BOPF or from hot metal transfer or skimming for a top-blown or a bottom-blown BOPF and contain particulate matter in excess of 23 mg/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf).
(3) Exit from a control device used solely for the collection of secondary emissions from a top-blown BOPF or from hot metal transfer or skimming for a top-blown or a bottom-blown BOPF and exhibit more than 5 percent opacity.
(b) A fume suppression system used to control secondary emissions from an affected facility is not subject to paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.
(c) A control device used to collect both primary and secondary emissions from a BOPF is not subject to paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3) of this section.
§ 60.143a
Monitoring of operations.
(a) Each owner or operator of an affected facility shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a monitoring device that continually measures and records for each steel production cycle the various rates or levels of exhaust ventilation at each phase of the cycle through each duct of the secondary emission capture system. The monitoring device or devices are to be placed at locations near each capture point of the secondary emission capture system to monitor the exhaust ventilation rates or levels adequately, or in alternative locations approved in advance by the Administrator.
(b) If a chart recorder is used, the owner or operator shall use chart recorders that are operated at a minimum chart speed of 3.8 cm/hr (1.5 in./hr).
(c) All monitoring devices required by paragraph (a) of this section are to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within ±10 percent compared to Method 2 of appendix A of this part. The owner or operator shall recalibrate and check the device(s) annually and at other times as the Administrator may require, in accordance with the written instructions of the manufacturer and by comparing the device against Method 2.
(d) Each owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of
this section shall report on a semiannual basis all measurements of exhaust ventilation rates or levels over any 3-hour period that average more than 10 percent below the average rates or levels of exhaust ventilation maintained during the most recent performance test conducted under § 60.8 in which the affected facility demonstrated compliance with the standard under § 60.142a(a)(2). The accuracy of the respective measurements, not to exceed the values specified in paragraph (c) of this section, may be considered when determining the measurement results that must be reported.
(e) If a scrubber primary emission control device is used to collect secondary emissions, the owner or operator shall report on a semiannual basis all measurements of exhaust ventilation rate over any 3-hour period that average more than 10 percent below the average levels maintained during the most recent performance test conducted under § 60.8 in which the affected facility demonstrated compliance with the standard under § 60.142(a)(1).
[51 FR 161, Jan. 2, 1986, as amended at 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.144a
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter standards in § 60.142a as follows:
(1) Start and end times of each steel production cycle during each run shall be recorded (see § 60.145a (c) and (d) for the definitions of start and end times of a cycle).
(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. Sampling shall be conducted only during the steel production cycle and for a sufficient number of steel production cycles to obtain a total sample volume of at least 5.67 dscm (200 dscf) for each run.
(3) Method 9 and the procedures of § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity, except sections 2.4 and 2.5 of Method 9 shall be replaced with the following instructions for recording observations and reducing data:
(i)
Section 2.4.
Opacity observations shall be recorded to the nearest 5 percent at 15-second intervals. During the initial performance test conducted pursuant to § 60.8, observations shall be made and recorded in this manner for a minimum of three steel production cycles. During any subsequent compliance test, observations may be made for any number of steel production cycles, although, where conditions permit, observations will generally be made for a minimum of three steel production cycles.
(ii)
Section 2.5.
Opacity shall be determined as an average of 12 consecutive observations recorded at 15-second intervals. For each steel production cycle, divide the observations recorded into sets of 12 consecutive observations. Sets need not be consecutive in time, and in no case shall two sets overlap. For each set of 12 observations, calculate the average by summing the opacity of 12 consecutive observations and dividing this sum by 12.
(c) In complying with the requirements of § 60.143a(c), the owner or operator shall conduct an initial test as follows:
(1) For devices that monitor and record the exhaust ventilation rate, compare velocity readings recorded by the monitoring device against the velocity readings obtained by Method 2. Take Method 2 readings at a point or points that would properly characterize the monitoring device's performance and that would adequately reflect the various rates of exhaust ventilation. Obtain readings at sufficient intervals to obtain 12 pairs of readings for each duct of the secondary emission capture system. Compare the averages of the two sets to determine whether the monitoring device velocity is within ±10 percent of the Method 2 average.
(2) For devices that monitor the level of exhaust ventilation and record only step changes when a set point rate is reached, compare step changes recorded by the monitoring device against the velocity readings obtained by Method 2. Take Method 2 readings
at a point or points that would properly characterize the performance of the monitoring device and that would adequately reflect the various rates of exhaust ventilation. Obtain readings at sufficient intervals to obtain 12 pairs of readings for each duct of the secondary emission capture system. Compare the averages of the two sets to determine whether the monitoring device step change is within ±10 percent of the setpoint rate.
(d) To comply with § 60.143a(d) or (e), the owner or operator shall use the monitoring device of § 60.143a(a) to determine the exhaust ventilation rates or levels during the particulate matter runs. Each owner or operator shall then use these rates or levels to determine the 3-hour averages required by § 60.143a(d) and (e).
[51 FR 161, Jan. 2, 1986, as amended at 54 FR 6667, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.145a
Compliance provisions.
(a) When determining compliance with mass and visible emission limits specified in § 60.142a(a) (2) and (3), the owner or operator of a BOPF shop that normally operates two furnaces with overlapping cycles may elect to operate only one furnace. If an owner or operator chooses to shut down one furnace, he shall be allowed a reasonable time period to adjust his production schedule before the compliance tests are conducted. The owner or operator of an affected facility may also elect to suspend shop operations not subject to this subpart during compliance testing.
(b) During compliance testing for mass and visible emission standards, if an owner or operator elects to shut down one furnace in a shop that normally operates two furnaces with overlapping cycles, the owner or operator shall operate the secondary emission control system for the furnace being tested at exhaust ventilation rates or levels for each duct of the secondary emission control system that are appropriate for single-furnace operation. Following the compliance test, the owner or operator shall operate the secondary emission control system at exhaust ventilation rates or levels for each duct of the system that are no lower than 90 percent of the exhaust ventilation values established during the most recent compliance test.
(c) For the purpose of determining compliance with visible and mass emission standards, a steel production cycle begins when the scrap or hot metal is charged to the vessel (whichever operation occurs first) and terminates 3 minutes after slag is emptied from the vessel into the slag pot. Consecutive steel production cycles are not required for the purpose of determining compliance. Where a hot metal transfer or skimming station is an affected facility, the steel production cycle also includes the hot metal transfer or skimming operation for the next steel production cycle for the affected vessel. Visible emission observations for both hot metal transfer and skimming operations begin with the start of the operation and terminate 3 minutes after completion of the operation.
(d) For the purpose of determining compliance with visible emission standards specified in § 60.142a(a) (1) and (3), the starting and stopping times of regulated process operations shall be determined and the starting and stopping times of visible emissions data sets shall be determined accordingly.
(e) To determine compliance with § 60.142a(a)(1), select the data sets yielding the highest and second highest 3-minute average opacities for each steel production cycle. Compliance is achieved if the highest 3-minute average for each cycle observed is less than 20 percent and the second highest 3-minute average is 10 percent or less.
(f) To determine compliance with § 60.142(a)(2), determine the concentration of particulate matter in exhaust gases exiting the secondary emission collection device with Method 5. Compliance is achieved if the concentration of particulate matter does not exceed 23 mg/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf).
(g) To determine compliance with § 60.142a(a)(3), construct consecutive 3-minute averages for each steel production cycle. Compliance is achieved if no 3-minute average is more than 5 percent.
[51 FR 161, Jan. 2, 1986, as amended at 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart O—Standards of Performance for Sewage Treatment Plants
§ 60.150
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility is each incinerator that combusts wastes containing more than 10 percent sewage sludge (dry basis) produced by municipal sewage treatment plants, or each incinerator that charges more than 1000 kg (2205 lb) per day municipal sewage sludge (dry basis).
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after June 11, 1973, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 58521, Nov. 10, 1977]
§ 60.151
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
[39 FR 9319, Mar. 8, 1974]
§ 60.152
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator of any sewage sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere of:
(1) Particulate matter at a rate in excess of 0.65 g/kg dry sludge input (1.30 lb/ton dry sludge input).
(2) Any gases which exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.
[39 FR 9319, Mar. 8, 1974, as amended at 40 FR 46259, Oct. 6, 1975]
§ 60.153
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall:
(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow measuring device which can be used to determine either the mass or volume of sludge charged to the incinerator. The flow measuring device shall be certified by the manufacturer to have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the flow measuring device shall be operated continuously and data recorded during all periods of operation of the incinerator.
(2) Provide access to the sludge charged so that a well-mixed representative grab sample of the sludge can be obtained.
(3) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a weighing device for determining the mass of any municipal solid waste charged to the incinerator when sewage sludge and municipal solid waste are incinerated together. The weighing device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(b) The owner or operator of any multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and:
(1) For incinerators equipped with a wet scrubbing device, install, calibrate, maintain and operate a monitoring device that continuously measures and records the pressure drop of the gas flow through the wet scrubbing device. Where a combination of wet scrubbers is used in series, the pressure drop of the gas flow through the combined system shall be continuously monitored. The device used to monitor scrubber pressure drop shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±250 pascals (±1 inch water gauge) and shall be calibrated on an annual basis in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
(2) Install, calibrate, maintain and operate a monitoring device that continuously measures and records the oxygen content of the incinerator exhaust gas. The oxygen monitor shall be located upstream of any rabble shaft cooling air inlet into the incinerator exhaust gas stream, fan, ambient air recirculation damper, or any other source of dilution air. The oxygen monitoring device shall be certified by the manufacturer to have a relative accurancy of ±5 percent over its operating range and shall be calibrated according to method(s) prescribed by the manufacturer at least once each 24-hour operating period.
(3) Install, calibrate, maintain and operate temperature measuring devices
at every hearth in multiple hearth furnaces; in the bed and outlet of fluidized bed incinerators; and in the drying, combustion, and cooling zones of electric incinerators. For multiple hearth furnaces, a minimum of one temperature measuring device shall be installed in each hearth in the cooling and drying zones, and a minimum of two temperature measuring devices shall be installed in each hearth in the combustion zone. For electric incinerators, a minimum of one temperature measuring device shall be installed in the drying zone and one in the cooling zone, and a minimum of two temperature measuring devices shall be installed in the combustion zone. Each temperature measuring device shall be certified by the manufacturer to have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the temperature monitoring devices shall be operated continuously and data recorded during all periods of operation of the incinerator.
(4) Install, calibrate, maintain and operate a device for measuring the fuel flow to the incinerator. The flow measuring device shall be certified by the manufacturer to have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range. Except as provided in paragraph (d) of the section, the fuel flow measuring device shall be operated continuously and data recorded during all periods of operation of the incinerator.
(5) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, collect and analyze a grab sample of the sludge fed to the incinerator once per day. The dry sludge content and the volatile solids content of the sample shall be determined in accordance with the method specified under § 60.154(b)(5), except that the determination of volatile solids, step (3)(b) of the method, may not be deleted.
(c) The owner or operator of any multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall retain the following information and make it available for inspection by the Administrator for a minimum of 2 years:
(1) For incinerators equipped with a wet scrubbing device, a record of the measured pressure drop of the gas flow through the wet scrubbing device, as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2) A record of the measured oxygen content of the incinerator exhaust gas, as required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(3) A record of the rate of sludge charged to the incinerator, the measured temperatures of the incinerator, the fuel flow to the incinerator, and the total solids and volatile solids content of the sludge charged to the incinerator, as required by paragraphs (a)(1), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5) of this section.
(d) The owner or operator of any multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart from which the particulate matter emission rate measured during the performance test required under § 60.154(d) is less than or equal to 0.38 g/kg of dry sludge input (0.75 lb/ton) shall be required to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section during all periods of this incinerator following the performance test except that:
(1) Continuous operation of the monitoring devices and data recorders in paragraphs (a)(1), (b)(3), and (b)(4) of this section shall not be required.
(2) Daily sampling and analysis of sludge feed in paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall not be required.
(3) Recordkeeping specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section shall not be required.
(e) The owner or operator of any sludge incinerator other than a multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric incinerator or any sludge incinerator equipped with a control device other than a wet scrubber shall submit to the Administrator for approval a plan for monitoring and recording incinerator and control device operation parameters. The plan shall be submitted to the Administrator:
(1) No later than 90 days after October 6, 1988, for sources which have provided notification of commencement of construction prior to October 6, 1988.
(2) No later than 90 days after the notification of commencement of construction, for sources which provide notification of commencement of construction on or after October 6, 1988.
(3) At least 90 days prior to the date on which the new control device becomes operative, for sources switching to a control device other than a wet scrubber.
[36 FR 24877, Dec. 23, 1971, as amended at 53 FR 39416, Oct. 6, 1988; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.154
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided for in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter emission standards in § 60.152 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of particulate matter for each run shall be computed using the following equation:
ER17OC00.005
Where:
E = Emission rate of particulate matter, g/kg (lb/ton) of dry sludge input.
c
s
= Concentration of particulate matter, g/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sd
= Volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
S = Charging rate of dry sludge during the run, kg/hr (ton/hr).
K = Conversion factor, 1.0 g/g (7,000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration (c
s
) and the volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf).
(3) The dry sludge charging rate (S) for each run shall be computed using either of the following equations:
ER17OC00.006
Where:
S = Charging rate of dry sludge, kg/hr (ton/hr).
S
m
= Total mass of sludge charge, kg (ton).
R
dm
= Average mass of dry sludge per unit mass of sludge charged, kg/kg (ton/ton).
θ = Duration of run, hr.
S
v
= Total volume of sludge charged, m
3
(gal).
R
dv
= Average mass of dry sludge per unit volume of sludge charged, kg/m
3
(lb/gal).
K
v
= Conversion factor, 1 g/g (2,000 lb/ton).
(4) the flow measuring device of § 60.153(a)(1) shall be used to determine the total mass (S
m
) or volume (S
v
) of sludge charged to the incinerator during each run. If the flow measuring device is on a time rate basis, readings shall be taken and recorded at 5-minute intervals during the run and the total charge of sludge shall be computed using the following equations, as applicable:
ER17OC00.007
ER17OC00.008
Where:
S
m
= Total mass of sludge charged to the incinerator during the test run.
S
v
= Total volume of sludge charged to the incinerator during the test run.
Q
mi
= Average mass flow rate calculated by averaging the flow rates at the beginning and end of each interval “i,” kg/hr (ton/hr).
Q
vi
= Average volume flow rate calculated by averaging the flow rates at the beginning and end of each interval “i,” m
3
/hr (gal/hr).
θ
i
= Duration of interval “i,” hr.
(5) Samples of the sludge charged to the incinerator shall be collected in nonporous jars at the beginning of each run and at approximately 1-hour intervals thereafter until the test ends; and “2540 G. Total, Fixed, and Volatile Solids in Solid and Semisolid Samples, in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 20th Edition, 1998” (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine dry sludge content of each sample (total solids residue), except that:
(i) Evaporating dishes shall be ignited to at least 103 °C rather than the 550 °C specified in step 3(a)(1).
(ii) Determination of volatile residue, step 3(b) may be deleted.
(iii) The quantity of dry sludge per unit sludge charged shall be determined in terms of kg/m
3
(lb/gal) or kg/kg (ton/ton).
(iv) The average dry sludge content shall be the arithmetic average of all the samples taken during the run.
(6) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
(c) [Reserved]
(d) The owner or operator of any sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall conduct a performance test during which the monitoring and recording devices required under § 60.153(a)(1), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) are installed and operating and for which the sampling and analysis procedures required under § 60.153(b)(5) are performed. The owner or operator shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the performance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present.
(1) For incinerators that commenced construction or modification on or before April 18, 1986, the performance test shall be conducted within 360 days of the effective date of these regulations unless the monitoring and recording devices required under § 60.153(a)(1), (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), and (b)(4) were installed and operating and the sampling and analysis procedures required under § 60.153(b)(5) were performed during the most recent performance test and a record of the measurements taken during the performance test is available.
(2) For incinerators that commence construction or modification after April 18, 1986, the date of the performance test shall be determined by the requirements in § 60.8.
[54 FR 6668, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 54 FR 27015, June 27, 1989; 59 FR 5108, Feb. 3, 1994; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000; 79 FR 11250, Feb. 27, 2014]
§ 60.155
Reporting.
(a) The owner or operator of any multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric sludge incinerator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit to the Administrator semi-annually a report in writing which contains the following:
(1) A record of average scrubber pressure drop measurements for each period of 15 minutes duration or more during which the pressure drop of the scrubber was less than, by a percentage specified below, the average scrubber pressure drop measured during the most recent performance test. The percent reduction in scrubber pressure drop for which a report is required shall be determined as follows:
(i) For incinerators that achieved an average particulate matter emission rate of 0.38 kg/Mg (0.75 lb/ton) dry sludge input or less during the most recent performance test, a scrubber pressure drop reduction of more than 30 percent from the average scrubber pressure drop recorded during the most recent performance test shall be reported.
(ii) For incinerators that achieved an average particulate matter emission rate of greater than 0.38 kg/Mg (0.75 lb/ton) dry sludge input during the most recent performance test, a percent reduction in pressure drop greater than that calculated according to the following equation shall be reported:
P=−111E + 72.15
where P = Percent reduction in pressure drop, and
E = Average particulate matter emissions (kg/megagram)
(2) A record of average oxygen content in the incinerator exhaust gas for each period of 1-hour duration or more that the oxygen content of the incinerator exhaust gas exceeds the average oxygen content measured during the most recent performance test by more than 3 percent.
(b) The owner or operator of any multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric sludge incinerator from which the average particulate matter emission rate measured during the performance test required under § 60.154(d) exceeds 0.38 g/kg of dry sludge input (0.75 lb/ton of dry sludge input) shall include in the report for each calendar day that a decrease in scrubber pressure drop or increase in oxygen content of exhaust gas is reported a record of the following:
(1) Scrubber pressure drop averaged over each 1-hour incinerator operating period.
(2) Oxygen content in the incinerator exhaust averaged over each 1-hour incinerator operating period.
(3) Temperatures of every hearth in multiple hearth incinerators; of the
bed and outlet of fluidized bed incinerators; and of the drying, combustion, and cooling zones of electric incinerators averaged over each 1-hour incinerator operating period.
(4) Rate of sludge charged to the incinerator averaged over each 1-hour incinerator operating period.
(5) Incinerator fuel use averaged over each 8-hour incinerator operating period.
(6) Moisture and volatile solids content of the daily grab sample of sludge charged to the incinerator.
(c) The owner or operator of any sludge incinerator other than a multiple hearth, fluidized bed, or electric incinerator or any sludge incinerator equipped with a control device other than a wet scrubber shall include in the semi-annual report a record of control device operation measurements, as specified in the plan approved under § 60.153(e).
[53 FR 39417, Oct. 6, 1988]
§ 60.156
Delegation of authority.
(a) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 111(c) of the Act, the authorities contained in paragraph (b) of this section shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State.
(b) Authorities which will not be delegated to States: § 60.153(e).
[53 FR 39418, Oct. 6, 1988]

# Subpart P—Standards of Performance for Primary Copper Smelters

# Source:
41 FR 2338, Jan. 15, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.160
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in primary copper smelters: Dryer, roaster, smelting furnace, and copper converter.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 16, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977]
§ 60.161
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Primary copper smelter
means any installation or any intermediate process engaged in the production of copper from copper sulfide ore concentrates through the use of pyrometallurgical techniques.
(b)
Dryer
means any facility in which a copper sulfide ore concentrate charge is heated in the presence of air to eliminate a portion of the moisture from the charge, provided less than 5 percent of the sulfur contained in the charge is eliminated in the facility.
(c)
Roaster
means any facility in which a copper sulfide ore concentrate charge is heated in the presence of air to eliminate a significant portion (5 percent or more) of the sulfur contained in the charge.
(d)
Calcine
means the solid materials produced by a roaster.
(e)
Smelting
means processing techniques for the melting of a copper sulfide ore concentrate or calcine charge leading to the formation of separate layers of molten slag, molten copper, and/or copper matte.
(f)
Smelting furnace
means any vessel in which the smelting of copper sulfide ore concentrates or calcines is performed and in which the heat necessary for smelting is provided by an electric current, rapid oxidation of a portion of the sulfur contained in the concentrate as it passes through an oxidizing atmosphere, or the combustion of a fossil fuel.
(g)
Copper converter
means any vessel to which copper matte is charged and oxidized to copper.
(h)
Sulfuric acid plant
means any facility producing sulfuric acid by the contact process.
(i)
Fossil fuel
means natural gas, petroleum, coal, and any form of solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from such materials for the purpose of creating useful heat.
(j)
Reverberatory smelting furnace
means any vessel in which the smelting
of copper sulfide ore concentrates or calcines is performed and in which the heat necessary for smelting is provided primarily by combustion of a fossil fuel.
(k)
Total smelter charge
means the weight (dry basis) of all copper sulfide ore concentrates processed at a primary copper smelter, plus the weight of all other solid materials introduced into the roasters and smelting furnaces at a primary copper smelter, except calcine, over a one-month period.
(l)
High level of volatile impurities
means a total smelter charge containing more than 0.2 weight percent arsenic, 0.1 weight percent antimony, 4.5 weight percent lead or 5.5 weight percent zinc, on a dry basis.
§ 60.162
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any dryer any gases which contain particulate matter in excess of 50 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf).
§ 60.163
Standard for sulfur dioxide.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any roaster, smelting furnace, or copper converter any gases which contain sulfur dioxide in excess of 0.065 percent by volume, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.
(b) Reverberatory smelting furnaces shall be exempted from paragraph (a) of this section during periods when the total smelter charge at the primary copper smelter contains a high level of volatile impurities.
(c) A change in the fuel combusted in a reverberatory smelting furnace shall not be considered a modification under this part.
§ 60.164
Standard for visible emissions.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any dryer any visible emissions which exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility that uses a sulfuric acid plant to comply with the standard set forth in § 60.163, any visible emissions which exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity.
§ 60.165
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any primary copper smelter subject to § 60.163 (b) shall keep a monthly record of the total smelter charge and the weight percent (dry basis) of arsenic, antimony, lead and zinc contained in this charge. The analytical methods and procedures employed to determine the weight of the total smelter charge and the weight percent of arsenic, antimony, lead and zinc shall be approved by the Administrator and shall be accurate to within plus or minus ten percent.
(b) The owner or operator of any primary copper smelter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install and operate:
(1) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the opacity of gases discharged into the atmosphere from any dryer. The span of this system shall be set at 80 to 100 percent opacity.
(2) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record sulfur dioxide emissions discharged into the atmosphere from any roaster, smelting furnace or copper converter subject to § 60.163 (a). The span of this system shall be set at a sulfur dioxide concentration of 0.20 percent by volume.
(i) The continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c) shall be completed prior to the initial performance test required under § 60.8.
(ii) For the purpose of the continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c) the reference method referred to under the
Relative Accuracy Test Procedure in Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part shall be Method 6. For the performance evaluation, each concentration measurement shall be of one hour duration. The pollutant gas used to prepare the calibration gas mixtures required under Performance Specification 2 of appendix B, and for calibration checks under § 60.13 (d), shall be sulfur dioxide.
(c) Six-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations shall be calculated and recorded daily for the four consecutive 6-hour periods of each operating day. Each six-hour average shall be determined as the arithmetic mean of the appropriate six contiguous one-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations provided by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (b) of this section.
(d) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as follows:
(1)
Opacity.
Any six-minute period during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (b) of this section, exceeds the standard under § 60.164(a).
(2)
Sulfur dioxide.
All six-hour periods during which the average emissions of sulfur dioxide, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (b) of this section, exceed the level of the standard. The Administrator will not consider emissions in excess of the level of the standard for less than or equal to 1.5 percent of the six-hour periods during the quarter as indicative of a potential violation of § 60.11(d) provided the affected facility, including air pollution control equipment, is maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions during these periods. Emissions in excess of the level of the standard during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction are not to be included within the 1.5 percent.
[41 FR 2338, Jan. 15, 1976; 41 FR 8346, Feb. 26, 1976, as amended at 42 FR 57126, Nov. 1, 1977; 48 FR 23611, May 25, 1983; 54 FR 6668, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61756, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.166
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter, sulfur dioxide (SO
2
) and visible emission standards in §§ 60.162, 60.163, and 60.164 as follows:
(1) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(2) The continuous monitoring system of § 60.165(b)(2) shall be used to determine the SO
2
concentrations on a dry basis. The sampling time for each run shall be 6 hours, and the average SO
2
concentration shall be computed for the 6-hour period as in § 60.165(c). The monitoring system drift during the run may not exceed 2 percent of the span value.
(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
[54 FR 6668, Feb. 14, 1989]

# Subpart Q—Standards of Performance for Primary Zinc Smelters

# Source:
41 FR 2340, Jan. 15, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.170
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in primary zinc smelters: roaster and sintering machine.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 16, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977]
§ 60.171
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning
given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Primary zinc smelter
means any installation engaged in the production, or any intermediate process in the production, of zinc or zinc oxide from zinc sulfide ore concentrates through the use of pyrometallurgical techniques.
(b)
Roaster
means any facility in which a zinc sulfide ore concentrate charge is heated in the presence of air to eliminate a significant portion (more than 10 percent) of the sulfur contained in the charge.
(c)
Sintering machine
means any furnace in which calcines are heated in the presence of air to agglomerate the calcines into a hard porous mass called
sinter.
(d)
Sulfuric acid plant
means any facility producing sulfuric acid by the contact process.
§ 60.172
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any sintering machine any gases which contain particulate matter in excess of 50 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf).
§ 60.173
Standard for sulfur dioxide.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any roaster any gases which contain sulfur dioxide in excess of 0.065 percent by volume.
(b) Any sintering machine which eliminates more than 10 percent of the sulfur initially contained in the zinc sulfide ore concentrates will be considered as a roaster under paragraph (a) of this section.
§ 60.174
Standard for visible emissions.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any sintering machine any visible emissions which exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility that uses a sulfuric acid plant to comply with the standard set forth in § 60.173, any visible emissions which exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity.
§ 60.175
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any primary zinc smelter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install and operate:
(1) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the opacity of gases discharged into the atmosphere from any sintering machine. The span of this system shall be set at 80 to 100 percent opacity.
(2) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record sulfur dioxide emissions discharged into the atmosphere from any roaster subject to § 60.173. The span of this system shall be set at a sulfur dioxide concentration of 0.20 percent by volume.
(i) The continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c) shall be completed prior to the initial performance test required under § 60.8.
(ii) For the purpose of the continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c), the reference method referred to under the Relative Accuracy Test Procedure in Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part shall be Method 6. For the performance evaluation, each concentration measurement shall be of 1 hour duration. The pollutant gas used to prepare the calibration gas mixtures required under Performance Specification 2 of appendix B, and for calibration checks under § 60.13(d), shall be sulfur dioxide.
(b) Two-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations shall be calculated and recorded daily for the 12 consecutive 2-hour periods of each operating day. Each 2-hour average shall be determined as the arithmetic mean of the
appropriate two contiguous 1-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations provided by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as follows:
(1) Opacity. Any 6-minute period during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section, exceeds the standard under § 60.174(a).
(2) Sulfur dioxide. Any 2-hour period, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, during which the average emissions of sulfur dioxide, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section, exceeds the standard under § 60.173.
[41 FR 2340, Jan. 15, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 23611, May 25, 1983; 54 FR 6668, Feb. 14, 1989]
§ 60.176
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter, sulfur dioxide (SO
2
), and visible emission standards in §§ 60.172, 60.173, and 60.174 as follows:
(1) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(2) The continuous monitoring system of § 60.175(a)(2) shall be used to determine the SO
2
concentrations on a dry basis. The sampling time for each run shall be 2 hours, and the average SO
2
concentration for the 2-hour period shall be computed as in § 60.175(b). The monitoring system drift during the run may not exceed 2 percent of the span value.
(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
[54 FR 6669, Feb. 14, 1989]

# Subpart R—Standards of Performance for Primary Lead Smelters

# Source:
41 FR 2340, Jan. 15, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.180
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities in primary lead smelters: sintering machine, sintering machine discharge end, blast furnace, dross reverberatory furnace, electric smelting furnace, and converter.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 16, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977]
§ 60.181
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Primary lead smelter
means any installation or any intermediate process engaged in the production of lead from lead sulfide ore concentrates through the use of pyrometallurgical techniques.
(b)
Sintering machine
means any furnace in which a lead sulfide ore concentrate charge is heated in the presence of air to eliminate sulfur contained in the charge and to agglomerate the charge into a hard porous mass called
sinter.
(c)
Sinter bed
means the lead sulfide ore concentrate charge within a sintering machine.
(d)
Sintering machine discharge end
means any apparatus which receives sinter as it is discharged from the conveying grate of a sintering machine.
(e)
Blast furnace
means any reduction furnace to which sinter is charged and which forms separate layers of molten slag and lead bullion.
(f)
Dross reverberatory furnace
means any furnace used for the removal or refining of impurities from lead bullion.
(g)
Electric smelting furnace
means any furnace in which the heat necessary for smelting of the lead sulfide ore concentrate charge is generated by passing an electric current through a portion of the molten mass in the furnace.
(h)
Converter
means any vessel to which lead concentrate or bullion is charged and refined.
(i)
Sulfuric acid plant
means any facility producing sulfuric acid by the contact process.
§ 60.182
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any blast furnace, dross reverberatory furnace, or sintering machine discharge end any gases which contain particulate matter in excess of 50 mg/dscm (0.022 gr/dscf).
(b) [Reserved]
§ 60.183
Standard for sulfur dioxide.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any sintering machine, electric smelting furnace, or converter gases which contain sulfur dioxide in excess of 0.065 percent by volume.
(b) [Reserved]
§ 60.184
Standard for visible emissions.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any blast furnace, dross reverberatory furnace, or sintering machine discharge end any visible emissions which exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility that uses a sulfuric acid plant to comply with the standard set forth in § 60.183, any visible emissions which exhibit greater than 20 percent opacity.
§ 60.185
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any primary lead smelter subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install and operate:
(1) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record the opacity of gases discharged into the atmosphere from any blast furnace, dross reverberatory furnace, or sintering machine discharge end. The span of this system shall be set at 80 to 100 percent opacity.
(2) A continuous monitoring system to monitor and record sulfur dioxide emissions discharged into the atmosphere from any sintering machine, electric furnace or converter subject to § 60.183. The span of this system shall be set at a sulfur dioxide concentration of 0.20 percent by volume.
(i) The continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c) shall be completed prior to the initial performance test required under § 60.8.
(ii) For the purpose of the continuous monitoring system performance evaluation required under § 60.13(c), the reference method referred to under the Relative Accuracy Test Procedure in Performance Specification 2 of appendix B to this part shall be Method 6. For the performance evaluation, each concentration measurement shall be of one hour duration. The pollutant gases used to prepare the calibration gas mixtures required under Performance Specification 2 of appendix B, and for calibration checks under § 60.13(d), shall be sulfur dioxide.
(b) Two-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations shall be calculated and recorded daily for the twelve consecutive two-hour periods of each operating day. Each two-hour average shall be determined as the arithmetic mean of the appropriate two contiguous one-hour average sulfur dioxide concentrations provided by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), periods of excess emissions that shall be reported are defined as follows:
(1) Opacity. Any six-minute period during which the average opacity, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section, exceeds the standard under § 60.184(a).
(2) Sulfur dioxide. Any two-hour period, as described in paragraph (b) of this section, during which the average emissions of sulfur dioxide, as measured by the continuous monitoring system installed under paragraph (a) of this section, exceeds the standard under § 60.183.
[41 FR 2340, Jan. 15, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 23611, May 25, 1983; 54 FR 6668, Feb. 14, 1989]
§ 60.186
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the particulate matter, sulfur dioxide (SO
2
), and visible emission standards in §§ 60.182, 60.183, and 60.184 as follows:
(1) Method 5 shall be used to determine the particulate matter concentration. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(2) The continuous monitoring system of § 60.185(a)(2) shall be used to determine the SO
2
concentrations on a dry basis. The sampling time for each run shall be 2 hours, and the average SO
2
concentration for the 2-hour period shall be computed as in § 60.185(b). The monitoring system drift during the run may not exceed 2 percent of the span value.
(3) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
[54 FR 6669, Feb. 14, 1989]

# Subpart S—Standards of Performance for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants

# Source:
45 FR 44207, June 30, 1980, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.190
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facilities in primary aluminum reduction plants to which this subpart applies are potroom groups and anode bake plants.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, any affected facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 23, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
(c) An owner or operator of an affected facility under paragraph (a) of this section may elect to comply with the requirements of this subpart or the requirements of subpart LL of part 63 of this chapter.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977, as amended at 45 FR 44206, June 30, 1980; 62 FR 52399, Oct. 7, 1997]
§ 60.191
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
Aluminum equivalent
means an amount of aluminum which can be produced from a Mg of anodes produced by an anode bake plant as determined by § 60.195(g).
Anode bake plant
means a facility which produces carbon anodes for use in a primary aluminum reduction plant.
Potroom
means a building unit which houses a group of electrolytic cells in which aluminum is produced.
Potroom group
means an uncontrolled potroom, a potroom which is controlled individually, or a group of potrooms or potroom segments ducted to a common control system.
Primary aluminum reduction plant
means any facility manufacturing aluminum by electrolytic reduction.
Primary control system
means an air pollution control system designed to remove gaseous and particulate
flourides from exhaust gases which are captured at the cell.
Roof monitor
means that portion of the roof of a potroom where gases not captured at the cell exit from the potroom.
Total fluorides
means elemental fluorine and all fluoride compounds as measured by reference methods specified in § 60.195 or by equivalent or alternative methods (see § 60.8(b)).
§ 60.192
Standard for fluorides.
(a) On and after the date on which the initial performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases containing total fluorides, as measured according to § 60.195, in excess of:
(1) 1.0 kg/Mg (2.0 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for potroom groups at Soderberg plants: except that emissions between 1.0 kg/Mg and 1.3 kg/Mg (2.6 lb/ton) will be considered in compliance if the owner or operator demonstrates that exemplary operation and maintenance procedures were used with respect to the emission control system and that proper control equipment was operating at the affected facility during the performance tests;
(2) 0.95 kg/Mg (1.9 lb/ton) of aluminum produced for potroom groups at prebake plants; except that emissions between 0.95 kg/Mg and 1.25 kg/Mg (2.5 lb/ton) will be considered in compliance if the owner or operator demonstrates that exemplary operation and maintenance procedures were used with respect to the emission control system and that proper control equipment was operating at the affected facility during the performance test; and
(3) 0.05 kg/Mg (0.1 lb/ton) of aluminum equivalent for anode bake plants.
(b) Within 30 days of any performance test which reveals emissions which fall between the 1.0 kg/Mg and 1.3 kg/Mg levels in paragraph (a)(1) of this section or between the 0.95 kg/Mg and 1.25 kg/Mg levels in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit a report indicating whether all necessary control devices were on-line and operating properly during the performance test, describing the operating and maintenance procedures followed, and setting forth any explanation for the excess emissions, to the Director of the Enforcement Division of the appropriate EPA Regional Office.
[45 FR 44207, June 30, 1980, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.193
Standard for visible emissions.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere:
(1) From any potroom group any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater, or
(2) From any anode bake plant any gases which exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.
§ 60.194
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any affected facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate monitoring devices which can be used to determine daily the weight of aluminum and anode produced. The weighing devices shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over their operating range.
(b) The owner or operator of any affected facility shall maintain a record of daily production rates of aluminum and anodes, raw material feed rates, and cell or potline voltages.
(c) Following the initial performance test as required under § 60.8(a), an owner or operator shall conduct a performance test at least once each month during the life of the affected facility, except when malfunctions prevent representative sampling, as provided under § 60.8(c). The owner or operator shall give the Administrator at least 15 days advance notice of each test. The Administrator may require additional testing under section 114 of the Clean Air Act.
(d) An owner or operator may petition the Administrator to establish an alternative testing requirement that requires testing less frequently than once each month for a primary control system or an anode bake plant. If the owner or operator show that emissions from the primary control system or the anode bake plant have low variability
during day-to-day operations, the Administrator may establish such an alternative testing requirement. The alternative testing requirement shall include a testing schedule and, in the case of a primary control system, the method to be used to determine primary control system emissions for the purpose of performance tests. The Administrator shall publish the alternative testing requirement in the
Federal Register.
(1) Alternative testing requirements are established for Anaconda Aluminum Company's Sebree plant in Henderson, Kentucky: The anode bake plant and primary control system are to be tested once a year rather than once a month.
(2) Alternative testing requirements are established for Alumax of South Carolina's Mt. Holly Plant in Mt. Holly, South Carolina: The anode bake plant and primary control system are to be tested once a year rather than once a month.
[45 FR 44207, June 30, 1980, as amended at 54 FR 6669, Feb. 14, 1989]
§ 60.195
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the total fluorides and visible emission standards in §§ 60.192 and 60.193 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E
p
) of total fluorides from potroom groups shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E
p
= [(C
s
Q
sd
)
1
+ (C
s
Q
sd
)
2
]/(P K)
where:
E
p
= emission rate of total fluorides from a potroom group, kg/Mg (lb/ton).
C
s
= concentration of total fluorides, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P = aluminum production rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 10
6
mg/kg (7,000 gr/lb).
1 = subscript for primary control system effluent gas.
2 = subscript for secondary control system or roof monitor effluent gas.
(2) The emission rate (E
b
) of total fluorides from anode bake plants shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
E
b
= (C
s
Q
sd
)/(P
e
K)
where:
E
b
= emission rate of total fluorides, kg/Mg (lb/ton) of aluminum equivalent.
C
s
= concentration of total fluorides, mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sd
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas, dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
P
e
= aluminum equivalent for anode production rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 10
6
mg/kg (7,000 gr/lb).
(3) Methods 13A or 13B shall be used for ducts or stacks, and Method 14 for roof monitors not employing stacks or pollutant collection systems, to determine the total fluorides concentration (C
s
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sd
) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 8 hours and 6.80 dscm (240 dscf) for potroom groups and at least 4 hours and 3.40 dscm (120 dscf) for anode bake plants.
(4) The monitoring devices of § 60.194(a) shall be used to determine the daily weight of aluminum and anode produced.
(i) The aluminum production rate (P) shall be determined by dividing 720 hours into the weight of aluminum tapped from the affected facility during a period of 30 days before and including the final run of a performance test.
(ii) The aluminum equivalent production rate (P
e
) for anodes shall be determined as 2 times the average weight of anode produced during a representative oven cycle divided by the cycle time. An owner or operator may establish a multiplication factor other than 2 by submitting production records of the amount of aluminum produced and the concurrent weight of anodes consumed by the potrooms.
(5) Method 9 and the procedures in § 60.11 shall be used to determine opacity.
[54 FR 6669, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]

# Subpart T—Standards of Performance for the Phosphate Fertilizer Industry: Wet-Process Phosphoric Acid Plants
§ 60.200
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each wet-process phosphoric acid plant having a design capacity of more than 15 tons of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed per calendar day.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 22, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 7129, Feb. 17, 1983; 80 FR 50432, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.201
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Wet-process phosphoric acid plant
means any facility manufacturing phosphoric acid by reacting phosphate rock and acid. A wet-process phosphoric acid plant includes: Reactors, filters, evaporators, and hot wells.
(b)
Total fluorides
means elemental fluorine and all fluoride compounds as measured by reference methods specified in § 60.204, or equivalent or alternative methods.
(c)
Equivalent P
2
O
5
feed
means the quantity of phosphorus, expressed as phosphorus pentoxide, fed to the process.
[40 FR 33154, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000; 80 FR 50433, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.202
Standard for fluorides.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which contain total fluorides in excess of 10.0 g/Mg of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed (0.020 lb/ton).
[40 FR 33154, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.203
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any wet-process phosphoric acid plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which can be used to determine the mass flow of phosphorus-bearing feed material to the process. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(b) The owner or operator of any wet-process phosphoric acid plant shall maintain a daily record of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed by first determining the total mass rate in Mg/hr of phosphorus bearing feed using a monitoring device for measuring mass flowrate which meets the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and then by proceeding according to § 60.204(b)(3).
(c) The owner or operator of any wet-process phosphoric acid plant subject to the provisions of this part shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously measures and permanently records the total pressure drop across the absorber. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(d) Any facility under § 60.200(a) that commences construction, modification or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this paragraph instead of the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If an absorber is used to comply with § 60.202, then the owner or operator shall continuously monitor pressure drop through the absorber and meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that continuously measures and permanently records the pressure at the gas stream inlet and outlet of the absorber. The pressure at the gas stream inlet of the absorber may be measured using amperage on the blower if a correlation between pressure and amperage is established.
(2) The CMS must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over the normal range measured or 0.12 kilopascals (0.5 inches of water column), whichever is greater.
(3) The owner or operator shall establish an allowable range for the pressure drop through the absorber. The allowable range is ±20 percent of the arithmetic average of the three test runs conducted during the performance test required in § 60.8. The Administrator retains the right to reduce the ±20 percent adjustment to the baseline average values of operating ranges in those instances where performance test results indicate that a source's level of emissions is near the value of an applicable emissions standard. However, the adjustment must not be reduced to less than ±10 percent under any instance.
(4) The owner or operator shall demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining the daily average pressure drop through the absorber to within the allowable range established in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The daily average pressure drop through the absorber for each operating day shall be calculated using the data recorded by the monitoring system. If the emissions unit operation is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If the emissions unit operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.
[40 FR 3154, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 54 FR 6669, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000; 80 FR 50433, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.204
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the total fluorides standard in § 60.202 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of total fluorides shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
EC16NO91.007
where:
E = emission rate of total fluorides, g/Mg (lb/ton) of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed.
C
si
= concentration of total fluorides from emission point “i,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from emission point “i,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
N = number of emission points associated with the affected facility.
P = equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 mg/g (7,000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 13A or 13B shall be used to determine the total fluorides concentration (C
si
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sdi
) of the effluent gas from each of the emission points. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(3) The equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate (P) shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
P = M
p
R
p
where:
M
p
= total mass flow rate of phosphorus-bearing feed, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
R
p
= P
2
O
5
content, decimal fraction.
(i) The accountability system of § 60.203(a) shall be used to determine the mass flow rate (M
p
) of the phosphorus-bearing feed.
(ii) The Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC) Method 9 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the P
2
O
5
content (R
p
) of the feed.
[54 FR 6669, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.205
Recordkeeping.
Any facility under § 60.200(a) that commences construction, modification or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this section. You must maintain the records identified as specified in § 60.7(f) and in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. All records required by this subpart must be maintained on site for at least 5 years.
(a)
Records of the daily average pressure.
Records of the daily average pressure drop through the absorber.
(b)
Records of deviations.
A deviation is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section being met.
(1) A deviation occurs when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum pressure drop, or greater than the maximum pressure drop established in § 60.203(d)(3).
(2) A deviation occurs when the monitoring data are not available for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in a day.
[80 FR 50433, Aug. 19, 2015]

# Subpart U—Standards of Performance for the Phosphate Fertilizer Industry: Superphosphoric Acid Plants
§ 60.210
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each superphosphoric acid plant having a design capacity of more than 15 tons of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed per calendar day.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 22, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37937, July 25, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 7129, Feb. 17, 1983; 80 FR 50433, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.211
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Superphosphoric acid plant
means any facility that concentrates wet-process phosphoric acid to 66 percent or greater P
2
O
5
content by weight for eventual consumption as a fertilizer. A superphosphoric acid plant includes: evaporators, hot wells, acid sumps, oxidation reactors, and cooling tanks. An oxidation reactor includes any equipment or step that uses an oxidizing agent (
e.g.,
nitric acid, ammonium nitrate, or potassium permanganate) to treat superphosphoric acid.
(b)
Total fluorides
means elemental fluorine and all fluoride compounds as measured by reference methods specified in § 60.214, or equivalent or alternative methods.
(c)
Equivalent P
2
O
5
feed
means the quantity of phosphorus, expressed as phosphorus pentoxide, fed to the process.
[40 FR 33155, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000; 80 FR 50433, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.212
Standard for fluorides.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which contain total fluorides in excess of 5.0 g/megagram (Mg) of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed (0.010 lb/ton).
(b) [Reserved]
[40 FR 33155, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.213
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any superphosphoric acid plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow monitoring device which can be used to determine the mass flow of phosphorus-bearing feed material to the process. The flow monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(b) The owner or operator of any superphosphoric acid plant shall maintain a daily record of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed by first determining the total mass rate in Mg/hr of phosphorus-bearing feed using a flow monitoring device meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and then by proceeding according to § 60.214(b)(3).
(c) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of any superphosphoric acid plant subject to the provisions of this part shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously measures and permanently records the total pressure drop across the absorber. The monitoring device
shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(d) Any affected facility as defined in § 60.210(a) that commences construction, modification or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this paragraph instead of the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If an absorber is used to comply with § 60.212, then the owner or operator shall continuously monitor pressure drop through the absorber and meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that continuously measures and permanently records the pressure at the gas stream inlet and outlet of the absorber. The pressure at the gas stream inlet of the absorber may be measured using amperage on the blower if a correlation between pressure and amperage is established.
(2) The CMS must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over the normal range measured or 0.12 kilopascals (0.5 inches of water column), whichever is greater.
(3) The owner or operator shall establish an allowable range for the pressure drop through the absorber. The allowable range is ±20 percent of the arithmetic average of the three test runs conducted during the performance test required in § 60.8. The Administrator retains the right to reduce the ±20 percent adjustment to the baseline average values of operating ranges in those instances where performance test results indicate that a source's level of emissions is near the value of an applicable emissions standard. However, the adjustment must not be reduced to less than ±10 percent under any instance.
(4) The owner or operator shall demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining the daily average pressure drop through the absorber to within the allowable range established in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The daily average pressure drop through the absorber for each operating day shall be calculated using the data recorded by the monitoring system. If the emissions unit operation is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If the emissions unit operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.
[40 FR 33155, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 54 FR 6670, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000; 80 FR 50433, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.214
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the total fluorides standard in § 60.212 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of total fluorides shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
EC16NO91.008
where:
E = emission rate of total fluorides, g/Mg (lb/ton) of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed.
C
si
= concentration of total fluorides from emission point “i,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from emission point “i,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
N = number of emission points associated with the affected facility.
P = equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 mg/g (7,000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 13A or 13B shall be used to determine the total fluorides concentration (C
si
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sdi
) of the effluent gas from each of the emission points. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(3) The equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate (P) shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
P = M
p
R
p
where:
M
p
= total mass flow rate of phosphorus-bearing feed, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
R
p
= P
2
O
5
content, decimal fraction.
(i) The accountability system of § 60.213(a) shall be used to determine the mass flow rate (M
p
) of the phosphorus-bearing feed.
(ii) The Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC) Method 9 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the P
2
O
5
content (R
p
) of the feed.
[54 FR 6670, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.215
Recordkeeping.
An affected facility as defined in § 60.210(a) that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this section. You must maintain the records identified as specified in § 60.7(f) and in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. All records required by this subpart must be maintained on site for at least 5 years.
(a)
Records of the daily average pressure.
Records of the daily average pressure drop through the absorber.
(b)
Records of deviations.
A deviation is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section being met.
(1) A deviation occurs when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum pressure drop, or greater than the maximum pressure drop established in § 60.213(d)(3).
(2) A deviation occurs when the monitoring data are not available for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in a day.
[80 FR 50434, Aug. 19, 2015]

# Subpart V—Standards of Performance for the Phosphate Fertilizer Industry: Diammonium Phosphate Plants
§ 60.220
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each granular diammonium phosphate plant having a design capacity of more than 15 tons of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed per calendar day. For the purpose of this subpart, the affected facility includes any combination of: reactors, granulators, dryers, coolers, screens, and mills.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 22, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37938, July 25, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 7129, Feb. 17, 1983]
§ 60.221
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Granular diammonium phosphate plant
means any plant manufacturing granular diammonium phosphate by reacting phosphoric acid with ammonia.
(b)
Total fluorides
means elemental fluorine and all fluoride compounds as measured by reference methods specified in § 60.224, or equivalent or alternative methods.
(c)
Equivalent P
2
O
5
feed
means the quantity of phosphorus, expressed as phosphorus pentoxide, fed to the process.
[40 FR 33155, Aug. 6, 1975]
§ 60.222
Standard for fluorides.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which contain total fluorides in excess of 30 g/megagram (Mg) of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed (0.060 lb/ton).
(b) [Reserved]
[40 FR 33155, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.223
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any granular diammonium phosphate plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow monitoring device which can be used to determine the mass flow of phosphorus-bearing feed material to the process. The flow monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(b) The owner or operator of any granular diammonium phosphate plant
shall maintain a daily record of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed by first determining the total mass rate in Mg/hr of phosphorus-bearing feed using a flow monitoring device meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and then by proceeding according to § 60.224(b)(3).
(c) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of any granular diammonium phosphate plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device which continuously measures and permanently records the total pressure drop across the scrubbing system. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(d) Any affected facility as defined in § 60.220(a) that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this paragraph instead of the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If an absorber is used to comply with § 60.222, then the owner or operator shall continuously monitor pressure drop through the absorber and meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that continuously measures and permanently records the pressure at the gas stream inlet and outlet of the absorber. The pressure at the gas stream inlet of the absorber may be measured using amperage on the blower if a correlation between pressure and amperage is established.
(2) The CMS must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over the normal range measured or 0.12 kilopascals (0.5 inches of water column), whichever is greater.
(3) The owner or operator shall establish an allowable range for the pressure drop through the absorber. The allowable range is ±20 percent of the arithmetic average of the three test runs conducted during the performance test required in § 60.8. The Administrator retains the right to reduce the ±20 percent adjustment to the baseline average values of operating ranges in those instances where performance test results indicate that a source's level of emissions is near the value of an applicable emissions standard. However, the adjustment must not be reduced to less than ±10 percent under any instance.
(4) The owner or operator shall demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining the daily average pressure drop through the absorber to within the allowable range established in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The daily average pressure drop through the absorber for each operating day shall be calculated using the data recorded by the monitoring system. If the emissions unit operation is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If the emissions unit operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.
[40 FR 33155, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 54 FR 6670, Feb. 14, 1989; 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000; 80 FR 50434, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.224
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the total fluorides standard in § 60.222 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of total fluorides shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
EC16NO91.009
where:
E = emission rate of total fluorides, g/Mg (lb/ton) of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed.
C
si
= concentration of total fluorides from emission point “i,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from emission point “i,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
N = number of emission points associated with the affected facility.
P = equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 mg/g (7,000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 13A or 13B shall be used to determine the total fluorides concentration (C
si
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sdi
) of the effluent gas from each of the emission points. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(3) The equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate (P) shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
P = M
p
R
p
where:
M
p
= total mass flow rate of phosphorus-bearing feed, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
R
p
= P
2
O
5
content, decimal fraction.
(i) The accountability system of § 60.223(a) shall be used to determine the mass flow rate (M
p
) of the phosphorus-bearing feed.
(ii) The Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC) Method 9 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the P
2
O
5
content (R
p
) of the feed.
[54 FR 6670, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000; 80 FR 50434, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.225
Recordkeeping.
An affected facility as defined in § 60.220(a) that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this section. You must maintain the records identified as specified in § 60.7(f) and in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. All records required by this subpart must be maintained on site for at least 5 years.
(a) Records of the daily average pressure drop through the absorber.
(b) Records of deviations. A deviation is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section being met.
(1) A deviation occurs when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum pressure drop, or greater than the maximum pressure drop established in § 60.223(d)(3).
(2) A deviation occurs when the monitoring data are not available for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in a day.
[80 FR 50434, Aug. 19, 2015]

# Subpart W—Standards of Performance for the Phosphate Fertilizer Industry: Triple Superphosphate Plants
§ 60.230
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each triple superphosphate plant having a design capacity of more than 15 tons of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed per calendar day. For the purpose of this subpart, the affected facility includes any combination of: mixers, curing belts (dens), reactors, granulators, dryers, coolers, screens, mills, and facilities that store run-of-pile triple superphosphate.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 22, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37938, July 25, 1977, as amended at 48 FR 7129, Feb. 17, 1983; 80 FR 50435, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.231
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Triple superphosphate plant
means any facility manufacturing triple superphosphate by reacting phosphate rock with phosphoric acid. A run-of-pile triple superphosphate plant includes curing and storing.
(b)
Run-of-pile triple superphosphate
means any triple superphosphate that has not been processed in a granulator and is composed of particles at least 25 percent by weight of which (when not caked) will pass through a 16 mesh screen.
(c)
Total fluorides
means elemental fluorine and all fluoride compounds as measured by reference methods specified in § 60.234, or equivalent or alternative methods.
(d)
Equivalent P
2
O
5
feed
means the quantity of phosphorus, expressed as
phosphorus pentoxide, fed to the process.
[40 FR 33156, Aug. 6, 1975]
§ 60.232
Standard for fluorides.
On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which contain total fluorides in excess of 100 g/megagram (Mg) of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed (0.20 lb/ton).
[40 FR 33156, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.233
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any triple superphosphate plant subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow monitoring device that can be used to determine the mass flow of phosphorus-bearing feed material to the process. The flow monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(b) The owner or operator of any triple superphosphate plant shall maintain a daily record of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed by first determining the total mass rate in Mg/hr of phosphorus-bearing feed using a flow monitoring device meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section and then by proceeding according to § 60.234(b)(3).
(c) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of any triple superphosphate plant subject to the provisions of this part shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device that continuously measures and permanently records the total pressure drop across the absorber. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(d) Any facility under § 60.230(a) that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this paragraph instead of the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If an absorber is used to comply with § 60.232, then the owner or operator shall continuously monitor pressure drop through the absorber and meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that continuously measures and permanently records the pressure at the gas stream inlet and outlet of the absorber. The pressure at the gas stream inlet of the absorber may be measured using amperage on the blower if a correlation between pressure and amperage is established.
(2) The CMS must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over the normal range measured or 0.12 kilopascals (0.5 inches of water column), whichever is greater.
(3) The owner or operator shall establish an allowable range for the pressure drop through the absorber. The allowable range is ±20 percent of the arithmetic average of the three test runs conducted during the performance test required in § 60.8. The Administrator retains the right to reduce the ±20 percent adjustment to the baseline average values of operating ranges in those instances where performance test results indicate that a source's level of emissions is near the value of an applicable emissions standard. However, the adjustment must not be reduced to less than ±10 percent under any instance.
(4) The owner or operator shall demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining the daily average pressure drop through the absorber to within the allowable range established in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. The daily average pressure drop through the absorber for each operating day shall be calculated using the data recorded by the monitoring system. If the emissions unit operation is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If the emissions unit operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.
[80 FR 50435, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.234
Test methods and procedures.
(a) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(b) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the total fluorides standards in § 60.232 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of total fluorides shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
EC16NO91.010
where:
E = emission rate of total fluorides, g/Mg (lb/ton) of equivalent P
2
O
5
feed.
C
si
= concentration of total fluorides from emission point “i,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from emission point “i,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
N = number of emission points in the affected facility.
P = equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
K = conversion factor, 1000 mg/g (7,000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 13A or 13b shall be used to determine the total fluorides concentration (C
si
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sdi
) of the effluent gas from each of the emission points. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(3) The equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate (P) shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
P = M
p
R
p
where:
M
p
total mass flow rate of phosphorus-bearing feed, Mg/hr (ton/hr).
R
p
= P
2
O
5
content, decimal fraction.
(i) The accountability system of § 60.233(a) shall be used to determine the mass flow rate (M
p
) of the phosphorus-bearing feed.
(ii) The Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC) Method 9 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the P
2
O
5
content (R
p
) of the feed.
[54 FR 6670, Feb. 14, 1989; 54 FR 21344, May 17, 1989, as amended at 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.235
Recordkeeping.
Any facility under § 60.230(a) that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this section. You must maintain the records identified as specified in § 60.7(f) and in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. All records required by this subpart must be maintained onsite for at least 5 years.
(a) Records of the daily average pressure drop through the absorber.
(b) Records of deviations. A deviation is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section being met.
(1) A deviation occurs when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum pressure drop, or greater than the maximum pressure drop established in § 60.233(d)(3).
(2) A deviation occurs when the monitoring data are not available for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in a day.
[80 FR 50435, Aug. 19, 2015]

# Subpart X—Standards of Performance for the Phosphate Fertilizer Industry: Granular Triple Superphosphate Storage Facilities
§ 60.240
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The affected facility to which the provisions of this subpart apply is each granular triple superphosphate storage facility. For the purpose of this subpart, the affected facility includes any combination of: Storage or curing piles, conveyors, elevators, screens and mills.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October
22, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37938, July 25, 1977]
§ 60.241
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Granular triple superphosphate storage facility
means any facility curing or storing fresh granular triple superphosphate.
(b)
Total fluorides
means elemental fluorine and all fluoride compounds as measured by reference methods specified in § 60.244, or equivalent or alternative methods.
(c)
Equivalent P
2
O
5
stored
means the quantity of phosphorus, expressed as phosphorus pentoxide, being cured or stored in the affected facility.
(d)
Fresh granular triple superphosphate
means granular triple superphosphate produced within the preceding 72 hours.
[40 FR 33156, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 62 FR 18280, Apr. 15, 1997; 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.242
Standard for fluorides.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any affected facility any gases which contain total fluorides in excess of 0.25 g/hr/megagram (Mg) of equivalent P
2
O
5
stored (5.0 × 10
−4
lb/hr/ton of equivalent P
2
O
5
stored).
(b) No owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall ship fresh granular triple superphosphate from an affected facility.
[40 FR 33156, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 62 FR 18280, Apr. 15, 1997; 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.243
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any granular triple superphosphate storage facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain an accurate account of triple superphosphate in storage to permit the determination of the amount of equivalent P
2
O
5
stored.
(b) The owner or operator of any granular triple superphosphate storage facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain a daily record of total equivalent P
2
O
5
stored by multiplying the percentage P
2
O
5
content, as determined by § 60.244(c)(3), times the total mass of granular triple superphosphate stored.
(c) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator of any granular triple superphosphate storage facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device that continuously measures and permanently records the total pressure drop across any absorber. The monitoring device shall have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(d) The owner or operator of any granular triple superphosphate storage facility subject to the provisions of this subpart shall develop for approval by the Administrator a site-specific methodology including sufficient recordkeeping for the purposes of demonstrating compliance with § 60.242 (b).
(e) Any facility under § 60.240(a) that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this paragraph instead of the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If an absorber is used to comply with § 60.232, then the owner or operator shall continuously monitor pressure drop through the absorber and meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that continuously measures and permanently records the pressure at the gas stream inlet and outlet of the absorber. The pressure at the gas stream inlet of the absorber may be measured using amperage on the blower if a correlation between pressure and amperage is established.
(2) The CMS must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over the normal range measured or 0.12 kilopascals (0.5 inches of water column), whichever is greater.
(3) The owner or operator shall establish an allowable range for the pressure drop through the absorber. The allowable range is ±20 percent of the arithmetic average of the three test runs conducted during the performance test required in § 60.8. The Administrator retains the right to reduce the ±20 percent adjustment to the baseline average values of operating ranges in those instances where performance test results indicate that a source's level of emissions is near the value of an applicable emissions standard. However, the adjustment must not be reduced to less than ±10 percent under any instance.
(4) The owner or operator shall demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining the daily average pressure drop through the absorber to within the allowable range established in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The daily average pressure drop through the absorber for each operating day shall be calculated using the data recorded by the monitoring system. If the emissions unit operation is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If the emissions unit operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.
[40 FR 33156, Aug. 6, 1975, as amended at 54 FR 6671, Feb. 14, 1989; 62 FR 18280, Apr. 15, 1997; 80 FR 50435, Aug. 19, 2015]
§ 60.244
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The owner or operator shall conduct performance tests required in § 60.8 only when the following quantities of product are being cured or stored in the facility.
(1) Total granular triple superphosphate is at least 10 percent of the building capacity, and
(2) Fresh granular triple superphosphate is at least 6 percent of the total amount of triple superphosphate, or
(3) If the provision in paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds production capabilities for fresh granular triple superphosphate, fresh granular triple superphosphate is equal to at least 5 days maximum production.
(b) In conducting the performance tests required in § 60.8, the owner or operator shall use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A of this part or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 60.8(b).
(c) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the total fluorides standard in § 60.242 as follows:
(1) The emission rate (E) of total fluorides shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
EC16NO91.011
where:
E = emission rate of total fluorides, g/hr/Mg (lb/hr/ton) of equivalent P
2
O
5
stored.
C
si
= concentration of total fluorides from emission point “i,” mg/dscm (gr/dscf).
Q
sdi
= volumetric flow rate of effluent gas from emission point “i,” dscm/hr (dscf/hr).
N = number of emission points in the affected facility.
P = equivalent P
2
O
5
stored, metric tons (tons).
K = conversion factor, 1000 mg/g (7,000 gr/lb).
(2) Method 13A or 13B shall be used to determine the total fluorides concentration (C
si
) and volumetric flow rate (Q
sdi
) of the effluent gas from each of the emission points. The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).
(3) The equivalent P
2
O
5
feed rate (P) shall be computed for each run using the following equation:
P = M
p
R
p
where:
M
p
= amount of product in storage, Mg (ton).
R
p
= P
2
O
5
content of product in storage, weight fraction.
(i) The accountability system of § 60.243(a) shall be used to determine the amount of product (M
p
) in storage.
(ii) The Association of Official Analytical Chemists (AOAC) Method 9 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) shall be used to determine the P
2
O
5
content (R
p
) of the product in storage.
[54 FR 6671, Feb. 14, 1989, as amended at 62 FR 18280, Apr. 15, 1997; 65 FR 61757, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.245
Recordkeeping.
Any facility under § 60.240(a) that commences construction, modification, or reconstruction after November 7, 2014 is subject to the requirements of this section. You must maintain the records identified as specified in § 60.7(f) and in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. All records required by this subpart must be maintained onsite for at least 5 years.
(a) Records of the daily average pressure drop through the absorber.
(b) Records of deviations. A deviation is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section being met.
(1) A deviation occurs when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum pressure drop, or greater than the maximum pressure drop established in § 60.243(e)(3).
(2) A deviation occurs when the monitoring data are not available for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in a day.
[80 FR 50436, Aug. 19, 2015]

# Subpart Y—Standards of Performance for Coal Preparation and Processing Plants

# Source:
74 FR 51977, Oct. 8, 2009, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.250
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to affected facilities in coal preparation and processing plants that process more than 181 megagrams (Mg) (200 tons) of coal per day.
(b) The provisions in §§ 60.251, 60.252(a), 60.253(a), 60.254(a), 60.255(a), and 60.256(a) of this subpart are applicable to any of the following affected facilities that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after October 27, 1974, and on or before April 28, 2008: Thermal dryers, pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment (air tables), coal processing and conveying equipment (including breakers and crushers), and coal storage systems, transfer and loading systems.
(c) The provisions in §§ 60.251, 60.252(b)(1) and (c), 60.253(b), 60.254(b), 60.255(b) through (h), 60.256(b) and (c), 60.257, and 60.258 of this subpart are applicable to any of the following affected facilities that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after April 28, 2008, and on or before May 27, 2009: Thermal dryers, pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment (air tables), coal processing and conveying equipment (including breakers and crushers), and coal storage systems, transfer and loading systems.
(d) The provisions in §§ 60.251, 60.252(b)(1) through (3), and (c), 60.253(b), 60.254(b) and (c), 60.255(b) through (h), 60.256(b) and (c), 60.257, and 60.258 of this subpart are applicable to any of the following affected facilities that commenced construction, reconstruction or modification after May 27, 2009: Thermal dryers, pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment (air tables), coal processing and conveying equipment (including breakers and crushers), coal storage systems, transfer and loading systems, and open storage piles.
§ 60.251
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein have the meaning given them in the Clean Air Act (Act) and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Anthracite
means coal that is classified as anthracite according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
(b)
Bag leak detection system
means a system that is capable of continuously monitoring relative particulate matter (dust loadings) in the exhaust of a fabric filter to detect bag leaks and other upset conditions. A bag leak detection system includes, but is not limited to, an instrument that operates on triboelectric, light scattering, light transmittance, or other effect to continuously monitor relative particulate matter loadings.
(c)
Bituminous coal
means solid fossil fuel classified as bituminous coal by ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference—
see
§ 60.17).
(d)
Coal
means:
(1) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before May 27, 2009, all solid fossil fuels classified
as anthracite, bituminous, subbituminous, or lignite by ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference—
see
§ 60.17).
(2) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, all solid fossil fuels classified as anthracite, bituminous, subbituminous, or lignite by ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference—
see
§ 60.17), and coal refuse.
(e)
Coal preparation and processing plant
means any facility (excluding underground mining operations) which prepares coal by one or more of the following processes: breaking, crushing, screening, wet or dry cleaning, and thermal drying.
(f)
Coal processing and conveying equipment
means any machinery used to reduce the size of coal or to separate coal from refuse, and the equipment used to convey coal to or remove coal and refuse from the machinery. This includes, but is not limited to, breakers, crushers, screens, and conveyor belts. Equipment located at the mine face is not considered to be part of the coal preparation and processing plant.
(g)
Coal refuse
means waste products of coal mining, physical coal cleaning, and coal preparation operations (e.g., culm, gob,
etc.
) containing coal, matrix material, clay, and other organic and inorganic material.
(h)
Coal storage system
means any facility used to store coal except for open storage piles.
(i)
Design controlled potential PM emissions rate
means the theoretical particulate matter (PM) emissions (Mg) that would result from the operation of a control device at its design emissions rate (grams per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm)), multiplied by the maximum design flow rate (dry standard cubic meter per minute (dscm/min)), multiplied by 60 (minutes per hour (min/hr)), multiplied by 8,760 (hours per year (hr/yr)), divided by 1,000,000 (megagrams per gram (Mg/g)).
(j)
Indirect thermal dryer
means a thermal dryer that reduces the moisture content of coal through indirect heating of the coal through contact with a heat transfer medium. If the source of heat (the source of combustion or furnace) is subject to another subpart of this part, then the furnace and the associated emissions are not part of the affected facility. However, if the source of heat is not subject to another subpart of this part, then the furnace and the associated emissions are part of the affected facility.
(k)
Lignite
means coal that is classified as lignite A or B according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
(l)
Mechanical vent
means any vent that uses a powered mechanical drive (machine) to induce air flow.
(m)
Open storage pile
means any facility, including storage area, that is not enclosed that is used to store coal, including the equipment used in the loading, unloading, and conveying operations of the facility.
(n)
Operating day
means a 24-hour period between 12 midnight and the following midnight during which coal is prepared or processed at any time by the affected facility. It is not necessary that coal be prepared or processed the entire 24-hour period.
(o)
Pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment
means:
(1) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before May 27, 2009, any facility which classifies bituminous coal by size or separates bituminous coal from refuse by application of air stream(s).
(2) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, any facility which classifies coal by size or separates coal from refuse by application of air stream(s).
(p)
Potential combustion concentration
means the theoretical emissions (nanograms per joule (ng/J) or pounds per million British thermal units (lb/MMBtu) heat input) that would result from combustion of a fuel in an uncleaned state without emission control systems, as determined using Method 19 of appendix A-7 of this part.
(q)
Subbituminous coal
means coal that is classified as subbituminous A, B, or C according to the American Society of Testing and Materials in ASTM D388 (incorporated by reference,
see
§ 60.17).
(r)
Thermal dryer
means:
(1) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before May
27, 2009, any facility in which the moisture content of bituminous coal is reduced by contact with a heated gas stream which is exhausted to the atmosphere.
(2) For units constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, any facility in which the moisture content of coal is reduced by either contact with a heated gas stream which is exhausted to the atmosphere or through indirect heating of the coal through contact with a heated heat transfer medium.
(s)
Transfer and loading system
means any facility used to transfer and load coal for shipment.
§ 60.252
Standards for thermal dryers.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of a thermal dryer constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before April 28, 2008, subject to the provisions of this subpart must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator shall not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the thermal dryer any gases which contain PM in excess of 0.070 g/dscm (0.031 grains per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf)); and
(2) The owner or operator shall not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the thermal dryer any gases which exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, on and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of a thermal dryer constructed, reconstructed, or modified after April 28, 2008, subject to the provisions of this subpart must meet the applicable standards for PM and opacity, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. In addition, and except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, on and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of a thermal dryer constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 29, 2009, subject to the provisions of this subpart must also meet the applicable standards for sulfur dioxide (SO
2
), and combined nitrogen oxides (NO
X
) and carbon monoxide (CO) as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must meet the requirements for PM emissions in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable to the affected facility.
(i) For each thermal dryer constructed or reconstructed after April 28, 2008, the owner or operator must meet the requirements of (b)(1)(i)(A) and (b)(1)(i)(B).
(A) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the thermal dryer any gases that contain PM in excess of 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 grains per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf)); and
(B) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the thermal dryer any gases that exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater.
(ii) For each thermal dryer modified after April 28, 2008, the owner or operator must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) and (b)(1)(ii)(B) of this section.
(A) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged to the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which contain PM in excess of 0.070 g/dscm (0.031 gr/dscf); and
(B) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.
(2) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, for each thermal dryer constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, the owner or operator must meet the requirements for SO
2
emissions in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases that contain SO
2
in excess of 85 ng/J (0.20 lb/MMBtu) heat input; or
(ii) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any
gases that either contain SO
2
in excess of 520 ng/J (1.20 lb/MMBtu) heat input or contain SO
2
in excess of 10 percent of the potential combustion concentration (
i.e.,
the facility must achieve at least a 90 percent reduction of the potential combustion concentration and may not exceed a maximum emissions rate of 1.2 lb/MMBtu (520 ng/J)).
(iii) Thermal dryers that receive all of their thermal input from a source other than coal or residual oil, that receive all of their thermal input from a source subject to an SO
2
limit under another subpart of this part, or that use waste heat or residual from the combustion of coal or residual oil as their only thermal input are not subject to the SO
2
limits of this section.
(3) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator must meet the requirements for combined NO
X
and CO emissions in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this section, as applicable to the affected facility.
(i) For each thermal dryer constructed after May 27, 2009, the owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which contain a combined concentration of NO
X
and CO in excess of 280 ng/J (0.65 lb/MMBtu) heat input.
(ii) For each thermal dryer reconstructed or modified after May 27, 2009, the owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which contain combined concentration of NO
X
and CO in excess of 430 ng/J (1.0 lb/MMBtu) heat input.
(iii) Thermal dryers that receive all of their thermal input from a source other than coal or residual oil, that receive all of their thermal input from a source subject to a NO
X
limit and/or CO limit under another subpart of this part, or that use waste heat or residual from the combustion of coal or residual oil as their only thermal input, are not subject to the combined NO
X
and CO limits of this section.
(c) Thermal dryers receiving all of their thermal input from an affected facility covered under another 40 CFR Part 60 subpart must meet the applicable requirements in that subpart but are not subject to the requirements in this subpart.
§ 60.253
Standards for pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before April 28, 2008, must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section.
(1) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment any gases that contain PM in excess of 0.040 g/dscm (0.017 gr/dscf); and
(2) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment any gases that exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment constructed, reconstructed, or modified after April 28, 2008, must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) The owner of operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment any gases that contain PM in excess or 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf); and
(2) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the pneumatic coal-cleaning equipment any gases that exhibit greater than 5 percent opacity.
§ 60.254
Standards for coal processing and conveying equipment, coal storage systems, transfer and loading systems, and open storage piles.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator shall not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any coal processing and conveying equipment, coal storage system, or coal transfer and loading system processing
coal constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before April 28, 2008, gases which exhibit 20 percent opacity or greater.
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test is conducted or required to be completed under § 60.8, whichever date comes first, an owner or operator of any coal processing and conveying equipment, coal storage system, or coal transfer and loading system processing coal constructed, reconstructed, or modified after April 28, 2008, must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable to the affected facility.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from the affected facility any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater.
(2) The owner or operator must not cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any mechanical vent on an affected facility gases which contain particulate matter in excess of 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf).
(3) Equipment used in the loading, unloading, and conveying operations of open storage piles are not subject to the opacity limitations of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(c) The owner or operator of an open storage pile, which includes the equipment used in the loading, unloading, and conveying operations of the affected facility, constructed, reconstructed, or modified after May 27, 2009, must prepare and operate in accordance with a submitted fugitive coal dust emissions control plan that is appropriate for the site conditions as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.
(1) The fugitive coal dust emissions control plan must identify and describe the control measures the owner or operator will use to minimize fugitive coal dust emissions from each open storage pile.
(2) For open coal storage piles, the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan must require that one or more of the following control measures be used to minimize to the greatest extent practicable fugitive coal dust: Locating the source inside a partial enclosure, installing and operating a water spray or fogging system, applying appropriate chemical dust suppression agents on the source (when the provisions of paragraph (c)(6) of this section are met), use of a wind barrier, compaction, or use of a vegetative cover. The owner or operator must select, for inclusion in the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan, the control measure or measures listed in this paragraph that are most appropriate for site conditions. The plan must also explain how the measure or measures selected are applicable and appropriate for site conditions. In addition, the plan must be revised as needed to reflect any changing conditions at the source.
(3) Any owner or operator of an affected facility that is required to have a fugitive coal dust emissions control plan may petition the Administrator to approve, for inclusion in the plan for the affected facility, alternative control measures other than those specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section as specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) The petition must include a description of the alternative control measures, a copy of the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan for the affected facility that includes the alternative control measures, and information sufficient for EPA to evaluate the demonstrations required by paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.
(ii) The owner or operator must either demonstrate that the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan that includes the alternate control measures will provide equivalent overall environmental protection or demonstrate that it is either economically or technically infeasible for the affected facility to use the control measures specifically identified in paragraph (c)(2).
(iii) While the petition is pending, the owner or operator must comply with the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan including the alternative control measures submitted with the petition. Operation in accordance with the plan submitted with the petition shall be deemed to constitute compliance with the requirement to operate in accordance with a fugitive coal dust emissions control plan that contains
one of the control measures specifically identified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section while the petition is pending.
(iv) If the petition is approved by the Administrator, the alternative control measures will be approved for inclusion in the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan for the affected facility. In lieu of amending this subpart, a letter will be sent to the facility describing the specific control measures approved. The facility shall make any such letters and the applicable fugitive coal dust emissions control plan available to the public. If the Administrator determines it is appropriate, the conditions and requirements of the letter can be reviewed and changed at any point.
(4) The owner or operator must submit the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan to the Administrator or delegated authority as specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (c)(4)(ii) of this section.
(i) The plan must be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority prior to startup of the new, reconstructed, or modified affected facility, or 30 days after the effective date of this rule, whichever is later.
(ii) The plan must be revised as needed to reflect any changing conditions at the source. Such revisions must be dated and submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority before a source can operate pursuant to these revisions. The Administrator or delegated authority may also object to such revisions as specified in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(5) The Administrator or delegated authority may object to the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan as specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (c)(5)(ii) of this section.
(i) The Administrator or delegated authority may object to any fugitive coal dust emissions control plan that it has determined does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
(ii) If an objection is raised, the owner or operator, within 30 days from receipt of the objection, must submit a revised fugitive coal dust emissions control plan to the Administrator or delegated authority. The owner or operator must operate in accordance with the revised fugitive coal dust emissions control plan. The Administrator or delegated authority retain the right, under paragraph (c)(5) of this section, to object to the revised control plan if it determines the plan does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.
(6) Where appropriate chemical dust suppression agents are selected by the owner or operator as a control measure to minimize fugitive coal dust emissions, (1) only chemical dust suppressants with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)-compliant material safety data sheets (MSDS) are to be allowed; (2) the MSDS must be included in the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan; and (3) the owner or operator must consider and document in the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan the site-specific impacts associated with the use of such chemical dust suppressants.
§ 60.255
Performance tests and other compliance requirements.
(a) An owner or operator of each affected facility that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification on or before April 28, 2008, must conduct all performance tests required by § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards using the methods identified in § 60.257.
(b) An owner or operator of each affected facility that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, must conduct performance tests according to the requirements of § 60.8 and the methods identified in § 60.257 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions standards in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) For each affected facility subject to a PM, SO
2
, or combined NO
X
and CO emissions standard, an initial performance test must be performed. Thereafter, a new performance test must be conducted according the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.
(i) If the results of the most recent performance test demonstrate that emissions from the affected facility are
greater than 50 percent of the applicable emissions standard, a new performance test must be conducted within 12 calendar months of the date that the previous performance test was required to be completed.
(ii) If the results of the most recent performance test demonstrate that emissions from the affected facility are 50 percent or less of the applicable emissions standard, a new performance test must be conducted within 24 calendar months of the date that the previous performance test was required to be completed.
(iii) An owner or operator of an affected facility that has not operated for the 60 calendar days prior to the due date of a performance test is not required to perform the subsequent performance test until 30 calendar days after the next operating day.
(2) For each affected facility subject to an opacity standard, an initial performance test must be performed. Thereafter, a new performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, except as provided for in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section. Performance test and other compliance requirements for coal truck dump operations are specified in paragraph (h) of this section.
(i) If any 6-minute average opacity reading in the most recent performance test exceeds half the applicable opacity limit, a new performance test must be conducted within 90 operating days of the date that the previous performance test was required to be completed.
(ii) If all 6-minute average opacity readings in the most recent performance test are equal to or less than half the applicable opacity limit, a new performance test must be conducted within 12 calendar months of the date that the previous performance test was required to be completed.
(iii) An owner or operator of an affected facility continuously monitoring scrubber parameters as specified in § 60.256(b)(2) is exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) if opacity performance tests are conducted concurrently with (or within a 60-minute period of) PM performance tests.
(c) If any affected coal processing and conveying equipment (
e.g.,
breakers, crushers, screens, conveying systems), coal storage systems, or coal transfer and loading systems that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, are enclosed in a building, and emissions from the building do not exceed any of the standards in § 60.254 that apply to the affected facility, then the facility shall be deemed to be in compliance with such standards.
(d) An owner or operator of an affected facility (other than a thermal dryer) that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, is subject to a PM emission standard and uses a control device with a design controlled potential PM emissions rate of 1.0 Mg (1.1 tons) per year or less is exempted from the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section provided that the owner or operator meets all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. This exemption does not apply to thermal dryers.
(1) PM emissions, as determined by the most recent performance test, are less than or equal to the applicable limit,
(2) The control device manufacturer's recommended maintenance procedures are followed, and
(3) All 6-minute average opacity readings from the most recent performance test are equal to or less than half the applicable opacity limit or the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (e) or (f) of this section are followed.
(e) For an owner or operator of a group of up to five of the same type of affected facilities that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, that are subject to PM emissions standards and use identical control devices, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow the owner or operator to use a single PM performance test for one of the affected control devices to demonstrate that the group of affected facilities is in compliance with the applicable emissions standards provided that the owner or operator meets all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) PM emissions from the most recent performance test for each individual affected facility are 90 percent or less of the applicable PM standard;
(2) The manufacturer's recommended maintenance procedures are followed for each control device; and
(3) A performance test is conducted on each affected facility at least once every 5 calendar years.
(f) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an owner or operator of an affected facility that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, may elect to comply with the requirements in paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section.
(1) Monitor visible emissions from each affected facility according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Conduct one daily 15-second observation each operating day for each affected facility (during normal operation) when the coal preparation and processing plant is in operation. Each observation must be recorded as either visible emissions observed or no visible emissions observed. Each observer determining the presence of visible emissions must meet the training requirements specified in § 2.3 of Method 22 of appendix A-7 of this part. If visible emissions are observed during any 15-second observation, the owner or operator must adjust the operation of the affected facility and demonstrate within 24 hours that no visible emissions are observed from the affected facility. If visible emissions are observed, a Method 9, of appendix A-4 of this part, performance test must be conducted within 45 operating days.
(ii) Conduct monthly visual observations of all process and control equipment. If any deficiencies are observed, the necessary maintenance must be performed as expeditiously as possible.
(iii) Conduct a performance test using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part at least once every 5 calendar years for each affected facility.
(2) Prepare a written site-specific monitoring plan for a digital opacity compliance system for approval by the Administrator or delegated authority. The plan shall require observations of at least one digital image every 15 seconds for 10-minute periods (during normal operation) every operating day. An approvable monitoring plan must include a demonstration that the occurrences of visible emissions are not in excess of 5 percent of the observation period. For reference purposes in preparing the monitoring plan,
see
OAQPS “Determination of Visible Emission Opacity from Stationary Sources Using Computer-Based Photographic Analysis Systems.” This document is available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA); Office of Air Quality and Planning Standards; Sector Policies and Programs Division; Measurement Group (D243-02), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. This document is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN) under Emission Measurement Center Preliminary Methods. The monitoring plan approved by the Administrator or delegated authority shall be implemented by the owner or operator.
(g) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, an owner or operator of an affected facility that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, subject to a visible emissions standard under this subpart may install, operate, and maintain a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS). Each COMS used to comply with provisions of this subpart must be installed, calibrated, maintained, and continuously operated according to the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.
(1) The COMS must meet Performance Specification 1 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.
(2) The COMS must comply with the quality assurance requirements in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.
(i) The owner or operator must automatically (intrinsic to the opacity monitor) check the zero and upscale (span) calibration drifts at least once daily. For particular COMS, the acceptable range of zero and upscale calibration materials is as defined in the applicable version of Performance Specification 1 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.
(ii) The owner or operator must adjust the zero and span whenever the 24-
hour zero drift or 24-hour span drift exceeds 4 percent opacity. The COMS must allow for the amount of excess zero and span drift measured at the 24-hour interval checks to be recorded and quantified. The optical surfaces exposed to the effluent gases must be cleaned prior to performing the zero and span drift adjustments, except for systems using automatic zero adjustments. For systems using automatic zero adjustments, the optical surfaces must be cleaned when the cumulative automatic zero compensation exceeds 4 percent opacity.
(iii) The owner or operator must apply a method for producing a simulated zero opacity condition and an upscale (span) opacity condition using a certified neutral density filter or other related technique to produce a known obscuration of the light beam. All procedures applied must provide a system check of the analyzer internal optical surfaces and all electronic circuitry including the lamp and photodetector assembly.
(iv) Except during periods of system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, the COMS must be in continuous operation and must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.
(v) The owner or operator must reduce all data from the COMS to 6-minute averages. Six-minute opacity averages must be calculated from 36 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period. Data recorded during periods of system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments must not be included in the data averages. An arithmetic or integrated average of all data may be used.
(h) The owner or operator of each affected coal truck dump operation that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Conduct an initial performance test using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and(ii).
(i) Opacity readings shall be taken during the duration of three separate truck dump events. Each truck dump event commences when the truck bed begins to elevate and concludes when the truck bed returns to a horizontal position.
(ii) Compliance with the applicable opacity limit is determined by averaging all 15-second opacity readings made during the duration of three separate truck dump events.
(2) Conduct monthly visual observations of all process and control equipment. If any deficiencies are observed, the necessary maintenance must be performed as expeditiously as possible.
(3) Conduct a performance test using Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part at least once every 5 calendar years for each affected facility.
§ 60.256
Continuous monitoring requirements.
(a) The owner or operator of each affected facility constructed, reconstructed, or modified on or before April 28, 2008, must meet the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable to the affected facility.
(1) The owner or operator of any thermal dryer shall install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate monitoring devices as follows:
(i) A monitoring device for the measurement of the temperature of the gas stream at the exit of the thermal dryer on a continuous basis. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±1.7 °C (±3 °F).
(ii) For affected facilities that use wet scrubber emission control equipment:
(A) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss through the venturi constriction of the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±1 inch water gauge.
(B) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the water supply pressure to the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±5 percent of design water supply pressure. The pressure sensor or
tap must be located close to the water discharge point. The Administrator shall have discretion to grant requests for approval of alternative monitoring locations.
(2) All monitoring devices under paragraph (a) of this section are to be recalibrated annually in accordance with procedures under § 60.13(b).
(b) The owner or operator of each affected facility constructed, reconstructed, or modified after April 28, 2008, that has one or more mechanical vents must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate the monitoring devices specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable to the mechanical vent and any control device installed on the vent.
(1) For mechanical vents with fabric filters (baghouses) with design controlled potential PM emissions rates of 25 Mg (28 tons) per year or more, a bag leak detection system according to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section.
(2) For mechanical vents with wet scrubbers, monitoring devices according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
(i) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pressure loss through the venturi constriction of the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±1 inch water gauge.
(ii) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the water supply flow rate to the control equipment. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±5 percent of design water supply flow rate.
(iii) A monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the pH of the wet scrubber liquid. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±5 percent of design pH.
(iv) An average value for each monitoring parameter must be determined during each performance test. Each monitoring parameter must then be maintained within 10 percent of the value established during the most recent performance test on an operating day average basis.
(3) For mechanical vents with control equipment other than wet scrubbers, a monitoring device for the continuous measurement of the reagent injection flow rate to the control equipment, as applicable. The monitoring device is to be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within ±5 percent of design injection flow rate. An average reagent injection flow rate value must be determined during each performance test. The reagent injection flow rate must then be maintained within 10 percent of the value established during the most recent performance test on an operating day average basis.
(c) Each bag leak detection system used to comply with provisions of this subpart must be installed, calibrated, maintained, and continuously operated according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) The bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.
(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per dry standard cubic meter (mg/dscm) (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot (gr/acf)) or less.
(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator shall continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger).
(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.
(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, the owner or operator must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.
(v) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator must not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Once per quarter, the owner or operator may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(vii) The owner or operator must install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the fabric filter.
(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
(2) The owner or operator must develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. This plan must be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority 30 days prior to startup of the affected facility. The owner or operator must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.
(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;
(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;
(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;
(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;
(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored; and
(vi) Corrective action procedures as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow the owner and operator more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrates that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.
(3) For each bag leak detection system, the owner or operator must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2)(vi) of this section, the owner or operator must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:
(i) Inspecting the fabric filter for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in PM emissions;
(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;
(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;
(iv) Sealing off a defective fabric filter compartment;
(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or
(vi) Shutting down the process producing the PM emissions.
§ 60.257
Test methods and procedures.
(a) The owner or operator must determine compliance with the applicable opacity standards as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
(1) Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part and the procedures in § 60.11 must be used to determine opacity, with the exceptions specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii).
(i) The duration of the Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test shall be 1 hour (ten 6-minute averages).
(ii) If, during the initial 30 minutes of the observation of a Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part performance test,
all of the 6-minute average opacity readings are less than or equal to half the applicable opacity limit, then the observation period may be reduced from 1 hour to 30 minutes.
(2) To determine opacity for fugitive coal dust emissions sources, the additional requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) must be used.
(i) The minimum distance between the observer and the emission source shall be 5.0 meters (16 feet), and the sun shall be oriented in the 140-degree sector of the back.
(ii) The observer shall select a position that minimizes interference from other fugitive coal dust emissions sources and make observations such that the line of vision is approximately perpendicular to the plume and wind direction.
(iii) The observer shall make opacity observations at the point of greatest opacity in that portion of the plume where condensed water vapor is not present. Water vapor is not considered a visible emission.
(3) A visible emissions observer may conduct visible emission observations for up to three fugitive, stack, or vent emission points within a 15-second interval if the following conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section are met.
(i) No more than three emissions points may be read concurrently.
(ii) All three emissions points must be within a 70 degree viewing sector or angle in front of the observer such that the proper sun position can be maintained for all three points.
(iii) If an opacity reading for any one of the three emissions points is within 5 percent opacity from the applicable standard (excluding readings of zero opacity), then the observer must stop taking readings for the other two points and continue reading just that single point.
(b) The owner or operator must conduct all performance tests required by § 60.8 to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions standards specified in § 60.252 according to the requirements in § 60.8 using the applicable test methods and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.
(1) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.
(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.
(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The owner or operator may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, “Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses (incorporated by reference—
see
§ 60.17) as an alternative to Method 3B of appendix A-2 of this part.
(4) Method 4 of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.
(5) Method 5, 5B or 5D of appendix A-4 of this part or Method 17 of appendix A-7 of this part shall be used to determine the PM concentration as follows:
(i) The sampling time and sample volume for each run shall be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf). Sampling shall begin no less than 30 minutes after startup and shall terminate before shutdown procedures begin. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test.
(ii) Method 5 of appendix A of this part shall be used only to test emissions from affected facilities without wet flue gas desulfurization (FGD) systems.
(iii) Method 5B of appendix A of this part is to be used only after wet FGD systems.
(iv) Method 5D of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used for positive pressure fabric filters and other similar applications (
e.g.,
stub stacks and roof vents).
(v) Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part may be used at facilities with or without wet scrubber systems provided the stack gas temperature does not exceed a temperature of 160 °C (320 °F). The procedures of sections 8.1 and 11.1 of Method 5B of appendix A-3 of this
part may be used in Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part only if it is used after a wet FGD system. Do not use Method 17 of appendix A-6 of this part after wet FGD systems if the effluent is saturated or laden with water droplets.
(6) Method 6, 6A, or 6C of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the SO
2
concentration. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise an SO
2
performance test.
(7) Method 7 or 7E of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the NO
X
concentration. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise an NO
X
performance test.
(8) Method 10 of appendix A-4 of this part shall be used to determine the CO concentration. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a CO performance test. CO performance tests are conducted concurrently (or within a 60-minute period) with NO
X
performance tests.
§ 60.258
Reporting and recordkeeping.
(a) The owner or operator of a coal preparation and processing plant that commenced construction, reconstruction, or modification after April 28, 2008, shall maintain in a logbook (written or electronic) on-site and make it available upon request. The logbook shall record the following:
(1) The manufacturer's recommended maintenance procedures and the date and time of any maintenance and inspection activities and the results of those activities. Any variance from manufacturer recommendation, if any, shall be noted.
(2) The date and time of periodic coal preparation and processing plant visual observations, noting those sources with visible emissions along with corrective actions taken to reduce visible emissions. Results from the actions shall be noted.
(3) The amount and type of coal processed each calendar month.
(4) The amount of chemical stabilizer or water purchased for use in the coal preparation and processing plant.
(5) Monthly certification that the dust suppressant systems were operational when any coal was processed and that manufacturer's recommendations were followed for all control systems. Any variance from the manufacturer's recommendations, if any, shall be noted.
(6) Monthly certification that the fugitive coal dust emissions control plan was implemented as described. Any variance from the plan, if any, shall be noted. A copy of the applicable fugitive coal dust emissions control plan and any letters from the Administrator providing approval of any alternative control measures shall be maintained with the logbook. Any actions, e.g., objections, to the plan and any actions relative to the alternative control measures, e.g., approvals, shall be noted in the logbook as well.
(7) For each bag leak detection system, the owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.
(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;
(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection settings; and
(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the cause of the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.
(8) A copy of any applicable monitoring plan for a digital opacity compliance system and monthly certification that the plan was implemented as described. Any variance from plan, if any, shall be noted.
(9) During a performance test of a wet scrubber, and each operating day thereafter, the owner or operator shall record the measurements of the scrubber pressure loss, water supply flow rate, and pH of the wet scrubber liquid.
(10) During a performance test of control equipment other than a wet scrubber, and each operating day thereafter, the owner or operator shall record the measurements of the reagent injection flow rate, as applicable.
(b) For the purpose of reports required under section 60.7(c), any owner
operator subject to the provisions of this subpart also shall report semiannually periods of excess emissions as follow:
(1) The owner or operator of an affected facility with a wet scrubber shall submit semiannual reports to the Administrator or delegated authority of occurrences when the measurements of the scrubber pressure loss, water supply flow rate, or pH of the wet scrubber liquid vary by more than 10 percent from the average determined during the most recent performance test.
(2) The owner or operator of an affected facility with control equipment other than a wet scrubber shall submit semiannual reports to the Administrator or delegated authority of occurrences when the measurements of the reagent injection flow rate, as applicable, vary by more than 10 percent from the average determined during the most recent performance test.
(3) All 6-minute average opacities that exceed the applicable standard.
(c) The owner or operator of an affected facility shall submit the results of initial performance tests to the Administrator or delegated authority, consistent with the provisions of section 60.8. The owner or operator who elects to comply with the reduced performance testing provisions of sections 60.255(c) or (d) shall include in the performance test report identification of each affected facility that will be subject to the reduced testing. The owner or operator electing to comply with section 60.255(d) shall also include information which demonstrates that the control devices are identical.
(d) After July 1, 2011, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance evaluation conducted to demonstrate compliance with this subpart, the owner or operator of the affected facility must submit the test data to EPA by successfully entering the data electronically into EPA's WebFIRE data base available at
http://cfpub.epa.gov/oarweb/index.cfm?action = fire.main.
For performance tests that cannot be entered into WebFIRE (
i.e.,
Method 9 of appendix A-4 of this part opacity performance tests) the owner or operator of the affected facility must mail a summary copy to United States Environmental Protection Agency; Energy Strategies Group; 109 TW Alexander DR; mail code: D243-01; RTP, NC 27711.

# Subpart Z—Standards of Performance for Ferroalloy Production Facilities

# Source:
41 FR 18501, May 4, 1976, unless otherwise noted.
§ 60.260
Applicability and designation of affected facility.
(a) The provisions of this subpart are applicable to the following affected facilities: Electric submerged arc furnaces which produce silicon metal, ferrosilicon, calcium silicon, silicomanganese zirconium, ferrochrome silicon, silvery iron, high-carbon ferrochrome, charge chrome, standard ferromanganese, silicomanganese, ferromanganese silicon, or calcium carbide; and dust-handling equipment.
(b) Any facility under paragraph (a) of this section that commences construction or modification after October 21, 1974, is subject to the requirements of this subpart.
[42 FR 37938, July 25, 1977]
§ 60.261
Definitions.
As used in this subpart, all terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in the Act and in subpart A of this part.
(a)
Electric submerged arc furnace
means any furnace wherein electrical energy is converted to heat energy by transmission of current between electrodes partially submerged in the furnace charge.
(b)
Furnace charge
means any material introduced into the electric submerged arc furnace, and may consist of, but is not limited to, ores, slag, carbonaceous material, and limestone.
(c)
Product change
means any change in the composition of the furnace charge that would cause the electric submerged arc furnace to become subject to a different mass standard applicable under this subpart.
(d)
Slag
means the more or less completely fused and vitrified matter separated during the reduction of a metal from its ore.
(e)
Tapping
means the removal of slag or product from the electric submerged arc furnace under normal operating conditions such as removal of metal under normal pressure and movement by gravity down the spout into the ladle.
(f)
Tapping period
means the time duration from initiation of the process of opening the tap hole until plugging of the tap hole is complete.
(g)
Furnace cycle
means the time period from completion of a furnace product tap to the completion of the next consecutive product tap.
(h)
Tapping station
means that general area where molten product or slag is removed from the electric submerged arc furnace.
(i)
Blowing tap
means any tap in which an evolution of gas forces or projects jets of flame or metal sparks beyond the ladle, runner, or collection hood.
(j)
Furnace power input
means the resistive electrical power consumption of an electric submerged arc furnace as measured in kilowatts.
(k)
Dust-handling equipment
means any equipment used to handle particulate matter collected by the air pollution control device (and located at or near such device) serving any electric submerged arc furnace subject to this subpart.
(l)
Control device
means the air pollution control equipment used to remove particulate matter generated by an electric submerged arc furnace from an effluent gas stream.
(m)
Capture system
means the equipment (including hoods, ducts, fans, dampers, etc.) used to capture or transport particulate matter generated by an affected electric submerged arc furnace to the control device.
(n)
Standard ferromanganese
means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A99-76 or 82 (Reapproved 1987) (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
(o)
Silicomanganese
means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A483-64 or 74 (Reapproved 1988) (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
(p)
Calcium carbide
means material containing 70 to 85 percent calcium carbide by weight.
(q)
High-carbon ferrochrome
means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A101-73 or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) grades HC1 through HC6.
(r)
Charge chrome
means that alloy containing 52 to 70 percent by weight chromium, 5 to 8 percent by weight carbon, and 3 to 6 percent by weight silicon.
(s)
Silvery iron
means any ferrosilicon, as defined by ASTM Designation A100-69, 74, or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17), which contains less than 30 percent silicon.
(t)
Ferrochrome silicon
means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A482-76 or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
(u)
Silicomanganese zirconium
means that alloy containing 60 to 65 percent by weight silicon, 1.5 to 2.5 percent by weight calcium, 5 to 7 percent by weight zirconium, 0.75 to 1.25 percent by weight aluminum, 5 to 7 percent by weight manganese, and 2 to 3 percent by weight barium.
(v)
Calcium silicon
means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A495-76 or 94 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17).
(w)
Ferrosilicon
means that alloy as defined by ASTM Designation A100-69, 74, or 93 (incorporated by reference—see § 60.17) grades A, B, C, D, and E, which contains 50 or more percent by weight silicon.
(x)
Silicon metal
means any silicon alloy containing more than 96 percent silicon by weight.
(y)
Ferromanganese silicon
means that alloy containing 63 to 66 percent by weight manganese, 28 to 32 percent by weight silicon, and a maximum of 0.08 percent by weight carbon.
[41 FR 18501, May 4, 1976; 41 FR 20659, May 20, 1976, as amended at 48 FR 3738, Jan. 27, 1983; 65 FR 61758, Oct. 17, 2000]
§ 60.262
Standard for particulate matter.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be
discharged into the atmosphere from any electric submerged arc furnace any gases which:
(1) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 0.45 kg/MW-hr (0.99 lb/MW-hr) while silicon metal, ferrosilicon, calcium silicon, or silicomanganese zirconium is being produced.
(2) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter in excess of 0.23 kg/MW-hr (0.51 lb/MW-hr) while highcarbon ferrochrome, charge chrome, standard ferromanganese, silicomanganese, calcium carbide, ferrochrome silicon, ferromanganese silicon, or silvery iron is being produced.
(3) Exit from a control device and exhibit 15 percent opacity or greater.
(4) Exit from an electric submerged arc furnace and escape the capture system and are visible without the aid of instruments. The requirements under this subparagraph apply only during periods when flow rates are being established under § 60.265(d).
(5) Escape the capture system at the tapping station and are visible without the aid of instruments for more than 40 percent of each tapping period. There are no limitations on visible emissions under this subparagraph when a blowing tap occurs. The requirements under this subparagraph apply only during periods when flow rates are being established under § 60.265(d).
(b) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged into the atmosphere from any dust-handling equipment any gases which exhibit 10 percent opacity or greater.
§ 60.263
Standard for carbon monoxide.
(a) On and after the date on which the performance test required to be conducted by § 60.8 is completed, no owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall cause to be discharged in to the atmosphere from any electric submerged arc furnace any gases which contain, on a dry basis, 20 or greater volume percent of carbon monoxide. Combustion of such gases under conditions acceptable to the Administrator constitutes compliance with this section. Acceptable conditions include, but are not limited to, flaring of gases or use of gases as fuel for other processes.
§ 60.264
Emission monitoring.
(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain and operate a continuous monitoring system for measurement of the opacity of emissions discharged into the atmosphere from the control device(s).
(b) For the purpose of reports required under § 60.7(c), the owner or operator shall report as excess emissions all six-minute periods in which the average opacity is 15 percent or greater.
(c) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit a written report of any product change to the Administrator. Reports of product changes must be postmarked not later than 30 days after implementation of the product change.
§ 60.265
Monitoring of operations.
(a) The owner or operator of any electric submerged arc furnace subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain daily records of the following information:
(1) Product being produced.
(2) Description of constituents of furnace charge, including the quantity, by weight.
(3) Time and duration of each tapping period and the identification of material tapped (slag or product.)
(4) All furnace power input data obtained under paragraph (b) of this section.
(5) All flow rate data obtained under paragraph (c) of this section or all fan motor power consumption and pressure drop data obtained under paragraph (e) of this section.
(b) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device to measure and continuously record the furnace power input. The furnace power input may be measured at the output or input side of the transformer. The device must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over its operating range.
(c) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously measures and records the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood of the capture system, except as provided under paragraph (e) of this section. The owner or operator of an electric submerged arc furnace that is equipped with a water cooled cover which is designed to contain and prevent escape of the generated gas and particulate matter shall monitor only the volumetric flow rate through the capture system for control of emissions from the tapping station. The owner or operator may install the monitoring device(s) in any appropriate location in the exhaust duct such that reproducible flow rate monitoring will result. The flow rate monitoring device must have an accuracy of ±10 percent over its normal operating range and must be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions. The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate the accuracy of the monitoring device relative to Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A to this part.
(d) When performance tests are conducted under the provisions of § 60.8 of this part to demonstrate compliance with the standards under §§ 60.262(a) (4) and (5), the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood of the capture system must be determined using the monitoring device required under paragraph (c) of this section. The volumetric flow rates must be determined for furnace power input levels at 50 and 100 percent of the nominal rated capacity of the electric submerged arc furnace. At all times the electric submerged arc furnace is operated, the owner or operator shall maintain the volumetric flow rate at or above the appropriate levels for that furnace power input level determined during the most recent performance test. If emissions due to tapping are captured and ducted separately from emissions of the electric submerged arc furnace, during each tapping period the owner or operator shall maintain the exhaust flow rates through the capture system over the tapping station at or above the levels established during the most recent performance test. Operation at lower flow rates may be considered by the Administrator to be unacceptable operation and maintenance of the affected facility. The owner or operator may request that these flow rates be reestablished by conducting new performance tests under § 60.8 of this part.
(e) The owner or operator may as an alternative to paragraph (c) of this section determine the volumetric flow rate through each fan of the capture system from the fan power consumption, pressure drop across the fan and the fan performance curve. Only data specific to the operation of the affected electric submerged arc furnace are acceptable for demonstration of compliance with the requirements of this paragraph. The owner or operator shall maintain on file a permanent record of the fan performance curve (prepared for a specific temperature) and shall:
(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device to continuously measure and record the power consumption of the fan motor (measured in kilowatts), and
(2) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device to continuously measure and record the pressure drop across the fan. The fan power consumption and pressure drop measurements must be synchronized to allow real time comparisions of the data. The monitoring devices must have an accuracy of ±5 percent over their normal operating ranges.
