What notification must the State or local agency provide an individual in scheduling the hearing?
The State or
local agency must provide an individual with at least 10 days' advance written notice of the time and place of the hearing, and must include the rules of procedure for the hearing.
(h)
What are the individual's rights in the actual conduct of the hearing?
The individual must have the opportunity to:
(1) Examine documents supporting the State or local agency's decision before and during the hearing;
(2) Be assisted or represented by an attorney or other persons;
(3) Bring witnesses;
(4) Present arguments;
(5) Question or refute testimony or evidence, including an opportunity to confront and cross-examine others at the hearing; and,
(6) Submit evidence to help establish facts and circumstances.
(i)
Who is responsible for conducting the fair hearing, and what are the specific responsibilities of that person?
The fair hearing must be conducted by an impartial official who does not have any personal stake or involvement in the decision and who was not directly involved in the initial adverse action that resulted in the hearing. The hearing official is responsible for:
(1) Administering oaths or affirmations, as required by the State;
(2) Ensuring that all relevant issues are considered;
(3) Ensuring that all evidence necessary for a decision to be made is presented at the hearing, and included in the record of the hearing;
(4) Ensuring that the hearing is conducted in an orderly manner, in accordance with due process; and
(5) Making a hearing decision.
(j)
How is a hearing decision made?
The hearing official must make a decision that complies with Federal laws and regulations, and is based on the facts in the hearing record. In making the decision, the hearing official must summarize the facts of the case, specify the reasons for the decision, and identify the evidence supporting the decision and the laws or regulations that the decision upholds. The decision made by the hearing official is binding on the State or local agency.
(k)
What is the time limit for making a hearing decision and notifying the individual of the decision?
A hearing decision must be made, and the individual notified of the decision, in writing, within 45 days of the request for the hearing. The notification must include the reasons for the decision.
(l)
How does the hearing decision affect the individual's receipt of CSFP benefits?
If a hearing decision is in favor of an applicant who was denied CSFP benefits, the receipt of benefits must begin within 45 days from the date that the hearing was requested, if the applicant is still eligible for the program. If the hearing decision is against a participant, the State or local agency must discontinue benefits as soon as possible, or at a date determined by the hearing official.
(m)
What must be included in the hearing record?
In addition to the hearing decision, the hearing record must include a transcript or recording of testimony, or an official report of all that transpired at the hearing, along with all exhibits, papers, and requests made. The record must be maintained in accordance with § 247.29(a). The record of the hearing must be available for public inspection and copying, in accordance with the confidentiality requirements under § 247.36(b).
(n)
What further steps may an individual take if a hearing decision is not in his or her favor?
If a hearing decision upholds the State or local agency's action, and a State-level review or rehearing process is available, the State or local agency must describe to the individual any State-level review or rehearing process. The State or local agency must also inform the individual of the right of the individual to pursue judicial review of the decision.
[70 FR 47063, Aug. 11, 2005, as amended at 79 FR 38751, July 9, 2014; 89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 247.34
Management reviews.
(a)
What must the State agency do to ensure that local agencies meet program requirements and objectives?
The State agency must establish a management review system to ensure that local agencies, subdistributing agencies, and other agencies conducting program activities meet program requirements and objectives. As part of the system, the State agency must perform an on-
site review of all local agencies, and of all storage facilities utilized by local agencies, at least once every two years. As part of the on-site review, the State agency must evaluate all aspects of program administration, including certification procedures, nutrition education, civil rights compliance, food storage practices, inventory controls, and financial management systems. In addition to conducting on-site reviews, the State agency must evaluate program administration on an ongoing basis by reviewing financial reports, audit reports, food orders, inventory reports, and other relevant information.
(b)
What must the State agency do if it finds that a local agency is deficient in a particular area of program administration?
The State agency must record all deficiencies identified during the review and institute follow-up procedures to ensure that local agencies and subdistributing agencies correct all deficiencies within a reasonable period of time. To ensure improved program performance in the future, the State agency may require that local agencies adopt specific review procedures for use in reviewing their own operations and those of subsidiaries or contractors. The State agency must provide copies of review reports to FNS upon request.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0293)
§ 247.35
Local agency appeals of State agency actions.
(a)
What recourse must the State agency provide local agencies to appeal a decision that adversely affects their participation in CSFP?
The State agency must establish a hearing procedure to allow local agencies to appeal a decision that adversely affects their participation in CSFP—e.g., the termination of a local agency's participation in the program. The adverse action must be postponed until a decision on the appeal is made.
(b)
What must the State agency include in the hearing procedure to ensure that the local agency has a fair chance to present its case?
The hearing procedure must provide the local agency:
(1) Adequate advance notice of the time and place of the hearing;
(2) An opportunity to review the record before the hearing, and to present evidence at the hearing;
(3) An opportunity to confront and cross-examine witnesses; and
(4) An opportunity to be represented by counsel, if desired.
(c)
Who conducts the hearing and how is a decision on the appeal made?
The hearing must be conducted by an impartial person who must make a decision on the appeal that is based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing, and on program legislation and regulations. A decision must be made within 60 days from the date of the request for a hearing, and must be provided in writing to the local agency.
§ 247.36
Confidentiality of applicants or participants.
(a)
Can the State or local agency disclose information obtained from applicants or participants to other agencies or individuals?
State and local agencies must restrict the use or disclosure of information obtained from CSFP applicants or participants to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the program, including persons investigating or prosecuting program violations. The State or local agency may exchange participant information with other health or welfare programs for the purpose of preventing dual participation. In addition, with the consent of the participant, as indicated on the application form, the State or local agency may share information obtained with other health or welfare programs for use in determining eligibility for those programs, or for program outreach. However, the State agency must sign an agreement with the administering agencies for these programs to ensure that the information will be used only for the specified purposes, and that agencies receiving such information will not further share it.
(b)
Can the State or local agency disclose the identity of persons making a complaint or allegation against another individual participating in or administering the program?
The State or local agency must protect the confidentiality, and other rights, of any person making allegations or complaints
against another individual participating in, or administering CSFP, except as necessary to conduct an investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding.
§ 247.37
Civil rights requirements.
(a)
What are the civil rights requirements that apply to CSFP?
State and local agencies must comply with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
), Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794
et seq.
), the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
), and titles II and III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
). State and local agencies must also comply with the Department's regulations on nondiscrimination (parts 15, 15a, and 15b of this title), and with the provisions of FNS Instruction 113-2, including the collection of racial/ethnic participation data and public notification of nondiscrimination policy. State and local agencies must ensure that no person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, age, sex, or disability, be subjected to discrimination under the program.
(b)
How does an applicant or participant file a complaint of discrimination?
CSFP applicants or participants who believe they have been discriminated against should file a discrimination complaint with the USDA Director, Office of Civil Rights, Room 326W, Whitten Building, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-9410, or telephone (202) 720-5964.
Pt. 248

# PART 248—WIC FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM (FMNP)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
248.1
General purpose and scope.
248.2
Definitions.
248.3
Administration.

# Subpart B—State Agency Eligibility
248.4
State Plan.
248.5
Selection of new State agencies.

# Subpart C—Recipient Eligibility
248.6
Recipient eligibility.
248.7
Nondiscrimination.

# Subpart D—Recipient Benefits
248.8
Level of benefits and eligible foods.
248.9
Nutrition education.

# Subpart E—State Agency Provisions
248.10
Coupon and market management.
248.11
Financial management system.
248.12
FMNP costs.
248.13
FMNP income.
248.14
Distribution of funds.
248.15
Closeout procedures.
248.16
Administrative appeal of State agency decisions.

# Subpart F—Monitoring and Review of State Agencies
248.17
Management evaluations and reviews.
248.18
Audits.
248.19
Investigations.

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous Provisions
248.20
Claims and penalties.
248.21
Procurement and property management.
248.22
Nonprocurement debarment/suspension, drug-free workplace, and lobbying restrictions.
248.23
Records and reports.
248.24
Other provisions.
248.25
FMNP information.
248.26
OMB control number.

# Authority:
42 U.S.C. 1786.

# Source:
59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 248.1
General purpose and scope.
This part announces regulations under which the Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out the WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program. The dual purposes of the FMNP are:
(a) To provide resources in the form of fresh, nutritious, unprepared foods (fruits and vegetables) from farmers' markets to women, infants, and children who are nutritionally at risk and who are participating in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) or are on the waiting list for the WIC Program; and
(b) To expand the awareness, use of and sales at farmers' markets.
This will be accomplished through payment of cash grants to approved State agencies which administer the FMNP and deliver benefits at no cost to eligible persons. The FMNP shall be supplementary to the food stamp program carried out under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
) and to any other Federal or State program under which foods are distributed to needy families in lieu of food stamps.
§ 248.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part and all contracts, guidelines, instructions, forms and other documents related hereto, the term:
Administrative costs
means those direct and indirect costs, exclusive of food costs, as defined in § 248.12(b), which State agencies determine to be necessary to support FMNP operations. Administrative costs include, but are not limited to, the costs of administration, start-up, training, monitoring, auditing, the development of and accountability for coupon and market management, nutrition education, outreach, eligibility determination, and developing, printing, and distributing coupons.
Compliance buy
means a covert, on-site investigation in which a FMNP representative poses as a FMNP participant and transacts one or more FMNP food coupons.
Coupon
means a coupon, voucher, or other negotiable financial instrument by which benefits under the FMNP are transferred to recipients.
Days
means calendar days.
Demonstration project
means the Farmers' Market Coupon Demonstration Project authorized by section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (CNA), (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)), as amended by section 501 of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-435), enacted September 19, 1988. Public Law 102-314 authorized the Secretary to competitively award, subject to the availability of funds, a 3-year grant (which was subsequently extended for an additional year by Public Law 102-142) to up to 10 States that submitted applications that were approved for the establishment of demonstration projects designed to provide WIC participants with coupons that could be exchanged for fresh, nutritious, unprepared foods at farmers' markets. Those States are: Connecticut, Iowa, Maryland, Massachusetts, Michigan, New York, Pennsylvania, Texas, Vermont, and Washington.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Eligible foods
means fresh, nutritious, unprepared, locally grown fruits, vegetables and herbs for human consumption. Eligible foods may not be processed or prepared beyond their natural state except for usual harvesting and cleaning processes. Honey, maple syrup, cider, nuts, seeds, eggs, meat, cheese and seafood are examples of foods not eligible for purposes of the FMNP. State agencies shall consider locally grown to mean produce grown only within State borders but may also define it to include areas in neighboring States adjacent to its borders. Under no circumstances can produce grown outside of the United States and its territories be considered eligible foods.
Farmer
means an individual authorized to sell produce at participating farmers' markets and/or roadside stands. Individuals who exclusively sell produce grown by someone else, such as wholesale distributors, cannot be authorized to participate in the FMNP. For purposes of this part, the term “farmer” shall mean “producer” as that term is used in section 17(m)(6)(D) of the CNA (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)(6)(D)). A participating State agency has the option to authorize individual farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands.
Farmers' market
means an association of local farmers who assemble at a defined location for the purpose of selling their produce directly to consumers.
Fiscal year
means the period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1 of any calendar year and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
FMNP funds
means Federal grant funds provided for the FMNP, plus the required matching funds.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Food costs
means the cost of eligible supplemental foods.
Household
has the same definition as that of “family” defined in § 246.2 of this chapter. Each such family shall constitute a separate household for FMNP benefit issuance purposes.
In-kind contributions
means property or services which benefit the FMNP and which are contributed by non-Federal parties without charge to the FMNP.
Local agency
means any nonprofit entity or local government agency which issues FMNP coupons, and provides nutrition education and/or information on operational aspects of the FMNP to FMNP recipients.
Matching requirement
means State, local or private funds, or program income, equal to not less than 30 percent of the administrative FMNP cost for the fiscal year. The Secretary may negotiate with an Indian State agency a lower percentage of matching funds, but not less than 10 percent of the administrative cost of the program, if the Indian State agency demonstrates to the Secretary financial hardship for the affected Indian tribe, band, group, or council. The match may be satisfied through expenditures for similar farmers' market programs which operate during the same period as the FMNP. Similar programs include other farmers' market programs which serve low-income women, infants and children (who may or may not be WIC participants or on the waiting list for WIC services), as well as other categories of low-income recipients, such as, but not limited to, low-income elderly persons.
Nonprofit agency
means a private agency which is exempt from income tax under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, (26 U.S.C. 1
et. seq.
).
Nutrition education
means individual or group education sessions and the provision of information and educational materials designed to improve health status, achieve positive change in dietary habits, and emphasize relationships between nutrition and health, all in keeping with the individual's personal, cultural, and socioeconomic preferences.
OIG
means the Department's Office of the Inspector General.
Program or FMNP
means the WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program authorized by section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (CNA) (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)), as amended. The Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) is authorized by section 17 of the CNA, as amended. Within section 17, section 17(m) authorizes the FMNP.
Recipient
means a person chosen by the State agency to receive FMNP benefits. Such person must be a woman, infant over 4 months of age, or child, who receives benefits under the WIC Program or is on the waiting list to receive benefits under the WIC Program.
Roadside stand
means a location at which an individual farmer sells his/her produce directly to consumers. This is in contrast to a group or association of farmers selling their produce at a farmers' market.
SFPD
means the Supplemental Food Programs Division of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Similar programs
means other farmers' market projects or programs which serve low-income women, infants and children, or other categories of recipients, such as, but not limited to, elderly persons.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern Marianas Islands.
State agency
means the agriculture department, the health department or any other agency approved by the chief executive officer of the State; an Indian tribe, band or group recognized by the Department of the Interior; an intertribal council or group which is an authorized representative of Indian tribes, bands or groups recognized by the Department of the Interior and which has an ongoing relationship with such tribes, bands or groups for other purposes and has contracted with them to administer the Program; or the appropriate area office of the Indian Health Service (IHS), an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services.
State Plan
means a plan of FMNP operation and administration that describes the manner in which the State
agency intends to implement, operate and administer all aspects of the FMNP within its jurisdiction in accordance with § 248.4.
Total FMNP funds
means the sum of the Federal funds provided to the State agency and non-Federal contributions provided by the State agency for FMNP purposes.
WIC
means the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children authorized by section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended (42 U.S.C. 1771
et. seq.
).
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49745, Sept. 27, 1995; 64 FR 48076, Sept. 2, 1999; 73 FR 65249, Nov. 3, 2008]
§ 248.3
Administration.
(a)
Delegation to FNS.
Within the Department, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the FMNP. Within FNS, SFPD and the FNS Regional Offices are responsible for FMNP administration. FNS shall provide assistance to State agencies and evaluate all levels of FMNP operations to ensure that the goals of the FMNP are achieved in the most effective and efficient manner possible.
(b)
Delegation to State agency.
The State agency is responsible for the effective and efficient administration of the FMNP in accordance with the requirements of this part; the requirements of the Department's regulations governing nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a and 15b), administration of grants (2 CFR part 200, subparts A, B, D, E and F and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415), nonprocurement debarment/suspension (2 CFR part 180, OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-wide Debarment and Suspension and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 417), drug-free workplace (2 CFR part 182, Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace), and lobbying (2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, part 415 and part 418); and, Office of Management and Budget Circular A-130, FNS guidelines, and Instructions issued under the FNS Directives Management System. The State agency shall provide guidance to cooperating WIC State and local agencies on all aspects of FMNP operations. Pursuant to section 17(m)(2) of the CNA, State agencies may operate the FMNP locally through nonprofit organizations or local government entities and must ensure coordination among the appropriate agencies and organizations.
(c)
Agreement and State Plan.
(1) Each State agency desiring to administer the FMNP shall annually submit a State Plan and enter into a written agreement with the Department for administration of the Program in the jurisdiction of the State agency in accordance with the provisions of this part.
(2) The written agreement must include a statement that supports full use of Federal funds provided to State agencies for the administration of the FMNP, and excludes such funds from State budget restrictions or limitations, including hiring freezes, work furloughs, and travel restrictions.
(d)
State agency ineligibility.
A State agency shall be ineligible to participate in the FMNP if State or local sales tax is collected on Program food purchases in the area in which it administers the Program, except that, if sales tax is collected on Program food purchases by sovereign Indian entities which are not State agencies, the State agency shall remain eligible so long as any farmers' markets collecting such tax are disqualified.
(e)
Coordination with WIC agency.
The Chief Executive Officer of the State shall ensure coordination between the designated administering State agency and the WIC State agency, if different, by ensuring that the two agencies enter into a written agreement. Such coordination between agencies is necessary for the successful operation of the FMNP, because WIC participants or persons on the waiting list for WIC services are the only persons eligible to receive Federal benefits under the FMNP. The written agreement shall delineate the responsibilities of each agency, describe any compensation for services, and shall be signed by the designated representative of each agency. This agreement shall be submitted each year along with the State Plan.
(f)
State staffing standards.
Each State agency shall ensure that sufficient
staff is available to efficiently and effectively administer the FMNP. This shall include, but not be limited to, sufficient staff to provide nutrition education in coordination with the WIC Program, coupon and market management, fiscal reporting, monitoring, and training. The State agency shall provide an outline of administrative staff and job descriptions for staff whose salaries will be paid from program funds in their State Plans.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 76 FR 37983, June 29, 2011; 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]

# Subpart B—State Agency Eligibility
§ 248.4
State Plan.
(a)
Requirements.
By November 15 of each year, each applying or participating State agency shall submit to FNS for approval a State Plan for the following year as a prerequisite to receiving funds under this section. The State Plan shall be signed by the State designated official responsible for ensuring that the Program is operated in accordance with the State Plan. FNS will provide written approval or denial of a completed State Plan or amendment within 30 days. Portions of the State Plan which do not change annually need not be resubmitted. However, the State agency shall provide the title of the sections that remain unchanged, as well as the year of the last Plan in which the sections were submitted. At a minimum, the Plan must address the following areas in sufficient detail to demonstrate the State agency's ability to meet the requirements of the FMNP:
(1) A copy of the agreement between the designated administering State agency and the WIC State agency, if different, for services such as nutrition education, and documentation of coordinated efforts as required in § 248.3(e), as well as copies of agreements with agencies other than the WIC State agency.
(2) Estimated number of recipients for the fiscal year, and proposed months of operation.
(3) Estimated cost of the FMNP, including a minimum amount necessary to operate the FMNP.
(4) Description of how the Program will achieve its dual purposes of providing a nutritional benefit to WIC (or waiting list) participants and expanding the awareness and use of farmers' markets.
(5) Outline of administrative staff and job descriptions.
(6) Detailed description of the recordkeeping system including, but not limited to, the system for maintaining records pertaining to financial operations, coupon issuance and redemption, and FMNP participation.
(7) Detailed description of the financial management system, including, but not limited to documentation of how the State will meet the matching requirement and procedures for obligating funds.
(8) Detailed description of the service area including:
(i) The number and addresses of participating markets, roadside stands and area WIC clinics including a map outlining the service area and proximity of markets/roadside stands to clinics; and
(ii) Estimated number of WIC participants and persons on the WIC waiting list that will receive FMNP coupons.
(9) Description of the coupon issuance system including:
(i) How the State agency will target areas with highest concentrations of eligible persons and greatest access to farmers' markets within the broadest possible geographic area;
(ii) Annual benefit amount per recipient;
(iii) Method for instructing recipients on the proper use of FMNP coupons and the purpose of the FMNP; and
(iv) Method for ensuring that FMNP coupons are only issued to eligible recipients.
(10) Detailed description of the coupon and farmers' market management system including:
(i) Criteria for authorizing farmers' markets and/or roadside stands;
(ii) Procedures for training farmers and market managers, at authorization, and annually thereafter;
(iii) Procedures for monitoring farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands;
(iv) Description of system for identifying high risk farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands and procedures for sanctioning farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands;
(v) Facsimile of the FMNP coupon;
(vi) Identification of the fresh, nutritious, unprepared fruits, vegetables, and herbs which are eligible for purchase under the Program;
(vii) Description of FMNP coupon replacement policy;
(viii) Procedures for handling recipient and farmer/farmers' market complaints.
(11) Detailed description of the FMNP coupon redemption process including:
(i) Procedures for ensuring the secure transportation and storage of FMNP coupons;
(ii) System for identifying and reconciling FMNP coupons;
(iii) Timeframes for FMNP coupon redemption by recipients; submission for payment by markets, and payment by the State agency;
(12) System for ensuring that FMNP coupons are redeemed only by authorized farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands and only for eligible foods.
(13) System for identifying FMNP coupons which are redeemed or submitted for payment outside valid dates or by unauthorized farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands.
(14) A copy of the written agreement to be used between the State agency and authorized farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands. In those States which authorize farmers' markets, but not individual farmers, this agreement shall specify in detail the role of and procedures to be used by farmers' markets for monitoring and sanctioning farmers, and the appropriate procedures to be used by a farmer to appeal a sanction or disqualification imposed by a farmers' market.
(15) If available, information on the change in consumption of fresh fruits and vegetables by recipients. This information shall be submitted as an addendum to the State Plan and shall be submitted at such a date specified by the Secretary.
(16) If available, information on the effects of the program on farmers' markets. This information shall be submitted as an addendum to the State Plan and shall be submitted at such a date specified by the Secretary.
(17) A description of the procedures the State agency will use to comply with the civil rights requirements described in § 248.7(a), including the processing of discrimination complaints.
(18) State agencies which have not previously participated in the FMNP, shall provide the following additional information:
(i) A statement assuring that if the State agency receives Federal funds, as specified under § 248.14 to operate the FMNP, and applies those funds to similar programs operated in the previous fiscal year with State or local funds, the amount of State and local funds that were available to similar programs in the fiscal year preceding the first year of operation shall not be reduced. The State agency shall include data in the State Plan showing that it did not reduce the amount of State and local funds available to the similar program in the preceding fiscal year.
(ii) A capability statement which includes a summary description of any prior experience with farmers' market projects or programs, including information and data describing the attributes of such projects or programs.
(19) For States making expansion requests, documentation which demonstrates:
(i) The need for an increase in funding;
(ii) That the use of the increased funding will be consistent with serving WIC participants, or persons on a waiting list for WIC benefits, by expanding benefits to more persons, by enhancing current benefits, or a combination of both, and expanding the awareness and use of farmers' markets;
(iii) The ability to satisfactorily operate the existing FMNP;
(iv) The management capabilities of the State agency to expand; and
(v) Whether, in the case of a State agency that intends to use the funding to increase the value of the Federal share of the benefits received by a recipient, the funding provided will increase the rate of coupon redemption.
(20) For those State agencies requesting the extra 2 percent administrative
rate for market development or technical assistance to promote such development in disadvantaged areas or remote rural areas, an explanation of their justification and plans for the use of such funds.
(b)
Amendments.
At any time after approval, the State agency may amend the State Plan to reflect changes. The State agency shall submit the amendments to FNS for approval. The amendments shall be signed by the State designated official responsible for ensuring that the FMNP is operated in accordance with the State Plan.
(c)
Retention of copy.
A copy of the approved State Plan shall be kept on file at the State agency for public inspection.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49746, Sept. 27, 1995; 64 FR 48076, Sept. 2, 1999; 73 FR 65249, Nov. 3, 2008]
§ 248.5
Selection of new State agencies.
In selecting new State agencies, the Department will use objective criteria to rank and approve State plans submitted in accordance with § 248.4. In making this ranking, the Department will consider the amount of funds necessary to successfully operate the FMNP in the State compared with other States and with the total amount of funds available to the FMNP. Approval of a State Plan does not equate to an obligation on the part of the Department to fund the FMNP within that State agency.
[64 FR 48076, Sept. 2, 1999]

# Subpart C—Recipient Eligibility
§ 248.6
Recipient eligibility.
(a)
Eligibility for certification.
Individuals who are eligible to receive Federal benefits under the FMNP are those, excluding infants 4 months of age or younger, who are currently receiving benefits under WIC or who are on the waiting list to receive benefits from WIC.
(b)
Limitations on certification.
If necessary to limit the number of recipients, State agencies may impose additional eligibility requirements, such as limiting participant certification to certain geographic areas, or to high priority WIC participants such as pregnant and breastfeeding women. States may also preclude groups of low priority persons, such as persons on the waiting list for WIC. Each State agency must specifically identify these limitations on certification in its State Plan.
(c)
Recipient or household benefit allocation.
On a Statewide basis, State agencies shall elect to allocate and issue benefits either to recipients or households. A State agency allocating benefits on a household basis shall not issue more benefits to a household than it otherwise would if benefits were allocated to individual recipients within the household. For those State agencies issuing FMNP benefits on a household basis, each family as defined in § 246.2 of this chapter shall constitute a separate household. Foods provided, regardless of method of issuance, are intended for the sole benefit of FMNP recipients and are not intended to be shared with other non-participating household members. If a State agency issues benefits on a household basis, data concerning number and type of recipients must still be provided as required by § 248.23(b). Recipients shall receive FMNP benefits free of charge.
§ 248.7
Nondiscrimination.
(a)
Civil rights requirements.
The State agency shall comply with the requirements of title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Department of Agriculture regulations on nondiscrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a and 15b), and applicable FNS Instructions to ensure that no person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, age, sex or handicap, be excluded from participation, be denied benefits, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination, under the FMNP. Because racial and ethnic participation data (as required by title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964) are collected at the time women, infants, and children are certified for participation in the WIC Program, the Department has determined that the WIC data collection effort is sufficient to fulfill the racial/ethnic data collection requirement for the FMNP. Therefore, no additional data collection is
required. Compliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and regulations and instructions issued thereunder shall include, but not be limited to:
(1) Notification to the public of the nondiscrimination policy and complaint rights of recipients and potentially eligible persons, which may be satisfied through the Department's required nondiscrimination statement on brochures and publications;
(2) Review and monitoring activity to ensure FMNP compliance with the nondiscrimination laws and regulations;
(3) Establishment of grievance procedures for handling recipient complaints based on sex and handicap.
(b)
Complaints.
Persons seeking to file discrimination complaints may file them either with the Secretary of Agriculture, or the Director, USDA, Office of Adjudication and Compliance, Room 326-W, Whitten Building, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-9410 (or call (800) 795-3272 (voice) or (202) 720-6382 (TTY)), or with the office established by the State agency to handle discrimination grievances or complaints. All complaints received by State agencies which allege discrimination based on race, color, national origin, or age shall be referred to the Secretary of Agriculture or the Director of the Office of Equal Opportunity, USDA. A State agency may process complaints which allege discrimination based on sex or handicap if grievance procedures are in place.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 73 FR 65249, Nov. 3, 2008]

# Subpart D—Recipient Benefits
§ 248.8
Level of benefits and eligible foods.
(a)
General.
State agencies shall identify in the State Plan the fresh, nutritious, unprepared, locally grown fruits, vegetables and herbs which are eligible for purchase under the FMNP. Ineligible foods for the purpose of the FMNP include, but are not limited to: honey, maple syrup, cider, nuts and seeds, eggs, cheese, meat and seafood. Locally grown shall mean produce grown only within a State's borders but may be defined to include border areas in adjacent States. Under no circumstances can produce grown outside of the United States and its territories be considered eligible foods.
(b)
The value of the Federal benefits received.
The value of the Federal FMNP benefit received by each recipient, or by each family within a household in those States which elect to issue benefits on a household basis under § 248.6(c) may not be less than $10 per year nor more than $30 per year.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49746, Sept. 27, 1995; 73 FR 65250, Nov. 3, 2008]
§ 248.9
Nutrition education.
(a)
Goals.
Nutrition education shall emphasize the relationship of proper nutrition to the total concept of good health, including the importance of consuming fresh fruits and vegetables.
(b)
Requirement.
The State agency shall integrate nutrition education into FMNP operations and may satisfy nutrition education requirements through coordination with other agencies within the State. Such other agencies may include the WIC Program which routinely offers nutrition education to participants and which may wish to use the opportunity of the FMNP to reinforce nutrition messages. State agencies wishing to coordinate nutrition education with WIC shall enter into a written cooperative agreement with WIC agencies to offer nutrition education relevant to the use and nutritional value of foods available to FMNP recipients. In cases where relevant WIC nutrition education sessions are used to meet this requirement, reimbursement to the WIC local agency shall not be permitted. In cases where FMNP recipients are not receiving relevant nutrition education from the WIC Program, the State agency shall arrange alternative methods for the provision of such nutrition education which is an allowable cost under the FMNP.

# Subpart E—State Agency Provisions
§ 248.10
Coupon and market management.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth State agency responsibilities regarding the authorization of farmers, farmers' markets, and roadside stands. The State agency is responsible for the fiscal management of, and accountability for, FMNP-related activities for farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands. Each State agency may decide whether to authorize farmers individually, farmers' markets, roadside stands, or all of the above. All contracts or agreements entered into by the State agency for the management or operation of farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands shall conform with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and Appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and 415.
(1) Only farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands authorized by the State agency may redeem FMNP coupons. Only farmers authorized by the State agency or that have a valid agreement with an authorized farmers' market may redeem coupons.
(2) The State agency shall establish criteria for the authorization of individual farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands. Any authorized farmer, farmers' market and roadside stand must agree to sell recipients only those foods identified as eligible by the State agency, in exchange for FMNP coupons. Individuals who exclusively sell produce grown by someone else, such as wholesale distributors, cannot be authorized to participate in the FMNP, except individuals employed by a farmer otherwise qualified under these regulations, or individuals hired by a nonprofit organization to sell produce at farmers' markets or roadside stands on behalf of local farmers.
(3) The State agency shall ensure that an appropriate number of farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands are authorized for adequate recipient access in the area(s) proposed to be served and for effective management of the farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands by the State agency. The State agency may establish criteria to limit the number of authorized farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands.
(4) The State agency shall ensure that face-to-face training is conducted prior to start up of the first year of FMNP participation of a farmers' market and individual farmer. The face-to-face training shall include at a minimum those items listed in paragraph (d) of this section.
(5) Authorized farmers shall display a sign stating that they are authorized to redeem FMNP coupons.
(6) Authorized farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands shall comply with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Department of Agriculture regulations on non-discrimination (7 CFR parts 15, 15a and 15b), and FNS Instructions as outlined in § 248.7.
(7) The State agency shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest between the State or local agency and any participating farmer, farmers' market and roadside stand.
(b)
Farmers' market agreements.
The State agency shall ensure that all participating farmers' markets enter into written agreements with the State agency. The agreement shall be signed by a representative who has legal authority to obligate the farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand. The agreement shall be signed by a representative who has legal authority to obligate the farmers/farmers' market. Agreements shall include a description of sanctions for noncompliance with FMNP requirements and shall contain at a minimum, the following specifications, although the State agency may determine the exact wording to be used:
(1) The farmer, farmers' market and roadside stand shall:
(i) Provide such information as the State agency may require for its periodic reports to FNS;
(ii) Assure that FMNP coupons are redeemed only for eligible foods;
(iii) Provide eligible foods at the current price or less than the current price charged to other customers;
(iv) Accept FMNP coupons within the dates of their validity and submit such coupons for payment within the allowable time period established by the State agency;
(v) In accordance with a procedure established by the State agency, mark each transacted coupon with a farmer identifier. In those cases where the agreement is between the State agency and the farmer, each transacted FMNP coupon shall contain a farmer identifier and shall be batched for reimbursement under that identifier. In those cases where the agreement is between the State agency and the farmers' market, each transacted FMNP coupon shall contain a farmer identifier and be batched for reimbursement under a farmers' market identifier.
(vi) Accept training on FMNP procedures and provide training to farmers and any employees with FMNP responsibilities on such procedures;
(vii) Agree to be monitored for compliance with FMNP requirements, including both overt and covert monitoring;
(viii) Be accountable for actions of farmers or employees in the provision of foods and related activities;
(ix) Pay the State agency for any coupons transacted in violation of this agreement;
(x) Offer FMNP recipients the same courtesies as other customers;
(xi) Comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of USDA regulations as provided in § 248.7; and
(xii) Notify the State agency if any farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand ceases operation prior to the end of the authorization period.
(2) The farmer, farmers' market and roadside stand shall not:
(i) Collect sales tax on FMNP coupon purchases;
(ii) Seek restitution from FMNP recipients for coupons not paid by the State agency;
(iii) Issue cash change for purchases that are in an amount less than the value of the FMNP coupon(s).
(3) Neither the State agency nor the farmer, farmers' market nor a roadside stand has an obligation to renew the agreement. Either the State agency or the farmer, farmers' market or a roadside stand may terminate the agreement for cause after providing advance written notification.
(4) The State agency may deny payment to the farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand for improperly redeemed FMNP coupons and may demand refunds for payments already made on improperly redeemed coupons.
(5) The State agency may disqualify a farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand for FMNP abuse. The farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand has the right to appeal a denial of an application to participate, a disqualification, or a FMNP sanction by the State agency. Expiration of a contract or agreement with a farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand, and claims actions under § 248.20, are not appealable.
(6) A farmer, farmers' market or a roadside stand which commits fraud or engages in other illegal activity is liable to prosecution under applicable Federal, State or local laws.
(7) Agreements may not exceed 3 years.
(c)
Farmer agreements for State agencies which do not authorize farmers.
Those State agencies which authorize farmers' markets but not individual farmers shall require authorized farmers' markets to enter into a written agreement with each farmer within the market that is participating in FMNP. The State agency shall set forth the required terms for the agreement and provide a sample agreement which may be used.
(d)
Annual training for farmers/farmers' market managers.
State agencies shall conduct annual training for farmers/farmers' market managers participating in the FMNP. The State agency shall conduct a face-to-face training for all farmers and farmers' market managers who have never previously participated in the program prior to their commencing participation in the FMNP. After a farmer/farmers' market manager's first year of FMNP operation, State agencies have discretion in determining the method used for annual training purposes. At a minimum, annual training shall include instruction emphasizing:
(1) Eligible food choices;
(2) Proper FMNP coupon redemption procedures, including deadlines for submission of coupons for payment;
(3) Equitable treatment of FMNP recipients, including the availability of produce to FMNP recipients that is of the same quality and cost as that sold to other customers;
(4) Civil rights compliance and guidelines;
(5) Guidelines for storing FMNP coupons safely; and
(6) Guidelines for cancelling FMNP coupons, such as punching holes or rubber stamping.
(e)
Monitoring and review of farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands and local agencies.
The State agency shall be responsible for the monitoring of farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands and local agencies within its jurisdiction. This shall include developing a system for identifying high risk farmers, farmers' markets, and roadside stands and ensuring on-site monitoring, conducting further investigation, and sanctioning of such farmers, farmers' markets, or roadside stands as appropriate.
(1) Where coupon reimbursement responsibilities are delegated to farmers' market managers, farmers' market associations, or nonprofit organizations, the State agency may establish bonding requirements for these entities. Costs of such bonding are not reimbursable administrative expenses.
(2) Each State agency shall rank participating farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands by risk factors, and shall conduct annual, on-site monitoring of at least 10 percent of farmers, 10 percent of farmers' markets and 10 percent of roadside stands which shall include those farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands identified as being the highest risk.Mandatory high-risk indicators are a proportionately high volume of FMNP coupons redeemed by a farmer as compared to other farmers within the farmers' market and within the State, recipient complaints, and farmers and farmers' markets in their first year of FMNP operation. States are encouraged to formally establish other high risk indicators for identifying potential problems. If additional high risk indicators are established, they shall be set forth in the farmers/farmers' market agreement and in the State Plan. If application of the high-risk indicators results in fewer than 10 percent of farmers and farmers' markets as high-risk, the State agency shall randomly select additional farmers and farmers' markets to be monitored in order to meet the 10 percent minimum. The high-risk indicators listed above generally apply to a State agency already participating in the FMNP. A State agency participating in the FMNP for the first time shall, in lieu of applying the high-risk indicators, randomly select 10 percent of its participating farmers, 10 percent of its participating farmers' markets, and 10 percent of its participating roadside stands for monitoring visits.
(3) The following shall be documented for all on-site farmers, farmers' markets, and roadside stands monitoring visits. At a minimum, documentation must include the names of the farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand and the reviewer; date of review; nature of problem(s) detected or the observation that the farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand appears to be in compliance with FMNP requirements; a record of interviews with recipients, market managers and/or farmers; and the signature of the reviewer. The State agency shall do so after a reasonable delay when necessary to protect the identity of the reviewer(s) or the integrity of the investigation. After the farmer/farmers' market has been informed of any deficiencies detected by the monitoring visit, and instances where the farmer/farmers' market will be permitted to continue participation, the farmer/farmers' market shall provide plans as to how the deficiencies will be corrected.
(4) At least every 2 years, the State agency shall review all local agencies within its jurisdiction. WIC State agency reviews of WIC local agencies, which include reviews of FMNP practices, may contribute to meeting the requirement that all local agencies be reviewed once every 2 years.
(f)
Control of FMNP coupons.
(1) The State agency shall control and provide accountability for the receipt and issuance of FMNP coupons.
(2) The State agency shall ensure that there is secure transportation and storage of unissued FMNP coupons.
(3) The State agency shall design and implement a system of review of FMNP coupons to detect errors. At a minimum, the errors the system must detect are a missing recipient signature, a missing farmer and/or market identification, and redemption by a farmer outside of the valid date. The State agency shall implement procedures to reduce the number of errors in transactions, where possible.
(g)
Payment to farmers/farmers' markets.
The State agency shall ensure that farmers/ farmers' markets are promptly paid for food costs.
(h)
Reconciliation of FMNP coupons.
The State agency shall identify the disposition of all FMNP coupons as validly redeemed, lost or stolen, expired, or not matching issuance records. Validly redeemed FMNP coupons are those that are issued to a valid recipient and redeemed by an authorized farmers/farmers' market within valid dates. FMNP coupons that were redeemed but cannot be traced to a valid recipient or authorized farmer/farmers' market shall be subject to claims action in accordance with § 248.20. (1) If the State agency elects to replace lost, stolen or damaged FMNP coupons, it must describe its system for doing so in the State Plan.
(2) The State agency shall use uniform FMNP coupons within its jurisdiction.
(3) FMNP coupons must include, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) The last date by which the recipient may use the coupon. This date shall be no later than November 30 of each year.
(ii) A date by which the farmer or farmers' market must submit the coupon for payment. When establishing this date, State agencies shall take into consideration the date financial statements are due to the FNS, and allow time for the corresponding coupon reconciliation that must be done by the State agency prior to submission of financial statements. Currently, financial statements are due to FNS by January 30.
(iii) A unique and sequential serial number.
(iv) A denomination (dollar amount).
(v) A farmer identifier for the redeeming farmer when agreements are between the State agency and the farmer.
(vi) In those instances where State agencies have agreements with farmers' markets, there must be a farmer identifier on each coupon and a market identifier on the cover of coupons which are batched by the market manager for reimbursement.
(i)
Instructions to recipients.
Each recipient shall receive instructions on the proper use and redemption of the FMNP coupons, including, but not limited to:
(1) A list of names and addresses of authorized farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands at which FMNP coupons may be redeemed.
(2) A description of eligible foods and the prohibition against cash change.
(3) An explanation of their right to complain about improper farmer/farmers' market practices with regard to FMNP responsibilities and the process for doing so.
(j)
Recipients and farmer/farmers' market complaints.
The State agency shall have procedures which document the handling of complaints by recipients and farmers/farmers' markets. Complaints of civil rights discrimination shall be handled in accordance with § 248.7(b).
(k)
Recipients and farmer/farmers' market sanctions.
The State agency shall establish policies which determine the type and level of sanctions to be applied against recipients and farmers/farmers' markets, based upon the severity and nature of the FMNP violations observed, and such other factors as the State agency determines appropriate, such as whether repeated offenses have occurred over a period of time. Farmers/farmers' markets may be sanctioned, disqualified, or both, when appropriate. Sanctions may include fines for improper FMNP coupon redemption procedures and the penalties outlined in § 248.20, in case of deliberate fraud. In those instances where compliance purchases are conducted, the results of covert compliance purchases can be a basis for farmer/farmers' market sanctions. A farmer/farmers' market committing fraud or other
unlawful activities is liable to prosecution under applicable Federal, State or local laws. State agency policies shall ensure that a farmer that is disqualified from the FMNP at one market or roadside stand shall not participate in the FMNP at any other farmers' market or roadside stand in the State's jurisdiction during the disqualification period.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49746, Sept. 27, 1995; 73 FR 65250, Nov. 3, 2008; 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.11
Financial management system.
(a)
Disclosure of expenditures.
The State agency shall maintain a financial management system which provides accurate, current and complete disclosure of the financial status of the FMNP. This shall include an accounting for all property and other assets and all FMNP funds received and expended each fiscal year.
(b)
Internal controls.
The State agency shall maintain effective controls over and accountability for all FMNP funds. The State agency must have effective internal controls to ensure that expenditures financed with FMNP funds are authorized and properly chargeable to the FMNP.
(c)
Record of expenditures.
The State agency shall maintain records which adequately identify the source and use of funds expended for FMNP activities. These records shall contain, but are not limited to, information pertaining to authorization, receipt of funds, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.
(d)
Payment of costs.
The State agency shall implement procedures which ensure prompt and accurate payment of allowable costs, and ensure the allowability and allocability of costs in accordance with the cost principles and standard provisions of this part, 2 CFR part 200, subparts D and E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, and FNS guidelines and Instructions.
(e)
Identification of obligated funds.
The State agency shall implement procedures which accurately identify obligated FMNP funds at the time the obligations are made.
(f)
Resolution of audit findings.
The State agency shall implement procedures which ensure timely and appropriate resolution of claims and other matters resulting from audit findings and recommendations.
(g)
Reconciliation of food instruments.
The State agency shall reconcile FMNP coupons in accordance with § 248.10(h).
(h)
Transfer of cash.
The State agency shall establish the timing and amounts of its cash draws against its Letter of Credit in accordance with 31 CFR part 205.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49747, Sept. 27, 1995; 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.12
FMNP costs.
(a)
General
—(1)
Composition of allowable costs.
In general, a cost item will be deemed allowable if it is reasonable and necessary for FMNP purposes and otherwise satisfies allowability criteria set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and this part. FMNP purposes include the administration and operation of the FMNP. Program costs supported by State matching contributions must meet the same criteria for allowability as costs supported by Federal funds. Allowable FMNP costs may be classified as follows:
(i)
Food costs and administrative costs.
Food costs are the costs of food benefits provided to FMNP recipients. Administrative costs are the costs associated with providing FMNP benefits and services to recipients and generally administering the FMNP. Specific examples of allowable administrative costs are listed in paragraph (b) of this section. Except as provided in § 248.14(g) of this part, a State agency's administrative costs under the FMNP may not exceed 17 percent of its total FMNP costs. Any costs incurred for food and/or administration above the Federal grant level will be the State agency's responsibility.
(ii)
Market development or technical assistance costs.
Market development or technical assistance costs are those costs under § 248.14(h) incurred to promote the development of farmers' markets in socially or economically disadvantaged areas, or remote rural areas, where individuals eligible for
participation in the program have limited access to locally grown fruits and vegetables. Subject to a determination by the Secretary under § 248.14(h), a State agency may, during any fiscal year, use not more than 2 percent of total program funds for such market development or technical assistance.
(iii)
Direct and indirect costs.
Direct costs are food and administrative costs incurred specifically for the FMNP. Indirect costs are administrative costs that benefit multiple programs or activities, and cannot be identified to any one without effort disproportionate to the results achieved. In accordance with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, a claim for reimbursement of indirect costs shall be supported by an approved allocation plan for the determination of such costs. An indirect cost rate developed through such an allocation plan may not be applied to a base that includes food costs.
(2)
Costs allowable with prior approval.
A State or local agency must obtain prior approval in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 before charging to the FMNP any capital expenditures and other cost items designated by 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 as requiring such approval.
(3)
Unallowable costs.
Costs that are not reasonable and necessary for FMNP purposes, or that do not otherwise satisfy the cost principles of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415, are unallowable. Notwithstanding any other provision of 2 CFR part 200, subparts D and E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415, the cost of constructing or operating a farmers' market is unallowable. Unallowable costs may never be claimed for Federal reimbursement or counted toward the State matching requirement.
(b)
Specified allowable administrative costs.
Allowable administrative costs include the following:
(1) The costs associated with the provision of nutrition education which meets the requirements of § 248.9 of this part.
(2) The costs of FMNP coupon issuance, or recipient education covering proper coupon redemption procedures.
(3) The cost of outreach services.
(4) The costs associated with the food delivery process, such as printing FMNP coupons, processing redeemed coupons, and training market managers on the food delivery system.
(5) The cost of monitoring and reviewing Program operations.
(6) The cost of FMNP training.
(7) The cost of required reporting and recordkeeping.
(8) The cost of determining which local WIC sites will be utilized.
(9) The cost of recruiting and authorizing farmers/farmers' markets to participate in the FMNP.
(10) The cost of preparing contracts for farmers/farmers' markets and local WIC providers.
(11) The cost of developing a data processing system for redemption and reconciliation of FMNP coupons.
(12) The cost of designing program training and informational materials.
(13) The cost of coordinating FMNP implementation responsibilities between designated administering agencies.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49747, Sept. 27, 1995; 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14174, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 248.13
FMNP income.
Program income means gross income the State agency earns from grant supported activities. It includes fees for services performed and receipts from the use or rental of real or personal property acquired with Federal grant funds, but does not include proceeds from the disposition of such property. The State agency shall retain Program income earned during the agreement period and use it for Program purposes in accordance with the addition method described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. Fines, penalties or assessments paid by local agencies or farmers/farmers' markets are also deemed to be FMNP income. The State agency shall ensure that the
sources and applications of Program income are fully documented.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.14
Distribution of funds.
(a)
Conditions for receipt of Federal funds
—(1)
Matching of funds
—(i)
Match amount.
As a prerequisite to the receipt of Federal funds, a State agency must agree to contribute State, local or private funds, or program income, equal to not less than 30 percent of the total administrative FMNP cost. The Secretary may negotiate a lower percentage of matching funds, but not lower than 10 percent of the administrative cost of the program, in the case of an Indian State agency that demonstrates to the Secretary financial hardship for the affected Indian tribe, band, group, or council. The State agency may contribute more than the minimum amount. State, local or private funds for similar programs as defined in § 248.2 may satisfy the State matching requirement.
(ii)
Sources of matching contributions.
A State agency may count any form of contribution authorized by 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 toward the State matching requirement including in-kind contributions.
(iii)
Failure to match.
A State agency's failure to meet the State matching requirement will result in the establishment of a claim for the amount of Federal grant funds not matched. The matching requirement will be considered satisfied if State or other non-Federal matching contributions reported on the final closeout report (required by § 248.15(a)) amount to at least 30 percent of the administrative costs. This match amount may be lower for those Indian State agencies that have demonstrated to the Secretary financial hardship as set forth in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.
(2)
State Plan and agreement.
A State agency shall have its State Plan approved and shall execute an agreement with the Department in accordance with § 248.3(c) of this part.
(b)
Distribution of FMNP funds to previously participating State agencies.
Provided that sufficient FMNP funds are available, each State agency that participated in the FMNP in any prior fiscal year, shall receive not less than the amount of funds the State agency received in the most recent fiscal year in which it received funding, if it otherwise complies with the requirements established in this part.
(c)
Ratable reduction.
If amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for grants under the FMNP are not sufficient to pay to each previously participating State agency at least an amount as identified in paragraph (b) of this section, each State agency's grant shall be ratably reduced, except that, to the extent permitted by available funds, each State agency shall receive at least $75,000 or the amount that the State agency received for the most recent prior fiscal year in which the State participated, if that amount is less than $75,000.
(d)
Expansion of participating State agencies and establishment of new State agencies.
Any FMNP funds remaining for allocation after meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall be allocated in the following manner:
(1) Of the remaining funds, 75 percent shall be made available to State agencies already participating in the FMNP that wish to serve additional recipients. If this amount is greater than that necessary to satisfy all State plans approved for additional recipients, the unallocated amount shall be applied toward satisfying any unmet need in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) Of the remaining funds, 25 percent shall be made available to State agencies that have not participated in the FMNP in any prior fiscal year. If this amount is greater than that necessary to satisfy the approved State Plans for new States, the unallocated amount shall be applied toward satisfying any unmet need in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The Department reserves the right not to fund every State agency with an approved State Plan.
(3) In any fiscal year, any FMNP funds that remain unallocated after satisfying the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, shall be reallocated in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section.
(e)
Expansion for current State agencies.
In providing funds to State agencies that participated in the FMNP in the previous fiscal year, the Department shall consider on a case-by-case basis, the following:
(1) Whether the State agency utilized at least 80 percent of its prior year food grant. States that did not spend at least 80 percent of their prior year food grant may still be eligible for expansion funding if, in the judgment of the Department, good cause existed which was beyond the management control of the State, such as severe weather conditions, or unanticipated decreases in participant caseload in the WIC Program.
(2) Documentation supporting the funds expansion request as outlined in § 248.4(a)(19).
(f)
Funding of new State agencies.
Funds will be awarded to new State agencies in accordance with § 248.5.
(g)
Administrative funding.
A State agency shall have available for administrative costs an amount not greater than 17 percent of total FMNP funds. The 17 percent administrative cost limitation shall not apply to any funds that a State agency may contribute in excess of its minimum matching requirement. A State agency may use any non-Federal contributions in excess of the 30 percent (or the negotiated percentage for those Indian State agencies that received a lower amount) matching requirement for food and/or administrative costs.
(h)
Market development.
A State agency shall be permitted to use not more than 2 percent of total program funds for market development or technical assistance to farmers' markets if the Secretary determines that the State intends to promote the development of farmers' markets in socially or economically disadvantaged areas, or remote rural areas, where individuals eligible for participation in the program have limited access to locally grown fruits and vegetables.
(i)
Transfer of funds.
A State agency may use not more than 5 percent of the Federal FMNP funds made available for the fiscal year to reimburse expenses incurred by the FMNP during a preceding fiscal year. The State agency shall provide such justification for its request to spend back funds under this paragraph as FNS may require.
(j)
Recovery of unused funds.
State agencies shall return to FNS any unexpended funds made available for a fiscal year by February 1 of the following fiscal year.
(k)
Reallocation of funds.
Any funds recovered under paragraphs (d)(3) and (j) of this section will be reallocated in accordance with the appropriate method determined by FNS.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49747, Sept. 27, 1995; 60 FR 57148, Nov. 14, 1995; 64 FR 48076, Sept. 2, 1999; 73 FR 65251, Nov. 3, 2008; 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.15
Closeout procedures.
(a)
General.
State agencies shall submit to FNS a final closeout report for the fiscal year on a form prescribed by FNS on a date specified by FNS.
(b)
Grant closeout procedures.
When grants to State agencies are terminated, the following procedures shall be performed in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(1) FNS may disqualify a State agency's participation under the FMNP, in whole or in part, or take such remedies as may be appropriate, whenever FNS determines that the State agency failed to comply with the conditions prescribed in this part, in its Federal-State Agreement, or in FNS guidelines and instructions. FNS will promptly notify the State agency in writing of the disqualification together with the effective date.
(2) FNS may disqualify the State agency or restrict its participation in the FMNP when both parties agree that continuation under the FMNP would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds.
(3) Upon termination of a grant, the affected agency shall not incur new obligations after the effective date of the disqualification, and shall cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. FNS will allow full credit to the State agency for the Federal share of the noncancellable obligations properly incurred by the State agency prior
to disqualification, and the State agency shall do the same for farmers/farmers' markets.
(4) A grant closeout shall not affect the retention period for, or Federal rights of access to, FMNP records as specified in § 248.24(b) and (c). The closeout of a grant does not affect the responsibilities of the State agency regarding property or with respect to any FMNP income for which the State agency is still accountable.
(5) A final audit is not a required part of the grant closeout and should not be needed unless there are problems with the grant that require attention. If FNS considers a final audit to be necessary, it shall so inform OIG. OIG will be responsible for ensuring that necessary final audits are performed and for any necessary coordination with other Federal cognizant audit agencies or State or local auditors. Audits performed in accordance with § 248.18 may serve as final audits providing such audits meet the needs of requesting agencies. If the grant is closed out without an audit, FNS reserves the right to disallow and recover an appropriate amount after fully considering any recommended disallowances resulting from an audit which may be conducted later.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.16
Administrative appeal of State agency decisions.
(a)
Requirements.
The State agency shall provide a hearing procedure whereby recipients, local agencies and farmers/farmers' markets adversely affected by certain actions of the State agency may appeal those actions. A recipient may appeal disqualification/suspension of FMNP benefits. A local agency may appeal an action of the State agency disqualifying it from participating in the FMNP. A farmer/farmers' market may appeal an action of the State agency denying its application to participate, imposing a sanction, or disqualifying it from participating in the FMNP. Expiration of a contract or agreement shall not be subject to appeal.
(b)
Postponement pending decision.
An adverse action may, at the State agency's option, be postponed until a decision in the appeal is rendered.
(1) In a case where an adverse action affects a local agency or farmer/farmers' market, a postponement is appropriate where the State agency finds that recipients would be unduly inconvenienced by the adverse action. In addition, the State agency may determine other relevant criteria to be considered in deciding whether or not to postpone an adverse action.
(2) In a case where a recipient appeals the termination of benefits, that recipient shall continue to receive FMNP benefits until the hearing official reaches a decision or the expiration of the current FMNP season, whichever occurs first. Applicants who are denied benefits may appeal the denial, but shall not receive benefits while awaiting the decision.
(c)
Procedure.
The State agency hearing procedure shall at a minimum provide the recipient, local agency or farmer/farmers' market with the following:
(1) Written notification of the adverse action, the cause(s) for the action, and the effective date of the action, including the State agency's determination of whether the action shall be postponed under paragraph (b) of this section if it is appealed, and the opportunity for a hearing. Such notification shall be provided within a reasonable timeframe established by the State agency and in advance of the effective date of the action.
(2) The opportunity to appeal the action within the time specified by the State agency in its notification of adverse action.
(3) Adequate advance notice of the time and place of the hearing to provide all parties involved sufficient time to prepare for the hearing.
(4) The opportunity to present its case and at least one opportunity to reschedule the hearing date upon specific request. The State agency may set standards on how many hearing dates can be scheduled, provided that a minimum of two hearing dates is allowed.
(5) The opportunity to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses.
(6) The opportunity to be represented by counsel, or in the case of a recipient
appeal, by a representative designated by the recipient, if desired.
(7) The opportunity to review the case record prior to the hearing.
(8) An impartial decision maker, whose decision as to the validity of the State agency's action shall rest solely on the evidence presented at the hearing and the statutory and regulatory provisions governing the FMNP. The basis for the decision shall be stated in writing, although it need not amount to a full opinion or contain formal findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(9) Written notification of the decision in the appeal, within 60 days from the date of receipt of the request for a hearing by the State agency.
(d)
Continuing responsibilities.
Appealing an adverse action does not relieve a farmer/farmers' market or local agency permitted to continue in the FMNP while its appeal is pending, from responsibility for continued compliance with the terms of the written agreement or contract with the State agency.
(e)
Judicial review.
If a State level decision is rendered against the recipient, local agency or farmer/farmers' market and the appellant expresses an interest in pursuing a further review of the decision, the State agency shall explain any further State level review of the decision and any available State level rehearing process. If neither is available or both have been exhausted, the State agency shall explain the right to pursue judicial review of the decision.
(f)
Additional appeals procedures for State agencies which authorize farmers' markets and not individual farmers.
A State agency which authorizes farmers' markets and not individual farmers shall ensure that procedures are in place to be used when a farmer seeks to appeal an action of a farmers' market or association denying the farmer's application to participate, or sanctioning or disqualifying the farmer. The procedures shall be set forth in the State Plan and in the agreements entered by the State agency and the farmers' market and the farmers' market and the farmer.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49748, Sept. 27, 1995; 60 FR 57148, Nov. 14, 1995]

# Subpart F—Monitoring and Review of State Agencies
§ 248.17
Management evaluations and reviews.
(a)
General.
FNS and each State agency shall establish a management evaluation system in order to assess the accomplishment of FMNP objectives as provided under these regulations, the State Plan, and the written agreement with the Department. FNS will provide assistance to State agencies in discharging this responsibility, and will establish standards and procedures to determine how well the objectives of this part are being accomplished, and implement sanction procedures as warranted by State FMNP performance.
(b)
Responsibilities of FNS.
FNS shall establish evaluation procedures to determine whether State agencies carry out the purposes and provisions of this part, the State Plan, and the written agreement with the Department. As a part of the evaluation procedure, FNS shall review audits to ensure that the FMNP has been included in audit examinations at a reasonable frequency. These evaluations shall also include reviews of selected local agencies, and on-site reviews of selected farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands. These evaluations will measure the State agency's progress toward meeting the objectives outlined in its State Plan and the State agency's compliance with these regulations.
(1) If FNS determines that the State agency has failed, without good cause, to demonstrate efficient and effective administration of its FMNP or has failed to comply with the requirements contained in this section or the State Plan, FNS may withhold an amount up to 100 percent of the State agency's administrative grant.
(2) Sanctions imposed upon a State agency by FNS in accordance with this section (but not claims for repayment assessed against a State agency) may be appealed in accordance with the procedures established in § 248.20. Before carrying out any sanction against a State agency, the following procedures will be followed:
(i) FNS will notify the chief departmental officer of the administering agency in writing of the deficiencies
found and of FNS' intention to withhold administrative funds unless an acceptable corrective action plan is submitted by the State agency to FNS within 45 days after mailing of notification.
(ii) The State agency shall develop a corrective action plan, including timeframes for implementation to address the deficiencies and prevent their future recurrence.
(iii) If the corrective action plan is acceptable, FNS will notify the chief departmental officer of the administering agency in writing within 30 days of receipt of the plan. The letter will advise the State agency of the sanctions to be imposed if the corrective action plan is not implemented according to the schedule set forth in the approved plan.
(iv) Upon notification from the State agency that corrective action has been taken, FNS will assess such action, and if necessary, perform a follow-up review to determine if the noted deficiencies have been corrected. FNS will then advise the State agency of whether the actions taken are in compliance with the corrective action plan, and whether the deficiency is resolved or further corrective action is needed. Compliance buys can be required if, during FNS management evaluations by regional offices, a State agency is found to be out of compliance with its responsibility to monitor and review farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands.
(v) If an acceptable corrective action plan is not submitted within 45 days, or if corrective action is not completed according to the schedule established in the corrective action plan, FNS may withhold the award of FMNP administrative funds. If the 45-day warning period ends in the fourth quarter of a fiscal year, FNS may elect not to withhold funds until the next fiscal year. FNS will notify the chief departmental officer of the administering State agency.
(vi) If compliance is achieved before the end of the fiscal year in which the FMNP administrative funds are withheld, the funds withheld may be restored to the State agency. FNS is not required to restore funds withheld beyond the end of the fiscal year for which the funds were initially awarded.
(c)
Responsibilities of State agencies.
The State agency is responsible for meeting the following requirements:
(1) The State agency shall establish evaluation and review procedures and document the results of such procedures. The procedures shall include, but are not limited to:
(i) Annual monitoring reviews of participating farmers, farmers' markets and roadside stands, including on-site reviews of a minimum of 10 percent of farmers, 10 percent of farmers' markets, and 10 percent of roadside stands, which includes those farmers, farmers' markets, and roadside stands identified as being the highest risk. First year of operation in the FMNP shall be considered a high-risk indicator. More frequent reviews may be performed as the State agency deems necessary.
(ii) Conducting monitoring reviews of all local agencies within the State agency's jurisdiction at least once every 2 years. Monitoring of local agencies shall encompass, but not be limited to, evaluation of management, accountability, certification, nutrition education, financial management systems, and coupon management systems. WIC State agency reviews of local agencies conducted for the WIC Program may contribute to meeting the FMNP requirement that all local agencies be reviewed once every two years if the reviews include reviews of FMNP practices. When the WIC State agency conducts a review of the local agency outside of the FMNP season, a review of documents and procedural plans of the FMNP, rather than actual FMNP activities, is acceptable.
(iii) Instituting the necessary follow-up procedures to correct identified problem areas.
(2) On its own initiative or when required by FNS, the State agency shall provide special reports on FMNP activities, and take positive action to correct deficiencies in FMNP operations.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49748, Sept. 27, 1995; 73 FR 65251, Nov. 3, 2008]
§ 248.18
Audits.
(a)
Federal access to information.
The Secretary, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, or duly authorized State auditors shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the State agency and their contractors, for the purpose of making surveys, audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.
(b)
State agency response.
The State agency may take exception to particular audit findings and recommendations. The State agency shall submit a response or statement to FNS as to the action taken or planned regarding the findings. A proposed corrective action plan developed and submitted by the State agency shall include specific time frames for its implementation and for completion of the correction of deficiencies and problems leading to the deficiencies.
(c)
Corrective action.
FNS shall determine whether FMNP deficiencies identified in an audit have been adequately corrected. If additional corrective action is necessary, FNS shall schedule a follow-up review, allowing a reasonable time for such corrective action to be taken.
(d)
State sponsored audits.
State and local agencies shall conduct independent audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI Compliance Supplement and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable. A State or local agency may elect to obtain either an organization-wide audit or an audit of the Program if it qualifies to make such an election under applicable regulations.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.19
Investigations.
(a)
Authority.
The Department may make an investigation of any allegation of noncompliance with this part and FNS guidelines and instructions. The investigation may include, where appropriate, a review of pertinent practices and policies of any State and local agency, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the State and local agency has failed to comply with the requirements of this part.
(b)
Confidentiality.
No State or local agency, recipient, or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege under this part because that person has made a complaint or formal allegation, or has testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this part. The identity of every complainant shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this part, including the conducting of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding.

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 248.20
Claims and penalties.
(a)
Claims against State agencies.
(1) If FNS determines through a review of the State agency's reports, program or financial analysis, monitoring, audit, or otherwise, that any FMNP funds provided to a State agency for food or administrative purposes were, through State agency negligence or fraud, misused or otherwise diverted from FMNP purposes, a formal claim will be assessed by FNS against the State agency. The State agency shall pay promptly to FNS a sum equal to the amount of the administrative funds or the value of coupons so misused or diverted.
(2) If FNS determines that any part of the FMNP funds received by a State agency; or coupons, were lost as a result of theft, embezzlement, or unexplained causes, the State agency shall, on demand by FNS, pay to FNS a sum equal to the amount of the money or the value of the FMNP coupons so lost.
(3) The State agency shall have full opportunity to submit evidence, explanation or information concerning alleged instances of noncompliance or diversion before a final determination is made in such cases.
(4) FNS is authorized to establish claims against a State agency for unreconciled FMNP coupons. When a
State agency can demonstrate that all reasonable management efforts have been devoted to reconciliation and 99 percent or more of the FMNP coupons issued have been accounted for by the reconciliation process, FNS may determine that the reconciliation process has been completed to satisfaction.
(b)
Interest charge on claims against State agencies.
If an agreement cannot be reached with the State agency for payment of its debts or for offset of debts on its current Letter of Credit within 30 days from the date of the first demand letter from FNS, FNS will assess an interest (late) charge against the State agency. Interest accrual shall begin on the 31st day after the date of the first demand letter, bill or claim, and shall be computed monthly on any unpaid balance as long as the debt exists. From a source other than the FMNP, the State agency shall provide the funds necessary to maintain FMNP operations at the grant level authorized by FNS.
(c)
Penalties.
In accordance with section 12(g) of the National School Lunch Act, whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals or obtains by fraud any funds, assets or property provided under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, whether received directly or indirectly from USDA, or whoever receives, conceals or retains such funds, assets or property for his or her own interest, knowing such funds, assets or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud shall, if such funds, assets or property are of the value of $100 or more, be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned not more than five years, or both, or if such funds, assets or property are of a value of less than $100, shall be fined not more than $1,000 or imprisoned for not more than one year, or both.
§ 248.21
Procurement and property management.
(a)
Requirements.
State agencies shall comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 for procurement of supplies, equipment and other services with FMNP funds. These requirements are adopted by FNS to ensure that such materials and services are obtained for the FMNP in an effective manner and in compliance with the provisions of applicable law and executive orders.
(b)
Contractual responsibilities.
The standards contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and Appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 do not relieve the State agency of the responsibilities arising under its contracts. The State agency is the responsible authority, without recourse to FNS, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in connection with the FMNP. This includes, but is not limited to, disputes, claims, protests of award, source evaluation, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to such local, State or Federal authority as may have proper jurisdiction.
(c)
State regulations.
The State agency may use its own procurement regulations which reflect applicable State and local regulations, provided that procurements made with FMNP funds adhere to the standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and Appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(d)
Property acquired with program funds.
State and local agencies shall observe the standards prescribed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 in their utilization and disposition of real property and equipment acquired in whole or in part with FMNP funds.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.22
Nonprocurement debarment/suspension, drug-free workplace, and lobbying restrictions.
The State agency shall ensure compliance with the requirements of the Department's regulations governing nonprocurement debarment/suspension (2 CFR part 180, OMB Guidelines to
Agencies on Government-wide Debarment and Suspension and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 417), drug-free workplace (2 CFR part 182, Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace), and the Department's regulations governing restrictions on lobbying (2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, part 415 and part 418), where applicable.
[81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.23
Records and reports.
(a)
Recordkeeping requirements.
Each State agency shall maintain full and complete records concerning FMNP operations. Such records shall comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and the following requirements:
(1) Records shall include, but not be limited to, information pertaining to financial operations, FMNP coupon issuance and redemption, equipment purchases and inventory, nutrition education, and civil rights procedures.
(2) All records shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years following the date of submission of the final expenditure report for the period to which the report pertains. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started before the end of the 3-year period, the records shall be kept until all issues are resolved, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later. If FNS deems any of the FMNP records to be of historical interest, it may require the State agency to forward such records to FNS whenever the State agency is disposing of them.
(3) Records for nonexpendable property acquired in whole or in part with FMNP funds shall be retained for three years after its final disposition.
(4) All records shall be available during normal business hours for representatives of the Department of the Comptroller General of the United States to inspect, audit, and copy. Any reports resulting from such examinations shall not divulge names of individuals.
(b)
Financial and recipient reports.
State agencies shall submit financial and FMNP performance data on a yearly basis as specified by FNS and required by section 17(m)(8) of the CNA. Such information shall include, but shall not be limited to:
(1) Number and type of recipients (Federal and non-Federal).
(2) Value of coupons issued.
(3) Value of coupons redeemed.
(c)
Source documentation.
To be acceptable for audit purposes, all financial and FMNP performance reports shall be traceable to source documentation.
(d)
Certification of reports.
Financial and FMNP reports shall be certified as to their completeness and accuracy by the person given that responsibility by the State agency.
(e)
Use of reports.
FNS will use State agency reports to measure progress in achieving objectives set forth in the State Plan, and this part, or other State agency performance plans. If it is determined, through review of State agency reports, FMNP or financial analysis, or an audit, that a State agency is not meeting the objectives set forth in its State Plan, FNS may request additional information including, but not limited to, reasons for failure to achieve these objectives.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 81 FR 66496, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 248.24
Other provisions.
(a)
No aid reduction.
The value of benefits or assistance available under the FMNP shall not be considered as income or resources of recipients or their families for any purpose under Federal, State, or local laws, including, but not limited to, laws relating to taxation, welfare and public assistance programs. Section 17(m)(7)(B) of the CNA provides that any programs for which a grant is received under this subsection shall be supplementary to the food stamp program carried out under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 as amended (7 U.S.C. 2011
et seq.
) and to any other Federal or State program under which foods are distributed to needy families in lieu of food stamps.
(b)
Statistical information.
FNS reserves the right to use information obtained under the FMNP in a summary, statistical or other form which does not identify particular individuals.
(c)
Confidentiality.
The State agency shall restrict the use or disclosure of information obtained from FMNP applicants and recipients to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the WIC Program or the FMNP, including persons investigating or prosecuting violations in the WIC Program or FMNP under Federal, State or local authority.
(d)
Program evaluations.
State and local FMNP agencies and contractors must cooperate in studies and evaluations conducted by or on behalf of the Department, related to programs authorized under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786).
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 76 FR 37983, June 29, 2011]
§ 248.25
FMNP information.
Any person who wishes information, assistance, records or other public material shall request such information from the State agency, or from the FNS Regional Office serving the appropriate State as listed below:
(a) Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Northeast Region, 10 Causeway Street, Room 501, Boston, Massachusetts 02222-1066.
(b) Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Virginia, Virgin Islands, West Virginia: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Mid-Atlantic Region, Mercer Corporate Park, 300 Corporate Boulevard, Robbinsville, New Jersey, 08691-1598.
(c) Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Southeast Region, 61 Forsyth Street, SW., Room 8T36, Atlanta, Georgia 30303.
(d) Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Midwest Region, 77 West Jackson Boulevard—20th floor, Chicago, Illinois 60604-3507.
(e) Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Southwest Region, 1100 Commerce Street, room 5-C-30, Dallas, Texas 75242.
(f) Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Mountain Plains Region, 1244 Speer Boulevard, suite 903, Denver, Colorado 80204.
(g) Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, Washington: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Western Region, 90 Seventh Street, Suite #10-100, San Francisco, California 94103.
[59 FR 11517, Mar. 11, 1994, as amended at 60 FR 49748, Sept. 27, 1995; 60 FR 57148, Nov. 14, 1995; 73 FR 65251, Nov. 3, 2008]
§ 248.26
OMB control number.
The collecting of information requirements for part 248 have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget and assigned OMB control number 0584-0477.
[60 FR 49748, Sept. 27, 1995]
Pt. 249

# PART 249—SENIOR FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM (SFMNP)

# Subpart A—General
Sec.
249.1
General purpose and scope.
249.2
Definitions.
249.3
Administration.

# Subpart B—State Agency Eligibility
249.4
State plan.
249.5
Selection of new State agencies.

# Subpart C—Participant Eligibility
249.6
Participant eligibility.
249.7
Nondiscrimination.

# Subpart D—Participant Benefits
249.8
Level of benefits and eligible foods.
249.9
Nutrition education.

# Subpart E—State Agency Provisions
249.10
Coupon, market, and CSA program management.
249.11
Financial management system.
249.12
SFMNP costs.
249.13
Program income.
249.14
Distribution of funds to State agencies.
249.15
Closeout procedures.
249.16
Administrative appeal of State agency decisions.

# Subpart F—Monitoring and Review of State Agencies
249.17
Management evaluations and reviews.
249.18
Audits.
249.19
Investigations.

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous Provisions
249.20
Claims and penalties.
249.21
Procurement and property management.
249.22
Nonprocurement debarment/suspension, drug-free workplace, and lobbying restrictions.
249.23
Records and reports.
249.24
Data safeguarding requirements.
249.25
Other provisions.
249.26
SFMNP information.
249.27
OMB control number.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 3007.

# Source:
71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General
§ 249.1
General purpose and scope.
(a) This part announces regulations under which the Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out the Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (SFMNP). The purposes of the SFMNP are to:
(1) Provide resources in the form of fresh, nutritious, unprepared, locally grown fruits, vegetables, honey, and herbs from farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture (CSA) programs to low-income seniors;
(2) Increase the domestic consumption of agricultural commodities by expanding or aiding in the expansion of domestic farmers' markets, roadside stands, and CSAs; and
(3) Develop or aid in the development of new and additional farmers' markets, roadside stands, and CSAs.
(b) These goals will be accomplished through payment of cash grants to approved State agencies. The SFMNP shall be supplementary to the food stamp program carried out under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 (7 U.S.C. 2011,
et seq.
), and to any other Federal or State food or nutrition assistance program under which foods are distributed to needy families in lieu of food stamps.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 48374, Sept. 23, 2009]
§ 249.2
Definitions.
For the purpose of this part and all contracts, guidelines, instructions, forms and other documents related hereto, the term:
Administrative costs
means those direct and indirect costs (as defined in—249.12(a)(1)(ii)), exclusive of food costs, which State agencies determine to be necessary to support SFMNP operations. Administrative costs include, but are not limited to, the costs associated with administration and start-up; the provision of nutrition education; SFMNP coupon issuance; participant education covering coupon redemption procedures; eligibility determinations; outreach services; printing SFMNP coupons, processing redeemed coupons, and training farmers, market managers, and/or farmers who operate CSA programs on the food delivery system; monitoring and reviewing program operations; required reporting and recordkeeping; determining which local sites will be utilized; recruiting and authorizing farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs to participate in the SFMNP; preparing contracts for farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs; developing a data processing system for redemption and reconciliation of coupons; designing program training and informational materials; and coordinating SFMNP implementation responsibilities between designated administering agencies.
Bulk purchase
means a program model in which bulk quantities of certain produce items, such as apples or sweet potatoes, are purchased directly from authorized farmers by the State agency, and are then equitably divided among and distributed directly to eligible SFMNP participants, either at a central distribution point (such as a local senior center) or through some type of home delivery network.
Community supported agriculture (CSA) program
means a program under which a farmer or group of farmers grows food for a group of shareholders (or
subscribers) who pledge to buy a portion of the farmer's crop(s) for that season. State agencies may purchase shares or subscribe to a community supported agriculture program on behalf of individual SFMNP participants.
Compliance buy
means a covert, on-site investigation in which a SFMNP representative poses as a SFMNP participant or authorized representative and attempts to transact one or more SFMNP coupons, or, in the case of CSA programs, attempts to obtain eligible foods purchased with SFMNP funds at a distribution site.
Coupon
means a check or other negotiable financial instrument by which benefits under the program are transferred to program participants.
Days
means calendar days.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Distribution site
means the location where packages of eligible foods are assembled for and/or distributed to SFMNP participants who are shareholders in CSA programs.
Eligible foods
means fresh, nutritious, unprepared, locally grown fruits, vegetables, honey, and herbs for human consumption. Eligible foods may not be processed or prepared beyond their natural state except for usual harvesting and cleaning processes. Dried fruits or vegetables, such as prunes (dried plums), raisins (dried grapes), sun-dried tomatoes, or dried chili peppers are not considered eligible foods. Potted fruit or vegetable plants, potted or dried herbs, wild rice, nuts of any kind (even raw), maple syrup, cider, seeds, eggs, meat, cheese and seafood are also not eligible foods for purposes of the SFMNP.
Farmer
means an individual authorized to sell eligible foods at participating farmers' markets and/or roadside stands, and through CSAs. Individuals who exclusively sell produce grown by someone else, such as wholesale distributors, cannot be authorized to participate in the SFMNP. A participating State agency has the option to authorize individual farmers or farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs.
Farmers' market
means an association of local farmers who assemble at a defined location for the purpose of selling their produce directly to consumers.
Federally recognized Indian tribal government
means the same as the definition of that term found at 2 CFR part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards, subpart A, Acronyms and Definitions and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, i.e., the governing body or a governmental agency of any Indian tribe, band, organization, or other organized group or community (including any Native village as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, 85 Stat. 688) certified by the Secretary of the Interior as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the Secretary through the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Fiscal year
means the period of 12 calendar months beginning October 1 of any calendar year and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Food costs
means the cost of eligible foods purchased at authorized farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or through bulk purchases or CSA programs.
Household
means a group of related or nonrelated individuals who are living together as one economic unit.
Local agency
means any nonprofit entity or local government agency that certifies eligible participants, issues SFMNP coupons, arranges for distribution of eligible foods through CSA programs, and/or provides nutrition education or information on operational aspects of the Program to SFMNP participants.
Locally grown
means grown within State borders. If the State agency chooses,
locally grown
may also mean grown in areas of States adjacent to that State, as long as such areas are part of the United States.
Nonprofit agency
means a private agency that is exempt from the payment of Federal income tax under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (26 U.S.C. 1,
et seq.
).
Nutrition education means:
(1) Individual or group sessions; and
(2) The provision of relevant materials, in keeping with the individual's personal, cultural, and socioeconomic preferences and the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, that:
(i) Emphasize relationships between nutrition and health; and
(ii) Encourage participants to build healthful eating patterns, and to take action for good health.
OIG
means FNS' Office of Inspector General.
Participant
means a person or household who meets the eligibility requirements of the SFMNP and to whom coupons or equivalent benefits have been issued.
Program or SFMNP
means the Senior Farmers' Market Nutrition Program authorized by Section 4402 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, 7 U.S.C. 3007.
Proxy
means an individual authorized by an eligible senior to act on the senior's behalf, including application for certification, receipt of SFMNP coupons or other benefits, use of SFMNP coupons at authorized outlets, and/or acceptance of SFMNP foods provided through a CSA program, as long as the SFMNP benefits are ultimately received by the eligible senior. The terms
proxy
and
authorized representative
may be used interchangeably for purposes of this program.
Roadside stand
means a location at which an individual farmer sells his/her produce directly to consumers. This is in contrast to a group or association of farmers selling their produce at a farmers' market or through a CSA program. The term
roadside stand
may be used interchangeably with the term
farmstand
as defined in § 248.2 of this chapter.
Senior
means an individual 60 years of age or older, or as defined in § 249.6(a)(1).
SFPD
means the Supplemental Food Programs Division of the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Shareholder
means a SFMNP participant for whom a full or partial share in a community supported agriculture program has been purchased by the State agency, and who receives SFMNP benefits in the form of actual eligible foods rather than coupons that must be exchanged for eligible foods at farmers' markets and/or roadside stands.
State
means any of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and as applicable, American Samoa or the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.
State agency
means the agriculture, aging, or health department, or any other agency approved by the Chief Executive Officer of the State that has administrative responsibility for the SFMNP; an intertribal council or group that is an authorized representative of Indian tribes, bands, or groups recognized by FNS of the Interior and that has an ongoing relationship with such tribes, bands, or groups for other purposes and has contracted with them to administer the Program; or the appropriate area office of the Indian Health Service, a division of FNS of Health and Human Services.
State Plan
means a plan of SFMNP operation and administration that describes the manner in which the State agency intends to implement, operate and administer all aspects of the SFMNP within its jurisdiction in accordance with § 249.4.
WIC
means the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children authorized by Section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786).
WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP)
means the nutrition assistance program authorized by Section 17(m) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1786(m)), to provide resources to women, infants, and children who are nutritionally at risk, in the form of fresh, nutritious, unprepared foods (such as fruits and vegetables) from farmers' markets; to expand the awareness and use of farmers' markets; and to increase sales at such markets.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 48374, Sept. 23, 2009; 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 249.3
Administration.
(a)
Delegation to FNS.
Within FNS, FNS shall act on behalf of the Department in the administration of the SFMNP. Within FNS, SFPD and the FNS Regional Offices are responsible
for SFMNP administration. FNS shall provide assistance to State agencies and evaluate all levels of SFMNP operations to ensure that the goals of the SFMNP are achieved in the most effective and efficient manner possible.
(b)
Delegation to State agency.
The State agency is responsible for the effective and efficient administration of the SFMNP in accordance with the requirements of this Part; the requirements of FNS' regulations governing nondiscrimination (parts 15, 15a and 15b of this title), administration of grants (2 CFR part 200, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415), nonprocurement debarment/suspension (2 CFR part 180, OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-wide Debarment and Suspension and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 417), drug-free workplace (2 CFR part 182, Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace), and lobbying (2 CFR part 200, subpart E, Cost Principles; and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, part 415, and part 418); FNS guidelines; FNS Instructions issued under the FNS Directives Management System; and Office of Management and Budget Circular A-130 (For availability of OMB Circulars referenced in this section, see 5 CFR 1310.3). The State agency shall provide guidance to cooperating State and local agencies on all aspects of SFMNP operations. State agencies may operate the SFMNP locally through nonprofit organizations or local government entities and must ensure coordination among the appropriate agencies and organizations.
(c)
Agreement and State Plan.
Each State agency desiring to administer the SFMNP shall annually submit a State Plan of Operations and enter into a written agreement with FNS for administration of the Program in the jurisdiction of the State agency in accordance with the provisions of this Part. If the State agency administers both the SFMNP and the WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP), one consolidated State Plan may be submitted for both programs, in accordance with guidance provided by FNS.
(d)
Coordination with other agencies.
The Chief Executive Officer of the State shall ensure coordination between the designated administering State agency and any other State, local, or nonprofit agencies or entities involved in administering any aspect of the SFMNP by ensuring that the agencies enter into a written agreement or letter/memorandum of understanding. The written agreement or letter/memorandum of understanding must delineate the responsibilities of each agency, describe any compensation for services, and must be signed by the designated representative of each agency. This agreement must be submitted each year along with the State Plan.
(e)
State staffing standards.
Each State agency shall ensure that sufficient staff is available to administer the SFMNP efficiently and effectively. This shall include, but not be limited to, sufficient staff to identify and certify eligible SFMNP participants, provide program information and nutrition education to participants, and oversee coupon, market, and/or CSA program management, fiscal reporting, monitoring, and training. The State agency shall provide in its State Plan an outline of administrative staff and job descriptions for staff whose salaries will be paid from program funds.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]

# Subpart B—State Agency Eligibility
§ 249.4
State Plan.
(a)
Requirements.
By November 15 of each year, each applying or participating State agency shall submit to FNS for approval a State Plan for the following year as a prerequisite to receiving funds under this section. If the State agency administers both the SFMNP and the FMNP, one consolidated State Plan may be submitted for both programs, in accordance with guidance provided by FNS. The State Plan must be signed by the State-designated official responsible for ensuring that the Program is operated in accordance with the State Plan. FNS will provide written approval or denial of a completed State Plan or amendment
within 30 days of receipt. Portions of the State Plan that do not change annually need not be resubmitted. However, the State agency shall provide the title of the sections that remain unchanged, as well as the year of the last Plan in which the sections were submitted. At a minimum, the Plan must include the following items, which must include sufficient detail to demonstrate the State agency's ability to meet the requirements of the SFMNP:
(1) A copy of the agreement between the designated administering State agency and any other cooperating State, local, or nonprofit agencies or organizations for services such as certification of eligible participants, issuance of SFMNP coupons or benefits, and/or nutrition education, as required in § 249.3(d).
(2) A description of the State agency's procedures for identifying and certifying eligible SFMNP participants, including the specific age and income criteria that will be used to determine SFMNP eligibility.
(3) An estimated number of participants for the fiscal year, and proposed months of operation.
(4) A detailed budget for the SFMNP, including:
(i) The minimum amount necessary to operate the SFMNP;
(ii) A description of the Federal and non-Federal funds that will be used to operate the Program; and
(iii) An assurance that no more than 50 percent of the Federal SFMNP grant will be used to support a CSA program model for the delivery of SFMNP benefits.
(5) An outline of administrative staff and job descriptions.
(6) A detailed description of the SFMNP recordkeeping system including, but not limited to, the system for maintaining separate records for SFMNP funds pertaining to financial operations, coupon issuance and redemption, authorization of farmers, markets, and/or CSA programs, distribution of eligible foods through CSA programs, and SFMNP participation.
(7) A detailed description of the State agency's financial management system, including how the system will provide accurate, current and complete disclosure of the program's financial status and required reports.
(8) A detailed description of the service area, including:
(i) The number and addresses of authorized farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture programs that participated in the SFMNP during the prior year; and
(ii) SFMNP certification/issuance sites (such as senior centers or senior housing facilities), including a map outlining the service area and proximity of markets, roadside stands, and/or community supported agriculture programs to certification/issuance or distribution sites that participated in the SFMNP during the prior year.
(9) A description of the coupon issuance system including:
(i) A description of how the State agency will target areas with the highest concentrations of eligible persons and greatest access to farmers' markets and/or roadside stands;
(ii) The benefit level per participant, or household if benefits are issued on a household basis, including:
(A) How coupons will be issued;
(B) The value of benefits provided to each participant or household at each issuance during the year;
(C) The frequency of coupon issuance; and
(D) The total amount of SFMNP benefits issued to each participant or household during the year.
(iii) A method for instructing participants on the proper use of SFMNP coupons and the purpose of the SFMNP;
(iv) A method for ensuring that SFMNP coupons are issued only to eligible participants; and
(v) A method for preventing and identifying dual participation, in accordance with § 249.6(d)(1).
(10) If the agency is using a “paperless” system, i.e., a system that does not issue actual coupons, a complete description of how such a system will be operated in a manner that ensures the integrity of SFMNP funds and benefits.
(11) A detailed description of the SFMNP coupon redemption process including:
(i) The procedures for ensuring the secure transportation and storage of SFMNP coupons;
(ii) A system for identifying and reconciling SFMNP coupons; and
(iii) The timeframes for SFMNP coupon redemption by participants, submission for payment by farmers or authorized outlets (farmers' markets and/or roadside stands), and payment by the State agency.
(12) A description of the State agency's CSA program, if applicable, including:
(i) How the State agency will target and select community supported agriculture programs designed to provide SFMNP benefits to eligible participants;
(ii) The annual benefit amount per participant or household, if benefits are issued on a household basis;
(iii) How CSA program contracts are developed, negotiated, and executed by the State agency;
(iv) How CSA program shares are allocated to eligible SFMNP participants;
(v) A method for instructing participants and farmers participating in the CSA program on the purpose of the SFMNP, and the procedures for delivery and distribution of eligible foods provided for the SFMNP through the CSA;
(vi) A system to ensure receipt by eligible participants of eligible foods provided through a CSA program. Such a system should include a written receipt or distribution log, with the participant's signature (or that of the eligible participant's proxy, if proxies are allowed) and the date of each distribution;
(vii) The payment procedures for the CSA program(s) used by the State agency;
(viii) How the State agency ensures that the full value of eligible foods for which it has contracted is provided regularly throughout the SFMNP season;
(ix) A listing of delivery dates and distribution sites for CSA program-provided eligible foods; and
(x) A system for ensuring that each SFMNP shareholder receives an equitable amount of eligible foods at each delivery, and that the total value of the eligible foods provided under the SFMNP falls within the minimum and maximum Federal SFMNP benefit levels, as specified in § 249.8(b).
(13) A complete description of age- and circumstance-appropriate nutrition education to be provided to SFMNP participants, including:
(i) The agencies that will provide the nutrition education;
(ii) The format(s) in which the nutrition education will be provided; and
(iii) The locations where nutrition education is likely to be provided.
(14) A detailed description of the State agency's system for managing its coupon, market, and CSA program management systems, including:
(i) The criteria for authorizing farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or community supported agriculture programs, including the agency responsible for authorization;
(ii) The procedures for training farmers, market managers, and/or CSA program farmers at authorization, and annually thereafter;
(iii) The procedures for monitoring farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or community supported agriculture programs;
(iv) A description of the State agency's system for identifying high-risk farmers and farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or community supported agriculture programs, as set forth at § 249.10(e)(2)(ii);
(v) The procedures for sanctioning farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or community supported agriculture programs;
(vi) A facsimile of the SFMNP coupon, including the denominations of coupons that will be issued, and a clear indication of where the participant/proxy and (if applicable) farmer are required to sign, stamp, or otherwise endorse the coupon before it can be redeemed;
(vii) A complete listing of the fresh, nutritious, unprepared fruits, vegetables, honey, and herbs eligible for purchase under the SFMNP;
(viii) A description of SFMNP coupon replacement policy or statement that coupons will not be replaced; and
(ix) The State agency's procedures for handling participant and farmer/farmers' market, roadside stands, and CSA program complaints.
(15) A system for ensuring that SFMNP coupons are redeemed only by authorized farmers/farmers' markets/roadside stands, and only for eligible foods.
(16) A system for identifying SFMNP coupons that are redeemed or submitted for payment outside valid dates or by unauthorized farmers/farmers' markets/roadside stands.
(17) A copy of the written agreement to be used between the State agency and authorized farmers/farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs. In those States that authorize farmers' markets, but not individual farmers, this agreement shall specify in detail the role of and procedures to be used by farmers' markets for monitoring and sanctioning farmers, and the appropriate procedures to be used by a farmer to appeal a sanction or disqualification imposed by a farmers' market.
(18) If available, information on the change in consumption of fresh fruits, vegetables, honey, and herbs by SFMNP participants. This information shall be submitted as an addendum to the State Plan and shall be submitted at a date specified by the Secretary.
(19) If available, information on the effects of the program on farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs. This information shall be submitted as an addendum to the State Plan and shall be submitted at a date specified by the Secretary.
(20) A description of the procedures the State agency will use to comply with the civil rights requirements described in § 249.7(a), including the processing of discrimination complaints.
(21) A copy of the State agency's fair hearing procedures for SFMNP participants and the administrative appeal procedures for local agencies, farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs.
(22) State agencies that have not previously participated in the SFMNP must provide:
(i) A description of the need for the SFMNP in that State agency;
(ii) The specific goals and objectives of the SFMNP, designed to fulfill the purpose of the Program as set forth in § 249.1; and
(iii) A capability statement that includes a summary description of any prior experience with farmers' market projects or programs, including information and data describing the attributes of such projects or programs.
(23) For State agencies making expansion requests, documentation that demonstrates:
(i) The need for an increase in funding;
(ii) That the use of the increased funding will be consistent with serving eligible SFMNP participants by expanding benefits to more persons, by enhancing current benefits, or a combination of both, and expanding the awareness and use of farmers' markets, roadside stands, and CSA programs;
(iii) The ability of the State agency to operate the existing SFMNP satisfactorily;
(iv) The management capabilities of the State agency to expand; and
(v) Whether, in the case of a State agency that intends to use the funding to increase the value of the Federal benefits received by a participant, the funding provided will increase the rate of coupon redemption.
(b)
Amendments.
At any time after approval, the State agency may amend the State Plan to reflect changes. The State agency shall submit such amendments to FNS for approval. The proposed amendments shall be signed by the State-designated official responsible for ensuring that the SFMNP is operated in accordance with the State Plan. The amendments must be approved by FNS prior to implementation.
(c)
Retention of copy.
A copy of the approved State Plan shall be kept on file at the State agency for public inspection.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 48374, 48375, Sept. 23, 2009]
§ 249.5
Selection of new State agencies.
In selecting new State agencies, FNS will use objective criteria to rank and approve State plans submitted in accordance with § 249.4. In making this ranking, FNS will consider the amount of funds necessary to operate the SFMNP successfully in the State compared with other States and with the total amount of funds available to the
SFMNP, the number of participants estimated to be served, and the projected benefit level. Approval of a State Plan does not equate to an obligation on the part of FNS to fund the SFMNP within that State.

# Subpart C—Participant Eligibility
§ 249.6
Participant eligibility.
(a)
Eligibility for certification.
Individuals who are eligible to receive Federal benefits under the SFMNP are those who meet the following criteria:
(1)
Categorical eligibility.
Participants must be not less than 60 years of age, except that State agencies may exercise the option to deem Native Americans who are 55 years of age or older as categorically eligible for SFMNP benefits. State agencies may, at their discretion, also deem disabled individuals less than 60 years of age who are currently living in housing facilities occupied primarily by older individuals where congregate nutrition services are provided, as categorically eligible to receive SFMNP benefits.
(2)
Residency requirement.
The State agency may establish a residency requirement for SFMNP applicants. The State agency may determine a service area for any local agency, and may require that an applicant be residing within the service area at the time of application to be eligible for the Program. However, the State agency may not impose any durational or fixed residency requirements.
(3)
Income eligibility.
The State agency must ensure that local agencies determine income eligibility through the use of a clear and simple application process approved by the State agency. Participants must have a maximum household income of not more than 185 percent of the annual poverty income guidelines, or be determined automatically income eligible based on current participation/eligibility to receive benefits in another means-tested program, as designated by the State agency, for which income eligibility is set at or below 185 percent of the poverty income guidelines and for which documentation of family income is required. FNS will announce the income poverty guidelines annually.
(b)
Documentation of income eligibility
—(1)
Automatically income eligible applicants.
The State or local agency must require applicants determined to be automatically income eligible to provide documentation of their eligibility to participate in another means-tested assistance program, as designated by the State agency.
(2)
Other applicants.
(i) The State or local agency must require all other applicants to provide, at a minimum, a signed statement affirming that their household size and income does not exceed the maximum income eligibility standard in use by the State agency.
(ii) If the State agency offers a benefit of more than $50 per participant through a CSA program, it must require documentation of household size and income from all participants receiving the higher benefit level.
(iii) The State agency has the option to require all applicants to provide documentation of family income at certification, and/or to require verification of the information provided by the applicant.
(c)
Certification periods.
Participants may be certified only for the current fiscal year's SFMNP period of operation. Eligibility must be determined at the beginning of each period of operation. Prior fiscal year certifications may not be carried over into subsequent fiscal years, but the State agency may make use of its participant enrollment listings from the prior fiscal year in its outreach efforts for the current fiscal year.
(d)
Participant rights and responsibilities.
Where a significant number or proportion of the population eligible to be served needs information regarding participation in the SFMNP in a language other than English, reasonable steps must be taken to provide this information in the appropriate language(s) to such persons, considering the scope of the Program and the size and concentration of such population(s). In order to inform applicants and participants or their authorized representatives/proxies of SFMNP rights and responsibilities, State/local agencies must provide the following information:
(1) During the certification process, every program applicant or authorized
representative must be informed of the illegality of dual participation, i.e., obtaining SFMNP benefits from more than one service delivery area or from more than one SFMNP program model (coupon system and CSA program) within the same service delivery area.
(2) At the time of certification, each SFMNP applicant or authorized representative must read or have read to him or her the following statements or similar statements:
I have been advised of my rights and obligations under the SFMNP. I certify that the information I have provided for my eligibility determination is correct, to the best of my knowledge. This certification form is being submitted in connection with the receipt of Federal assistance. Program officials may verify information on this form. I understand that intentionally making a false or misleading statement or intentionally misrepresenting, concealing, or withholding facts may result in paying the State agency, in cash, the value of the food benefits improperly issued to me and may subject me to civil or criminal prosecution under State and Federal law.
Standards for eligibility and participation in the SFMNP are the same for everyone, regardless of race, color, national origin, age, disability, or sex.
I understand that I may appeal any decision made by the local agency regarding my eligibility for the SFMNP.
(3) During the certification visit, each participant or authorized representative must:
(i) Receive an explanation of how to use his/her SFMNP coupons at farmers' markets and roadside stands, and/or how SFMNP foods will be provided under the CSA program in that service delivery area; and
(ii) Be advised of the other types of services that are available to SFMNP participants, where such services are located, how they may be obtained, and why they may be useful.
(4) Persons found ineligible for the SFMNP during a certification visit must be advised in writing of their ineligibility, of the reasons for their ineligibility, and of their right to a fair hearing. The reasons for ineligibility must be properly documented and must be retained on file at the local agency. Such notice is not required when participation is denied solely because of lack of sufficient funding to provide SFMNP benefits to all eligible applicants.
(5) When a State or local agency pursues collection of a claim pursuant to § 249.20(c) against an individual who has been issued SFMNP benefits for which she/he is not eligible, the person must be advised in writing of the reason(s) for the claim, the value of the improperly issued benefits that must be repaid, and of his/her right to a fair hearing.
(e)
Certification without charge.
Certification for the SFMNP must be performed at no cost to the applicant or the authorized representative.
(f)
Use of proxies or authorized representatives.
At the State agency's discretion, a senior may designate an authorized representative (proxy) to apply for certification, shop at the farmers' market or roadside stands, and/or pick up their eligible foods from CSA program distribution sites on his/her behalf if the senior is unable to perform these actions. The State agency must obtain a signed statement from the eligible senior designating another individual as his/her authorized representative. A senior who has been certified to receive SFMNP benefits may designate an authorized representative at any point during the program's period of operation.
(g)
Processing standards.
(1) Applicants for the SFMNP must be notified of their eligibility or ineligibility for benefits, or of their placement on a waiting list, as described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, within 15 days from the date of application.
(2) When all available program benefits have been allocated to eligible participants, and there is a reasonable expectation that additional funds may become available to provide further SFMNP benefits to eligible seniors, the local agency must maintain a waiting list of individuals who contact the local agency to apply for the Program. Individuals must be notified of their placement on a waiting list within 15 days after they contact the local agency to request Program benefits. To enable the local agency to contact these individuals when caseload space becomes available, the waiting list must include the name of the applicant, the date placed on the waiting list, and an
address or phone number of the applicant.
(h)
Limitations on certification.
If necessary to limit the number of participants, State agencies may impose additional eligibility requirements, such as limiting participant certification to certain geographic areas. Each State agency must specifically identify these limitations on certification in its State Plan.
§ 249.7
Nondiscrimination.
(a)
Civil rights requirements.
(1) The State agency must comply with the following requirements to ensure that no person shall, on the grounds of race, color, national origin, age, sex or disability, be excluded from participation, be denied benefits, or be otherwise subjected to discrimination, under the SFMNP:
(i) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964;
(ii) Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972;
(iii) Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973;
(iv) The Age Discrimination Act of 1975;
(v) Department of Agriculture regulations on nondiscrimination (parts 15, 15a and 15b of this title); and
(vi) Applicable FNS Instructions, including requirements for racial and ethnic participation data collection, public notification of the nondiscrimination policy, and annual reviews of each local agency's racial and ethnic participation data (as required by title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964).
(2) Compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, and regulations and instructions issued thereunder shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) Notification to the public of the nondiscrimination policy and complaint rights of participants and potentially eligible persons, which may be satisfied through FNS' required nondiscrimination statement on brochures and publications;
(ii) Review and monitoring activity to ensure SFMNP compliance with the nondiscrimination laws and regulations; and
(iii) Establishment of grievance procedures for handling participant complaints based on sex and handicap.
(b)
Complaints.
Persons seeking to file discrimination complaints may file them either with the Secretary of Agriculture, or the Director, Office of Civil Rights, USDA, Washington, DC 20250 or with the office established by the State agency to handle discrimination grievances or complaints. All complaints received by State agencies that allege discrimination based on race, color, national origin, or age shall be referred to the Secretary of Agriculture or the Director of the Office of Civil Rights, USDA. A State agency may process complaints that allege discrimination based on sex or disability if grievance procedures are in place.

# Subpart D—Participant Benefits
§ 249.8
Level of benefits and eligible foods.
(a)
General.
State agencies must identify in the State Plan the fresh, nutritious, unprepared, locally grown fruits, vegetables, honey, and herbs that are eligible for purchase under the SFMNP. Eligible foods may not be processed or prepared beyond their natural state except for usual harvesting and cleaning processes. Dried fruits or vegetables, such as prunes (dried plums), raisins (dried grapes), sun-dried tomatoes, or dried chili peppers are not considered eligible foods in the SFMNP. Potted fruit or vegetable plants, potted or dried herbs, wild rice, nuts of any kind (even raw), maple syrup, cider, seeds, eggs, meat, cheese, and seafood are also not eligible for purposes of the SFMNP. “Locally grown” means produce grown only within a State's borders but may be defined by State agencies to include border areas in adjacent States. Under no circumstances may produce grown outside of the United States and its territories be considered eligible food.
(b)
The value of the Federal benefits received.
(1) The Federal SFMNP benefit level received by each participant, whether individual or household, may not be less than $20 per year or more than $50 per year, except that:
(i) A State agency that operated the SFMNP in FY 2006 may continue to issue the same level of benefits that was provided to participants in FY 2006, even if the benefit level was less than $20;
(ii) Participants served by a State agency that operated the SFMNP through a CSA program model in FY 2006 may, at the State agency's discretion, continue to receive the same CSA benefit levels that were provided to such participants in FY 2006, subject to the conditions set forth at § 249.14(e)(3), Distribution of Funds; and
(iii) Participants who are participating in the SFMNP through a CSA program may receive a higher total benefit level than participants participating in a check or coupon program model, as long as that level is consistent for all Senior CSA program participants and does not exceed the $50 annual maximum per individual or household, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(2) The total value of SFMNP benefits provided in a combination of program models, such as coupons/checks and bulk purchase, may not exceed the $50 maximum benefit level set forth in paragraph 249.8(b)(1).
(c)
Participant or household benefit allocation.
(1) All SFMNP participants living in the areas served by the State agency must be offered the same amount of SFMNP benefits, regardless of the program model(s) used by that State agency.
(2) Benefits may be allocated on an individual or on a household basis.
(3) Foods provided are intended for the sole benefit of SFMNP participants and are not meant to be shared with other non-participating household members.
(4) Participants must receive SFMNP benefits free of charge.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 48374, Sept. 23, 2009]
§ 249.9
Nutrition education.
(a)
Goal.
Nutrition education shall emphasize the relationship of proper nutrition to good health, including the importance of consuming fruits and vegetables.
(b)
Requirement.
The State agency shall integrate nutrition education into SFMNP operations and may satisfy nutrition education requirements through coordination with other agencies within the State. State agencies wishing to coordinate nutrition education with another State agency or organization must enter into a written cooperative agreement with such agencies to offer nutrition education relevant to the use and nutritional value of foods available to SFMNP participants. In cases where SFMNP participants are receiving relevant nutrition education from an agency other than the administering State agency, the provision of nutrition education is an allowable administrative cost under the SFMNP.

# Subpart E—State Agency Provisions
§ 249.10
Coupon, market, and CSA program management.
(a)
General.
This section sets forth State agency responsibilities regarding the authorization of farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs. The State agency is responsible for the fiscal management of and accountability for SFMNP-related activities for farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and CSA programs. Each State agency may decide whether to authorize individual farmers and farmers' markets separately, or to authorize only farmers' markets. In addition, each State agency may decide whether to authorize roadside stands and/or CSA programs. The State agency may authorize a farmer for participation in a farmers' market, a roadside stand, and/or CSA program simultaneously. All contracts or agreements entered into by the State agency for the management or operation of farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs shall conform to the requirements of 2 CFR part 200 and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(1) Only farmers, farmers' markets, and/or roadside stands authorized by the State agency may redeem SFMNP coupons. Only farmers authorized by the State agency, or having a valid agreement with an authorized farmers' market, may redeem coupons. Only CSA programs authorized by the State
agency may receive payment from the State agency at the beginning of the planting season, in order to provide eligible foods to senior participants who are shareholders.
(2) The State agency must establish criteria for the authorization of individual farmers and/or farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs. Any authorized farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand and/or CSA program must agree to sell participants only those foods identified as eligible by the State agency. State agencies may determine farmers, farmers' markets and/or roadside stands as automatically authorized to participate in the SFMNP based on current authorization to operate in the FMNP under part 248 of this chapter. Individuals who exclusively sell produce grown by someone else, such as wholesale distributors, cannot be authorized to participate in the SFMNP, except individuals employed by a farmer otherwise qualified under these regulations, or individuals hired by a nonprofit organization to sell produce at roadside stands on behalf of local farmers.
(3) The State agency must ensure that an appropriate number of farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs are authorized for adequate participant access in the area(s) proposed to be served and for effective management of the farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs by the State agency.
(4) The State agency may establish criteria to limit the number of authorized farmers, farmers' markets, and/or roadside stands.
(5) The State agency must limit the value of shares awarded to CSA programs to no more than 50 percent of their total Federal SFMNP food grant, except in the case of a State agency that has grandfathered a CSA program model into the permanent SFMNP that uses more than 50 percent of the total Federal SFMNP food grant for the CSA program. The State agency shall make efforts to select the CSA program(s) that provides the greatest variety of eligible foods.
(6) The State agency may purchase bulk quantities of eligible foods directly from authorized farmers. Such foods must then be equitably divided among and distributed directly to eligible SFMNP participants. SFMNP participants who have received checks or coupons to purchase eligible foods earlier in the season may also receive foods through the bulk purchase option as long as the total combined value of the benefits provided to each SFMNP participant does not exceed $50, as stipulated in § 249.8(b).
(7) The State agency shall ensure that training is conducted prior to start up of the first year of SFMNP participation of an individual farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program. The training shall include at a minimum those items listed in paragraph (d) of this section, and may be delivered in a variety of methods, including but not limited to classroom settings, telephone conferences, videoconferences, and web-based training modules.
(8) Authorized farmers shall display a sign stating that they are authorized to redeem SFMNP coupons.
(9) Authorized farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs shall comply with the requirements of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975, Department of Agriculture regulations on nondiscrimination (parts 15, 15a and 15b of this title), and FNS Instructions as outlined in § 249.7.
(10) The State agency shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest between the State or local agency and any participating farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand and/or CSA program.
(b)
Farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program agreements.
The State agency shall ensure that all participating farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs enter into written agreements with the State agency. State agencies that authorize individual farmers shall also enter into written agreements with the individual farmers. The agreement must be signed by a representative who has legal authority to obligate the farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program. Agreements must include a
description of sanctions for noncompliance with SFMNP requirements and shall contain, at a minimum, the following specifications, although the State agency may determine the exact wording to be used:
(1) The farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand shall:
(i) Provide such information as the State agency may require for its periodic reports to FNS;
(ii) Assure that SFMNP coupons are redeemed only for eligible foods;
(iii) Provide eligible foods at or less than the price charged to other customers;
(iv) Accept SFMNP coupons within the dates of their validity and submit such coupons for payment within the allowable time period established by the State agency;
(v) In accordance with a procedure established by the State agency, mark each transacted coupon with a farmer identifier. In those cases where the agreement is between the State agency and the farmer and/or roadside stand, each transacted SFMNP coupon shall contain a farmer identifier and shall be batched for reimbursement under that identifier. In those cases where the agreement is between the State agency and the farmers' market, each transacted SFMNP coupon shall contain a farmer identifier and be batched for reimbursement under a farmers' market identifier.
(vi) Accept training on SFMNP procedures and provide training to farmers and any employees with SFMNP responsibilities on such procedures;
(vii) Agree to be monitored for compliance with SFMNP requirements, including both overt and covert monitoring;
(viii) Be accountable for actions of farmers or employees in the provision of eligible foods and related activities;
(ix) Pay the State agency for any coupons transacted in violation of this agreement;
(x) Offer SFMNP participants the same courtesies as other customers;
(xi) Comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of USDA regulations as provided in § 249.7; and
(xii) Notify the State agency if any farmer, farmers' market or roadside stand ceases operation prior to the end of the authorization period.
(2) The farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand shall neither:
(i) Seek restitution from SFMNP participants for coupons not paid by the State agency; nor
(ii) Issue cash change for purchases that are in an amount less than the value of the SFMNP coupon(s); nor
(iii) Collect tax on SFMNP coupon purchases.
(3) The CSA program shall:
(i) Provide such information as the State agency may require for its periodic reports to FNS;
(ii) Assure that SFMNP participants receive only eligible foods;
(iii) Provide eligible foods to their SFMNP shareholders at or less than the price charged to other customers;
(iv) Assure that the shareholder receives eligible foods that are of equitable value and quantity to their share;
(v) Assure that all funds from the State agency are used for planting of crops for SFMNP shareholders;
(vi) Provide to the State agency access to a tracking system that determines the value of the eligible foods provided and the remaining value owed to each SFMNP shareholder;
(vii) Assure that SFMNP shareholders/authorized representatives provide written acknowledgement of receipt of eligible foods;
(viii) Accept training on SFMNP procedures and provide training to farmers and any employees with SFMNP responsibilities for such procedures;
(ix) Agree to be monitored for compliance with SFMNP requirements, including both overt and covert monitoring;
(x) Be accountable for actions of farmers or employees in the provision of eligible foods and related activities;
(xi) Offer SFMNP shareholders the same courtesies as other customers;
(xii) Notify the State agency immediately when the CSA program is experiencing a problem with its crops, and may be unable to provide SFMNP shareholders with the complete amount of eligible foods agreed upon between the CSA program and the State agency;
(xiii) Comply with the nondiscrimination provisions of USDA regulations as provided in § 249.7; and
(xiv) Notify the State agency if any CSA program ceases operation prior to the end of the authorization period.
(4) The CSA program shall not substitute ineligible produce when eligible foods are not available.
(5) Neither the State agency nor the farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program has an obligation to renew the agreement. The State agency or the farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand and/or CSA program may terminate the agreement for cause after providing advance written notification.
(6) The State agency may deny payment to the farmer, farmers' market and/or roadside stand for improperly redeemed SFMNP coupons and may demand refunds for payments already made on improperly redeemed coupons.
(7) The State agency may demand a refund from any CSA program that fails to provide the full benefit to all SFMNP shareholders as specified in its contract, or that provides ineligible foods as substitutes for eligible foods.
(8) The State agency may disqualify a farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program for SFMNP violations. The farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program has the right to appeal a denial of an application to participate, a disqualification, or a SFMNP sanction by the State agency. Expiration of a contract or agreement with a farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program, and claims actions under § 249.20, are not appealable.
(9) A farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program, which commits fraud or engages in other illegal activity is liable to prosecution under applicable Federal, State or local laws.
(10) Agreements may not exceed 3 years.
(c)
Agreements with farmers' markets that do not authorize individual farmers.
Those State agencies that authorize farmers' markets but not individual farmers shall require authorized farmers' markets to enter into a written agreement with each farmer within the market that is participating in SFMNP. The State agency must set forth the required terms for the agreement and provide a sample agreement that may be used.
(d)
Annual training for farmers, farmers' market managers and/or farmers that operate a roadside stand or CSA program.
State agencies shall conduct annual training for farmers, farmers' market managers, and/or farmers who operate a CSA program in the SFMNP. The State agency must conduct interactive training for all farmers and farmers' market managers who have never previously participated in the SFMNP. After a farmer/farmers' market manager's first year of SFMNP operation, State agencies have discretion in determining the method used for annual training purposes. At a minimum, annual training shall include instruction emphasizing:
(1) Eligible food choices;
(2) Proper SFMNP coupon redemption procedures, including deadlines for submission of coupons for payment, and/or receipt of payment for CSA programs' distribution of eligible foods;
(3) Equitable treatment of SFMNP participants, including the availability of eligible foods to SFMNP participants that are of the same quality and cost as that sold to other customers;
(4) Civil rights compliance and guidelines;
(5) Guidelines for storing SFMNP coupons safely; and
(6) Guidelines for cancelling SFMNP coupons, such as punching holes or rubber-stamping.
(e)
Monitoring and review of farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, CSA programs and local agencies.
The State agency shall be responsible for the monitoring of farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, CSA programs and local agencies within its jurisdiction. This shall include developing a system for identifying high risk farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs, and ensuring on-site monitoring, conducting further investigation, and sanctioning of such farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs as appropriate. In States where both the
SFMNP and the FMNP are in operation, these monitoring/review requirements may be coordinated to avoid duplication. If the same farmers, farmers' markets, and/or roadside stands are authorized for both programs, a review conducted by one program may be counted toward the requirement for the other program.
(1) Where coupon reimbursement responsibilities are delegated to farmers' market managers, farmers' market associations, or nonprofit organizations, the State agency may establish bonding requirements for these entities. Costs of such bonding are not reimbursable administrative expenses.
(2)(i) Each State agency shall rank participating farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs by risk factors, and shall conduct annual, on-site monitoring of at least 10 percent of farmers, 10 percent of farmers' markets, 10 percent of roadside stands, and 10 percent of the CSA programs or one of each program model, whichever is greater, which shall include those farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs identified as being the highest-risk.
(ii) Mandatory high-risk indicators include:
(A) A proportionately high volume of SFMNP coupons redeemed by a farmer within a farmers' market or at a single roadside stand (as compared to other farmers within the farmers' market or within the State);
(B) Participant complaints;
(C) In the case of CSA programs, an extended or ongoing inability to provide the full SFMNP benefit to each shareholder as contracted; and
(D) Farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs in their first year of SFMNP operation. States are encouraged to formally establish other high-risk indicators for identifying potential problems.
(iii) If additional high-risk indicators are established, they must be set forth in the farmers, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program agreement and in the State Plan. If application of the high-risk indicators results in fewer than 10 percent of farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs being designated as high-risk, the State agency shall randomly select additional farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs to be monitored in order to meet the 10 percent minimum. The high-risk indicators listed above generally apply to a State agency already participating in the SFMNP. A State agency participating in the SFMNP for the first time shall, in lieu of applying the high-risk indicators, randomly select 10 percent of its participating farmers, 10 percent of its participating farmers' markets, 10 percent of its participating roadside stands, and 10 percent of its participating CSA programs or at least one farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program, whichever is greater, for monitoring visits.
(3)(i) The following shall be documented for all on-site monitoring visits to farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs, at a minimum:
(A) Names of both the farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program and the reviewer;
(B) Date of review;
(C) Nature of problem(s) detected or the observation that the farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program appears to be in compliance with SFMNP requirements;
(D) Record of interviews with participants, market managers, farmers, and/or farmers who operate a CSA program; and
(E) Signature of the reviewer.
(ii) Reviewers are not required to notify the farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program of the monitoring visit before, during, or immediately after the visit. The State agency shall do so after a reasonable delay when necessary to protect the identity of the reviewer(s) or the integrity of the investigation.
(iii) In instances where the farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program will be permitted to continue participating in the SFMNP after being informed of any deficiencies detected by the monitoring visit, the farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program shall provide plans as to how the deficiencies will be corrected.
(4) At least every 2 years, the State agency must review all local agencies within its jurisdiction.
(f)
Control of SFMNP coupons.
The State agency must:
(1) Control and provide accountability for the receipt and issuance of SFMNP coupons;
(2) Ensure that there is secure transportation and storage of unissued SFMNP coupons; and
(3) Design and implement a system of review of SFMNP coupons to detect errors. At a minimum, the errors the system must detect are a missing participant signature (if such signature is required by the State agency), a missing farmer and/or market identification, and redemption by a farmer outside of the valid date. The State agency must have procedures in place to reduce the number of errors in transactions.
(g)
Payment to farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs.
The State agency must ensure that farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs are promptly paid for food costs.
(h)
Reconciliation of SFMNP coupons.
The State agency shall identify the disposition of all SFMNP coupons as validly redeemed, lost or stolen, expired, or not matching issuance records. Validly redeemed SFMNP coupons are those that are issued to a valid participant and redeemed by an authorized farmer, farmers' market, and/or roadside stand within valid dates. SFMNP coupons that were redeemed but cannot be traced to a valid participant or authorized farmer, farmers' market, and/or roadside stand shall be subject to claims action in accordance with § 249.20.
(1) If the State agency elects to replace lost, stolen or damaged SFMNP coupons, it must describe its system for doing so in the State Plan.
(2) The State agency must use uniform SFMNP coupons within its jurisdiction.
(3) SFMNP coupons must include, at a minimum, the following information:
(i) The last date by which the participant may use the coupon. This date shall be no later than November 30 of each year.
(ii) A date by which the farmer or farmers' market must submit the coupon for payment. When establishing this date, State agencies shall take into consideration the date financial statements are due to the FNS, and allow time for the corresponding coupon reconciliation that must be done by the State agency prior to submission of financial statements. Financial statements are due to FNS by January 30.
(iii) A unique and sequential serial number.
(iv) A denomination (dollar amount).
(v) A farmer identifier for the redeeming farmer when agreements are between the State agency and the farmer.
(vi) In those instances where State agencies have agreements with farmers' markets, there must be a farmer identifier on each coupon and a market identifier on the cover of coupons that are batched by the market manager for reimbursement.
(i)
Instructions to participants.
Each participant must receive instruction on the redemption of the SFMNP coupons, or participation in a CSA program (where applicable), including, but not limited to:
(1) A list of names and addresses of authorized farmers, farmers' markets, and/or roadside stands at which SFMNP coupons may be redeemed, or procedures on the home-delivery process;
(2) Procedures to designate a proxy;
(3) The name and address of the authorized farmer of the CSA program, and locations of distribution sites;
(4) A description of eligible foods and the prohibition against cash change for SFMNP purchases of eligible foods;
(5) A description of eligible foods that will be provided through the CSA program;
(6) A schedule outlining a timeframe for distribution of the eligible foods from the CSA program; and
(7) An explanation of his/her right to complain about improper farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program practices with regard to SFMNP responsibilities and the process for doing so.
(j)
Participant and farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program complaints.
The State agency must have procedures that document
the handling of complaints from participants and farmers/farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs. Complaints of civil rights discrimination shall be handled in accordance with § 249.7(b).
(k)
Participant and farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program sanctions.
(1) The State agency must establish policies which determine the type and level of sanctions to be applied against participants and farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs based upon the severity and nature of the SFMNP violations observed, and such other factors as the State agency determines appropriate, such as whether repeated offenses have occurred over a period of time. Farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs may be sanctioned, disqualified, or both, when appropriate. Sanctions may include fines for improper SFMNP coupon redemption and the penalties outlined in § 249.20, in the case of deliberate fraud.
(2) In those instances where compliance purchases are conducted, the results of covert compliance purchases can be a basis for farmer, farmers' market, and/or roadside stand sanctions.
(3) A farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program committing fraud or other unlawful activities are liable to prosecution under applicable Federal, State or local laws.
(4) State agency policies must ensure that a farmer that is disqualified from the SFMNP at one market, roadside stand, or CSA program shall not participate in the SFMNP at any other farmers' market, roadside stand or CSA program in the State's jurisdiction during the disqualification period.
(5) State agency policies must ensure that a farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program that is disqualified from participating in the WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program is also disqualified from participating in the SFMNP in the State's jurisdiction during the disqualification period.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 48375, Sept. 23, 2009; 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 249.11
Financial management system.
(a)
Disclosure of expenditures.
The State agency must maintain a financial management system that provides accurate, current and complete disclosure of the financial status of the SFMNP. This must include an accounting for all property and other assets and all SFMNP funds received and expended each fiscal year.
(b)
Internal controls.
The State agency shall maintain effective controls over and accountability for all SFMNP funds. The State agency must have effective internal controls to ensure that expenditures financed with SFMNP funds are authorized and properly chargeable to the SFMNP.
(c)
Record of expenditures.
The State agency must maintain records that adequately identify the source and use of funds expended for SFMNP activities. These records must contain, but are not limited to, information pertaining to authorization, receipt of funds, obligations, unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.
(d)
Payment of costs.
The State agency must implement procedures that ensure prompt and accurate payment of allowable costs, and ensure the allowability and allocability of costs in accordance with the cost principles and standard provisions of this part, 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415, and FNS guidelines and Instructions.
(e)
Identification of obligated funds.
The State agency must implement procedures that accurately identify obligated SFMNP funds at the time the obligations are made.
(f)
Resolution of audit findings.
The State agency shall implement procedures that ensure timely and appropriate resolution of claims and other matters resulting from audit findings and recommendations.
(g)
Reconciliation of food instruments.
The State agency must reconcile SFMNP coupons in accordance with § 249.10(h).
(h)
Transfer of cash.
The State agency must establish the timing and amounts of its cash draws against its Letter of
Credit in accordance with 31 CFR part 205.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 83 FR 14174, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 249.12
SFMNP costs.
(a)
General
—(1)
Composition of allowable costs.
In general, a cost item will be deemed allowable if it is reasonable and necessary for SFMNP purposes and otherwise satisfies allowability criteria set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415. SFMNP purposes include the administration and operation of the SFMNP. Allowable SFMNP costs may be classified as follows:
(i)
Food costs and administrative costs.
Food costs are the costs of eligible foods provided to SFMNP participants. Administrative costs are the costs associated with providing SFMNP benefits and services to participants and generally administering the SFMNP. Specific examples of allowable administrative costs are listed in paragraph (b) of this section. A State agency may use up to 10 percent of its total Federal SFMNP grant to cover administrative costs. Any costs incurred for food and/or administration above the Federal grant level will be the State agency's responsibility.
(ii)
Direct and indirect costs.
Direct costs are food and administrative costs incurred specifically for the SFMNP. Indirect costs are administrative costs that benefit multiple programs or activities, and cannot be identified to any one program or activity without effort disproportionate to the results achieved. In accordance with the provisions of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, a claim for reimbursement of indirect costs shall be supported by an approved allocation plan for the determination of such costs. An indirect cost rate developed through such an allocation plan may not be applied to a base that includes food costs.
(2)
Costs allowable with prior approval.
A State or local agency must obtain prior approval in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415 before charging to the SFMNP any capital expenditures and other cost items designated by 2 CFR part 200, subpart E, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415 as requiring such approval.
(3)
Unallowable costs.
Costs that are not reasonable and necessary for SFMNP purposes, or that do not otherwise satisfy the cost principles of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, are unallowable. Notwithstanding any other provision of 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, the cost of constructing or operating a farmers' market is unallowable. The use of SFMNP funds to supplement congregate meal programs is prohibited. Unallowable costs may never be claimed for Federal reimbursement.
(b)
Specified allowable administrative costs.
Allowable administrative costs include the following:
(1) The costs associated with administration and start-up;
(2) The costs associated with the provision of nutrition education that meets the requirements of § 249.9;
(3) The costs of SFMNP coupon issuance, or participant education covering proper coupon redemption procedures;
(4) The cost of eligibility determinations and outreach services;
(5) The costs associated with the coupon and market management process, such as printing SFMNP coupons, processing redeemed coupons, purchasing bags or other containers to be used in home-delivery and bulk purchase operations, and training farmers, market managers, and/or farmers who operate CSA programs on SFMNP operations;
(6) The cost of monitoring and reviewing Program operations;
(7) The cost of SFMNP training;
(8) The cost of required reporting and recordkeeping;
(9) The cost of determining which local sites will be utilized;
(10) The cost of recruiting and authorizing farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs to participate in the SFMNP;
(11) The cost of preparing contracts for farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs;
(12) The cost of developing a data processing system for redemption and reconciliation of SFMNP coupons;
(13) The cost of designing program training and informational materials; and
(14) The cost of coordinating SFMNP responsibilities between designated administering agencies.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14174, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 249.13
Program income.
Program income
means gross income the State agency earns from grant supported activities. It includes fees for services performed and receipts from the use or rental of real or personal property acquired with Federal grant funds, but does not include proceeds from the disposition of such property. The State agency must retain Program income earned during the agreement period and use it for Program purposes in accordance with the addition method described in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, Post Federal Award Requirements and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415. Fines, penalties or assessments paid by local agencies or farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA program are also deemed to be Program income. The State agency must ensure that the sources and applications of Program income are fully documented.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 249.14
Distribution of funds to State agencies.
(a)
State Plan and agreement.
As a prerequisite to the receipt of Federal funds, a State agency must have its State Plan approved and must execute an agreement with FNS in accordance with § 249.3(c).
(b)
Distribution of SFMNP funds to previously participating State agencies.
Provided that sufficient SFMNP funds are available, each State agency that participated in the SFMNP in any prior fiscal year shall receive not less than the amount of funds the State agency received in the most recent fiscal year in which it received funding, if it otherwise complies with the requirements established in this Part.
(c)
Ratable reduction.
If amounts appropriated for any fiscal year for grants under the SFMNP are not sufficient to pay to each previously participating State agency at least an amount as identified in paragraph (b) of this section, each State agency's grant must be ratably reduced. However, to the extent permitted by available funds, each State agency shall receive at least $75,000 or the amount that the State agency received for the most recent prior fiscal year in which the State participated, if that amount is less than $75,000.
(d)
Expansion of participating State agencies and establishment of new State agencies.
Any SFMNP funds remaining for allocation after meeting the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section shall be allocated in the following manner:
(1) Of the remaining funds, 75 percent shall be made available to State agencies already participating in the SFMNP that wish to serve additional participants or increase the current benefit level. If this amount is greater than that necessary to satisfy all State Plans approved for expansion, the unallocated amount shall be applied toward satisfying any unmet need in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(2) Of the remaining funds, 25 percent shall be made available to State agencies that have not participated in the SFMNP in any prior fiscal year. If this amount is greater than that necessary to satisfy the approved State Plans for new States, the unallocated amount shall be applied toward satisfying any unmet need in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. FNS reserves the right not to fund every State agency with an approved State Plan.
(e)
Expansion for current State agencies.
In providing funds to State agencies that participated in the SFMNP in the previous fiscal year, FNS must consider on a case-by-case basis the following factors:
(1) Whether the State agency utilized at least 80 percent of its prior year food grant. States that did not spend at least 80 percent of their prior year food grant may still be eligible for expansion funding if, in the judgment of FNS, good cause existed which was beyond the management control of the
State, such as severe weather conditions or unanticipated decreases in participant caseload;
(2) Documentation supporting the funds expansion request as outlined in § 249.4(a)(23); and
(3) Whether the State agency currently issues a participant benefit greater than $50. Such State agencies will not be eligible to receive additional SFMNP funds for expansion until the maximum participant benefit no longer exceeds $50.
(f)
Funding of new State agencies.
Funds will be awarded to new SFMNP State agencies in accordance with § 249.5.
(g)
Administrative funding.
A State agency will have available for administrative costs an amount not greater than 10 percent of the total SFMNP funds it receives.
(h)
Recovery of unused funds.
State agencies must return to FNS any unexpended funds made available for a given fiscal year by February 1 of the following fiscal year.
§ 249.15
Closeout procedures.
(a)
General.
State agencies must submit to FNS a final closeout report for the fiscal year on a form prescribed by FNS and on a date specified by FNS.
(b)
Grant closeout procedures.
When grants to State agencies are terminated, the following procedures shall be followed in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(1) FNS may disqualify a State agency's participation under the SFMNP, in whole or in part, or take such remedies as may be appropriate, whenever FNS determines that the State agency failed to comply with the conditions prescribed in this part, in its Federal-State Agreement, or in FNS guidelines and Instructions. FNS will promptly notify the State agency in writing of the disqualification together with the effective date.
(2) FNS may terminate a grant when both parties agree that continuation under the SFMNP would not produce beneficial results commensurate with the further expenditure of funds.
(3) Upon termination of a grant, the affected agency may not incur new obligations after the effective date of the disqualification, and must cancel as many outstanding obligations as possible. FNS will allow full credit to the State agency for the Federal share of the noncancellable obligations properly incurred by the State agency prior to disqualification, and the State agency shall do the same for farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs.
(4) A grant closeout shall not affect the retention period for, or Federal rights of access to, SFMNP records as specified in § 249.23(a). The closeout of a grant does not affect the responsibilities of the State agency regarding property or with respect to any SFMNP income for which the State agency is still accountable.
(5) A final audit is not a required part of the grant closeout and should not be needed unless there are problems with the grant that require attention. If FNS considers a final audit to be necessary, it shall so inform OIG. OIG will be responsible for ensuring that necessary final audits are performed and for any necessary coordination with other Federal cognizant audit agencies or State or local auditors. Audits performed in accordance with § 249.18 may serve as final audits providing such audits meet the needs of requesting agencies. If the grant is closed out without an audit, FNS reserves the right to disallow and recover an appropriate amount after fully considering any recommended disallowances resulting from an audit which may be conducted later.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 249.16
Administrative appeal of State agency decisions.
(a)
Requirements.
The State agency shall provide a hearing procedure whereby applicants, participants, local agencies and farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs adversely affected by certain actions of the State agency may appeal those actions.
(1)
What may be appealed.
(i) An applicant may appeal denial of certification
of SFMNP benefits, except that no appeal is available if certification is denied solely because of the lack of sufficient funding to provide SFMNP benefits to all eligible applicants.
(ii) A participant may appeal disqualification/suspension of SFMNP benefits.
(iii) A local agency may appeal an action of the State agency disqualifying it from participating in the SFMNP.
(iv) A farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program may appeal an action of the State agency denying its application to participate, imposing a sanction, or disqualifying it from participating in the SFMNP.
(2)
What may not be appealed.
Expiration of a contract or agreement shall not be subject to appeal.
(b)
Time limit for request.
The State or local agency must provide individuals, local agencies, farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and/or CSA programs a reasonable period of time to request a fair hearing. Such time limit must not be less than 30 days from the date the agency mails or otherwise issues the notice of adverse action.
(c)
Postponement pending decision.
An adverse action may, at the State agency's option, be postponed until a decision in the appeal is rendered.
(1) In a case where an adverse action affects a local agency or farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program, a postponement is appropriate where the State agency finds that participants would be unduly inconvenienced by the adverse action. In addition, the State agency may determine other relevant criteria to be considered in deciding whether or not to postpone an adverse action.
(2) Applicants who are denied benefits at initial certification may appeal the denial, but must not receive SFMNP benefits while awaiting the hearing. Participants who appeal the termination of benefits within the period of time provided under paragraph (b) of this section must continue to receive Program benefits until the hearing official reaches a decision or the certification period expires, whichever occurs first. This does not apply to participants whose certification period has already expired or who become otherwise ineligible for SFMNP benefits. Participants who become ineligible during a certification, or whose certification period expires, may appeal the termination, but must not receive benefits while awaiting the hearing.
(d)
Procedure.
The State agency hearing procedure shall at a minimum provide the participant, local agency or farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program with the following:
(1) Written notification of the adverse action, the cause(s) for the action, and the effective date of the action, including the State agency's determination of whether the action shall be postponed under paragraph (c) of this section if it is appealed, and the opportunity for a hearing. Such notification shall be provided within a reasonable timeframe established by the State agency and in advance of the effective date of the action.
(2) The opportunity to appeal the action within the time specified by the State agency in its notification of adverse action.
(3) Adequate advance notice of the time and place of the hearing to provide all parties involved sufficient time to prepare for the hearing.
(4) The opportunity to present its case and at least one opportunity to reschedule the hearing date upon specific request. The State agency may set standards on how many hearing dates can be scheduled, provided that a minimum of two hearing dates is allowed.
(5) The opportunity to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses.
(6) The opportunity to be represented by counsel or, in the case of a participant appeal, by a representative designated by the participant, if desired.
(7) The opportunity to review the case record prior to the hearing.
(8) An impartial decision maker, whose decision as to the validity of the State agency's action shall rest solely on the evidence presented at the hearing and the statutory and regulatory provisions governing the SFMNP. The basis for the decision shall be stated in writing, although it need not amount to a full opinion or contain formal findings of fact and conclusions of law.
(9) Written notification of the decision in the appeal, within 60 days from
the date of receipt of the request for a hearing by the State agency.
(e)
Continuing responsibilities.
When a farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, CSA program, and/or local agency appeals an adverse action (and is permitted to continue in the SFMNP while its appeal is pending), it continues to be responsible for compliance with the terms of the written agreement or contract with the State agency.
(f)
Judicial review.
If a State level decision is rendered against the participant, local agency, farmer, farmers' market, roadside stand, and/or CSA program and the appellant expresses an interest in pursuing a further review of the decision, the State agency shall explain any further State level review of the decision and any available State level rehearing process. If neither is available or both have been exhausted, the State agency shall explain the right to pursue judicial review of the decision.
(g)
Additional appeals procedures for State agencies that authorize farmers' markets and not individual farmers.
A State agency that authorizes farmers' markets and not individual farmers shall ensure that procedures are in place to be used when a farmer seeks to appeal an action of a farmers' market or association denying the farmer's application to participate, or sanctioning or disqualifying the farmer. The procedures shall be set forth in the State Plan and in the agreements entered into by the State agency and the farmers' market and the farmers' market and the farmer.

# Subpart F—Monitoring and Review of State Agencies
§ 249.17
Management evaluations and reviews.
(a)
General.
FNS and each State agency shall establish a management evaluation system in order to assess the accomplishment of SFMNP objectives as provided under these regulations, the State Plan, and the written agreement with FNS. FNS will:
(1) Provide assistance to State agencies in discharging this responsibility;
(2) Establish standards and procedures to determine how well the objectives of this part are being accomplished; and
(3) Implement sanction procedures as warranted by State SFMNP performance.
(b)
Responsibilities of FNS.
FNS will establish evaluation procedures to determine whether State agencies carry out the purposes and provisions of this part, the State Plan, and the written agreement with FNS. As a part of the evaluation procedure, FNS will review audits to ensure that the SFMNP has been included in audit examinations at a reasonable frequency. These evaluations shall also include reviews of selected local agencies, and on-site reviews of selected farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture programs. These evaluations will measure the State agency's progress toward meeting the objectives outlined in its State Plan and the State agency's compliance with these regulations.
(1) FNS may withhold up to 10 percent of the State agency's total SFMNP grant if FNS determines that the State agency has:
(i) Failed, without good cause, to demonstrate efficient and effective administration of its SFMNP; or
(ii) Failed to comply with the requirements contained in this section or the State Plan.
(2) Sanctions imposed upon a State agency by FNS in accordance with this section (but not claims for repayment assessed against a State agency) may be appealed in accordance with the procedures established in § 249.20(a). Before carrying out any sanction against a State agency, the following procedures will be followed:
(i) FNS will notify the chief departmental officer of the administering agency in writing of the deficiencies found and of FNS' intention to withhold administrative funds unless an acceptable corrective action plan is submitted by the State agency to FNS within 45 days after mailing of notification.
(ii) The State agency shall develop a corrective action plan, including timeframes for implementation to address the deficiencies and prevent their future recurrence.
(iii) If the corrective action plan is acceptable, FNS will notify the chief departmental officer of the administering agency in writing within 30 days of receipt of the plan. The letter will advise the State agency of the sanctions to be imposed if the corrective action plan is not implemented according to the schedule set forth in the approved plan.
(iv) Upon notification from the State agency that corrective action has been taken, FNS will assess such action and, if necessary, perform a follow-up review to determine if the noted deficiencies have been corrected. FNS will then advise the State agency of whether the actions taken are in compliance with the corrective action plan, and whether the deficiency is resolved or further corrective action is needed. Compliance buys can be required if, during FNS management evaluations by regional offices, a State agency is found to be out of compliance with its responsibility to monitor and review farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture programs.
(v) If an acceptable corrective action plan is not submitted within 45 days, or if corrective action is not completed according to the schedule established in the corrective action plan, FNS may withhold the award of SFMNP administrative funds. If the 45-day warning period ends in the fourth quarter of a fiscal year, FNS may elect not to withhold funds until the next fiscal year. In such an event, FNS will notify the chief departmental officer of the administering State agency.
(vi) If compliance is achieved before the end of the fiscal year in which the SFMNP administrative funds are withheld, the funds withheld may be restored to the State agency. FNS is not required to restore funds withheld beyond the end of the fiscal year for which the funds were initially awarded.
(c)
Responsibilities of State agencies.
The State agency is responsible for meeting the following requirements:
(1) The State agency must establish evaluation and review procedures and document the results of such procedures. The procedures must include, but are not limited to:
(i) Conducting annual monitoring reviews of participating farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture programs. This includes on-site reviews of a minimum of 10 percent of farmers and 10 percent of each type of authorized outlet (farmers' markets, roadside stands, and community supported agriculture programs), and includes those farmers and authorized outlets identified as being at the highest risk. The first year of operation in the SFMNP shall be considered a high-risk indicator. More frequent reviews may be performed, as the State agency deems necessary. In States where both the SFMNP and the WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program are in operation, these reviews may be coordinated to avoid duplication. A review by one program may be counted by the other program toward the monitoring requirement, provided that appropriate sanction action is taken for all violations found.
(ii) Conducting monitoring reviews of all local agencies within the State agency's jurisdiction at least once every 2 years. Monitoring of local agencies shall encompass, but not be limited to, evaluation of management, accountability, certification, nutrition education, financial management systems, and coupon and/or CSA program management systems. When the State agency conducts a local agency review outside of the SFMNP season, a review of documents and procedural plans of the SFMNP, rather than actual SFMNP activities, is acceptable.
(iii) Instituting the necessary follow-up procedures to correct identified problem areas.
(2) On its own initiative or when required by FNS, the State agency must provide special reports on SFMNP activities, and take positive action to correct deficiencies in SFMNP operations.
§ 249.18
Audits.
(a)
Federal access to information.
The Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their duly authorized representatives, or duly authorized State auditors shall have access to any books, documents, papers, and records of the State agency
and their contractors, for the purpose of making surveys, audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts.
(b)
State agency response.
The State agency may take exception to particular audit findings and recommendations. The State agency shall submit a response or statement to FNS as to the action taken or planned regarding the findings. A proposed corrective action plan developed and submitted by the State agency must include specific time frames for its implementation and for completion of the correction of deficiencies and problems leading to the deficiencies.
(c)
Corrective action.
FNS will determine whether SFMNP deficiencies identified in an audit have been adequately corrected. If additional corrective action is necessary, FNS shall schedule a follow-up review, allowing a reasonable time for such corrective action to be taken.
(d)
State sponsored audits.
State and local agencies must conduct independent audits in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart F, Audit Requirements and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable. A State or local agency may elect to obtain either an organization-wide audit or an audit of the Program if it qualifies to make such an election under applicable regulations.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 249.19
Investigations.
(a)
Authority.
FNS may make an investigation of any allegation of noncompliance with this part and FNS guidelines and instructions. The investigation may include, where appropriate, a review of pertinent practices and policies of any State and local agency, the circumstances under which the possible noncompliance with this part occurred, and other factors relevant to a determination as to whether the State and local agency has failed to comply with the requirements of this Part.
(b)
Confidentiality.
No State or local agency, participant, or other person shall intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege under this Part because that person has made a complaint or formal allegation, or has testified, assisted, or participated in any manner in an investigation, proceeding, or hearing under this Part. The identity of every complainant shall be kept confidential except to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes of this Part, including the conducting of any investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding.

# Subpart G—Miscellaneous Provisions
§ 249.20
Claims and penalties.
(a)
Claims against State agencies.
(1) If FNS determines through a review of the State agency's reports, program or financial analysis, monitoring, audit, or otherwise, that any SFMNP funds provided to a State agency for food or administrative purposes were, through State agency negligence or fraud, misused or otherwise diverted from SFMNP purposes, a formal claim will be assessed by FNS against the State agency. The State agency must pay promptly to FNS a sum equal to the amount of the administrative funds or the value of coupons and/or eligible foods so misused or diverted.
(2) If FNS determines that any part of the SFMNP funds received, coupons printed, and/or eligible foods otherwise lost by a State agency were lost as a result of theft, embezzlement, or unexplained causes, the State agency must, on demand by FNS, pay to FNS a sum equal to the amount of the money or the value of the SFMNP funds or coupons/eligible foods so lost.
(3) The State agency will have full opportunity to submit evidence, explanation or information concerning alleged instances of noncompliance or diversion before a final determination is made in such cases.
(4) FNS is authorized to establish claims against a State agency for unreconciled SFMNP coupons, and/or for failure to comply with the terms of duly executed CSA program contracts or agreements. When a State agency can demonstrate that all reasonable management efforts have been devoted to reconciliation and 99 percent or more of the SFMNP coupons issued, or
of the eligible foods contracted for delivery by the CSA program, have been accounted for by the reconciliation process, FNS may determine that the reconciliation process has been completed to satisfaction.
(b)
Interest charge on claims against State agencies.
If an agreement cannot be reached with the State agency for payment of its debts or for offset of debts on its current Letter of Credit within 30 days from the date of the first demand letter from FNS, FNS will assess an interest (late) charge against the State agency. Interest accrual shall begin on the 31st day after the date of the first demand letter, bill or claim, and shall be computed monthly on any unpaid balance as long as the debt exists. From a source other than the SFMNP, the State agency shall provide the funds necessary to maintain SFMNP operations at the grant level authorized by FNS.
§ 249.21
Procurement and property management.
(a)
Requirements.
State agencies must comply with the requirements of 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415 for procurement of supplies, equipment and other services with SFMNP funds. These requirements are adopted for use by FNS to ensure that such materials and services are obtained for the SFMNP in an effective manner and in compliance with the provisions of applicable laws and executive orders.
(b)
Contractual responsibilities.
The standards contained in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D; Appendix II Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards; and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 do not relieve the State agency of the responsibilities arising under its contracts. The State agency is the responsible authority, without recourse to FNS, regarding the settlement and satisfaction of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements entered into in connection with the SFMNP. This includes, but is not limited to, disputes, claims, protests of award, source evaluation, or other matters of a contractual nature. Matters concerning violation of law are to be referred to such local, State or Federal authority as may have proper jurisdiction.
(c)
State regulations.
The State agency may use its own procurement regulations provided that:
(1) Such regulations reflect applicable State and local regulations; and
(2) Any procurements made with SFMNP funds adhere to the standards set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR parts 400 and 415.
(d)
Property acquired with program funds.
State and local agencies shall observe the standards prescribed in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 in their utilization and disposition of real property and equipment acquired in whole or in part with SFMNP funds.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016; 83 FR 14174, Apr. 3, 2018]
§ 249.22
Nonprocurement debarment/suspension, drug-free workplace, and lobbying restrictions.
The State agency must ensure compliance with the requirements of FNS' regulations governing nonprocurement debarment/suspension (2 CFR part 180, OMB Guidelines to Agencies on Government-wide Debarment and Suspension and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 417) and drug-free workplace (2 CFR part 182, Government-wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace), as well as FNS' regulations governing restrictions on lobbying (2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400, part 415, and part 418), where applicable.
[; 81 FR 66498, Sept. 28, 2016
§ 249.23
Records and reports.
(a)
Recordkeeping requirements.
Each State agency must maintain full and complete records concerning SFMNP operations. Such records must comply with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 and the following requirements:
(1) Records must include, but not be limited to, information pertaining to certification, financial operations,
SFMNP coupon issuance and redemption, authorized outlet (farmers, farmers' markets, and CSA program) agreements, authorized outlet monitoring, CSA program agreements, invoices, delivery receipts, equipment purchases and inventory, nutrition education, fair hearings, and civil rights procedures.
(2) All records must be retained for a minimum of 3 years following the date of submission of the final expenditure report for the period to which the report pertains. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started before the end of the 3-year period, the records must be kept until all issues are resolved, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later. If FNS deems any of the SFMNP records to be of historical interest, it may require the State agency to forward such records to FNS whenever the State agency is disposing of them.
(3) Records for nonexpendable property acquired in whole or in part with SFMNP funds must be retained for three years after its final disposition.
(4) All records must be available during normal business hours for representatives of FNS of the Comptroller General of the United States to inspect, audit, and copy. Any reports resulting from such examinations shall not divulge names of individuals.
(b)
Financial and participant reports.
State agencies must submit financial and SFMNP performance data on a yearly basis as specified by FNS. Such information must include, but shall not be limited to:
(1) Number of participants served with Federal SFMNP funds;
(2) Value of coupons issued and/or eligible foods ordered under CSA programs;
(3) Value of coupons redeemed and/or eligible foods provided to participants under CSA programs; and
(4) Number of authorized outlets by type; i.e., farmers, farmers' markets, roadside stands, and CSA programs.
(c)
Source documentation.
To be acceptable for audit purposes, all financial and SFMNP performance reports must be traceable to source documentation.
(d)
Certification of reports.
Financial and SFMNP reports must be certified as to their completeness and accuracy by the person given that responsibility by the State agency.
(e)
Use of reports.
FNS will use State agency reports to measure progress in achieving objectives set forth in the State Plan, and this part, or other State agency performance plans. If it is determined, through review of State agency reports, SFMNP or financial analysis, or an audit, that a State agency is not meeting the objectives set forth in its State Plan, FNS may request additional information including, but not limited to, reasons for failure to achieve these objectives.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 249.24
Data safeguarding procedures.
FNS and SFMNP State agencies will take reasonable steps to keep applicant and participant information/records private to the extent provided by law. Such steps include a requirement for each State agency to restrict the use or disclosure of information obtained from SFMNP applicants and participants to:
(a) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the SFMNP, including persons investigating or prosecuting violations in the SFMNP under Federal, State or local authority;
(b) Representatives of public organizations designated by the chief State agency officer (or, in the case of Indian Tribal governments acting as SFMNP State agencies, the governing authority) that administer food, nutrition, or other assistance programs that serve persons categorically eligible for the SFMNP. The State agency must execute a written agreement with each such designated organization:
(1) Specifying that the receiving organization may employ SFMNP information only for the purpose of establishing the eligibility of SFMNP applicants and participants for food, nutrition, or other assistance programs that it administers and conducts outreach to SFMNP applicants and participants for such programs; and
(2) Containing the receiving organization's assurance that it will not, in
turn, disclose the information to a third party.
(c) The Comptroller General of the United States for audit and examination authorized by law.
§ 249.25
Other provisions.
(a)
No aid reduction.
Any programs for which a grant is received under this part shall be supplementary to the food stamp program carried out under the Food Stamp Act of 1977 as amended (7 U.S.C. 2011,
et seq.
) and to any other Federal or State food or nutrition assistance program.
(b)
Statistical information.
FNS reserves the right to use information obtained under the SFMNP in a summary, statistical or other form that does not identify particular individuals.
(c)
Exclusion of benefits in determining eligibility for other programs.
The value of any benefit provided to any eligible SFMNP recipient shall not be considered to be income or resources for any purposes under any Federal, State or local law.
[71 FR 74630, Dec. 12, 2006, as amended at 74 FR 48375, Sept. 23, 2009]
§ 249.26
SFMNP information.
(a) Any person who wishes information, assistance, records or other public material must request such information from the State agency, or from the FNS Regional Office serving the appropriate State as listed below:
(1) Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, Vermont: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Northeast Region, 10 Causeway Street, Room 501, Boston, Massachusetts 02222-1066.
(2) Delaware, District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Virginia, Virgin Islands, West Virginia: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Mid-Atlantic Region, Mercer Corporate Park, 300 Corporate Boulevard, Robbinsville, New Jersey, 08691-1598.
(3) Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Southeast Region, 61 Forsyth Street, SW., Room 8T36, Atlanta, Georgia 30303.
(4) Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio, Wisconsin: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Midwest Region, 77 West Jackson Boulevard—20th floor, Chicago, Illinois 60604-3507.
(5) Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Texas: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Southwest Region, 1100 Commerce Street, Room 555, Dallas, Texas 75242.
(6) Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, Wyoming: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Mountain Plains Region, 1244 Speer Boulevard, Suite 903, Denver, Colorado 80204.
(7) Alaska, American Samoa, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands, Washington: U.S. Department of Agriculture, FNS, Western Region, 550 Kearny Street, Room 400, San Francisco, California 94108.
(b) Inquiries pertaining to the SFMNP administered by a federally recognized Indian tribal organization (ITO) should be addressed to the FNS Regional Office responsible for the geographic State in which that ITO is located.
§ 249.27
OMB Control Number.
The information collection requirements for part 249 have been reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). The OMB approval number is 0584-0541.
[72 FR 13671, Mar. 23, 2007]

# SUBCHAPTER B—GENERAL REGULATIONS AND POLICIES—FOOD DISTRIBUTION
Pt. 250

# PART 250—DONATION OF FOODS FOR USE IN THE UNITED STATES, ITS TERRITORIES AND POSSESSIONS AND AREAS UNDER ITS JURISDICTION

# Subpart A—General Purpose and Administration
Sec.
250.1
Purpose and use of donated foods.
250.2
Definitions.
250.3
Administration at the Federal level.
250.4
Administration at the State level.
250.5
Civil rights.

# Subpart B—Delivery, Distribution, and Control of Donated Foods
250.10
Availability and ordering of donated foods.
250.11
Delivery and receipt of donated food shipments.
250.12
Storage and inventory management at the distributing agency level.
250.13
Efficient and cost-effective distribution of donated foods.
250.14
Storage and inventory management at the recipient agency level.
250.15
Out-of-condition donated foods, food recalls, and complaints.
250.16
Claims and restitution for donated food losses.
250.17
Use of funds obtained incidental to donated food distribution.
250.18
Reporting requirements.
250.19
Recordkeeping requirements.
250.20
Audit requirements.
250.21
Distributing agency reviews.
250.22
Distributing agency performance standards.

# Subpart C—Processing of Donated Foods
250.30
Processing of donated foods into end products.
250.31
Procurement requirements.
250.32
Protection of donated food value.
250.33
Ensuring processing yields of donated foods.
250.34
Substitution of donated foods.
250.35
Storage, food safety, quality control, and inventory management.
250.36
End product sales and crediting for the value of donated foods.
250.37
Reports, records, and reviews of processor performance.
250.38
Provisions of agreements.
250.39
Miscellaneous provisions.

# Subpart D—Donated Foods in Contracts with Food Service Management Companies
250.50
Contract requirements and procurement.
250.51
Crediting for, and use of, donated foods.
250.52
Storage and inventory management of donated foods.
250.53
Contract provisions.
250.54
Recordkeeping and reviews.

# Subpart E—National School Lunch Program (NSLP) and Other Child Nutrition Programs
250.56
Provision of donated foods in NSLP.
250.57
Commodity schools.
250.58
Ordering donated foods and their provision to school food authorities.
250.59
Storage, control, and use of donated foods.
250.60
Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP).
250.61
Summer Food Service Program (SFSP).

# Subpart F—Household Programs
250.63
Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP).
250.64
The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP).
250.65
Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR).
250.66
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Additional Provisions
250.67
Charitable institutions.
250.68
Nutrition Services Incentive Program (NSIP).
250.69
Disasters.
250.70
Situations of distress.
250.71
OMB control numbers.

# Authority:
5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 612c, 612c note, 1431, 1431b, 1431e, 1431 note, 1446a-1, 1859, 2014, 2025; 15 U.S.C. 713c; 22 U.S.C. 1922; 42 U.S.C. 1751, 1755, 1758, 1760, 1761, 1762a, 1766, 3030a, 5179, 5180.

# Source:
53 FR 20426, June 3, 1988, unless otherwise noted.

# Subpart A—General Purpose and Administration

# Source:
81 FR 23100, Apr. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 250.1
Purpose and use of donated foods.
(a)
Purpose.
The Department purchases foods and donates them to State distributing agencies for further distribution and use in food assistance programs, or to provide assistance to eligible persons, in accordance with legislation:
(1) Authorizing donated food assistance in specific programs (
e.g.,
the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act for the National School Lunch Program (NSLP)); or
(2) Authorizing the removal of surplus foods from the market or the support of food prices (
i.e.,
in accordance with Section 32, Section 416, and Section 709, as defined in § 250.2).
(b)
Use of donated foods.
Donated foods must be used in accordance with the requirements of this part and with other Federal regulations applicable to specific food assistance programs (
e.g.,
7 CFR part 251 includes requirements for the use of donated foods in The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP)). Such use may include activities designed to demonstrate or test the effective use of donated foods (
e.g.,
in nutrition classes or cooking demonstrations) in any programs. However, donated foods may not be:
(1) Sold or exchanged, or otherwise disposed of, unless approved by FNS, or specifically permitted elsewhere in this part or in other Federal regulations (
e.g.,
donated foods may be used in meals sold in NSLP);
(2) Used to require recipients to make any payments or perform any services in exchange for their receipt, unless approved by FNS, or specifically permitted elsewhere in this part or in other Federal regulations; or
(3) Used to solicit voluntary contributions in connection with their receipt, except for donated foods provided in the Nutrition Services Incentive Program (NSIP).
(c)
Legislative sanctions.
In accordance with the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1760) and the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note), any person who embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud any donated foods (or funds, assets, or property deriving from such donated foods) will be subject to Federal criminal prosecution and other penalties. Any person who receives, conceals, or retains such donated foods or funds, assets, or property deriving from such foods, with the knowledge that they were embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud, will also be subject to Federal criminal prosecution and other penalties. The distributing agency, or other parties, as applicable, must immediately notify FNS of any such violations.
§ 250.2
Definitions.
2 CFR part 200
means the Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards published by OMB. The Part reference covers applicable: Acronyms and Definitions (subpart A), General Provisions (subpart B), Post Federal Award Requirements (subpart D), Cost Principles (subpart E), and Audit Requirements (subpart F). (NOTE: Pre-Federal Award Requirements and Contents of Federal Awards (subpart C) do not apply to the National School Lunch Program).
ACL
means the Administration for Community Living, which is the DHHS agency that administers NSIP.
Administering agency
means a State agency that has been approved by the Department to administer a food assistance program. If such agency is also responsible for the distribution of donated foods, it is referred to as the distributing agency in this part.
Adult care institution
means a nonresidential adult day care center that participates independently in CACFP, or that participates as a sponsoring organization, and that may receive donated foods or cash-in-lieu of donated foods, in accordance with an agreement with the distributing agency.
Backhauling
means the delivery of donated foods to a processor for processing from a distributing or recipient agency's storage facility.
Bonus foods
means Section 32, Section 416, and Section 709 donated foods, as defined in this section, which are purchased under surplus removal or price support authority, and provided to distributing agencies in addition to legislatively authorized levels of assistance.
CACFP
means the Child and Adult Care Food Program.
Carrier
means a commercial enterprise that transports donated foods from one location to another, but does not store such foods.
Charitable institutions
means public institutions or private nonprofit organizations that provide a meal service on a regular basis to predominantly eligible persons in the same place without marked changes. Some types of charitable institutions are included in§ 250.67.
Child care institution
means a nonresidential child care center that participates independently in CACFP, or that participates as a sponsoring organization, in accordance with an agreement with the distributing agency.
Child nutrition program
means NSLP, CACFP, SFSP, or SBP.
Commingling
means the storage of donated foods together with commercially purchased foods.
Commodity offer value
means the minimum value of donated foods that the distributing agency must offer to a school food authority participating in NSLP each school year. The commodity offer value is equal to the national per-meal value of donated food assistance multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches served by the school food authority in the previous school year.
Commodity school
means a school that operates a nonprofit food service, in accordance with 7 CFR part 210, but that receives additional donated food assistance rather than the cash assistance available to it under Section 4 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1753).
Consignee
means an entity (
e.g.,
the distributing or recipient agency, a commercial storage facility, or a processor) that receives a shipment of donated foods from a vendor or Federal storage facility.
Contract value of the donated foods
means the price assigned by the Department to a donated food which must reflect the Department's current acquisition price. This may alternatively be referred to as the USDA purchase price.
CSFP
means the Commodity Supplemental Food Program.
Department
means the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
DHHS
means the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
Disaster
means a Presidentially declared disaster or emergency, in accordance with Section 412 or 413 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5179-5180), in which Federal assistance, including donated food assistance, may be provided to persons in need of such assistance as a result of the disaster or emergency.
Disaster organization
means an organization authorized by FNS or a distributing agency, when appropriate, to provide assistance to survivors of a disaster or a situation of distress.
Distributing agency
means a State agency selected by the Governor of the State or the State legislature to distribute donated foods in the State, in accordance with an agreement with FNS, and with the requirements in this part and other Federal regulations, as applicable (
e.g.,
a State agency distributing donated foods in CSFP must comply with requirements in 7 CFR part 247). Indian Tribal Organizations may act as a distributing agency in the distribution of donated foods on, or near, Indian reservations, as provided for in applicable Federal regulations (
e.g.,
7 CFR part 253 or 254 for FDPIR). A distributing agency may also be referred to as a State distributing agency.
Distribution charge
means the cumulative charge imposed by distributing agencies on school food authorities to help meet the costs of storing and distributing donated foods, and administrative costs related to such activities.
Distributor
means a commercial food purveyor or handler who is independent of a processor and charges and bills for the handling of donated foods, and/or sells and bills for the end products delivered to recipient agencies.
Donated foods
means foods purchased by USDA for donation in food assistance programs, or for donation to entities assisting eligible persons, in accordance with legislation authorizing such purchase and donation. Donated foods are also referred to as USDA Foods.
Elderly nutrition project
means a recipient agency selected by the State Unit on Aging to receive assistance in NSIP, which may include donated food assistance.
Eligible persons
means persons in need of food assistance as a result of their:
(1) Economic status;
(2) Eligibility for a specific food assistance program; or
(3) Eligibility as survivors of a disaster or a situation of distress.
End product
means a food product that contains processed donated foods.
End product data schedule
means a processor's description of its processing of donated food into a finished end product, including the processing yield of donated food.
Entitlement
means the value of donated foods a distributing agency is authorized to receive in a specific program, in accordance with program legislation.
Entitlement foods
means donated foods that USDA purchases and provides in accordance with levels of assistance mandated by program legislation.
FDPIR
means the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations and the Food Distribution Program for Indian Households in Oklahoma.
Federal acceptance service
means the acceptance service provided by:
(1) The applicable grading branches of the Department's Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS);
(2) The Department's Federal Grain Inspection Service; and
(3) The National Marine Fisheries Service of the U.S. Department of Commerce.
Fiscal year
means the period of 12 months beginning October 1 of any calendar year and ending September 30 of the following calendar year.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the Department of Agriculture.
Food recall
means an action to remove food products from commerce when there is reason to believe the products may be unsafe, adulterated, or mislabeled. The action is taken to protect the public from products that may cause health problems or possible death.
Food service management company
means a commercial enterprise, nonprofit organization, or public institution that is, or may be, contracted with by a recipient agency to manage any aspect of a recipient agency's food service, in accordance with 7 CFR part 210, 225, or 226, or, with respect to charitable institutions, in accordance with this part. To the extent that such management includes the use of donated foods, the food service management company is subject to the applicable requirements in this part. However, a school food authority participating in NSLP that performs such functions is not considered a food service management company. Also, a commercial enterprise that uses donated foods to prepare meals at a commercial facility, or to perform other activities that meet the definition of processing in this section, is considered a processor in this part, and is subject to the requirements in subpart C, and not subpart D, of this part.
Household
means any of the following individuals or groups of individuals, exclusive of boarders or residents of an institution:
(1) An individual living alone;
(2) An individual living with others, but customarily purchasing food and preparing meals for home consumption separate and apart from the others;
(3) A group of individuals living together who customarily purchase and prepare meals in common for home consumption; and
(4) Other individuals or groups of individuals, as provided in FNS regulations specific to particular food assistance programs.
Household programs
means CSFP, FDPIR, and TEFAP.
In-kind replacement
means the replacement of a loss of donated food with the same type of food of U.S. origin, of equal or better quality as the donated food, and at least equal in value to the lost donated food.
In-State processing agreement
means a distributing agency's agreement with an in-State processor to process donated foods into finished end products for sale to eligible recipient agencies or for sale to the distributing agency.
In-State processor
means a processor that has entered into agreements with distributing or recipient agencies that are located only in the State in which
all of the processor's processing facilities are located.
Multi-food shipment
means a shipment from a Federal storage facility that usually includes more than one type of donated food.
Multi-State processor
means a processor that has entered into agreements with distributing or recipient agencies in more than one State, or that has entered into one or more agreements with distributing or recipient agencies that are located in a State other than the State in which the processor's processing facilities or business office is located.
National per-meal value
means the value of donated foods provided for each reimbursable lunch served in NSLP in the previous school year, and for each reimbursable lunch and supper served in CACFP in the previous school year, as established in sections 6(c) and 17(h)(1)(B) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ((42 U.S.C. 1755(c) and 1766(h)(1)(B)).
National processing agreement
means an agreement between FNS and a multi-State processor to process donated foods into end products for sale to distributing or recipient agencies.
Nonprofit organization
means a private organization with tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code. Nonprofit organizations operated exclusively for religious purposes are automatically tax-exempt under the Internal Revenue Code.
Nonprofit school food service
means all food service operations conducted by the school food authority principally for the benefit of schoolchildren, all of the revenue from which is used solely for the operation or improvement of such food services.
NSIP
means the Nutrition Services Incentive Program administered by the DHHS ACL.
NSLP
means the National School Lunch Program.
Out-of-condition donated foods
means donated foods that are no longer fit for human consumption as a result of spoilage, contamination, infestation, adulteration, or damage.
Performance supply and surety bond
means a written instrument issued by a surety company which guarantees performance and supply of end products by a processor under the terms of a processing contract.
Processing
means a commercial enterprise's use of a commercial facility to:
(1) Convert donated foods into an end product;
(2) Repackage donated foods; or
(3) Use donated foods in the preparation of meals.
Processor
means a commercial enterprise that processes donated foods at a commercial facility.
Recipient agencies
means agencies or organizations that receive donated foods for distribution to eligible persons or for use in meals provided to eligible persons, in accordance with agreements with a distributing or subdistributing agency, or with another recipient agency. Local agencies in CSFP, and Indian Tribal Organizations distributing donated foods to eligible persons through FDPIR in a State in which the State government administers FDPIR, are considered recipient agencies in this part.
Recipients
means persons receiving donated foods, or a meal containing donated foods, provided by recipient agencies.
Recipient agency processing agreement
means a recipient agency's agreement with a processor to process donated foods and to purchase the finished end products.
Reimbursable meals
means meals that meet the nutritional standards established in Federal regulations pertaining to NSLP, SFSP, or CACFP, and that are served to eligible recipients.
Replacement value
means the price assigned by the Department to a donated food which must reflect the current price in the market to ensure compensation for donated foods lost in processing or other activities. The replacement value may be changed by the Department at any time.
SAE funds
means Federal funds provided to State agencies for State administrative expenses, in accordance with 7 CFR part 235.
SBP
means the School Breakfast Program.
School food authority
means the governing body responsible for the administration of one or more schools, and that has the legal authority to operate
NSLP or be otherwise approved by FNS to operate NSLP.
School year
means the period of 12 months beginning July 1 of any calendar year and ending June 30 of the following calendar year.
Section 4(a)
means section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973 (7 U.S.C. 612c note), which authorizes the Department to purchase donated foods to maintain the traditional level of assistance for food assistance programs authorized by law, including, but not limited to, CSFP, FDPIR, and disaster assistance.
Section 6
means section 6 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755), which authorizes the Department to provide a specified value of donated food assistance in NSLP.
Section 14
means section 14 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1762a), which authorizes the Department to use Section 32 or Section 416 funds to maintain the annually programmed levels of donated food assistance in child nutrition programs.
Section 27
means section 27 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2036), which authorizes the purchase of donated foods for distribution in TEFAP.
Section 32
means section 32 of Public Law 74-320 (7 U.S.C. 612c), which authorizes the Department to purchase primarily perishable foods to remove market surpluses, and to donate them for use in domestic food assistance programs or by charitable institutions.
Section 311
means section 311 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3030a), which permits State Units on Aging to receive all or part of their NSIP grant as USDA donated foods.
Section 416
means section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431), which authorizes the Department to purchase nonperishable foods to support market prices, and to donate them for use in domestic food assistance programs or by charitable institutions.
Section 709
means section 709 of the Food and Agricultural Act of 1965 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), which authorizes the Department to purchase dairy products to meet authorized levels of assistance in domestic food assistance programs when such assistance cannot be met by Section 416 food purchases.
Service institution
means recipient agencies that participate in SFSP.
SFSP
means the Summer Food Service Program.
Similar replacement
means the replacement of a loss of donated food with another type of food from the same food category (
e.g.,
dairy, grain, meat/meat alternate, vegetable, fruit, etc.) that is of U.S. origin, of equal or better quality than that type of donated food, and at least equal in value to the lost donated food.
Single inventory management
means the commingling in storage of donated foods and foods from other sources, and the maintenance of a single inventory record of such commingled foods.
Situation of distress
means a natural catastrophe or other event that does not meet the definition of disaster in this section, but that, in the determination of the distributing agency, or of FNS, as applicable, warrants the use of donated foods to assist survivors of such catastrophe or other event. A situation of distress may include, for example, a hurricane, flood, snowstorm, or explosion.
SNAP
means the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.
Split shipment
means a shipment of donated foods from a vendor that is split between two or more distributing or recipient agencies, and that usually includes more than one stop-off or delivery location.
State
means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa.
State Participation Agreement
means a distributing agency's agreement with a multi-State processor to permit the sale of finished end products produced under the processor's National Processing Agreement to eligible recipient agencies in the State or to directly purchase such finished end products.
State Unit on Aging
means:
(1) The State agency that has been approved by DHHS to administer NSIP; or
(2) The Indian Tribal Organization that has been approved by DHHS to administer NSIP.
Storage facility
means a publicly-owned or nonprofit facility or a commercial enterprise that stores donated foods or end products, and that may also transport such foods to another location.
Subdistributing agency
means a State agency, a public agency, or a nonprofit organization selected by the distributing agency to perform one or more activities required of the distributing agency in this part, in accordance with a written agreement between the parties. A subdistributing agency may also be a recipient agency.
Substitution
means:
(1) The replacement of donated foods with like quantities of domestically produced commercial foods of the same generic identity and of equal or better quality.
(2) A processor can substitute commercial product for donated food, as described in paragraph (1) of this definition, without restrictions under full substitution. The processor must return to the contracting agency, in finished end products, the same number of pounds of donated food that the processor originally received for processing under full substitution. This is the 100-percent yield requirement.
(3) A processor can substitute commercial product for donated foods, as described in paragraph (1) of this definition, with some restrictions under limited substitution. Restrictions include, but are not limited to, the prohibition against substituting for backhauled poultry product. FNS may also prohibit substitution of certain types of the same generic food. (For example, FNS may decide to permit substitution for bulk chicken but not for canned chicken.)
Summer camp
means a nonprofit or public camp for children aged 18 and under.
TEFAP
means The Emergency Food Assistance Program.
USDA Foods
means donated foods.
USDA implementing regulations
mean the following: 2 CFR part 400, Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit Requirements for Federal Awards; 2 CFR part 415, General Program Administrative Regulations; 2 CFR part 416, General Program Administrative Regulations for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; and 2 CFR part 418, New Restrictions on Lobbying.
Vendor
means a commercial food company from which the Department purchases foods for donation.
[81 FR 23100, Apr. 19, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 18926, May 1, 2018]
§ 250.3
Administration at the Federal level.
(a)
Food and Nutrition Service.
Within the Department, Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) must act on behalf of the Department to administer the distribution of donated foods to distributing agencies for further distribution and use at the State level, in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(b)
Audits or inspections.
The Department, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their authorized representatives, may conduct audits or inspections of distributing, subdistributing, or recipient agencies, or the commercial enterprises with which they have contracts or agreements, in order to determine compliance with the requirements of this part, or with other applicable Federal regulations.
(c)
Suspension or termination.
Whenever it is determined that a distributing agency has materially failed to comply with the provisions of this part, or with other applicable Federal regulations, FNS may suspend or terminate the distribution of donated foods, or the provision of administrative funds, to the distributing agency. FNS must provide written notification of such suspension or termination of assistance, including the reasons for the action and the effective date. The distributing agency may appeal a suspension or termination of assistance if such appeal is provided for in Federal regulations applicable to a specific food assistance program (
e.g.,
as provided for in § 253.5(l) of this chapter for FDPIR). FNS may also take other actions, as appropriate, including prosecution under applicable Federal statutes.
§ 250.4
Administration at the State level.
(a)
Distributing agency.
The distributing agency, as defined in § 250.2, is responsible for ensuring compliance with the requirements in this part, and in other Federal regulations referenced in this part, in the distribution and control of donated foods. In order to receive, store, and distribute donated foods, the distributing agency must enter into a written agreement with FNS (the
Federal-State Agreement,
form FNS-74) for the distribution of donated foods in accordance with the provisions of this part and other applicable Federal regulations. The Federal-State agreement is permanent, but may be amended with the concurrence of both parties. FNS may terminate the Federal-State agreement if the distributing agency fails to meet its obligations, in accordance with § 250.3(c). Each distributing agency must also provide adequate personnel to administer the program in accordance with this part. The distributing agency may impose additional requirements related to the distribution and control of donated foods in the State, as long as such requirements are not inconsistent with the requirements in this part or other Federal regulations referenced in this part.
(b)
Subdistributing agency.
The distributing agency may enter into a written agreement with a subdistributing agency, as defined in § 250.2, to perform specific activities required of the distributing agency in this part. However, the distributing agency may not assign its overall responsibility for donated food distribution and control to a subdistributing agency or to any other organization, and may not delegate its responsibility to ensure compliance with the performance standards in § 250.22. The agreement entered into with the subdistributing agency must include the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section, and must indicate the specific activities for which the subdistributing agency is responsible.
(c)
Recipient agencies.
The distributing agency must select recipient agencies, as defined in § 250.2, to receive donated foods for distribution to eligible persons, or for use in meals provided to eligible persons, in accordance with eligibility criteria for specific programs or outlets, and must enter into a written agreement with a recipient agency prior to distribution of donated foods to it. However, for child nutrition programs, the distributing agency must enter into agreements with those recipient agencies selected by the State administering agency to participate in such programs, prior to distribution of donated foods to such recipient agencies. The distributing agency must confirm such recipient agencies' approval for participation in the appropriate child nutrition program with the State administering agency. For household programs, distributing agencies must consider the past performance of recipient agencies when approving applications for participation. Agreements with recipient agencies must include the provisions in this paragraph (c), as well as provisions required in Federal regulations applicable to specific programs (
e.g.,
agreements with local agencies in CSFP must include the provisions in § 247.4(b) of this chapter). The agreements with recipient agencies and subdistributing agencies must:
(1) Ensure compliance with the applicable requirements in this part, with other Federal regulations referenced in this part, and with the distributing agency's written agreement with FNS;
(2) Ensure compliance with all requirements relating to food safety and food recalls;
(3) Establish the duration of the agreement. The duration of the agreement may be established as permanent, but may be amended at the initiation of distributing agencies;
(4) Permit termination of the agreement by the distributing agency for failure of the recipient agency (or subdistributing agency, as applicable) to comply with its provisions or applicable requirements, upon written notification to the applicable party; and
(5) Permit termination of the agreement by either party, upon written notification to the other party, at least 60 days prior to the effective date of termination.
(d)
Procurement of services of commercial enterprises.
The distributing agency, or a recipient agency, must ensure
compliance with procurement requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416, as applicable, to obtain the services of a commercial enterprise to conduct activities relating to donated foods. The distributing agency, or a recipient agency, must also ensure compliance with other applicable Departmental regulations in such procurements—for example, a school food authority must ensure compliance with requirements in §§ 210.16 and 210.21 of this chapter, and in subpart D of this part, in procuring the services of a food service management company.
§ 250.5
Civil rights.
Distributing agencies, subdistributing agencies and recipient agencies must comply with the Department's nondiscrimination regulations (7 CFR parts 15, 15a, and 15b) and the FNS civil rights instructions to ensure that in the operation of the program no person is discriminated against on protected bases as such bases apply to each program.

# Subpart B—Delivery, Distribution, and Control of Donated Foods

# Source:
81 FR 23104, Apr. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 250.10
Availability and ordering of donated foods.
(a)
Ordering donated foods.
The distributing agency must utilize a request-driven ordering system in submitting orders for donated foods to FNS. As part of such system, the distributing agency must provide recipient agencies with the opportunity to submit input, on at least an annual basis, in determining the donated foods from the full list that are made available to them for ordering. Based on the input received, the distributing agency must ensure that the types and forms of donated foods that recipient agencies may best utilize are made available to them for ordering. The distributing agency must also ensure that donated foods are ordered and distributed only in amounts that may be utilized efficiently and without waste.
(b)
Provision of information on donated foods.
The distributing agency must provide recipient agencies, at their request, information that will assist them in ordering or utilization of donated foods, including information provided by USDA. Information provided to recipient agencies must include:
(1) The types and quantities of donated foods that they may order;
(2) Donated food specifications and nutritional value; and
(3) Procedures for the disposition of donated foods that are out-of-condition or that are subject to a food recall.
(c)
Normal food expenditures.
Section 416 donated foods must not be distributed to any recipient agencies or recipients whose normal food expenditures are reduced because of the receipt of donated foods.
§ 250.11
Delivery and receipt of donated food shipments.
(a)
Delivery.
The Department arranges for delivery of donated foods from the vendor or Federal storage facility to the distributing agency's storage facility, or to a processor with which the distributing agency has entered into a contract or agreement. The Department may also deliver donated foods directly to a recipient agency, or to a storage facility or processor with which the recipient agency has entered into a contract or agreement, with the approval of the distributing agency. The Department will make every reasonable effort to arrange deliveries of donated foods based on information obtained from distributing agencies, to the extent feasible. In accordance with § 250.2, an entity that receives a shipment of donated foods directly from a USDA vendor or a Federal storage facility is referred to as the consignee. Consignees must provide a delivery address, and other information as required by FNS, as well as update this information as necessary, to ensure foods are delivered to the correct location.
(b)
Receipt of shipments.
The distributing or recipient agency, or other consignee, must comply with all applicable Federal requirements in receiving shipments of donated foods, including procedures for the disposition of any donated foods in a shipment that are
out-of-condition (as this term is defined in § 250.2), or are not in accordance with ordered amounts. The distributing or recipient agency, or other consignee, must provide notification of the receipt of donated food shipments to FNS, through electronic means, and must maintain an electronic record of receipt of all donated food shipments.
(c)
Replacement of donated foods.
The vendor is responsible for the replacement of donated foods that are delivered out-of-condition. Such responsibility extends until expiration of the vendor warranty period included in the vendor contract with USDA. In all cases, responsibility for replacement is contingent on the determination that the foods were out-of-condition at the time of delivery. Replacement must be in-kind, unless FNS approves similar replacement (the terms in-kind and similar replacement are defined in § 250.2). If FNS determines that physical replacement of donated foods is not cost-effective or efficient, FNS may:
(1) Approve payment by the vendor to the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, for the value of the donated foods at time of delivery (or at another value determined by FNS); or
(2) Credit the distributing agency's entitlement, as feasible.
(d)
Payment of costs relating to shipments.
The Department is responsible for payment of processing, transportation, handling, or other costs incurred up to the time of delivery of donated foods to a distributing or recipient agency, or other consignee, as the Department deems in its best interest. However, the distributing or recipient agency, or other consignee, is responsible for payment of any delivery charges that accrue as a result of such consignee's failure to comply with procedures in FNS instructions—
e.g.,
failure to provide for the unloading of a shipment of donated foods within a designated time period.
(e)
Transfer of title.
In general, title to donated foods transfers to the distributing agency or recipient agency, as appropriate, upon acceptance of the donated foods at the time and place of delivery. Title to donated foods provided to a multi-State processor, in accordance with its National Processing Agreement, transfers to the distributing agency or recipient agency, as appropriate, upon acceptance of the finished end products at the time and place of delivery. However, when a recipient agency has contracted with a distributor to act as an authorized agent, title to finished end products containing donated foods transfers to the recipient agency upon delivery and acceptance by the contracted distributor. Notwithstanding transfer of title, distributing and recipient agencies must ensure compliance with the requirements of this part in the distribution, control, and use of donated foods.
[81 FR 23100, Apr. 19, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 18927, May 1, 2018]
§ 250.12
Storage and inventory management at the distributing agency level.
(a)
Safe storage and control.
The distributing agency or subdistributing agency (which may include commercial storage facilities under contract with either the distributing agency or subdistributing agency, as applicable), must provide facilities for the storage and control of donated foods that protect against theft, spoilage, damage, or other loss. Accordingly, such storage facilities must maintain donated foods in sanitary conditions, at the proper temperature and humidity, and with adequate air circulation. The distributing agency must ensure that storage facilities comply with all Federal, State, or local requirements relative to food safety and health and procedures for responding to a food recall, as applicable, and obtain all required health inspections.
(b)
Inventory management.
The distributing agency must ensure that donated foods at all storage facilities used by the distributing agency (or by a subdistributing agency) are stored in a manner that permits them to be distinguished from other foods, and must ensure that a separate inventory record of donated foods is maintained. The distributing agency's system of inventory management must ensure that donated foods are distributed in a timely manner and in optimal condition. On an annual basis, the distributing agency must conduct a physical review of
donated food inventories at all storage facilities used by the distributing agency (or by a subdistributing agency), and must reconcile physical and book inventories of donated foods. The distributing agency must report donated food losses to FNS, and ensure that restitution is made for such losses.
(c)
Inventory limitations.
The distributing agency is subject to the following limitations in the amount of donated food inventories on-hand, unless FNS approval is obtained to maintain larger inventories:
(1) For TEFAP, NSLP and other child nutrition programs, inventories of each category of donated food may not exceed an amount needed for a six-month period, based on an average amount of donated foods utilized in that period; and
(2) For CSFP and FDPIR, inventories of each category of donated food in the food package may not exceed an amount needed for a three-month period, based on an average amount of donated food that the distributing agency can reasonably utilize in that period to meet CSFP caseload or FDPIR average participation.
(d)
Inventory protection.
The distributing agency must obtain insurance to protect the value of donated foods at its storage facilities. The amount of such insurance must be at least equal to the average monthly value of donated food inventories at such facilities in the previous fiscal year. The distributing agency must also ensure that the following entities obtain insurance to protect the value of their donated food inventories, in the same amount required of the distributing agency in this paragraph (d):
(1) Subdistributing agencies;
(2) Recipient agencies in household programs that have an agreement with the distributing agency or subdistributing agency to store and distribute foods (except those recipient agencies which maintain inventories with a value of donated foods that do not exceed a defined threshold, as determined in FNS policy); and
(3) Commercial storage facilities under contract with the distributing agency or with an agency identified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.
(e)
Transfer of donated foods.
The distributing agency may transfer donated foods from its inventories to another distributing agency, or to another program, in order to ensure that such foods may be utilized in a timely manner and in optimal condition, in accordance with this part. However, the distributing agency must request FNS approval. FNS may also require a distributing agency to transfer donated foods at the distributing agency's storage facilities or at a processor's facility, if inventories of donated foods are excessive or may not be efficiently utilized. If there is a question of food safety, or if directed by FNS, the distributing agency must obtain an inspection of donated foods by State or local health authorities, as necessary, to ensure that the donated foods are still safe and not out-of-condition before transferring them. The distributing agency is responsible for meeting any transportation or inspection costs incurred, unless it is determined by FNS that the transfer is not the result of negligence or improper action on the part of the distributing agency. The distributing agency must maintain a record of all transfers from its inventories, and of any inspections related to such transfers.
(f)
Commercial storage facilities or carriers.
The distributing agency may obtain the services of a commercial storage facility to store and distribute donated foods, or a carrier to transport donated foods, but must do so in compliance with procurement requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416. The distributing agency must enter into a written contract with a commercial storage facility or carrier, which may not exceed five years in duration, including any extensions or renewals. The contract must include applicable provisions required by Federal statutes and executive orders listed in 2 CFR part 200, appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416. The contract must also include, as applicable to a storage facility or carrier, provisions that:
(1) Assure storage, management, and transportation of donated foods in a manner that properly safeguards them against theft, spoilage, damage, or other loss, in accordance with the requirements in this part;
(2) Assure compliance with all Federal, State, or local requirements relative to food safety and health, including required health inspections, and procedures for responding to a food recall;
(3) Assure storage of donated foods in a manner that distinguishes them from other foods, and assure separate inventory recordkeeping of donated foods;
(4) Assure distribution of donated foods to eligible recipient agencies in a timely manner, in optimal condition, and in amounts for which such recipient agencies are eligible;
(5) Include the amount of insurance coverage obtained to protect the value of donated foods;
(6) Permit the performance of on-site reviews of the storage facility by the distributing agency, the Comptroller General, the Department of Agriculture, or any of its duly authorized representatives, in order to determine compliance with requirements in this part;
(7) Establish the duration of the contract, and provide for extension or renewal of the contract only upon fulfillment of all contract provisions;
(8) Provide for expeditious termination of the contract by the distributing agency for noncompliance with its provisions; and
(9) Provide for termination of the contract by either party for other cause, after written notification of such intent at least 60 days prior to the effective date of such action.
§ 250.13
Efficient and cost-effective distribution of donated foods.
(a)
Direct shipments.
The distributing agency must ensure that the distribution of donated foods is conducted in the most efficient and cost-effective manner, and, to the extent practical, in accordance with the specific needs and preferences of recipient agencies. In meeting this requirement, the distributing agency must, to the extent practical, provide for:
(1) Shipments of donated foods directly from USDA vendors to recipient agencies, including two or more recipient agencies acting as a collective unit (such as a school co-op), or to the commercial storage facilities of such agencies;
(2) Shipments of donated foods directly from USDA vendors to processors for processing of donated foods and sale of end products to recipient agencies, in accordance with subpart C of this part; and
(3) The use of split shipments, as defined in § 250.2, in arranging for delivery of donated foods to recipient agencies that cannot accept a full truckload.
(b)
Distributing agency storage and distribution charge.
(1) If a distributing agency determines that direct shipments of donated foods, as described in paragraph (a) of this section, are impractical, it must provide for the storage of donated foods at the distributing agency level, and subsequent distribution to recipient agencies, in the most efficient and cost-effective manner possible. The distributing agency must use a commercial storage facility, in accordance with § 250.12(f), if the use of such system is determined to be more efficient and cost-effective than other available methods.
(2) The distributing agency must utilize State Administrative Expense (SAE) funds in child nutrition programs, as available, to meet the costs of storing and distributing donated foods for school food authorities or other recipient agencies in child nutrition programs, and administrative costs related to such activities, in accordance with 7 CFR part 235. If SAE funds, or any other Federal or State funds received for such purpose, are insufficient to fully meet the distributing agency's costs of storing and distributing donated foods, and related administrative costs (
e.g.,
salaries of employees engaged in such activities), the distributing agency may require school food authorities or other recipient agencies in child nutrition programs to pay a distribution charge, as defined in § 250.2, to help meet such costs. The distribution charge may cover only allowable costs, in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart E,
and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR part 400. The distributing agency must maintain a record of costs incurred in storing and distributing donated foods and related administrative costs, and the source of funds used to pay such costs.
(c)
FNS approval of amount of State distributing agency distribution charge to school food authorities and other recipient agencies in child nutrition programs.
In determining the amount of a new distribution charge, or in increasing the amount (except for normal inflationary adjustments) or reducing the level of service provided once a distribution charge is established, the distributing agency must request FNS approval prior to implementation. Such requirement also applies to the distribution charge imposed by a commercial storage facility under contract with the distributing agency. The request for approval must be submitted to FNS at least 90 days in advance of its projected implementation, and must include justification of the newly established amount, or any increased charge or reduction in the level of service provided under an established distribution charge, and the specific costs covered under the distribution charge (
e.g.,
storage, delivery, or administrative costs).
(d)
FNS review authority.
FNS may reject the distributing agency's proposed new, or changes to an existing, distribution charge for school food authorities and other recipient agencies in child nutrition programs if FNS determines that the charge would not provide for distribution of donated foods in the most efficient and cost-effective manner, or may otherwise impact recipient agencies negatively. In such case, the distributing agency would be required to adjust the proposed amount or the level of service provided in its distribution charge, or consider other distribution options. FNS may also require the distributing agency to submit documentation to justify the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of its storage and distribution system at other times, and may require the distributing agency to re-evaluate such system in order to ensure compliance with the requirements in this part.
§ 250.14
Storage and inventory management at the recipient agency level.
(a)
Safe storage and control.
Recipient agencies must provide facilities for the storage and control of donated foods that protect against theft, spoilage, damage, or other loss. Accordingly, such storage facilities must maintain donated foods in sanitary conditions, at the proper temperature and humidity, and with adequate air circulation. Recipient agencies must ensure that storage facilities comply with all Federal, State, or local requirements relative to food safety and health and procedures for responding to a food recall, as applicable, and obtain all required health inspections.
(b)
Inventory management—household programs.
Recipient agencies in household programs must store donated foods in a manner that permits them to be distinguished from other foods in storage, and must maintain a separate inventory record of donated foods. Such recipient agencies' system of inventory management must ensure that donated foods are distributed to recipients in a timely manner that permits use of such foods while still in optimal condition. Such recipient agencies must notify the distributing agency of donated food losses and take further actions with respect to such food losses, as directed by the distributing agency.
(c)
Inventory management—child nutrition programs and charitable institutions.
Recipient agencies in child nutrition programs, and those receiving donated foods as charitable institutions, in accordance with § 250.67, are not required to store donated foods in a manner that distinguishes them from purchased foods or other foods, or to maintain a separate inventory record of donated foods—
i.e.,
they may utilize single inventory management, as defined in § 250.2. For such recipient agencies, donated foods are subject to the same safeguards and effective management practices as other foods. Accordingly, recipient agencies in child nutrition programs and those receiving donated foods as charitable institutions (regardless of the inventory management system utilized), are not required to separately monitor and report donated
food use, distribution, or loss to the distributing agency, unless there is evidence indicating that donated food loss has occurred as a result of theft or fraud.
(d)
Transfer of donated foods to another recipient agency.
A recipient agency operating a household program must request approval from the distributing agency to transfer donated foods at its storage facilities to another recipient agency. The distributing agency may approve such transfer to another recipient agency in the same household program (
e.g.,
the transfer of TEFAP foods from one food pantry to another) without FNS approval. However, the distributing agency must receive FNS approval to permit a recipient agency in a household program to transfer donated foods to a recipient agency in a different program (
e.g.,
the transfer of TEFAP foods from a food pantry to a CSFP local agency), even if the same recipient agency administers both programs. A recipient agency operating a child nutrition program, or receiving donated foods as a charitable institution, in accordance with § 250.67, may transfer donated foods to another recipient agency or charitable organization without approval from the distributing agency or FNS. However, the recipient agency must still maintain records of donated food inventories.
(e)
Commercial storage facilities.
Recipient agencies may obtain the services of commercial storage facilities to store and distribute donated foods, but must do so in compliance with procurement requirements in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416, as applicable. Recipient agencies must ensure that commercial storage facilities comply with all of the applicable requirements in this section regarding the storage and inventory management of donated foods.
§ 250.15
Out-of-condition donated foods, food recalls, and complaints.
(a)
Out-of-condition donated foods at the distributing agency level.
The distributing agency must ensure that donated foods that are out-of-condition, as defined in § 250.2, at any of its storage facilities are removed, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of, in accordance with FNS instruction and State or local requirements pertaining to food safety and health. The distributing agency must obtain an inspection of donated foods by State or local health authorities to determine their safety and condition, as necessary, or as directed by FNS. Out-of-condition donated foods may be sold (
e.g.,
to a salvage company), if permitted by FNS and State or local laws or regulations.
(b)
Out-of-condition donated foods at the recipient agency level.
Recipient agencies in household programs must report out-of-condition donated foods at their storage facilities to the distributing agency, in accordance with § 250.14(b), and must ensure that such donated foods are removed, destroyed, or otherwise disposed of, in accordance with FNS instruction and State or local requirements pertaining to food safety and health. The distributing agency must ensure that such recipient agencies obtain an inspection of donated foods by State or local health authorities to determine their safety and condition, as necessary, or as directed by FNS. For charitable institutions, in accordance with § 250.67, and recipient agencies in child nutrition programs, donated foods must be treated as other foods when safety is in question. Consequently, such recipient agencies must comply with State or local requirements in determining the safety of foods (including donated foods), and in their destruction or other disposition. However, they are not required to report such actions to the distributing agency.
(c)
Food recalls.
The distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, must follow all applicable Federal, State or local requirements for donated foods subject to a food recall, as this term is defined in § 250.2. Further, in the event of a recall, Departmental guidance is provided, including procedures or instructions for all parties in responding to a food recall, replacement of recalled donated foods, and reimbursement of specific costs incurred as a result of such actions.
(d)
Complaints relating to donated foods.
The distributing agency must inform recipient agencies of the preferred method of receiving complaints regarding donated foods. Complaints received
from recipients, recipient agencies, or other entities relating to donated foods must be resolved in an expeditious manner, and in accordance with applicable requirements in this part. However, the distributing agency may not dispose of any donated food that is the subject of a complaint prior to guidance and authorization from FNS. Any complaints regarding product quality or specifications, or suggested product improvements, must be submitted to FNS through the established FNS donated foods complaint system for tracking purposes. If complaints may not be resolved at the State level, the distributing agency must provide information regarding the complaint to FNS. The distributing agency must maintain a record of its investigations and other actions with respect to complaints relating to donated foods.
§ 250.16
Claims and restitution for donated food losses.
(a)
Distributing agency responsibilities.
The distributing agency must ensure that restitution is made for the loss of donated foods, or for the loss or improper use of funds provided for, or obtained as an incident of, the distribution of donated foods. The distributing agency must identify, and seek restitution from, parties responsible for the loss, and implement corrective actions to prevent future losses.
(b)
FNS claim actions.
FNS may initiate and pursue claims against the distributing agency or other entities for the loss of donated foods, or for the loss or improper use of funds provided for, or obtained as an incident of, the distribution of donated foods. FNS may also initiate and pursue claims against the distributing agency for failure to take required claim actions against other parties. FNS may, on behalf of the Department, compromise, forgive, suspend, or waive a claim. FNS may, at its option, require assignment to it of any claim arising from the distribution of donated foods.
§ 250.17
Use of funds obtained incidental to donated food distribution.
(a)
Distribution charge.
The distributing agency must use funds obtained from the distribution charge imposed on recipient agencies in child nutrition programs, in accordance with § 250.13(b), to meet the costs of storing and distributing donated foods or related administrative costs, consistent with the limitations on the use of funds provided under a Federal grant in 2 CFR part 200, subparts D and E, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416. The distributing agency must maintain such funds in an operating account, separate from other funds obtained incidental to donated food distribution. The amount of funds maintained at any time in the operating account may not exceed the distributing agency's highest expenditure from that account over any three-month period in the previous school or fiscal year, unless the distributing agency receives FNS approval to maintain a larger amount of funds in such account. Unless such approval is granted, funds in excess of the established limit must be used to reduce the distribution charge imposed on recipient agencies, or to provide appropriate reimbursement to such agencies. The distributing agency may not use funds obtained from the distribution charge to purchase foods to replace donated food losses or to pay claims to make restitution for donated food losses.
(b)
Processing and food service management company contracts.
School food authorities must use funds obtained from processors in processing of donated foods into end products (
e.g.,
through rebates for the value of such donated foods), or from food service management companies in crediting for the value of donated foods received, in support of the nonprofit school food service, in accordance with § 210.14 of this chapter. Other recipient agencies must use such funds in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Claims and other sources.
The distributing agency must ensure that funds collected in payment of claims for donated food losses are used only for the payment of expenses of the food distribution program. The first priority for the use of funds collected in a claim for the loss of donated foods is the purchase of replacement foods for use in the program in which the loss occurred. If the purchase of replacement foods is not feasible, funds collected in
a claim for the loss of donated foods must be used to pay allowable administrative costs incurred in the storage and distribution of donated foods. The distributing agency, or recipient agency, must use funds obtained from sources incidental to donated food distribution (except as otherwise indicated in this section) to pay administrative costs incurred in the storage and distribution of donated foods, consistent with the limitations on the use of funds provided under a Federal grant in 2 CFR part 200, subparts D and E, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416. The distributing agency must maintain funds obtained from claims and other sources included in this paragraph (c) in a donated food account (separate from the operating account maintained in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section), and must obtain FNS prior approval for any single deposit into, or expenditure from, such account in excess of $25,000. Distributing and recipient agencies must maintain records of funds obtained and expended in accordance with this paragraph (c). Examples of funds applicable to the provisions in this paragraph (c) include funds accrued from:
(1) The salvage of out-of-condition donated foods.
(2) The sale of donated food containers, pallets, or packing materials.
(3) Payments by processors for failure to meet processing yields or other cause.
(d)
Prohibitions.
The distributing agency may not use funds obtained incidental to donated food distribution to meet State matching requirements for Federal administrative funds provided in household programs, or in place of State Administrative Expense (SAE) funds provided in accordance with 7 CFR part 235.
(e)
Buy American.
When funds obtained in accordance with this section are used to purchase foods in the commercial market, a distributing or recipient agency in the continental United States, and in Hawaii, must, to the maximum extent practical, purchase only domestic foods or food products. Such requirement is also applicable to food purchases made with the cash-in-lieu-of-donated foods provided in NSLP and CACFP, in accordance with §§ 250.56(e) and 250.61(c). For the purposes of this section, domestic foods or food products are:
(1) Agricultural commodities that are produced in the United States; or
(2) Food products that are processed in the United States substantially using agricultural commodities that are produced in the United States.
§ 250.18
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Inventory and distribution of donated foods.
The distributing agency must submit to FNS reports relating to the inventory and distribution of donated foods in this paragraph (a) or in other regulations applicable to specific programs. Such reports must be submitted in accordance with the timeframes established for each respective form. For donated foods received in FDPIR, the distributing agency must submit form FNS-152,
Monthly Distribution of Donated Foods to Family Units.
For donated foods received in TEFAP, NSLP, or other child nutrition programs, the distributing agency must submit form FNS-155, the
Inventory Management Register.
(b)
Processor performance.
Processors must submit performance reports and other supporting documentation, as required by the distributing agency or by FNS, in accordance with § 250.37(a), to ensure compliance with requirements in this part.
(c)
Disasters and situations of distress.
The distributing agency must submit to FNS a report of the types and amounts of donated foods used from distributing or recipient agency storage facilities in disasters and situations of distress, and a request for replacement of such foods, using electronic form FNS-292A,
Report of Commodity Distribution for Disaster Relief,
in accordance with §§ 250.69 and 250.70. The report must be submitted within 45 days of the termination of such assistance.
(d)
Other information.
The distributing agency must submit other information, as requested by FNS, in order to ensure compliance with requirements in this part. For example, FNS may require the distributing agency to submit information with respect to its assessment of the distribution charge,
or to justify the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of its distribution system, in accordance with § 250.13(c) and (d).
[81 FR 23100, Apr. 19, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 18927, May 1, 2018]
§ 250.19
Recordkeeping requirements.
(a)
Required records.
Distributing agencies, recipient agencies, processors, and other entities must maintain records of agreements and contracts, reports, audits, and claim actions, funds obtained as an incident of donated food distribution, and other records specifically required in this part or in other Departmental regulations, as applicable. In addition, distributing agencies must keep a record of the value of donated foods each of its school food authorities receives, in accordance with § 250.58(e), and records to demonstrate compliance with the professional standards for distributing agency directors established in § 235.11(g) of this chapter. Processors must also maintain records documenting the sale of end products to recipient agencies, including the sale of such end products by distributors, and must submit monthly performance reports, in accordance with subpart C of this part and with any other recordkeeping requirements included in their agreements. Specific recordkeeping requirements relating to the use of donated foods in contracts with food service management companies are included in § 250.54. Failure of the distributing agency, recipient agency, processor, or other entity to comply with recordkeeping requirements must be considered prima facie evidence of improper distribution or loss of donated foods and may result in a claim against such party for the loss or misuse of donated foods, in accordance with § 250.16, or in other sanctions or corrective actions.
(b)
Retention of records.
Records relating to requirements for donated foods must be retained for a period of three years from the close of the fiscal or school year to which they pertain. However, records pertaining to claims or audits that remain unresolved in this period of time must be retained until such actions have been resolved.
[81 FR 23100, Apr. 19, 2016, as amended at 83 FR 18927, May 1, 2018]
§ 250.20
Audit requirements.
(a)
Requirements for distributing and recipient agencies.
Audit requirements for State or local government agencies and nonprofit organizations that receive Federal awards or grants (including distributing and recipient agencies under this part) are included in 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and appendix XI, Compliance Supplement, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR part 400. In accordance with such regulations, the value of Federal grants or awards expended in a fiscal year determine if the distributing or recipient agency is required to obtain an audit in that year. The value of donated foods must be considered as part of the Federal grants or awards in determining if an audit is required. FNS provides guidance for distributing and recipient agencies in valuing donated foods for audit purposes, and in determining whether an audit must be obtained.
(b)
Requirements for processors.
In-State processors must obtain an independent certified public accountant (CPA) audit in the first year that they receive donated foods for processing, while multi-State processors must obtain such an audit in each of the first two years that they receive donated foods for processing. After this initial requirement period, in-State and multi-State processors must obtain an independent CPA audit at a frequency determined by the average value of donated foods received for processing per year, as indicated in this paragraph (b). The value of donated foods used in determining if an audit is required must be the contract value of the donated foods, as defined in § 250.2. The audit must determine that the processor's performance is in compliance with the requirements in this part, and must be conducted in accordance with procedures in the FNS Audit Guide for Processors. All processors must pay for audits required in this paragraph (b). An in-State or multi-State processor must obtain an audit:
(1) Annually, if it receives, on average, more than $5,000,000 in donated foods for processing per year;
(2) Every two years, if it receives, on average, between $1,000,000 and $5,000,000 in donated foods for processing per year; or
(3) Every three years, if it receives, on average, less than $1,000,000 in donated foods for processing per year.
(c)
Post-audit actions required of processors.
In-State processors must submit a copy of the audit to the distributing agency for review by December 31st of each year in which an audit is required. The distributing agency must ensure that in-State processors provide a corrective action plan with timelines for correcting deficiencies identified in the audit, and must ensure that such deficiencies are corrected. Multi-State processors must submit a copy of the audit, and a corrective action plan with timelines for correcting deficiencies identified in the audit, as appropriate, to FNS for review by December 31st of each year in which an audit is required. FNS may conduct an audit or investigation of a processor to ensure correction of deficiencies, in accordance with § 250.3(b).
(d)
Failure to meet audit requirements.
If a distributing agency or recipient agency fails to obtain the required audit, or fails to correct deficiencies identified in the audit, FNS may withhold, suspend, or terminate the Federal award. If an in-State processor fails to obtain the required audit, or fails to correct deficiencies identified in the audit, a distributing or recipient agency may terminate the processing agreement, and may not extend or renew such an agreement. Additionally, FNS may prohibit the further distribution of donated foods to such processor. If a multi-State processor fails to obtain a required audit, or fails to correct deficiencies identified in the audit, FNS may terminate the processing agreement. Additionally, FNS may prohibit the further distribution of donated foods to such processor.
§ 250.21
Distributing agency reviews.
(a)
Scope of review requirements.
The distributing agency must ensure that subdistributing agencies, recipient agencies, and other entities comply with applicable requirements in this part, and in other Federal regulations, through the on-site reviews required in paragraph (b) of this section, and the review of required reports or audits. However, the distributing agency is not responsible for the review of school food authorities and other recipient agencies in child nutrition programs. The State administering agency is responsible for the review of such recipient agencies, in accordance with review requirements of part 210 of this chapter.
(b)
On-site reviews.
The distributing agency must conduct an on-site review of:
(1) Charitable institutions, whenever the distributing agency identifies actual or probable deficiencies in the use of donated foods by such institutions, through audits, investigations, complaints, or any other information;
(2) Storage facilities at the distributing agency level (including commercial storage facilities under contract with the distributing or subdistributing agency), on an annual basis; and
(3) Subdistributing and recipient agencies in CSFP, TEFAP, and FDPIR, in accordance with 7 CFR parts 247, 251, and 253, respectively.
(c)
Identification and correction of deficiencies.
The distributing agency must inform each subdistributing agency, recipient agency, or other entity of any deficiencies identified in its reviews, and recommend specific actions to correct such deficiencies. The distributing agency must ensure that such agencies or entities implement corrective actions to correct deficiencies in a timely manner.
§ 250.22
Distributing agency performance standards.
(a)
Performance standards.
The distributing agency must meet the basic performance standards included in this paragraph (a) in the ordering, distribution, processing, if applicable, and control of donated foods. Some of the performance standards apply only to distributing agencies that distribute donated foods in NSLP or other child nutrition programs, as indicated. However, the identification of specific performance standards does not diminish the responsibility of the distributing
agency to meet other requirements in this part. In meeting basic performance standards, the distributing agency must:
(1) Provide recipient agencies with information on donated food availability, assistance levels, values, product specifications, and processing options, as requested;
(2) Implement a request-driven ordering system, in accordance with § 250.10(a), and, for child nutrition programs, § 250.58(a);
(3) Offer school food authorities in NSLP, at a minimum, the commodity offer value of donated foods, in accordance with § 250.58;
(4) Provide for the storage, distribution, and control of donated foods in accordance with all Federal, State, or local requirements relating to food safety and health;
(5) Provide for the distribution of donated foods in the most efficient and cost-effective manner, including, to the extent practical, direct shipments from vendors to recipient agencies or processors, and the use of split shipments;
(6) Use SAE funds, or other Federal or State funds, as available, in paying State storage and distribution costs for child nutrition programs, and impose a distribution charge on recipient agencies in child nutrition programs only to the extent that such funds are insufficient to meet applicable costs;
(7) Provide for the processing of donated foods, at the request of school food authorities, in accordance with subpart C of this part, including the testing of end products with school food authorities, and the solicitation of acceptability input, when procuring end products on behalf of school food authorities or otherwise limiting the procurement of end products; and
(8) Provide recipient agencies information regarding the preferred method for submission of donated foods complaints to the distributing agency and act expeditiously to resolve submitted complaints.
(b)
Corrective action plan.
The distributing agency must submit a corrective action plan to FNS whenever it is found to be substantially out of compliance with the performance standards in paragraph (a) of this section, or with other requirements in this part. The plan must identify the corrective actions to be taken, and the timeframe for completion of such actions. The plan must be submitted to FNS within 60 days after the distributing agency receives notification from FNS of a deficiency.
(c)
Termination or suspension.
FNS may terminate or suspend all, or part, of the distributing agency's participation in the distribution of donated foods, or in a food distribution program, for failure to comply with requirements in this part, with other applicable Federal regulations, or with its written agreement with FNS. FNS may also take other actions, as appropriate, including prosecution under applicable Federal statutes.

# Subpart C—Processing of Donated Foods

# Source:
83 FR 18927, May 1, 2018, unless otherwise noted.
§ 250.30
Processing of donated foods into end products.
(a)
Purpose of processing donated foods.
Donated foods are most commonly provided to processors to process into approved end products for use in school lunch programs or other food services provided by recipient agencies. The ability to divert donated foods for processing provides recipient agencies with more options for using donated foods in their programs. For example, donated foods such as whole chickens or chicken parts may be processed into precooked grilled chicken strips for use in the National School Lunch Program. In some cases, donated foods are provided to processors to prepare meals or for repackaging. Use of a commercial facility to repackage donated foods, or to use donated foods in the preparation of meals, is considered processing in this part.
(b)
Agreement requirement.
The processing of donated foods must be performed in accordance with an agreement between the processor and FNS, between the processor and the distributing agency, or, if allowed by the distributing agency, between the processor and a recipient agency or subdistributing agency. However, a processing agreement will not obligate any
party to provide donated foods to a processor for processing. The agreements described below are required in addition to, not in lieu of, competitively procured contracts required in accordance with § 250.31. The processing agreement must be signed by an authorized individual for the processor. The different types of processing agreements are described in this section.
(c)
National Processing Agreement.
A multi-State processor must enter into a National Processing Agreement with FNS in order to process donated foods into end products in accordance with end product data schedules approved by FNS. FNS also holds and manages such processor's performance bond or letter of credit under its National Processing Agreement, in accordance with § 250.32. FNS does not itself procure or purchase end products under a National Processing Agreement. A multi-State processor must also enter into a State Participation Agreement with the distributing agency in order to sell nationally approved end products in the State, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
State Participation Agreement.
The distributing agency must enter into a State Participation Agreement with a multi-State processor to permit the sale of end products produced under the processor's National Processing Agreement to eligible recipient agencies in the State or to directly purchase such end products. The distributing agency may include other State-specific processing requirements in its State Participation Agreement, such as the methods of end product sales permitted, in accordance with § 250.36, or the use of labels attesting to fulfillment of meal pattern requirements in child nutrition programs. The distributing agency must utilize the following criteria in its selection of processors with which it enters into agreements. These criteria will be reviewed by the appropriate FNS Regional Office during the management evaluation review of the distributing agency.
(1) The nutritional contribution provided by end products;
(2) The marketability or acceptability of end products;
(3) The means by which end products will be distributed;
(4) Price competitiveness of end products and processing yields of donated foods;
(5) Any applicable labeling requirements; and
(6) The processor's record of ethics and integrity, and capacity to meet regulatory requirements.
(e)
In-State Processing Agreement.
A distributing agency must enter into an In-State Processing Agreement with an in-State processor to process donated foods into finished end products, unless it permits recipient agencies to enter into Recipient Agency Processing Agreements for such purpose, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. Under an In-State Processing Agreement, the distributing agency approves end product data schedules (except red meat and poultry) submitted by the processor, holds and manages the processor's performance bond or letter of credit, in accordance with § 250.32, and assures compliance with other processing requirements. The distributing agency may also purchase the finished end products for distribution to eligible recipient agencies in the State under an In-State Processing Agreement, or may permit recipient agencies to purchase such end products, in accordance with applicable procurement requirements. In the latter case, the In-State Processing Agreement is often called a “master agreement.” A distributing agency that procures end products on behalf of recipient agencies, or that limits recipient agencies' access to the procurement of specific end products through its master agreements, must utilize the following criteria in its selection of processors with which it enters into agreements. These criteria will be reviewed by the appropriate FNS Regional Office during the management evaluation review of the distributing agency.
(1) The nutritional contribution provided by end products;
(2) The marketability or acceptability of end products;
(3) The means by which end products will be distributed;
(4) Price competitiveness of end products and processing yields of donated foods;
(5) Any applicable labeling requirements; and
(6) The processor's record of ethics and integrity, and capacity to meet regulatory requirements.
(f)
Recipient Agency Processing Agreement.
The distributing agency may permit a recipient agency to enter into an agreement with an in-State processor to process donated foods and to purchase the finished end products in accordance with a Recipient Agency Processing Agreement. A recipient agency may also enter into a Recipient Agency Processing Agreement on behalf of other recipient agencies, in accordance with an agreement between the parties. The distributing agency may also delegate a recipient agency to approve end product data schedules or select nationally approved end product data schedules, review in-State processor performance reports, manage the performance bond or letter of credit of an in-State processor, and monitor other processing activities under a Recipient Agency Processing Agreement. All such activities must be performed in accordance with the requirements of this part. All Recipient Agency Processing Agreements must be reviewed and approved by the distributing agency. All recipient agencies must utilize the following criteria in its selection of processors with which it enters into agreements:
(1) The nutritional contribution provided by end products;
(2) The marketability or acceptability of end products;
(3) The means by which end products will be distributed;
(4) Price competitiveness of end products and processing yields of donated foods;
(5) Any applicable labeling requirements; and
(6) The processor's record of ethics and integrity, and capacity to meet regulatory requirements.
(g)
Ensuring acceptability of end products.
A distributing agency that procures end products on behalf of recipient agencies, or that otherwise limits recipient agencies' access to the procurement of specific end products, must provide for testing of end products to ensure their acceptability by recipient agencies, prior to entering into processing agreements. End products that have previously been tested, or that are otherwise determined to be acceptable, need not be tested. However, such a distributing agency must monitor product acceptability on an ongoing basis.
(h)
Prohibition against subcontracting.
A processor may not assign any processing activities under its processing agreement or subcontract to another entity to perform any aspect of processing, without the specific written consent of the other party to the agreement (
i.e.,
distributing or recipient agency, or FNS, as appropriate). The distributing agency may, for example, provide the required consent as part of its State Participation Agreement or In-State Processing Agreement with the processor.
(i)
Agreements between processors and distributors.
A processor providing end products containing donated foods to a distributor must enter into a written agreement with the distributor. The agreement must reference, at a minimum, the financial liability (
i.e.,
who must pay) for the replacement value of donated foods, not less than monthly end product sales reporting frequency, requirements under § 250.11, and the applicable value pass through system to ensure that the value of donated foods and finished end products are properly credited to recipient agencies. Distributing agencies can set additional requirements.
(j)
Duration of agreements.
In-State Processing Agreements and Recipient Agency Processing Agreements may be up to five years in duration. State Participation Agreements may be permanent. National Processing Agreements are permanent. Amendments to any agreements may be made, as needed, with the concurrence of both parties to the agreement. Such amendments will be effective for the duration of the agreement, unless otherwise indicated.
§ 250.31
Procurement requirements.
(a)
Applicability of Federal procurement requirements.
Distributing and recipient agencies must comply with the requirements in 2 CFR part 200 and part 400, as applicable, in purchasing end products, distribution, or other processing services from processors. Distributing and
recipient agencies may use procurement procedures that conform to applicable State or local laws and regulations, but must ensure compliance with the procurement requirements in 2 CFR part 200 and part 400, as applicable.
(b)
Required information in procurement documents.
In all procurements of processed end products containing USDA donated foods, procurement documents must include the following information:
(1) The price to be charged for the end product or other processing service;
(2) The method of end product sales that will be utilized and assurance that crediting for donated foods will be performed in accordance with the applicable requirements for such method of sales in § 250.36;
(3) The value of the donated food in the end products; and
(4) The location for the delivery of the end products.
§ 250.32
Protection of donated food value.
(a)
Performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit.
The processor must obtain a performance bond or an irrevocable letter of credit to protect the value of donated foods to be received for processing prior to the delivery of the donated foods to the processor. The processor must provide the performance bond or letter of credit to the distributing or recipient agency, in accordance with its In-State or Recipient Agency Processing Agreement. However, a multi-State processor must provide the performance bond or letter of credit to FNS, in accordance with its National Processing Agreement. For multi-State processors, the minimum amount of the performance bond or letter of credit must be sufficient to cover at least 75 percent of the value of donated foods in the processor's physical or book inventory, as determined annually and at the discretion of FNS for processors under National Processing Agreements. For multi-state processors in their first year of participation in the processing program, the amount of the performance bond or letter of credit must be sufficient to cover 100 percent of the value of donated foods, as determined annually, and at the discretion of FNS. The surety company from which a bond is obtained must be listed in the most current Department of Treasury's Listing of Approved Sureties (Department Circular 570).
(b)
Calling in the performance bond or letter of credit.
The distributing or recipient agency must call in the performance bond or letter of credit whenever a processor's lack of compliance with this part, or with the terms of the In-State or Recipient Agency Processing Agreement, results in a loss of donated foods to a distributing or recipient agency and the processor fails to make restitution or respond to a claim action initiated to recover the loss. Similarly, FNS will call in the performance bond or letter of credit in the same circumstances, in accordance with National Processing Agreements, and will ensure that any monies recovered are reimbursed to distributing agencies for losses of entitlement foods.
§ 250.33
Ensuring processing yields of donated foods.
(a)
End product data schedules.
The processor must submit an end product data schedule, in a standard electronic format dictated by FNS, for approval before it may process donated foods into end products. For In-State Processing Agreements, the end product data schedule must be approved by the distributing agency and, for products containing donated red meat and poultry, the end product data schedule must also be approved by the Department. For National Processing Agreements, the end product data schedule must be approved by the Department. An end product data schedule must be submitted, and approved, for each new end product that a processor wishes to provide or for a previously approved end product in which the ingredients (or other pertinent information) have been altered. On the end product data schedule, the processor must describe its processing of donated food into an end product, including the following information:
(1) A description of the end product;
(2) The types and quantities of donated foods included;
(3) The types and quantities of other ingredients included;
(4) The quantity of end product produced; and
(5) The processing yield of donated food, which may be expressed as the quantity (pounds or cases) of donated food needed to produce a specific quantity of end product or as the percentage of raw donated food versus the quantity returned in the finished end product.
(b)
Processing yields of donated foods.
All end products must have a processing yield of donated foods associated with its production and this processing yield must be indicated on its end product data schedule. The processing yield options are limited to 100 percent yield, guaranteed yield, and standard yield.
(1) Under 100 percent yield, the processor must ensure that 100 percent of the raw donated food is returned in the finished end product. The processor must replace any processing loss of donated food with commercially purchased food of the same generic identity, of U.S. origin, and equal or better in all USDA procurement specifications than the donated food. The processor must demonstrate such replacement by reporting reductions in donated food inventories on performance reports by the amount of donated food contained in the finished end product rather than the amount that went into production. The Department may approve an exception if a processor experiences a significant manufacturing loss.
(2) Under guaranteed yield, the processor must ensure that a specific quantity of end product (
i.e.,
number of cases) will be produced from a specific quantity of donated food (
i.e.,
pounds), as determined by the parties to the processing agreement, and, for In-State Processing Agreements, approved by the Department. If necessary, the processor must use commercially purchased food of the same generic identity, of U.S. origin, and equal or better in all USDA procurement specifications than the donated food to provide the guaranteed number of cases of end product to the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate. The guaranteed yield must be indicated on the end product data schedule.
(3) Under standard yield, the processor must ensure that a specific quantity of end product (
i.e.,
number of cases), as determined by the Department, will be produced from a specific quantity of donated food. The established standard yield is higher than the yield the processor could achieve under normal commercial production and serves to reward those processors that can process donated foods most efficiently. If necessary, the processor must use commercially purchased food of the same generic identity, of U.S. origin, and equal or better in all USDA procurement specifications than the donated food to provide the number of cases required to meet the standard yield to the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate. The standard yield must be indicated on the end product data schedule.
(c)
Compensation for loss of donated foods.
The processor must compensate the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, for the loss of donated foods, or for the loss of commercially purchased foods substituted for donated foods. Such loss may occur, for example, if the processor fails to meet the required processing yield of donated food or fails to produce end products that meet required specifications, if donated foods are spoiled, damaged, or otherwise adulterated at a processing facility, or if end products are improperly distributed. To compensate for such loss, the processor must:
(1) Replace the lost donated food or commercial substitute with commercially purchased food of the same generic identity, of U.S. origin, and equal or better in all USDA procurement specifications than the donated food; or
(2) Return end products that are wholesome but do not meet required specifications to production for processing into the requisite quantity of end products that meet the required specifications (commonly called rework products); or
(3) If the purchase of replacement foods or the reprocessing of products that do not meet the required specifications is not feasible, the processor may, with FNS, distributing agency, or recipient agency approval, dependent
on which entity maintains the agreement with the processor, pay the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, for the replacement value of the donated food or commercial substitute.
(d)
Credit for sale of by-products.
The processor must credit the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, for the sale of any by-products produced in the processing of donated foods. The processor must credit for the net value of such sale, or the market value of the by-products, after subtraction of any documented expenses incurred in preparing the by-product for sale. Crediting must be achieved through invoice reduction or by another means of crediting.
(e)
Labeling requirements.
The processor must ensure that all end product labels meet Federal labeling requirements. A processor that claims end products fulfill meal pattern requirements in child nutrition programs must comply with the procedures required for approval of labels of such end products.
§ 250.34
Substitution of donated foods.
(a)
Substitution of commercially purchased foods for donated foods.
Unless its agreement specifically stipulates that the donated foods must be used in processing, the processor may substitute commercially purchased foods for donated foods that are delivered to it from a USDA vendor. The commercially purchased food must be of the same generic identity, of U.S. origin, and equal or better in all USDA procurement specifications than the donated food. Commercially purchased beef, pork, or poultry must meet the same specifications as donated product, including inspection, grading, testing, and humane handling standards and must be approved by the Department in advance of substitution. The processor may choose to make the substitution before the actual receipt of the donated food. However, the processor assumes all risk and liability if, due to changing market conditions or other reasons, the Department's purchase of donated foods and their delivery to the processor is not feasible. Commercially purchased food substituted for donated food must meet the same processing yield requirements in § 250.33 that would be required for the donated food.
(b)
Prohibition against substitution and other requirements for backhauled donated foods.
The processor may not substitute or commingle donated foods that are backhauled to it from a distributing or recipient agency's storage facility. The processor must process backhauled donated foods into end products for sale and delivery to the distributing or recipient agency that provided them and not to any other agency. Distributing or recipient agencies must purchase end products utilizing donated foods backhauled to their contracted processor. The processor may not provide payment for backhauled donated foods in lieu of processing.
(c)
Grading requirements.
The processing of donated beef, pork, and poultry must occur under Federal Quality Assessment Division grading, which is conducted by the Department's Agricultural Marketing Service. Federal Quality Assessment Division grading ensures that processing is conducted in compliance with substitution and yield requirements and in conformance with the end product data schedule. The processor is responsible for paying the cost of acceptance service grading. The processor must maintain grading certificates and other records necessary to document compliance with requirements for substitution of donated foods and with other requirements of this subpart.
(d)
Waiver of grading requirements.
The distributing agency may waive the grading requirement for donated beef, pork or poultry in accordance with one of the conditions listed in this paragraph (d). However, grading may only be waived on a case by case basis (
e.g.,
for a particular production run); the distributing agency may not approve a blanket waiver of the requirement. Additionally, a waiver may only be granted if a processor's past performance indicates that the quality of the end product will not be adversely affected. The conditions for granting a waiver include:
(1) That even with ample notification time, the processor cannot secure the services of a grader;
(2) The cost of the grader's service in relation to the value of donated beef, pork or poultry being processed would be excessive; or
(3) The distributing or recipient agency's urgent need for the product leaves insufficient time to secure the services of a grader.
(e)
Use of substituted donated foods.
The processor may use donated foods that have been substituted with commercially purchased foods in other processing activities conducted at its facilities.
§ 250.35
Storage, food safety, quality control, and inventory management.
(a)
Storage and quality control.
The processor must ensure the safe and effective storage of donated foods, including compliance with the general storage requirements in § 250.12, and must maintain an effective quality control system at its processing facilities. The processor must maintain documentation to verify the effectiveness of its quality control system and must provide such documentation upon request.
(b)
Food safety requirements.
The processor must ensure that all processing of donated foods is conducted in compliance with all Federal, State, and local requirements relative to food safety.
(c)
Commingling of donated foods and commercially purchased foods.
The processor may commingle donated foods and commercially purchased foods, unless the processing agreement specifically stipulates that the donated foods must be used in processing, and not substituted, or the donated foods have been backhauled from a recipient agency. However, such commingling must be performed in a manner that ensures the safe and efficient use of donated foods, as well as compliance with substitution requirements in § 250.34 and with reporting of donated food inventories on performance reports, as required in § 250.37. The processor must also ensure that commingling of processed end products and other food products, either at its facility or at the facility of a commercial distributor, ensures the sale and delivery of end products that meet the processing requirements in this subpart—
e.g.,
by affixing the applicable USDA certification stamp to the exterior shipping containers of such end products.
(d)
Limitation on donated food inventories.
Inventories of donated food at processors may not be in excess of a six-month supply, based on an average amount of donated foods utilized, unless a higher level has been specifically approved by the distributing agency on the basis of a written justification submitted by the processor. Distributing agencies are not permitted to submit food orders for processors reporting no sales activity during the prior year's contract period unless documentation is submitted by the processor which outlines specific plans for donated food drawdown, product promotion, or sales expansion. When inventories are determined to be excessive for a State or processor,
e.g.,
more than six months or exceeding the established protection, FNS may require the transfer of inventory and/or entitlement to another State or processor to ensure utilization prior to the end of the school year.
(e)
Reconciliation of excess donated food inventories.
If, at the end of the school year, the processor has donated food inventories in excess of a six-month supply, the distributing agency may, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, permit the processor to carry over such excess inventory into the next year of its agreement, if it determines that the processor may efficiently store and process such quantity of donated foods. The distributing agency may also direct the processor to transfer such donated foods to other recipient agencies, or to transfer them to other distributing agencies, in accordance with § 250.12(e). However, if these actions are not practical, the distributing agency must require the processor to pay it for the donated foods held in excess of allowed levels at the replacement value of the donated foods.
(f)
Disposition of donated food inventories upon agreement termination.
When an agreement terminates, and is not extended or renewed, the processor must take one of the actions indicated in this paragraph (f) with respect to remaining donated food inventories, as
directed by the distributing agency or recipient agency, as appropriate. The processor must pay the cost of transporting any donated foods when the agreement is terminated at the processor's request or as a result of the processor's failure to comply with the requirements of this part. The processor must:
(1) Return the donated foods, or commercially purchased foods that meet the substitution requirements in § 250.34, to the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate; or
(2) Transfer the donated foods, or commercially purchased foods that meet the substitution requirements in § 250.34, to another distributing or recipient agency with which it has a processing agreement; or
(3) If returning or transferring the donated foods, or commercially purchased foods that meet the substitution requirements in § 250.34, is not feasible, the processor may, with FNS approval, pay the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, for the donated foods, at the contract value or replacement value of the donated foods, whichever is higher.
§ 250.36
End product sales and crediting for the value of donated foods.
(a)
Methods of end product sales.
To ensure that the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, receives credit for the value of donated foods contained in end products, the sale of end products must be performed using one of the methods of end product sales, also known as value pass through systems, described in this section. All systems of sales utilized must provide clear documentation of crediting for the value of the donated foods contained in the end products.
(b)
Refund or rebate.
Under this system, the processor sells end products to the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, at the commercial, or gross, price and must provide a refund or rebate for the value of the donated food contained in the end products. The processor may also deliver end products to a commercial distributor for sale to distributing or recipient agencies under this system. In both cases, the processor must provide a refund to the appropriate agency within 30 days of receiving a request for a refund from that agency. The refund request must be in writing, which may be transmitted via email or other electronic submission.
(c)
Direct discount.
Under this system, the processor must sell end products to the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, at a net price that incorporates a discount from the commercial case price for the value of donated food contained in the end products.
(d)
Indirect discount.
Under this system, also known as net off invoice, the processor delivers end products to a commercial distributor, which must sell the end products to an eligible distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, at a net price that incorporates a discount from the commercial case price for the value of donated food contained in the end products. The processor must require the distributor to notify it of such sales, at least on a monthly basis, through automated sales reports or other electronic or written submission. The processor then compensates the distributor for the discount provided for the value of the donated food in its sale of end products. Recipient agencies should closely monitor invoices to ensure correct discounts are applied.
(e)
Fee-for-service.
(1) Under this system, the processor must sell end products to the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, at a fee-for-service, which includes all costs to produce the end products not including the value of the donated food used in production. Three basic types of fee-for-service are used:
(i) Direct shipment and invoicing from the processor to the recipient agency;
(ii) Fee-for-service through a distributor, where the processor ships multiple pallets of product to a distributor with a breakout of who owns what products; and
(iii) What is commonly known as Modified Fee-for-service, when the recipient agency has an authorized agent bill them for the total case price.
(2) The processor must identify any charge for delivery of end products separately from the fee-for-service on its invoice. If the processor provides end products sold under fee-for-service to a
distributor for delivery to the distributing or recipient agency, the processor must identify the distributor's delivery charge separately from the fee-for-service on its invoice to the appropriate agency or may permit the distributor to bill the agency separately for the delivery of end products. The processor must require that the distributor notify it of such sales, at least on a monthly basis, through automated sales reports, email, or other electronic or written submission. When the recipient agency procures storage and distribution of processed end products separately from the processing of donated foods, the recipient agency may provide the distributor written approval to act as the recipient agency's authorized agent for the total case price (
i.e.,
including the fee-for-service and the delivery charge), in accordance with § 250.11(e).
(f)
Approved alternative method.
The processor or distributor may sell end products under an alternative method approved by FNS and the distributing agency that ensures crediting for the value of donated foods contained in the end products.
(g)
Donated food value used in crediting.
In crediting for the value of donated foods in end product sales, the contract value of the donated foods, as defined in § 250.2, must be used.
(h)
Ensuring sale and delivery of end products to eligible recipient agencies.
In order to ensure the sale of end products to eligible recipient agencies, the distributing agency must provide the processor with a list of recipient agencies eligible to purchase end products, along with the quantity of raw donated food that is to be delivered to the processor for processing on behalf of each recipient agency. In order to ensure that the distributor sells end products only to eligible recipient agencies, the processor must provide the distributor with a list of eligible recipient agencies and either:
(1) The quantities of approved end products that each recipient agency is eligible to receive; or
(2) The quantity of donated food allocated to each recipient agency and the raw donated food (pounds or cases) needed per case of each approved end product.
§ 250.37
Reports, records, and reviews of processor performance.
(a)
Performance reports.
The processor must submit a performance report to the distributing agency (or to the recipient agency, in accordance with a Recipient Agency Processing Agreement) on a monthly basis, which must include the information listed in this paragraph (a). Performance reports must be submitted not later than 30 days after the end of the reporting period. The performance report must include the following information for the reporting period, with year-to-date totals:
(1) A list of all recipient agencies purchasing end products;
(2) The quantity of donated foods in inventory at the beginning of the reporting period;
(3) The quantity of donated foods received;
(4) The quantity of donated foods transferred to the processor from another entity, or transferred by the processor to another entity;
(5) The quantity of donated foods losses;
(6) The quantity of end products delivered to each eligible recipient agency;
(7) The quantity of donated foods remaining at the end of the reporting period;
(8) A certification statement that sufficient donated foods are in inventory or on order to account for the quantities needed for production of end products;
(9) Grading certificates, as applicable; and
(10) Other supporting documentation, as required by the distributing agency or recipient agency.
(b)
Reporting reductions in donated food inventories.
The processor must report reductions in donated food inventories on performance reports only after sales of end products have been made, or after sales of end products through distributors have been documented. However, when a recipient agency has contracted with a distributor to act as an authorized agent, the processor may report reductions in donated food inventories upon delivery and acceptance by the contracted distributor, in accordance with § 250.11(e).
Documentation of distributor sales must be through the distributing or recipient agency's request for a refund (under a refund or rebate system) or through receipt of the distributor's automated sales reports or other electronic or written reports submitted to the processor (under an indirect discount system or under a fee-for-service system).
(c)
Summary performance report.
Along with the submission of performance reports to the distributing agency, a multi-State processor must submit a summary performance report to FNS, on a monthly basis and in a format established by FNS, in accordance with its National Processing Agreement. The summary report must include an accounting of the processor's national inventory of donated foods, including the information listed in this paragraph (c). The report must be submitted not later than 30 days after the end of the reporting period; however, the final performance report must be submitted within 60 days of the end of the reporting period. The summary performance report must include the following information for the reporting period:
(1) The total donated food inventory by State and the national total at the beginning of the reporting period;
(2) The total quantity of donated food received by State, with year-to-date totals, and the national total of donated food received;
(3) The total quantity of donated food reduced from inventory by State, with year-to-date totals, and the national total of donated foods reduced from inventory; and
(4) The total quantity of donated foods remaining in inventory by State, and the national total, at the end of the reporting period.
(d)
Recordkeeping requirements for processors.
The processor must maintain the following records relating to the processing of donated foods:
(1) End product data schedules and summary end product data schedules, as applicable;
(2) Receipt of donated foods shipments;
(3) Production, sale, and delivery of end products, including sales through distributors;
(4) All agreements with distributors;
(5) Remittance of refunds, invoices, or other records that assure crediting for donated foods in end products and for sale of byproducts;
(6) Documentation of Federal or State inspection of processing facilities, as appropriate, and of the maintenance of an effective quality control system;
(7) Documentation of substitution of commercial foods for donated foods, including grading certificates, as applicable;
(8) Waivers of grading requirements, as applicable; and
(9) Required reports.
(e)
Recordkeeping requirements for the distributing agency.
The distributing agency must maintain the following records relating to the processing of donated foods:
(1) In-State Processing Agreements and State Participation Agreements;
(2) End product data schedules or summary end product data schedules, as applicable;
(3) Performance reports;
(4) Grading certificates, as applicable;
(5) Documentation that supports information on the performance report, as required by the distributing agency (
e.g.,
sales invoices or copies of refund payments);
(6) Copies of audits of in-State processors and documentation of the correction of any deficiencies identified in such audits;
(7) The receipt of end products, as applicable; and
(8) Procurement documents, as applicable.
(f)
Recordkeeping requirements for the recipient agency.
The recipient agency must maintain the following records relating to the processing of donated foods:
(1) The receipt of end products purchased from processors or distributors;
(2) Crediting for the value of donated foods contained in end products;
(3) Recipient Agency Processing Agreements, as applicable, and, in accordance with such agreements, other records included in paragraph (e) of this section, if not retained by the distributing agency; and
(4) Procurement documents, as applicable.
(g)
Review requirements for the distributing agency.
The distributing agency must review performance reports and other records that it must maintain, in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section, to ensure that the processor:
(1) Receives donated food shipments;
(2) Delivers end products to eligible recipient agencies, in the types and quantities for which they are eligible;
(3) Meets the required processing yields for donated foods; and
(4) Accurately reports donated food inventory activity and maintains inventories within approved levels.
§ 250.38
Provisions of agreements.
(a)
National Processing Agreement.
A National Processing Agreement includes provisions to ensure that a multi-State processor complies with all of the applicable requirements in this part relating to the processing of donated foods.
(b)
Required provisions for State Participation Agreement.
A State Participation Agreement with a multi-State processor must include the following provisions:
(1) Contact information for all appropriate parties to the agreement;
(2) The effective dates of the agreement;
(3) A list of recipient agencies eligible to receive end products;
(4) Summary end product data schedules, with end products that may be sold in the State;
(5) Assurance that the processor will not substitute or commingle backhauled donated foods and will provide end products processed from such donated foods only to the distributing or recipient agency from which the foods were received;
(6) Any applicable labeling requirements;
(7) Other processing requirements implemented by the distributing agency, such as the specific method(s) of end product sales permitted;
(8) A statement that the agreement may be terminated by either party upon 30 days' written notice;
(9) A statement that the agreement may be terminated immediately if the processor has not complied with its terms and conditions; and
(10) A statement requiring the processor to enter into an agreement with any and all distributors delivering processed end products to recipient agencies that ensures adequate data sharing, reporting, and crediting of donated foods, in accordance with § 250.30(i).
(c)
Required provisions of the In-State Processing Agreement.
An In-State Processing Agreement must include the following provisions or attachments:
(1) Contact information for all appropriate parties to the agreement;
(2) The effective dates of the agreement;
(3) A list of recipient agencies eligible to receive end products, as applicable;
(4) In the event that subcontracting is allowed, the specific activities that will be performed under subcontracts;
(5) Assurance that the processor will provide a performance bond or irrevocable letter of credit to protect the value of donated foods it is expected to maintain in inventory, in accordance with § 250.32;
(6) End product data schedules for all end products, with all required information, in accordance with § 250.33(a);
(7) Assurance that the processor will meet processing yields for donated foods, in accordance with § 250.33;
(8) Assurance that the processor will compensate the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, for any loss of donated foods, in accordance with § 250.33(c);
(9) Any applicable labeling requirements;
(10) Assurance that the processor will meet requirements for the substitution of commercially purchased foods for donated foods, including grading requirements, in accordance with § 250.34;
(11) Assurance that the processor will not substitute or commingle backhauled donated foods and will provide end products processed from such donated foods only to the recipient agency from which the foods were received, as applicable;
(12) Assurance that the processor will provide for the safe and effective storage of donated foods, meet inspection
requirements, and maintain an effective quality control system at its processing facilities;
(13) Assurance that the processor will report donated food inventory activity and maintain inventories within approved levels;
(14) Assurance that the processor will return, transfer, or pay for, donated food inventories remaining upon termination of the agreement, in accordance with § 250.35(f);
(15) The specific method(s) of end product sales permitted, in accordance with § 250.36;
(16) Assurance that the processor will credit recipient agencies for the value of all donated foods, in accordance with § 250.36;
(17) Assurance that the processor will submit performance reports and meet other reporting and recordkeeping requirements, in accordance with § 250.37;
(18) Assurance that the processor will obtain independent CPA audits and will correct any deficiencies identified in such audits, in accordance with § 250.20;
(19) A statement that the distributing agency, subdistributing agency, or recipient agency, the Comptroller General, the Department of Agriculture, or their duly authorized representatives, may perform on-site reviews of the processor's operation to ensure that all activities relating to donated foods are performed in accordance with the requirements in 7 CFR part 250;
(20) A statement that the agreement may be terminated by either party upon 30 days' written notice;
(21) A statement that the agreement may be terminated immediately if the processor has not complied with its terms and conditions;
(22) A statement that extensions or renewals of the agreement, if applicable, are contingent upon the fulfillment of all agreement provisions; and
(23) A statement requiring the processor to enter into an agreement with any and all distributors delivering processed end products to recipient agencies that ensures adequate data sharing, reporting, and crediting of donated foods, in accordance with § 250.30(i).
(d)
Required provisions for Recipient Agency Processing Agreement.
The Recipient Agency Processing Agreement must contain the same provisions as an In-State Processing Agreement, to the extent that the distributing agency permits the recipient agency to perform activities normally performed by the distributing agency under an In-State Processing Agreement (
e.g.,
approval of end product data schedules, review of performance reports, or management of the performance bond). However, a list of recipient agencies eligible to receive end products need not be included unless the Recipient Agency Processing Agreement represents more than one (
e.g.,
a cooperative) recipient agency.
(e)
Noncompliance with processing requirements.
If the processor has not complied with processing requirements, the distributing or recipient agency, as appropriate, may choose to not extend or renew the agreement and may immediately terminate it.
§ 250.39
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)
Waiver of processing requirements.
The Food and Nutrition Service may waive any of the requirements contained in this part for the purpose of conducting demonstration projects to test program changes designed to improve the processing of donated foods.
(b) Processing activity guidance.
Distributing agencies must develop and provide a processing manual or similar procedural material for guidance to contracting agencies, recipient agencies, and processors. Distributing agencies must revise these materials as necessary to reflect policy and regulatory changes. This guidance material must be provided to contracting agencies, recipient agencies, and processors at the time of the approval of the initial agreement by the distributing agency, when there have been regulatory or policy changes which necessitate changes in the guidance materials, and upon request. The manual must include, at a minimum, statements of the distributing agency's policies and procedures regarding:
(1) Contract approval;
(2) Monitoring and review of processing activities;
(3) Recordkeeping and reporting requirements;
(4) Inventory controls; and
(5) Refund applications.
(c)
Guidance or information.
Guidance or information relating to the processing of donated foods is included on the FNS website or may otherwise be obtained from FNS.

# Subpart D—Donated Foods in Contracts With Food Service Management Companies

# Source:
73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 250.50
Contract requirements and procurement.
(a)
Contract requirements.
Prior to donated foods being made available to a food service management company, the recipient agency must enter into a contract with the food service management company. The contract must ensure that all donated foods received for use by the recipient agency in the school or fiscal year, as applicable, are used in the recipient agency's food service, or that commercially purchased foods are used in place of such donated foods only in accordance with the requirements in § 250.51(d). Contracts between recipient agencies in child nutrition programs and food service management companies must also ensure compliance with other requirements in this subpart relating to donated foods, as well as other Federal requirements in 7 CFR parts 210, 220, 225, or 226, as applicable. Contracts between other recipient agencies—i.e., charitable institutions and recipient agencies utilizing TEFAP foods—and food service management companies are not subject to the other requirements in this subpart.
(b)
Types of contracts.
Recipient agencies may enter into a fixed-price or a cost-reimbursable contract with a food service management company, except that recipient agencies in CACFP are prohibited from entering into cost-reimbursable contracts, in accordance with 7 CFR part 226. Under a fixed-price contract, the recipient agency pays a fixed cost per meal provided or a fixed cost for a certain time period. Under a cost-reimbursable contract, the food service management company charges the recipient agency for food service operating costs, and also charges fixed fees for management or services.
(c)
Procurement requirements.
The recipient agency must meet Departmental procurement requirements in 7 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416, as applicable, in obtaining the services of a food service management company, as well as applicable requirements in 7 CFR parts 210, 220, 225, or 226. The recipient agency must ensure that procurement documents, as well as contract provisions, include any donated food activities that a food service management company is to perform, such as those activities listed in paragraph (d) of this section. The procurement and contract must also specify the method used to determine the donated food values to be used in crediting, or the actual values assigned, in accordance with § 250.51. The method used to determine the donated food values may not be established through a post-award negotiation, or by any other method that may directly or indirectly alter the terms and conditions of the procurement or contract.
(d)
Activities relating to donated foods.
A food service management company may perform specific activities relating to donated foods, such as those listed in this paragraph (d), in accordance with procurement documents and its contract with the recipient agency. Such activities may also include the procurement of processed end products on behalf of the recipient agency. Such procurement must ensure compliance with the requirements in subpart C of this part and with the provisions of the distributing or recipient agency's processing agreements, and must ensure crediting of the recipient agency for the value of donated foods contained in such end products at the processing agreement value. Although the food service management company may procure processed end products on behalf of the recipient agency, it may not itself enter into the processing agreement with the processor required in subpart C of this part. Other donated food activities that the food service
management company may perform include:
(1) Preparing and serving meals;
(2) Ordering or selection of donated foods, in coordination with the recipient agency, and in accordance with § 250.58(a);
(3) Storage and inventory management of donated foods, in accordance with § 250.52; and
(4) Payment of processing fees or submittal of refund requests to a processor on behalf of the recipient agency, or remittance of refunds for the value of donated foods in processed end products to the recipient agency, in accordance with the requirements in subpart C of this part.
[73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 23111, Apr. 19, 2016]
§ 250.51
Crediting for, and use of, donated foods.
(a)
Crediting for donated foods.
In both fixed-price and cost-reimbursable contracts, the food service management company must credit the recipient agency for the value of all donated foods received for use in the recipient agency's meal service in a school year or fiscal year (including both entitlement and bonus foods). Such requirement includes crediting for the value of donated foods contained in processed end products if the food service management company's contract requires it to:
(1) Procure processed end products on behalf of the recipient agency; or
(2) Act as an intermediary in passing the donated food value in processed end products on to the recipient agency.
(b)
Method and frequency of crediting.
The recipient agency may permit crediting for the value of donated foods through invoice reductions, refunds, discounts, or other means. However, all forms of crediting must provide clear documentation of the value received from the donated foods—e.g., by separate line item entries on invoices. If provided for in a fixed-price contract, the recipient agency may permit a food service management company to pre-credit for donated foods. In pre-crediting, a deduction for the value of donated foods is included in the established fixed price per meal. However, the recipient agency must ensure that the food service management company provides an additional credit for any donated foods not accounted for in the fixed price per meal—e.g., for donated foods that are not made available until later in the year. In cost-reimbursable contracts, crediting may be performed by disclosure; i.e., the food service management company credits the recipient agency for the value of donated foods by disclosing, in its billing for food costs submitted to the recipient agency, the savings resulting from the receipt of donated foods for the billing period. In all cases, the recipient agency must require crediting to be performed not less frequently than annually, and must ensure that the specified method of valuation of donated foods permits crediting to be achieved in the required time period. A school food authority must also ensure that the method, and timing, of crediting does not cause its cash resources to exceed the limits established in 7 CFR 210.9(b)(2).
(c)
Donated food values required in crediting.
The recipient agency must ensure that, in crediting it for the value of donated foods, the food service management company uses the donated food values determined by the distributing agency, in accordance with § 250.58(e), or, if approved by the distributing agency, donated food values determined by an alternate means of the recipient agency's choosing. For example, the recipient agency may, with the approval of the distributing agency, specify that the value will be the average price per pound for a food, or for a group or category of foods (e.g., all frozen foods or cereal products), as listed in market journals over a specified period of time. However, the method of determining the donated food values to be used in crediting must be included in procurement documents and in the contract, and must result in the determination of actual values; e.g., the average USDA purchase price for the period of the contract with the food vendor, or the average price per pound listed in market journals over a specified period of time. Negotiation of such values is not permitted. Additionally, the method of valuation must ensure
that crediting may be achieved in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, and at the specific frequency established in procurement documents and in the contract.
(d)
Use of donated foods.
The food service management company must use all donated beef, pork, and all processed end products, in the recipient agency's food service, and must use all other donated foods, or commercially purchased foods of the same generic identity, of U.S. origin, and of equal or better quality than the donated foods, in the recipient agency's food service (unless the contract specifically stipulates that the donated foods, and not such commercial substitutes, be used).
[73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 23111, Apr. 19, 2016]
§ 250.52
Storage and inventory management of donated foods.
(a)
General requirements.
The food service management company must meet the requirements for the safe storage and control of donated foods in § 250.14(a).
(b)
Storage and inventory with commercially purchased foods.
The food service management company may store and inventory donated foods together with foods it has purchased commercially for the school food authority's use (unless specifically prohibited in the contract). It may store and inventory such foods together with other commercially purchased foods only to the extent that such a system ensures compliance with the requirements for the use of donated foods in § 250.51(d)—
i.e.,
use all donated beef and pork, and all end products in the food service, and use all other donated foods or commercially purchased foods of the same generic identity, of U.S. origin, and of equal or better quality than the donated foods, in the food service. Additionally, under cost-reimbursable contracts, the food service management company must ensure that its system of inventory management does not result in the recipient agency being charged for donated foods.
(c)
Disposition of donated foods and credit reconciliation upon termination of the contract.
When a contract terminates, and is not extended or renewed, the food service management company must return all unused donated beef, pork, and processed end products, and must, at the recipient agency's discretion, return other unused donated foods. The recipient agency must ensure that the food service management company has credited it for the value of all donated foods received for use in the recipient agency's meal service in a school year or fiscal year, as applicable.
[81 FR 23111, Apr. 19, 2016]
§ 250.53
Contract provisions.
(a)
Required contract provisions in fixed-price contracts.
The following provisions relating to the use of donated foods must be included, as applicable, in a recipient agency's fixed-price contract with a food service management company. Such provisions must also be included in procurement documents. The required provisions are:
(1) A statement that the food service management company must credit the recipient agency for the value of all donated foods received for use in the recipient agency's meal service in the school year or fiscal year (including both entitlement and bonus foods), and including the value of donated foods contained in processed end products, in accordance with the contingencies in § 250.51(a);
(2) The method and frequency by which crediting will occur, and the means of documentation to be utilized to verify that the value of all donated foods has been credited;
(3) The method of determining the donated food values to be used in crediting, in accordance with § 250.51(c), or the actual donated food values;
(4) Any activities relating to donated foods that the food service management company will be responsible for, in accordance with § 250.50(d), and assurance that such activities will be performed in accordance with the applicable requirements in 7 CFR part 250;
(5) A statement that the food service management company will use all donated beef and pork products, and all processed end products, in the recipient agency's food service;
(6) A statement that the food service management company will use all
other donated foods, or will use commercially purchased foods of the same generic identity, of U.S. origin, and of equal of better quality than the donated foods, in the recipient agency's food service;
(7) Assurance that the procurement of processed end products on behalf of the recipient agency, as applicable, will ensure compliance with the requirements in subpart C of 7 CFR part 250 and with the provisions of distributing or recipient agency processing agreements, and will ensure crediting of the recipient agency for the value of donated foods contained in such end products at the processing agreement value;
(8) Assurance that the food service management company will not itself enter into the processing agreement with the processor required in subpart C of 7 CFR part 250;
(9) Assurance that the food service management company will comply with the storage and inventory requirements for donated foods;
(10) A statement that the distributing agency, subdistributing agency, or recipient agency, the Comptroller General, the Department of Agriculture, or their duly authorized representatives, may perform onsite reviews of the food service management company's food service operation, including the review of records, to ensure compliance with requirements for the management and use of donated foods;
(11) A statement that the food service management company will maintain records to document its compliance with requirements relating to donated foods, in accordance with § 250.54(b); and
(12) A statement that extensions or renewals of the contract, if applicable, are contingent upon the fulfillment of all contract provisions relating to donated foods.
(b)
Required contract provisions in cost-reimbursable contracts.
A cost-reimbursable contract must include the same provisions as those required for a fixed-price contract in paragraph (a) of this section. Such provisions must also be included in procurement documents. However, a cost-reimbursable contract must also contain a statement that the food service management company will ensure that its system of inventory management will not result in the recipient agency being charged for donated foods.
[73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 23111, Apr. 19, 2016]
§ 250.54
Recordkeeping and reviews.
(a)
Recordkeeping requirements for the recipient agency.
The recipient agency must maintain the following records relating to the use of donated foods in its contract with the food service management company:
(1) The donated foods and processed end products received and provided to the food service management company for use in the recipient agency's food service;
(2) Documentation that the food service management company has credited it for the value of all donated foods received for use in the recipient agency's food service in the school or fiscal year, including, in accordance with the requirements in § 250.51(a), the value of donated foods contained in processed end products; and
(3) The actual donated food values used in crediting.
(b)
Recordkeeping requirements for the food service management company.
The food service management company must maintain the following records relating to the use of donated foods in its contract with the recipient agency:
(1) The donated foods and processed end products received from, or on behalf of, the recipient agency, for use in the recipient agency's food service;
(2) Documentation that it has credited the recipient agency for the value of all donated foods received for use in the recipient agency's food service in the school or fiscal year, including, in accordance with the requirements in § 250.51(a), the value of donated foods contained in processed end products; and
(3) Documentation of its procurement of processed end products on behalf of the recipient agency, as applicable.
(c)
Review requirements for the recipient agency.
The recipient agency must ensure that the food service management company is in compliance with the requirements of this part through its monitoring of the food service operation, as required in 7 CFR parts 210,
225, or 226, as applicable. The recipient agency must also conduct a reconciliation at least annually (and upon termination of the contract) to ensure that the food service management company has credited it for the value of all donated foods received for use in the recipient agency's food service in the school or fiscal year, including, in accordance with the requirements in § 250.51(a), the value of donated foods contained in processed end products.
(d)
Departmental reviews of food service management companies.
The Department may conduct reviews of food service management company operations, as necessary, to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part with respect to the use and management of donated foods.

# Subpart E—National School Lunch Program (NSLP) and Other Child Nutrition Programs

# Source:
73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008, unless otherwise noted.
§ 250.56
Provision of donated foods in NSLP.
(a)
Distribution of donated foods in NSLP.
The Department provides donated foods in NSLP to distributing agencies. Distributing agencies provide donated foods to school food authorities that participate in NSLP for use in serving nutritious lunches or other meals to schoolchildren in their nonprofit school food service. The distributing agency must confirm the participation of school food authorities in NSLP with the State administering agency (if different from the distributing agency). In addition to requirements in this part relating to donated foods, distributing agencies and school food authorities in NSLP must adhere to Federal regulations in 7 CFR part 210, as applicable.
(b)
Types of donated foods distributed.
The Department purchases a wide variety of foods for distribution in NSLP each school year. A list of available foods is posted on the FNS Web site, for access by distributing agencies and school food authorities. In addition to Section 6 foods (42 U.S.C. 1755) as described in paragraph (c) of this section, the distributing agency may also receive Section 14 donated foods (42 U.S.C. 1762(a)), and donated foods under Section 32 (7 U.S.C. 612c), Section 416 (7 U.S.C. 1431), or Section 709 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), as available.
(c)
National per-meal value of donated foods.
For each school year, the distributing agency receives, at a minimum, the national per-meal value of donated foods, as established by Section 6(c) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(c)), multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches served in the State in the previous school year. The donated foods provided in this manner are referred to as Section 6 foods, or entitlement foods. The national per-meal value is adjusted each year to reflect changes in the Bureau of Labor Statistic's Producer Price Index for Foods Used in Schools and Institutions, in accordance with the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act. The adjusted value is published in a notice in the
Federal Register
in July of each year. Reimbursable lunches are those that meet the nutritional standards established in 7 CFR part 210, and that are reported to FNS, in accordance with the requirements in that part.
(d)
Donated food values used to credit distributing agency entitlement levels.
FNS uses the average price (cost per pound) for USDA purchases of donated food made in a contract period to credit distributing agency entitlement levels.
(e)
Cash in lieu of donated foods.
States that phased out their food distribution facilities prior to July 1, 1974, are permitted to choose to receive cash in lieu of the donated foods to which they would be entitled in NSLP, in accordance with the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1765) and with 7 CFR part 240.
§ 250.57
Commodity schools.
(a)
Categorization of commodity schools.
Commodity schools are schools that operate a nonprofit school food service in accordance with 7 CFR part 210, but receive additional donated food assistance rather than the general cash payment available to them under Section 4 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1753). In addition to requirements in
this part relating to donated foods, commodity schools must adhere to Federal regulations in 7 CFR part 210, as applicable.
(b)
Value of donated foods for commodity schools.
For participating commodity schools, the distributing agency receives donated foods valued at the sum of the national per-meal value and the value of the general cash payment available to it under Section 4 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1753), multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches served by commodity schools in the previous school year. From the total value of donated food assistance for which it is eligible, a commodity school may elect to receive up to 5 cents per meal in cash to cover processing and handling expenses related to the use of donated foods. In addition to Section 6 and Section 14 foods under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755 and 1762(a)), the distributing agency may also receive donated foods under Section 32 (7 U.S.C. 612c), Section 416 (7 U.S.C. 1431), or Section 709 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), as available, for commodity schools.
§ 250.58
Ordering donated foods and their provision to school food authorities.
(a)
Ordering and distribution of donated foods.
The distributing agency must ensure that school food authorities are able to submit donated food orders through the FNS electronic donated foods ordering system, or through a comparable electronic food ordering system. The distributing agency must ensure that all school food authorities have the opportunity to provide input at least annually in determining the donated foods from the full list that are made available to them for ordering in the FNS electronic donated foods ordering system or other comparable electronic ordering system. The distributing agency must ensure distribution to school food authorities of all such ordered donated foods that may be distributed to them in a cost-effective manner (including the use of split shipments, as necessary), and that they may utilize efficiently and without waste.
(b)
Value of donated foods offered to school food authorities.
In accordance with Section 6(c) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(c)), the distributing agency must offer the school food authority, at a minimum, the national per-meal value of donated food assistance multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches served by the school food authority in the previous school year. This is referred to as the commodity offer value. For a commodity school, the distributing agency must offer the sum of the national per-meal value of donated foods and the value of the general cash payment available to it under Section 4 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1753), multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches served by the school in the previous school year. The school food authority may also receive bonus foods, as available, in addition to the Section 6 foods.
(c)
Receipt of less donated foods than the commodity offer value.
In certain cases, the school food authority may receive less donated foods than the commodity offer value in a school year. This “adjusted” value of donated foods is referred to as the adjusted assistance level. For example, the school food authority may receive an adjusted assistance level if:
(1) The distributing agency, in consultation with the school food authority, determines that the school food authority cannot efficiently utilize the commodity offer value of donated foods; or
(2) The school food authority does not order, or select, donated foods equal to the commodity offer value that can be cost-effectively distributed to it.
(d)
Receipt of more donated foods than the commodity offer value.
The school food authority may receive more donated foods than the commodity offer value if the distributing agency, in consultation with the school food authority, determines that the school food authority may efficiently utilize more donated foods than the commodity offer value, and more donated foods are available for distribution. This may occur, for example, if other school food authorities receive less
than the commodity offer value of donated foods for one of the reasons described in paragraph (c) of this section.
(e)
Donated food value in crediting.
In meeting the commodity offer value of donated foods for the school food authority, the distributing agency must use the cost-per-pound donated food prices posted annually by USDA, the most recently published cost-per-pound price in the USDA donated foods catalog, and/or a rolling average of the USDA prices (average cost per pound). The distributing agency must credit the school food authority using the USDA purchase price (cost-per-pound), and update the price at least semi-annually to reflect the most recent USDA purchase price.
[73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008, as amended at 81 FR 23111, Apr. 19, 2016]
§ 250.59
Storage, control, and use of donated foods.
(a)
Storage and inventory management.
The distributing agency must ensure compliance with requirements in §§ 250.12 and 250.13 in order to ensure the safe and effective storage and inventory management of donated foods, and their efficient and cost-effective distribution to school food authorities. The school food authority must ensure compliance with requirements in § 210.13 of this chapter and §§ 250.13 and 250.14 to ensure the safe and sanitary storage, inventory management, and use of donated foods and purchased foods. In accordance with § 250.14(c), the school food authority may commingle donated foods and purchased foods in storage and maintain a single inventory record of such commingled foods, in a single inventory management system.
(b)
Use of donated foods in the nonprofit school food service.
The school food authority must use donated foods, as much as is practical, in the lunches served to schoolchildren, for which they receive an established per-meal value of donated food assistance each school year. However, the school food authority may also use donated foods in other activities of the nonprofit school food service. Revenues received from such activities must accrue to the school food authority's nonprofit school food service account, in accordance with § 210.14 of this chapter. Some examples of such activities in which donated foods may be used include:
(1) School breakfasts or other meals served in child nutrition programs;
(2) A la carte foods sold to schoolchildren;
(3) Meals served to adults directly involved in the operation and administration of the nonprofit school food service, and to other school staff; and
(4) Training in nutrition, health, food service, or general home economics instruction for students.
(c)
Use of donated foods outside of the nonprofit school food service.
The school food authority should not use donated foods in meals or other activities that do not benefit primarily schoolchildren, such as banquets or catered events. However, as their use in such activities may not always be avoided (
e.g.,
if donated foods are commingled with purchased foods in a single inventory management system), the school food authority must ensure reimbursement to the nonprofit school food service for the value of donated foods used in such activities. When such reimbursement may not be based on actual usage of donated foods (
e.g.,
in a single inventory management system), the school food authority must establish an alternate method of reimbursement—
e.g.,
by including the current per-meal value of donated food assistance in the price charged for the meal or other activity.
(d)
Use of donated foods in a contract with a food service management company.
When the school food authority contracts with a food service management company to conduct the food service, in accordance with § 210.16 of this chapter, it must ensure compliance with requirements in subpart D of this part, which address the treatment of donated foods under such contract. The school food authority must also ensure compliance with the use of donated foods in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section under its contract with a food service management company.
(e)
School food authorities acting as a collective unit.
Two or more school food authorities may conduct activities of the nonprofit school food service as a collective unit (
e.g.,
in a school co-op
or consortium), including activities relating to donated foods. Such activities must be conducted in accordance with a written agreement or contract between the parties. The school food authority collective unit is subject to the same requirements as a single school food authority in conducting such activities. For example, the school food authority collective unit may use a single inventory management system in its storage and control of purchased and donated foods.
[81 FR 23111, Apr. 19, 2016]
§ 250.60
Child and Adult Care Food Program (CACFP).
(a)
Distribution of donated foods in CACFP.
The Department provides donated foods in CACFP to distributing agencies, which provide them to child care and adult care institutions participating in CACFP for use in serving nutritious lunches and suppers to eligible recipients. Distributing agencies and child care and adult care institutions must also adhere to Federal regulations in 7 CFR part 226, as applicable.
(b)
Types and quantities of donated foods distributed.
For each school year, the distributing agency receives, at a minimum, the national per-meal value of donated food assistance (or cash in lieu of donated foods) multiplied by the number of reimbursable lunches and suppers served in the State in the previous school year, as established in Section 6(c) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755(c)). The national per-meal value is adjusted each year to reflect changes in the Bureau of Labor Statistic's Producer Price Index for Foods Used in Schools and Institutions. The adjusted per-meal value is published in a notice in the
Federal Register
in July of each year. Reimbursable lunches and suppers are those meeting the nutritional standards established in 7 CFR part 226. The number of reimbursable lunches and suppers may be adjusted during, or at the end of the school year, in accordance with 7 CFR part 226. In addition to Section 6 entitlement foods (42 U.S.C. 1755(c)), the distributing agency may also receive Section 14 donated foods (42 U.S.C. 1762(a)), and donated foods under Section 32 (7 U.S.C. 612c), Section 416 (7 U.S.C. 1431), or Section 709 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), as available, for distribution to child care and adult care institutions participating in CACFP.
(c)
Cash in lieu of donated foods.
In accordance with the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, and with 7 CFR part 226, the State administering agency must determine whether child care and adult care institutions participating in CACFP wish to receive donated foods or cash in lieu of donated foods, and ensure that they receive the preferred form of assistance. The State administering agency must inform the distributing agency (if a different agency) which institutions wish to receive donated foods and must ensure that such foods are provided to them. However, if the State administering agency, in consultation with the distributing agency, determines that distribution of such foods would not be cost-effective, it may, with the concurrence of FNS, provide cash payments to the applicable institutions instead.
(d)
Use of donated foods in a contract with a food service management company.
A child care or adult care institution may use donated foods in a contract with a food service management company to conduct its food service. The contract must meet the requirements in subpart D of this part with respect to donated foods, and must also meet requirements in 7 CFR part 226, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416, as applicable, with respect to the formation of such contracts.
(e)
Applicability of other requirements in this subpart to CACFP.
The requirements in this subpart relating to the ordering, storage and inventory management, and use of donated foods in NSLP, also apply to CACFP. However, in accordance with 7 CFR part 226, a child care or adult care institution that uses donated foods to prepare and provide meals to other such institutions is considered a food service management company.
[73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008. Redesignated and amended at 81 FR 23112, Apr. 19, 2016]
§ 250.61
Summer Food Service Program (SFSP).
(a)
Distribution of donated foods in SFSP.
The Department provides donated foods in SFSP to distributing agencies, which provide them to eligible service institutions participating in SFSP for use in serving nutritious meals to needy children primarily in the summer months, in their nonprofit food service programs. Distributing agencies and service institutions in SFSP must also adhere to Federal regulations in 7 CFR part 225, as applicable.
(b)
Types and quantities of donated foods distributed.
The distributing agency receives donated foods available under Section 6 and Section 14 of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1755 and 1762), and may also receive donated foods under Section 32 (7 U.S.C. 612c), Section 416 (7 U.S.C. 1431), or Section 709 (7 U.S.C. 1446a-1), as available, for distribution to eligible service institutions participating in SFSP. Section 6 donated foods are provided to distributing agencies in accordance with the number of meals served in the State in the previous school year that are eligible for donated food support, in accordance with 7 CFR part 225.
(c)
Distribution of donated foods to service institutions in SFSP.
The distributing agency provides donated food assistance to eligible service institutions participating in SFSP based on the number of meals served that are eligible for donated food support, in accordance with 7 CFR part 225.
(d)
Use of donated foods in a contract with a food service management company.
A service institution may use donated foods in a contract with a food service management company to conduct the food service. The contract must meet the requirements in subpart D of this part with respect to donated foods, and must also meet requirements in 7 CFR part 225, 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and appendix II, Contract Provisions for Non-Federal Entity Contracts Under Federal Awards, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416, as applicable, with respect to the formation of such contracts.
(e)
Applicability of other requirements in this subpart to SFSP.
The requirements in this subpart relating to the ordering, storage and inventory management, and use of donated foods in NSLP, also apply to SFSP.
[73 FR 46185, Aug. 8, 2008. Redesignated and amended at 81 FR 23112, Apr. 19, 2016]

# Subpart F—Household Programs

# Source:
81 FR 23112, Apr. 19, 2016, unless otherwise noted.
§ 250.63
Commodity Supplemental Food Program (CSFP).
(a)
Distribution of donated foods in CSFP.
The Department provides donated foods in CSFP to the distributing agency (
i.e.,
the State agency, in accordance with 7 CFR part 247) for further distribution in the State, in accordance with 7 CFR part 247. State agencies and recipient agencies (
i.e.,
local agencies in 7 CFR part 247) must comply with the requirements of this part in the distribution, control, and use of donated foods in CSFP, to the extent that such requirements are not inconsistent with the requirements in 7 CFR part 247.
(b)
Types of donated foods distributed.
Donated foods distributed in CSFP include Section 4(a) foods, and donated foods provided under Section 32, Section 416, or Section 709, as available.
§ 250.64
The Emergency Food Assistance Program (TEFAP).
(a)
Distribution of donated foods in TEFAP.
The Department provides donated foods in TEFAP to the distributing agency (
i.e.,
the State agency, in accordance with 7 CFR part 251) for further distribution in the State, in accordance with 7 CFR part 251. State agencies and recipient agencies must comply with the requirements of this part in the distribution, control, and use of donated foods, to the extent that such requirements are not inconsistent with the requirements in 7 CFR part 251.
(b)
Types of donated foods distributed.
Donated foods distributed in TEFAP include Section 27 foods, and donated foods provided under Section 32, Section 416, or Section 709, as available.
§ 250.65
Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR).
(a)
Distribution of donated foods in FDPIR.
The Department provides donated foods in FDPIR to the distributing agency (
i.e.,
the State agency, in accordance with 7 CFR parts 253 and 254, which may be an Indian Tribal Organization) for further distribution, in accordance with 7 CFR parts 253 and 254. The State agency must comply with the requirements of this part in the distribution, control, and use of donated foods, to the extent that such requirements are not inconsistent with the requirements in 7 CFR parts 253 and 254.
(b)
Types of donated foods distributed.
Donated foods distributed in FDPIR include Section 4(a) foods, and donated foods provided under Section 32, Section 416, or Section 709, as available.
§ 250.66
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Additional Provisions
§ 250.67
Charitable institutions.
(a)
Distribution to charitable institutions.
The Department provides donated foods to distributing agencies for distribution to charitable institutions, as defined in this part. A charitable institution must have a signed agreement with the distributing agency in order to receive donated foods, in accordance with § 250.12(b). However, the following organizations may not receive donated foods as charitable institutions:
(1) Schools, summer camps, service institutions, and child and adult care institutions that participate in child nutrition programs or as commodity schools; and
(2) Adult correctional institutions that do not conduct rehabilitation programs for a majority of inmates.
(b)
Types of charitable institutions.
Some types of charitable institutions that may receive donated foods, if they meet the requirements of this section, include:
(1) Hospitals or retirement homes;
(2) Emergency shelters, soup kitchens, or emergency kitchens;
(3) Elderly nutrition projects or adult day care centers;
(4) Schools, summer camps, service institutions, and child care institutions that do not participate in child nutrition programs; and
(5) Adult correctional institutions that conduct rehabilitation programs for a majority of inmates.
(c)
Determining service to predominantly needy persons.
To determine if a charitable institution serves predominantly needy persons, the distributing agency must use:
(1) Socioeconomic data of the area in which the organization is located, or of the clientele served by the organization;
(2) Data from other public or private social service agencies, or from State advisory boards, such as those established in accordance with 7 CFR 251.4(h)(4); or
(3) Other similar data.
(d)
Types and quantities of donated foods distributed.
A charitable institution may receive donated foods under Section 4(a), Section 32, Section 416, or Section 709, as available. The distributing agency must distribute donated foods to charitable institutions based on the quantities that each may effectively utilize without waste, and the total quantities available for distribution to such institutions.
(e)
Contracts with food service management companies.
A charitable institution may use donated foods in a contract with a food service management company. The contract must ensure that all donated foods received for use by the charitable institution in a fiscal year are used in the charitable institution's food service. However, the charitable institution is not subject to the other requirements in subpart D of this part relating to the use of donated foods under such contracts.
[73 FR 46184, Aug. 8, 2008]
§ 250.68
Nutrition Services Incentive Program (NSIP).
(a)
Distribution of donated foods in NSIP.
The Department provides donated foods in NSIP to State Units on Aging and their selected elderly nutrition projects for use in providing meals to elderly persons. NSIP is administered at the Federal level by DHHS' Administration for Community Living (ACL), which provides an NSIP grant
each year to State Units on Aging. The State agencies may choose to receive all, or part, of the grant as donated foods, on behalf of its elderly nutrition projects. The Department is responsible for the purchase of the donated foods and their delivery to State Units on Aging. ACL is responsible for transferring funds to the Department for the cost of donated food purchases and for expenses related to such purchases.
(b)
Types and quantities of donated foods distributed.
Each State Unit on Aging, and its elderly nutrition projects, may receive any types of donated foods available in food distribution or child nutrition programs, to the extent that such foods may be distributed cost-effectively. Each State Unit on Aging may receive donated foods with a value equal to its NSIP grant. Each State Unit on Aging and elderly nutrition project may also receive donated foods under Section 32, Section 416, and Section 709, as available, and under Section 14 (42 U.S.C. 1762(a)).
(c)
Role of distributing agency.
The Department delivers NSIP donated foods to distributing agencies, which distribute them to elderly nutrition projects selected by each State Unit on Aging. The distributing agency may only distribute donated foods to elderly nutrition projects with which they have signed agreements. The agreements must contain provisions that describe the roles of each party in ensuring that the desired donated foods are ordered, stored, and distributed in an effective manner.
(d)
Donated food values used in crediting a State Unit on Aging's NSIP grant.
FNS uses the average price (cost per pound) for USDA purchases of a donated food made in a contract period in crediting a State Unit on Aging's NSIP grant.
(e)
Coordination between FNS and ACL.
FNS and ACL coordinate their respective roles in NSIP through the execution of annual agreements. The agreement ensures that ACL transfers funds to FNS sufficient to purchase the donated foods requested by State Units on Aging, and to meet expenses related to such purchases. The agreement also authorizes FNS to carry over any such funds that are not used in the current fiscal year to make purchases of donated foods for the appropriate State Units on Aging in the following fiscal year.
[81 FR 23113, Apr. 19, 2016]
§ 250.69
Disasters.
(a)
Use of USDA Foods to provide congregate meals.
The distributing agency may provide USDA Foods from current inventories, either at the distributing or recipient agency level, to a disaster organization (as defined in § 250.2), for use in providing congregate meals to persons in need of food assistance as a result of a Presidentially declared disaster or emergency (hereinafter referred to collectively as a “disaster”). FNS approval is not required for such use.
(1)
Notification of congregate meals activity to FNS.
Prior to using USDA Foods for congregate meals under this section, the distributing agency must notify FNS that such assistance is to be provided, and the period of time that it is expected to be needed. The distributing agency may extend such period of assistance as needs dictate but must notify FNS of such extension.
(2)
Selection of disaster organizations for disaster congregate meal service by the distributing agency.
Distributing agencies are responsible for choosing disaster organizations to implement congregate meal service, subject to FNS approval as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Before distribution of USDA Foods to a disaster organization for congregate meal service, the distributing agency must review and approve such organization's application in accordance with applicable FNS guidance. A disaster organization's application must be submitted to the distributing agency in written form. The disaster organization's application must, to the extent possible, include the following information at a minimum:
(i) A description of the disaster situation;
(ii) The number of people requiring assistance;
(iii) The period of time for which USDA Foods are requested;
(iv) The quantity and types of USDA Foods needed; and
(v) The name, number, and location of sites where USDA Foods are to be
used, to the extent that such information is known.
(3)
Eligibility of emergency relief workers for congregate meals.
The disaster organization may use USDA Foods to provide meals to any emergency relief workers at the congregate feeding site who are directly engaged in providing relief assistance.
(b)
Use of USDA Foods for distribution to households.
Subject to FNS approval, the distributing agency may provide USDA Foods from current inventories in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, either at the distributing or recipient agency level, to a disaster organization, for distribution to households in need of food assistance because of a disaster. Once approved, such distribution may continue for the period that FNS has determined to be necessary to meet the needs of such households. Distributing agencies may request an extension of the distribution period, subject to FNS approval.
(1)
FNS approval of disaster household distribution.
Before permitting the distribution of USDA Foods to a disaster organization for household distribution, the distributing agency must submit an application to FNS for review and approval. The distributing agency's application must, to the extent possible, include the following information:
(i) A description of the disaster situation;
(ii) The number of people requiring assistance;
(iii) The period of time for which USDA Foods are requested;
(iv) The quantity and types of USDA Foods needed;
(v) The name, number, and location of sites where USDA Foods are to be used, to the extent that such information is known;
(vi) An explanation as to why household distribution is needed; and
(vii) The method(s) of distribution available.
(2)
Selection of a disaster organization for disaster household distribution of USDA Foods.
Distributing agencies are responsible for choosing disaster organizations to implement a disaster household distribution, subject to FNS approval as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Before distribution of USDA Foods to a disaster organization, the distributing agency must review and approve such organization's application in accordance with applicable FNS guidance, which must be submitted to the distributing agency either electronically or in written form. The distributing agency must also submit such application to FNS for review and approval before permitting distribution of USDA Foods to households.
(c)
Limitation on impacts to other programs.
Distributing agencies must ensure that the operation of disaster congregate meal service and/or disaster household distribution is not administered in lieu of regular program operations nor does it negatively impact the distribution of USDA Foods through other programs administered by the distributing agency.
(d)
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
The distributing agency must report the following to FNS:
(1) The number, names, and locations of sites where USDA Foods are used in congregate meals or household distribution as these sites are established.
(2) The types and amounts of USDA Foods from distributing or recipient agency storage facilities used in disaster assistance, utilizing form FNS-292A,
Report of Commodity Distribution for Disaster Relief,
which must be submitted electronically, within 45 days from the termination of disaster assistance. This form must also be used to request replacement of USDA Foods, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. The distributing agency must maintain records of reports and other information relating to disasters.
(3) If the distributing agency is operating disaster household distribution per 250.69(b), the distributing agency must submit a biweekly report to FNS, utilizing the format requested by FNS, for the approved disaster period. This report must be submitted electronically biweekly as long as the disaster household distribution continues operation. Biweekly reports must include:
(i) The weekly distribution start and end dates;
(ii) The total number of individual household members receiving assistance at all locations;
(iii) Material identification codes for USDA Foods distributed;
(iv) the USDA Foods description of the foods distributed; and
(v) the total units of each food distributed.
(e)
Replacement of USDA Foods.
In order to ensure replacement of USDA Foods used in disasters, the distributing agency must submit to FNS a request for such replacement, utilizing form FNS-292A,
Report of Commodity Distribution for Disaster Relief,
within 45 days following the termination of disaster assistance. The distributing agency may request replacement of USDA Foods used from inventories in which USDA Foods are commingled with other foods (
i.e.,
at storage facilities of recipient agencies utilizing single inventory management), if the recipient agency received USDA Foods of the same type as the foods used during the year preceding the onset of the disaster assistance. FNS will replace such USDA Foods in the amounts used, or in the amount of like USDA Foods received during the preceding year, whichever is less.
(f)
Reimbursement of transportation costs.
In order to receive reimbursement for any costs incurred in transporting USDA Foods within the State, or from one State to another, for use in disasters, the distributing agency must submit a public voucher to FNS with documentation of such costs. FNS will review the request and reimburse the distributing agency.
[89 FR 87247, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 250.70
Situations of distress.
(a)
Use of USDA Foods to provide congregate meals.
The distributing agency may provide USDA Foods from current inventories, either at the distributing or recipient agency level, to a disaster organization, for use in providing congregate meals to persons in need of food assistance because of a situation of distress, as this term is defined in § 250.2.
(1)
Notification of congregate meals activity to FNS.
If the situation of distress results from a natural event (
e.g.,
a hurricane, flood, or snowstorm), congregate meals may be provided for a period not to exceed 30 days, without the need for FNS approval. However, the distributing agency must notify FNS that such assistance is to be provided. FNS approval must be obtained to permit such USDA Foods assistance for a period exceeding 30 days. If the situation of distress results from other than a natural event (
e.g.,
an explosion), FNS approval is required to permit USDA Foods assistance for use in providing congregate meals for any period of time.
(2)
Selection of disaster organizations for disaster congregate meal service by the distributing agency.
Distributing agencies are responsible for choosing disaster organizations to implement congregate meal service, subject to approval as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Before distribution of USDA Foods to a disaster organization, the distributing agency must review and approve such organization's application in accordance with applicable FNS guidance, which must be submitted to the distributing agency in written form. The distributing agency must also submit such application to FNS for review and approval before permitting distribution of USDA Foods in a situation of distress that is not the result of a natural event. The disaster organization's application must, to the extent possible, include the following information:
(i) A description of the situation of distress;
(ii) The number of people requiring assistance;
(iii) The period of time for which USDA Foods are requested;
(iv) The quantity and types of USDA Foods needed; and
(v) The name, number, and location of sites where USDA Foods are to be used, to the extent that such information is known.
(3)
Eligibility of emergency relief workers for congregate meals.
The disaster organization may use USDA Foods to provide meals to any emergency relief workers at the congregate feeding site that are directly engaged in providing relief assistance.
(b)
Use of USDA Foods for distribution to households.
The distributing agency must receive FNS approval to provide USDA Foods from current inventories in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, either at the distributing
or recipient agency level, to a disaster organization for distribution to households in need of food assistance because of a situation of distress. Such distribution may continue for the period of time that FNS determines necessary to meet the needs of such households. Before permitting the distribution of USDA Foods for household distribution, the distributing agency must submit an application to FNS for review and approval. The distributing agency's application must, to the extent possible, include the following information:
(1) A description of the situation of distress;
(2) The number of people requiring assistance;
(3) The period of time for which USDA Foods are requested;
(4) The quantity and types of USDA Foods needed;
(5) The name, number, and location of sites where USDA Foods are to be used, to the extent that such information is known;
(6) An explanation as to why household distribution is needed; and
(7) The method(s) of distribution available.
(c)
Limitation on impacts to other programs.
Distributing agencies must ensure that the operation of congregate meal service and/or disaster household distribution in situations of distress is not administered in lieu of regular program operations nor does it negatively impact the distribution of USDA Foods through other programs administered by the distributing agency.
(d)
Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
The distributing agency must report the following to FNS:
(1) The number, names, and locations of sites where USDA Foods are used in congregate meals or household distribution as these sites are established.
(2) The distributing agency must also report the types and amounts of USDA Foods from distributing or recipient agency storage facilities used in the situation of distress, utilizing form FNS-292A,
Report of Commodity Distribution for Disaster Relief,
which must be submitted electronically, within 45 days from the termination of assistance. This form must also be used to request replacement of USDA Foods, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. The distributing agency must maintain records of reports and other information relating to situations of distress.
(3) If the distributing agency is operating disaster household distribution per 250.70(b), the distributing agency must submit a biweekly report to FNS, utilizing the format requested by FNS, for the approved disaster period. This report must be submitted electronically biweekly as long as the disaster household distribution continues operation. Biweekly reports must include:
(i) The weekly distribution start and end dates;
(ii) The total number of individual household members receiving assistance at all locations;
(iii) Material identification codes for USDA Foods distributed;
(iv) The USDA Foods description of the foods distributed; and
(v) The total units of each food distributed.
(e)
Replacement of USDA Foods.
FNS will replace USDA Foods used in a situation of distress only to the extent that funds to provide for such replacement are available. The distributing agency must submit to FNS a request for replacement of such USDA Foods, utilizing form FNS-292A,
Report of Commodity Distribution for Disaster Relief,
which must be submitted electronically, within 45 days from the termination of assistance. The distributing agency may request replacement of foods used from inventories in which USDA Foods are commingled with other foods (
i.e.,
at storage facilities of recipient agencies utilizing single inventory management), if the recipient agency received USDA Foods of the same type as the USDA Foods used during the year preceding the onset of the situation of distress. Subject to the availability of funds, FNS will replace such USDA Foods in the amounts used, or in the amount of like USDA Foods received during the preceding year, whichever is less.
(f)
Reimbursement of transportation costs.
In order to receive reimbursement for any costs incurred in transporting USDA Foods within the State, or from one State to another, for use in a situation of distress, the distributing
agency must submit a public voucher to FNS with documentation of such costs. FNS will review the request and reimburse the distributing agency to the extent that funds are available.
[89 FR 87248, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 250.71
OMB control numbers.
Unless as otherwise specified in the table in this section, the information collection reporting and recordkeeping requirements in 7 CFR part 250 are accounted for in OMB control number 0584-0293.
CFR Cite
OMB Control No.
§ 250.4(a)
0584-0067
§ 250.19(a)
0584-0067, 0584-0293
§§ 250.69(f) and (g) and 250.70(f) and (g)
0584-0067, 0584-0293
[81 FR 23114, Apr. 19, 2016]
Pt. 251

# PART 251—THE EMERGENCY FOOD ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
Sec.
251.1
General purpose and scope.
251.2
Administration.
251.3
Definitions.
251.4
Availability of USDA Foods.
251.5
Eligibility determinations.
251.6
Distribution plan.
251.7
Formula adjustments.
251.8
Payment of funds for administrative costs.
251.9
Matching of funds.
251.10
Reports and recordkeeping.
251.11
State monitoring system.
251.12
Limitation on unrelated activities.
251.13
Farm to Food Bank Projects.
251.14
Miscellaneous.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 7501-7516; 7 U.S.C. 2011-2036.

# Source:
51 FR 12823, Apr. 16, 1986, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 251 appear at 89 FR 87228, Oct. 31, 2024.
§ 251.1
General purpose and scope.
This part announces the policies and prescribes the regulations necessary to carry out certain provisions of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983, (7 U.S.C. 612c
note
).
[51 FR 12823, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 64 FR 72902, Dec. 29, 1999]
§ 251.2
Administration.
(a)
Food and Nutrition Service.
Within the United States Department of Agriculture (the “Department”), the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) shall have responsibility for the distribution of USDA Foods and allocation of funds under the part.
(b)
State agencies.
Within the States, distribution to eligible recipient agencies and receipt of payments for storage and distribution shall be the responsibility of the State agency which has: (1) Been designated for such responsibility by the Governor or other appropriate State executive authority; and (2) entered into an agreement with the Department for such distribution and receipt in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(c)
Agreements
—(1)
Agreements between Department and States.
Each State agency that distributes USDA Foods to eligible recipient agencies or receives payments for storage and distribution costs in accordance with § 251.8 must perform those functions pursuant to an agreement entered into with the Department. This agreement will be considered permanent, with amendments initiated by State agencies, or submitted by them at the Department's request, all of which will be subject to approval by the Department.
(2)
Agreements between State agencies and eligible recipient agencies, and between eligible recipient agencies.
Prior to making USDA Foods or administrative funds available, State agencies must enter into a written agreement with eligible recipient agencies to which they plan to distribute USDA Foods and/or administrative funds. State agencies must ensure that eligible recipient agencies in turn enter into a written agreement with any eligible recipient agencies to which they plan to distribute USDA Foods and/or administrative funds before USDA Foods or administrative funds are transferred between any two eligible recipient agencies. All agreements entered into must contain the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section, and be considered permanent, with amendments to be made as necessary, except that agreements must specify that they may be terminated by either party upon 30 days' written notice.
State agencies must ensure that eligible recipient agencies provide, on a timely basis, by amendment to the agreement, or other written documents incorporated into the agreement by reference if permitted under paragraph (d) of this section, any information on changes in program administration, including any changes resulting from amendments to Federal regulations or policy.
(d)
Contents of agreements between State agencies and eligible recipient agencies and between eligible recipient agencies.
(1) Agreements between State agencies and eligible recipient agencies and between eligible recipient agencies must provide:
(i) That eligible recipient agencies agree to operate the program in accordance with the requirements of this part, and, as applicable, part 250 of this chapter; and
(ii) The name and address of the eligible recipient agency receiving USDA Foods and/or administrative funds under the agreement.
(2) The following information must also be identified, either in the agreement or other written documents incorporated by reference in the agreement:
(i) If the State agency delegates the responsibility for any aspect of the program to an eligible recipient agency, each function for which the eligible recipient agency will be held responsible; except that in no case may State agencies delegate responsibility for establishing eligibility criteria for organizations in accordance with § 251.5(a), establishing eligibility criteria for recipients in accordance with § 251.5(b), or conducting reviews of eligible recipient agencies in accordance with § 251.10(e);
(ii) If the receiving eligible recipient agency is to be allowed to further distribute USDA Foods and/or administrative funds to other eligible recipient agencies, the specific terms and conditions for doing so, including, if applicable, a list of specific organizations or types of organizations eligible to receive USDA Foods or administrative funds;
(iii) If the use of administrative funds is restricted to certain types of expenses pursuant to § 251.8(e)(2), the specific types of administrative expenses eligible recipient agencies are permitted to incur;
(iv) Any other conditions set forth by the State agency.
[51 FR 12823, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 17933, May 13, 1987; 59 FR 16974, Apr. 11, 1994; 62 FR 53731, Oct. 16, 1997; 64 FR 72902, 72903, Dec. 29, 1999; 89 FR 87249, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.3
Definitions.
(a) The terms used in this part that are defined in part 250 of this chapter have the meanings ascribed to them therein, unless a different meaning for such a term is defined herein.
(b)
Charitable institution
(which is defined differently in this part than in part 250 of this chapter) means an organization which—
(1) Is public, or
(2) Is private, possessing tax exempt status pursuant to § 251.5(a)(3); and
(3) Is not a penal institution (this exclusion also applies to correctional institutions which conduct rehabilitation programs); and
(4) Provides food assistance to needy persons.
(c)
Distribution site
means a location where the eligible recipient agency actually distributes USDA Foods to needy persons for household consumption or serves prepared meals to needy persons under this part.
(d)
Eligible recipient agency
means an organization which—
(1) Is public, or
(2) Is private, possessing tax exempt status pursuant to § 251.5(a)(3); and
(3) Is not a penal institution; and
(4) Provides food assistance—
(i) Exclusively to needy persons for household consumption, pursuant to a means test established pursuant to § 251.5 (b), or
(ii) Predominantly to needy persons in the form of prepared meals pursuant to § 251.5(a)(2); and
(5) Has entered into an agreement with the designated State agency pursuant to § 251.2(c) for the receipt of USDA Foods or administrative funds, or receives USDA Foods or administrative funds under an agreement with another eligible recipient agency which has signed such an agreement with the State agency or another eligible recipient agency within the State pursuant to § 251.2(c); and
(6) Falls into one of the following categories:
(i) Emergency feeding organizations (including food banks, food pantries and soup kitchens);
(ii) Charitable institutions (including hospitals and retirement homes);
(iii) Summer camps for children, or child nutrition programs providing food service;
(iv) Nutrition projects operating under the Older Americans Act of 1965 (Nutrition Program for the Elderly), including projects that operate congregate Nutrition sites and projects that provide home-delivered meals; and
(v) Disaster relief programs.
(e)
Emergency feeding organization
means an eligible recipient agency which provides nutrition assistance to relieve situations of emergency and distress through the provision of food to needy persons, including low-income and unemployed persons. Emergency feeding organizations have priority over other eligible recipient agencies in the distribution of USDA Foods pursuant to § 251.4(h).
(f)
Food bank
means a public or charitable institution that maintains an established operation involving the provision of food to food pantries, soup kitchens, hunger relief centers, or other food or feeding centers that, as an integral part of their normal activities, provide meals or food to feed needy persons on a regular basis.
(g)
Food pantry
means a public or private nonprofit organization that distributes food to low-income and unemployed households, including food from sources other than the Department of Agriculture, to relieve situations of emergency and distress.
(h)
Formula
means the formula used by the Department to allocate among States the USDA Foods and funding available under this part. The amount of such USDA Foods and funds to be provided to each State will be based on each State's population of low-income and unemployed persons, as compared to national statistics. Each State's share of USDA Foods and funds shall be based 60 percent on the number of persons in households within the State having incomes below the poverty level and 40 percent on the number of unemployed persons within the State. The surplus USDA Foods will be allocated to States on the basis of their weight (pounds), and the USDA Foods purchased under section 214 of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 will be allocated on the basis of their value (dollars). In instances in which a State determines that it will not accept the full amount of its allocation of USDA Foods purchased under section 214 of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983, the Department will reallocate the USDA Foods to other States on the basis of the same formula used for the initial allocation.
(i)
State agency
means the State government unit designated by the Governor or other appropriate State executive authority which has entered into an agreement with the United States Department of Agriculture under § 251.2(c).
(j)
Soup kitchen
means a public or charitable institution that, as an integral part of the normal activities of the institution, maintains an established feeding operation to provide food to needy homeless persons on a regular basis.
(k)
Value of USDA Foods distributed
means the Department's cost of acquiring USDA Foods for distribution under this part.
[64 FR 72903, Dec. 29, 1999, as amended at 89 FR 87250, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.4
Availability of USDA Foods.
(a)
General.
The Department shall make USDA Foods available for distribution and use in accordance with the provisions of this part and also in accordance with the terms and conditions of part 250 of this chapter to the extent that the part 250 terms and conditions are not inconsistent with this part.
(b)
Displacement.
State agencies shall require that eligible recipient agencies receiving USDA Foods under this part shall not diminish their normal expenditures for food because of receipt of USDA Foods. Additionally, the Secretary shall withhold USDA Foods from distribution if it is determined that the USDA Foods would substitute for the same or a similar product that would otherwise be purchased in the market.
(c)
Allocations.
(1) Allocations of USDA Foods shall be made to State agencies on the basis of the formula defined in § 251.3(h).
(2) FNS shall promptly notify State agencies regarding their allocation of USDA Foods to be made available under this part.
(3) State agencies shall notify the appropriate FNSRO of the amount of the USDA Foods they will accept not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the shipping period.
(4) FNS will make allocations of USDA Foods or food funding available to State agencies for two fiscal years. States will be allowed to carry over unexpended balances of USDA Foods funding from one fiscal year into the next fiscal year.
(5) A State's USDA Foods funding allocation remaining at the end of the fiscal year after the fiscal year in which it was initially appropriated will expire and will be unavailable to the State.
(d)
Quantities requested.
State agencies shall:
(1) Request USDA Foods only in quantities which can be utilized without waste in providing food assistance to needy persons under this part;
(2) Ensure that no eligible recipient agency receives USDA Foods in excess of anticipated use, based on inventory records and controls, or in excess of its ability to accept and store such USDA Foods; and
(e)
Initial processing and packaging.
The Department will furnish USDA Foods to be distributed to institutions and to needy persons in households in forms and units suitable for institutional and home use.
(f)
Bulk processing by States.
USDA Foods may be made available to a State agency or, at the direction of the State agency, directly to private companies for processing bulk USDA Foods for use by eligible recipient agencies.
(1) The Department will reimburse the State agency at the current flat rate for such processing.
(2) Minimum yields and product specifications established by the Department shall be met by the processor.
(3) The State shall require the processor to meet Federal, State, and local health standards.
(4) Processors and State agencies shall also meet the basic minimum requirements of § 250.30.
(g)
Distribution and control of USDA Foods.
The State agency must ensure that the distribution, control, and use of USDA Foods are in accordance with the requirements in this part, and with the requirements in 7 CFR part 250, to the extent that requirements in 7 CFR part 250 are not inconsistent with the requirements in this part. Transfers of USDA Foods must comply with requirements in §§ 250.12(e) and 250.14(d), as applicable. In accordance with § 250.16, the State agency must ensure that restitution is made for the loss of USDA Foods, or for the loss or improper use of funds provided for, or obtained as an incidence of, the distribution of USDA Foods. The State agency is also subject to claims for such losses for which it is responsible, or for its failure to initiate or pursue claims against other parties responsible for such losses.
(h)
Distribution to eligible recipient agencies—priority system and advisory boards.
(1) State agencies must distribute USDA Foods made available under this part to eligible recipient agencies in accordance with the following priorities:
(i)
First priority.
When a State agency cannot meet all eligible recipient agencies' requests for USDA Foods, the State agency must give priority in the distribution of such USDA Foods to emergency feeding organizations as defined under § 251.3(e). A State agency may, at its discretion, concentrate USDA Foods resources upon a certain type or types of such organizations, to the exclusion of others.
(ii)
Second priority.
After a State agency has distributed USDA Foods sufficient to meet the needs of all emergency feeding organizations, the State agency must distribute any remaining program USDA Foods to other eligible recipient agencies which serve needy people, but do not relieve situations of emergency and distress. A State agency may, at its discretion, concentrate USDA Foods resources upon a certain type or types of such organizations, to the exclusion of others.
(2)
Delegation.
When a State agency has delegated to an eligible recipient
agency the authority to select other eligible recipient agencies, the eligible recipient agency exercising this authority must ensure that any USDA Foods are distributed in accordance with the priority system set forth in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (h)(1)(ii) of this section. State agencies and eligible recipient agencies will be deemed to be in compliance with the priority system when eligible recipient agencies distribute USDA Foods to meet the needs of all emergency feeding organizations under their jurisdiction prior to making USDA Foods available to eligible recipient agencies which are not emergency feeding organizations.
(3)
Existing networks.
Subject to the constraints of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (h)(1)(ii) of this section, State agencies may give priority in the distribution of USDA Foods to existing food bank networks and other organizations whose ongoing primary function is to facilitate the distribution of food to low-income households, including food from sources other than the Department.
(4)
State advisory boards.
Each State agency receiving USDA Foods is encouraged to establish a State advisory board representing all types of entities in the State, both public and private, interested in the distribution of such USDA Foods. Such advisory boards can provide valuable advice on how resources should be allocated among various eligible outlet types, what areas have the greatest need for food assistance, and other important issues that will help States to use their program resources in the most efficient and effective manner possible. A State agency may expend TEFAP administrative funds to support the activities of an advisory board in accordance with § 251.8 of this part.
(i)
Distribution of non-USDA foods.
Eligible recipient agencies may incorporate the distribution of foods which have been donated by charitable organizations or other entities with the distribution of USDA Foods or distribute them separately.
(j)
Interstate cooperation.
State agencies may enter into interagency cooperative agreements to provide jointly or to transfer USDA Foods to an eligible recipient agency that has signed an agreement with the respective State agencies when such organization serves needy persons in a contiguous area which crosses States' borders.
(k)
Distribution in rural and Tribal areas.
FNS encourages State agencies and eligible recipient agencies to implement or expand USDA Foods distributions in rural, remote, and Tribal areas of the State wherever possible.
(l)
Public posting of availability of USDA Foods.
State agencies must make publicly available the list of eligible recipient agencies that have an agreement with the State agency and the State's uniform Statewide eligibility criteria to receive USDA Foods for household consumption as per § 251.5(b), to ensure that eligible populations understand eligibility criteria and are able to identify where they may access USDA Foods. At minimum, State agencies must publicly post the names, addresses, and contact telephone numbers for all eligible recipient agencies that have an agreement with the State agency. The information must be posted on a publicly available internet web page and be updated on an annual basis or whenever changes to eligibility criteria are made.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0313 and 0584-0341)
[51 FR 12823, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 17933, May 13, 1987; 52 FR 42634, Nov. 6, 1987; 59 FR 16974, Apr. 11, 1994; 64 FR 72904, Dec. 29, 1999; 81 FR 23115, Apr. 19, 2016; 89 FR 87250, Oct. 31, 2024; 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024]
§ 251.5
Eligibility determinations.
(a)
Criteria for determining eligibility of organizations.
Prior to making USDA Foods or administrative funds available, State agencies, or eligible recipient agencies to which the State agency has delegated responsibility for the distribution of USDA Foods or administrative funds, must ensure that an organization applying for participation in the program meets the definition of an “eligible recipient agency” under § 251.3(d). In addition, applicant organizations must meet the following criteria:
(1)
Agencies distributing USDA Foods to households for home consumption.
Organizations distributing USDA Foods to households for home consumption must limit the distribution of USDA Foods
provided under this part to those households which meet the eligibility criteria established by the State agency in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
(2)
Agencies providing prepared meals.
Organizations providing prepared meals must demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the State agency, or eligible recipient agency to which they have applied for the receipt of USDA Foods or administrative funds, that they serve predominantly needy persons. State agencies may establish a higher standard than “predominantly” and may determine whether organizations meet the applicable standard by considering socioeconomic data of the area in which the organization is located, or from which it draws its clientele. State agencies may not, however, require organizations to employ a means test to determine that recipients are needy, or to keep records solely for the purpose of demonstrating that its recipients are needy.
(3)
Tax-exempt status.
Private organizations must—
(i) Be currently operating another Federal program requiring tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), or
(ii) Possess documentation from the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) recognizing tax-exempt status under the IRC, or
(iii) If not in possession of such documentation, be automatically tax exempt as “organized or operated exclusively for religious purposes” under the IRC, or
(iv) If not in possession of such documentation, but required to file an application under the IRC to obtain tax-exempt status, have made application for recognition of such status and be moving toward compliance with the requirements for recognition of tax-exempt status. If the IRS denies a participating organization's application for recognition of tax-exempt status, the organization must immediately notify the State agency or the eligible recipient agency, whichever is appropriate, of such denial, and that agency will terminate the organization's agreement and participation immediately upon receipt of such notification. If documentation of IRS recognition of tax-exempt status has not been obtained and forwarded to the appropriate agency within 180 days of the effective date of the organization's approval for participation in TEFAP, the State agency or eligible recipient agency must terminate the organization's participation until such time as recognition of tax-exempt status is actually obtained, except that the State agency or eligible recipient agency may grant a single extension not to exceed 90 days if the organization can demonstrate, to the State agency's or eligible recipient agency's satisfaction, that its inability to obtain tax-exempt status within the 180 day period is due to circumstances beyond its control. It is the responsibility of the organization to document that it has complied with all IRS requirements and has provided all information requested by IRS in a timely manner.
(b)
Criteria for determining recipient eligibility.
Each State agency must establish uniform Statewide criteria for determining the eligibility of households to receive USDA Foods provided under this part for home consumption and must make these criteria publicly available as per § 251.4(l). The criteria must:
(1) Enable the State agency to ensure only households that need food assistance because of inadequate household income receive USDA Foods;
(2) Include income-based standards and the methods by which households may demonstrate eligibility under such standards. Income-based standards must include a maximum income eligibility threshold at or between 185 percent to 300 percent of the U.S. Federal Poverty Guidelines published annually by the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). States may propose alternative income-based eligibility standards above this threshold with supporting rationale, subject to approval by FNS; and
(3) Include a requirement that the household reside in the geographic location served by the State agency at the time of applying for assistance, and the method for how residency will be determined. Length of residency, address, or identification documents shall not be used as an eligibility criterion.
(c)
Delegation of authority.
A State agency may delegate to one or more eligible recipient agencies with which the State agency enters into an agreement the responsibility for the distribution of USDA Foods and administrative funds made available under this part. State agencies may also delegate the authority for selecting eligible recipient agencies and for determining the eligibility of such organizations to receive USDA Foods and administrative funds. However, responsibility for establishing eligibility criteria for organizations in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and for establishing recipient eligibility criteria in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, may not be delegated. In instances in which State agencies delegate authority to eligible recipient agencies to determine the eligibility of organizations to receive USDA Foods and administrative funds, eligibility must be determined in accordance with the provisions contained in this part and the State plan. State agencies will remain responsible for ensuring that USDA Foods and administrative funds are distributed in accordance with the provisions contained in this part.
[64 FR 72904, Dec. 29, 1999, as amended at 89 FR 87250, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.6
Distribution plan.
(a)
Contents of the plan.
The State agency must submit for approval by the appropriate FNS Regional Office a plan which contains:
(1) A designation of the State agency responsible for distributing USDA Foods and administrative funds provided under this part, and the address of such agency;
(2) A plan of operation and administration to expeditiously distribute USDA Foods received under this part;
(3) A description of the standards of eligibility for recipient agencies, including any subpriorities within the two-tier priority system;
(4) A description of the criteria established in accordance with § 251.5(b) which must be used by eligible recipient agencies in determining the eligibility of households to receive USDA Foods for home consumption;
(5) At the option of the State agency, a plan of operation for one or more Farm to Food Bank Projects in partnership with one or more emergency feeding organizations located in the State, as described in § 251.13. The plan must include all items listed at § 251.13(e); and
(6) A plan, which may include the use of a State advisory board established under § 251.4(h)(4), that provides emergency feeding organizations or eligible recipient agencies within the State an opportunity to provide input on the USDA Foods preferences and needs of the emergency feeding organization or eligible recipient agency.
(b)
Plan submission and amendments.
Once approved, State plans are permanent. State agencies must submit amendments to the distribution plan when necessary to reflect any changes in program operations or administration as described in the plan, or at the request of FNS, to the appropriate FNS Regional Office.
(c)
Amendments.
State agencies must submit amendments to the distribution plan to the extent that such amendments are necessary to reflect any changes in program operations or administration as described in the plan, or at the request of FNS, to the appropriate FNS Regional Office.
[64 FR 72905, Dec. 29, 1999, as amended at 74 FR 62474, Nov. 30, 2009; 84 FR 53002, Oct. 4, 2019; 89 FR 87251, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.7
Formula adjustments.
(a)
Commodity adjustments.
The Department will make annual adjustments to the USDA Foods allocation for each State, based on updated unemployment statistics. These adjusted allocations will be effective for the entire fiscal year, subject to reallocation or transfer in accordance with this part.
(b)
Funds adjustments.
The Department will make annual adjustments of the funds allocation for each State based on updated unemployment statistics. These adjusted allocations will be effective for the entire fiscal year unless funds are recovered, withheld, or reallocated by FNS in accordance with § 251.8(f).
[64 FR 72905, Dec. 29, 1999, as amended at 89 FR 87251, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.8
Payment of funds for administrative costs.
(a)
Availability and allocation of funds.
Funds made available to the Department for State and local costs associated with the distribution of USDA Foods under this part shall, in any fiscal year, be distributed to each State agency on the basis of the funding formula defined in § 251.3(h).
(b)
Uniform Federal Assistance regulations.
Funds provided under this section shall be subject to the regulations issued under 2 CFR part 200, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR parts 400 and 416, as applicable.
(c)
Payment to States.
(1) Funds under this section shall be made available by means of letters of credit in favor of the State agency. The State agency shall use any funds received without delay in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) Upon notification by the FNS Regional Office that an agreement has been entered into in accordance with § 251.2(c) of this part, FNS shall issue a grant award pursuant to procedures established by FNS, and promptly make funds available to each State agency within the State's allocation through issuance of a letter of credit. To the extent funds are available and subject to the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section, funds will be made available to State agencies on an advance basis.
(3) Each State agency shall return to FNS any funds made available under this section either through the original allocation or through subsequent reallocations which are unobligated as of the end of the fiscal year for which they were made available. Such return shall be made as soon as practicable but in no event later than 30 days following demand made by FNS.
(d)
Priority for eligible recipient agencies distributing USDA Foods.
State agencies and eligible recipient agencies distributing administrative funds must ensure that the administrative funding needs of eligible recipient agencies which receive USDA Foods are met, relative to both USDA Foods and any non-USDA foods they may receive before such funding is made available to eligible recipient agencies which distribute only non-USDA foods.
(e)
Use of funds
— (1)
Allowable administrative costs.
State agencies and eligible recipient agencies may use funds made available under this part to pay the direct expenses associated with the distribution of USDA Foods and foods secured from other sources to the extent that the foods are ultimately distributed by eligible recipient agencies which have entered into agreements in accordance with § 251.2. Direct expenses include the following, regardless of whether they are charged to TEFAP as direct or indirect costs:
(i) The intrastate and interstate transport, storing, handling, repackaging, processing, and distribution of foods (including donated wild game); except that for interstate expenditures to be allowable, the foods must have been specifically earmarked for the particular State or eligible recipient agency which incurs the cost;
(ii) Costs associated with determinations of eligibility, verification, and documentation;
(iii) Costs of providing information to persons receiving USDA Foods concerning the appropriate storage and preparation of such foods;
(iv) Costs involved in publishing announcements of times and locations of distribution; and
(v) Costs of recordkeeping, auditing, and other administrative procedures required for program participation.
(2)
State restriction of administrative costs.
A State agency may restrict the use of TEFAP administrative funds by eligible recipient agencies by disallowing one or more types of expenses expressly allowed in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. If a State agency so restricts the use of administrative funds, the specific types of expenses the State will allow eligible recipient agencies to incur must be identified in the State agency's agreements with its eligible recipient agencies, or set forth by other written notification, incorporated into such agreements by reference.
(3)
Agreements.
In order to be eligible for funds under paragraph (e)(1) of this section, eligible recipient agencies must have entered into an agreement with the State agency or another eligible recipient agency pursuant to § 251.2(c).
(4)
Pass-through requirement-local support to emergency feeding organizations.
(i) Not less than 40 percent of the Federal Emergency Food Assistance Program administrative funds allocated to the State agency in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section must be:
(A) Provided by the State agency to emergency feeding organizations that have signed an agreement with the State agency as either reimbursement or advance payment for administrative costs incurred by emergency feeding organizations in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, except that such emergency feeding organizations may retain advance payments only to the extent that they actually incur such costs; or
(B) Directly expended by the State agency to cover administrative costs incurred by, or on behalf of, emergency feeding organizations in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
(ii) Any funds allocated to or expended by the State agency to cover costs incurred by eligible recipient agencies which are not emergency feeding organizations shall not count toward meeting the pass-through requirement.
(iii) State agencies must not charge for USDA Foods made available under this part to eligible recipient agencies.
(f)
Recovery and reallocation.
If, during the course of the fiscal year, the Department determines that a State agency is unable to use all of the funds allocated to it during the fiscal year, the Department shall recover or withhold and reallocate such unused funds among other States.
[51 FR 12823, Apr. 16, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 16974, Apr. 11, 1994; 64 FR 72906, Dec. 29, 1999; 74 FR 62474, Nov. 30, 2009; 81 FR 23115, Apr. 19, 2016; 89 FR 87251, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.9
Matching of funds.
(a)
State matching requirement.
The State must provide a cash or in-kind contribution equal to the amount of TEFAP administrative funds received under § 251.8 and retained by the State agency for State-level costs or made available by the State agency directly to eligible recipient agencies that are not emergency feeding organizations as defined in § 251.3(e). The State agency will not be required to match any portion of the Federal grant passed through for administrative costs incurred by emergency feeding organizations or directly expended by the State agency for such costs in accordance with § 251.8(e)(4) of this part.
(b)
Exceptions.
In accordance with the provisions of 48 U.S.C. 1469a, American Samoa, Guam, the Virgin Islands and the Northern Mariana Islands shall be exempt from the matching requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if their respective matching requirements are under $200,000.
(c)
Applicable contributions.
States shall meet the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section through cash or in-kind contributions from sources other than Federal funds which are prohibited by law from being used to meet a Federally mandated State matching requirement. Such contributions shall meet the requirements set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR part 400. In accordance with the aforementioned regulations, as applicable, the matching requirement shall not be met by contributions for costs supported by another Federal grant, except as provided by Federal statute. Allowable contributions are only those contributions for costs which would otherwise be allowable as State or local-level administrative costs.
(1)
Cash.
An allowable cash contribution is any cash outlay of the State agency for a specifically identifiable allowable State- or local-level administrative cost, including the outlay of money contributed to the State agency by other public agencies and institutions, and private organizations and individuals. Examples of cash contributions include, but are not limited to, expenditures for office supplies, storage space, transportation, loading facilities and equipment, employees' salaries, and other goods and services specifically identifiable as State- or local-level administrative costs for which there has been a cash outlay by the State agency.
(2)
In-kind.
(i) Allowable in-kind contributions are any contributions, which are non-cash outlays, of real property and non-expendable personal property and the value of goods and services specifically identifiable with allowable
State administrative costs or, when contributed by the State agency to an eligible recipient agency, allowable local-level administrative costs. Examples of in-kind contributions include, but are not limited to, the donation of office supplies, storage space, vehicles to transport the USDA Foods, loading facilities and equipment such as pallets and forklifts, and other non-cash goods or services specifically identifiable with allowable State-level administrative costs or, when contributed by the State agency to an eligible recipient agency, allowable local-level administrative costs. In-kind contributions shall be valued in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR part 400, as applicable.
(ii) In order for a third-party in-kind contribution to qualify as a State-level administrative cost for purposes of meeting the match, all of the following criteria shall be met:
(A) In its administration of food assistance programs, the State has performed this type of function over a sustained period of time in the past;
(B) The function was not previously performed by the State on behalf of eligible recipient agencies; and
(C) The State would normally perform the function as part of its responsibility in administering TEFAP or related food assistance programs if it were not provided as an in-kind contribution.
(d)
Assessment fees.
States shall not assess any fees for the distribution of USDA Foods to eligible recipient agencies.
(e)
Reporting requirements.
State agencies must identify their matching contribution on the FNS-667, Report of TEFAP Administrative Costs, in accordance with § 251.10(b)(1).
(f)
Failure to match.
If, during the course of the fiscal year, the quarterly FNS-667 indicates that the State is or will be unable to meet the matching requirements in whole or in part, the Department shall suspend or disallow the unmatched portion of Federal funds subject to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section. If, upon submission of the final FNS-667 for the fiscal year, the Department determines that the State has not met the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section in whole or in part, the unmatched portion of Federal funds subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section shall be subject to disallowance by FNS.
[52 FR 17934, May 13, 1987, as amended at 59 FR 16975, Apr. 11, 1994; 64 FR 72906, Dec. 29, 1999; 81 FR 23115, Apr. 19, 2016; 89 FR 87251, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.10
Reports and recordkeeping.
(a)
Records
—(1)
USDA Foods.
State agencies, subdistributing agencies (as defined in § 250.3 of this chapter), and eligible recipient agencies must maintain records to document the receipt, disposal, and inventory of USDA Foods received under this part that they, in turn, distribute to eligible recipient agencies. Such records must be maintained in accordance with the requirements set forth in § 250.16 of this chapter. Eligible recipient agencies must sign a receipt for USDA Foods which they receive under this part for distribution to households or for use in preparing meals, and records of all such receipts must be maintained.
(2)
Administrative funds.
In addition to maintaining financial records in accordance with 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations at 2 CFR part 400, State agencies must maintain records to document the amount of funds received under this part and paid to eligible recipient agencies for allowable administrative costs incurred by such eligible recipient agencies. State agencies must also ensure that eligible recipient agencies maintain such records.
(3)
Eligible recipient agency list.
State agencies must maintain a list of eligible recipient agencies, including eligible recipient agencies that have agreements with the State agency and eligible recipient agencies that have agreements with another eligible recipient agency. The list must include eligible recipient agencies that distribute USDA Foods for home consumption and those that distribute USDA Foods in the form of prepared meals.
(4)
Information about households receiving USDA Foods for home consumption.
Each distribution site must collect and maintain on record for each household receiving USDA Foods for
home consumption, the name of the household member receiving USDA Foods, the number of persons in the household, and the basis for determining that the household is eligible to receive USDA Foods for home consumption.
(5)
Record retention.
All records required by this section must be retained for a period of 3 years from the close of the Federal Fiscal Year to which they pertain, or longer if related to an audit or investigation in progress. State agencies may take physical possession of such records on behalf of their eligible recipient agencies. However, such records must be reasonably accessible at all times for use during management evaluation reviews, audits or investigations.
(b)
Reports
—(1)
Submission of Form FNS-667.
Designated State agencies must identify funds obligated and disbursed to cover the costs associated with the program at the State and local level. State and local costs must be identified separately. The data must be identified on Form FNS-667, Report of Administrative Costs (TEFAP) and submitted to the appropriate FNS Regional Office on a quarterly basis. The quarterly report must be submitted no later than 30 calendar days after the end of the quarter to which it pertains. The final report must be submitted no later than 90 calendar days after the end of the fiscal year to which it pertains.
(2)
Reports of excessive inventory.
Each State agency must complete and submit to the FNS Regional Office reports to ensure that excessive inventories of USDA Foods are not maintained, in accordance with the requirements of § 250.18(a) of this chapter.
(3)
Report of eligible recipient agency list.
On an annual basis, each State agency must provide the list of eligible recipient agencies and statewide eligibility criteria, as described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, to FNS. The report should specify whether each eligible recipient agency has an agreement with the State agency or with another eligible recipient agency.
(4)
Recipients of USDA Foods for home consumption.
State agencies must report the total number of persons served by each distribution site for home consumption as collected in paragraph (a)(4) of this section to FNS on a quarterly basis. This report must capture the total number of persons in all households which participated in each calendar month within the quarter.
(c)
Confidentiality of applicants and participants
—(1)
Confidential applicant and participant information.
Confidential applicant and participant information is any information about an applicant or participant, whether it is obtained from the applicant or participant, another source, or generated as a result of TEFAP application, certification, or participation, that individually identifies an applicant or participant and/or family member(s). Applicant or participant information is confidential, regardless of the original source and exclusive of previously applicable confidentiality provided in accordance with other Federal, State, or local law.
(2)
Limits on disclosure of information obtained from applicants or participants.
State and local agencies must restrict the use or disclosure of information obtained from TEFAP applicants or participants to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the program. With the consent of the participant, the State or local agency may share information obtained with other health or welfare programs for use in determining eligibility for those programs, or for program outreach. However, the State agency must sign an agreement with the administering agencies for these programs to ensure that the information will be used only for the specified purposes, and that agencies receiving such information will not further share it.
(3)
Limits on disclosing the identity of persons making a complaint or allegation against an individual participating in or administering the program.
The State and local agency must protect the confidentiality, and other rights, of any person making allegations or complaints against another individual participating in, or administering TEFAP, except as necessary to conduct an investigation, hearing, or judicial proceeding, as applicable.
[89 FR 87251, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.11
State monitoring system.
(a) Each State agency must monitor the operation of the program to ensure that it is being administered in accordance with Federal and State requirements. State agencies may not delegate this responsibility.
(b) Unless specific exceptions are approved in writing by FNS, the State agency monitoring system must include:
(1) An annual review of at least 25 percent of all eligible recipient agencies which have signed an agreement with the State agency pursuant to § 251.2(c), provided each such agency must be reviewed no less frequently than once every four years; and
(2) An annual review of one-tenth or 20, whichever is fewer, of all eligible recipient agencies which receive USDA Foods and/or administrative funds pursuant to an agreement with another eligible recipient agency. Reviews must be conducted, to the maximum extent feasible, simultaneously with actual distribution of USDA Foods and/or meal service, and eligibility determinations, if applicable. State agencies must develop a system for selecting eligible recipient agencies for review that ensures deficiencies in program administration are detected and resolved in an effective and efficient manner.
(c) Each review must encompass, as applicable, eligibility determinations, food ordering procedures, storage and warehousing practices, inventory controls, approval of distribution sites, reporting and recordkeeping requirements, and civil rights.
(d) Upon concurrence by FNS, reviews of eligible recipient agencies which have been conducted by FNS Regional Office personnel may be incorporated into the minimum coverage required by paragraph (b) of this section.
(e) If deficiencies are disclosed through the review of an eligible recipient agency, the State agency must submit a report of the review findings to the eligible recipient agency and ensure that corrective action is taken to eliminate the deficiencies identified.
[89 FR 87252, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.12
Limitation on unrelated activities.
(a) Activities unrelated to the distribution of USDA Foods or meal service may be conducted at distribution sites as long as:
(1) The person(s) conducting the activity makes clear that the activity is not part of TEFAP and is not endorsed by the Department. Nutrition education materials, such as recipes or other information about USDA Foods, dates of future distributions, hours of operations, or information about other Federal, State, or local government programs or services for the needy may be distributed without a clarification that the information is not endorsed by the Department;
(2) The person(s) conducting the activity makes clear that cooperation is not a condition of the receipt of USDA Foods for home consumption or prepared meals containing USDA Foods (cooperation includes contributing money, signing petitions, or conversing with the person(s));
(3) The activity is not conducted in a manner that disrupts the distribution of USDA Foods or meal service, and;
(4) The activity does not involve information unrelated to TEFAP being placed in or printed on bags, boxes, or other containers in which USDA Foods are distributed.
(b) Eligible recipient agencies and distribution sites shall ensure that activities unrelated to the distribution of USDA Foods or meal service are conducted in a manner consistent with paragraph (a) of this section.
(c) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, State agencies shall immediately terminate from further participation in TEFAP operations any eligible recipient agency that distributes or permits distribution of materials in a manner inconsistent with the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section.
(d) The State agency may withhold termination of an eligible recipient agency's or distribution site's TEFAP participation if the State agency cannot find another eligible recipient agency to operate the distribution in the area served by the violating organization. In such circumstances, the
State agency shall monitor the violating organization to ensure that no further violations occur.
[89 FR 87252, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.13
Farm to Food Bank Projects.
(a)
Definition of project.
Farm to Food Bank Projects are the harvesting, processing, packaging, or transportation of unharvested, unprocessed, or unpackaged foods donated by agricultural producers, processors, or distributors for use by emergency feeding organizations under section 203D of the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983.
(b)
Availability and allocation of funds.
Funds for the costs of carrying out a Farm to Food Bank Project will be allocated to State agencies as follows:
(1) Funds made available to the Department for Farm to Food Bank Projects will be distributed to State agencies that have submitted an approved amendment to their State plan. The amendment must describe a plan of operation for a Farm to Food Bank Project and include all elements listed in paragraph (e) of this section. The plan of operation must be updated and resubmitted on an annual basis by the dates requested by FNS.
(2) Funds for Farm to Food Bank Projects will be distributed each fiscal year to State agencies using the funding formula defined in § 251.3(h).
(3) Funds will be available to State agencies for one year from the date of allocation.
(c)
Purpose and use of funds.
State agencies may only use funds made available under this section for the costs of carrying out a Farm to Food Bank Project.
(1) Farm to Food Bank Projects must have a purpose of:
(i) Reducing food waste at the agricultural production, processing, or distribution level through the donation of food;
(ii) Providing food to individuals in need; and
(iii) Building relationships between agricultural producers, processors, and distributors and emergency feeding organizations through the donation of food.
(2) Project funds may only be used for costs associated with harvesting, processing, packaging, or transportation of unharvested, unprocessed, or unpackaged foods donated by agricultural producers, processors, or distributors for use by emergency feeding organizations.
(3) Project funds cannot be used to purchase foods or for agricultural production activities such as purchasing seeds or planting crops.
(d)
Matching of funds
—(1)
State matching requirement.
The State agency must provide a cash or in-kind contribution at least equal to the amount of funding received under this section for a Farm to Food Bank Project.
(2)
Allowable contributions.
State agencies shall meet the match requirement in paragraph (d) of this section by providing allowable contributions as described at § 251.9(c); contributions must only be for costs which would otherwise be allowable as a Farm to Food Bank Project cost.
(3)
Emergency feeding organization contributions.
Cash or in-kind contributions from emergency feeding organizations that partner with the State agency to administer the Farm to Food Bank Project are allowable.
(4)
Food donations.
Donations of foods, including the value of foods donated as a part of a Farm to Food Bank Project, cannot count toward the match requirement in paragraph (d) of this section.
(e)
Plans of Operation for Farm to Food Bank Projects.
A plan of operation for a Farm to Food Bank Project must include:
(1) A high-level summary of the Farm to Food Bank Project.
(2) A description of the types of foods expected to be donated through the Project.
(3) A list of emergency feeding organizations within the State that will operate the Project in partnership with the State agency.
(4) A list of any State agencies that will operate the Project as a part of a cooperative agreement.
(5) A description of the Project that includes how the Project will:
(i) Reduce food waste at the agricultural production, processing, or distribution level through the donation of food;
(ii) Provide food to individuals in need; and
(iii) Build relationships between agricultural producers, processors, and distributors and emergency feeding organizations through the donation of food.
(6) The fiscal year in which the Project will begin operating; and
(7) A description of how the match requirement will be met.
(f)
Reallocation of funds.
If, during the course of the fiscal year, the Department determines that a State agency will not expend all of the funds allocated to the State agency for a fiscal year under this section, the Department shall reallocate the unexpended funds to other State agencies that have an approved State Plan describing a plan of operation for a Farm to Food Bank Project during that fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal year.
(g)
Reporting requirements.
Each State agency to which Farm to Food Bank Project funds are allocated for a fiscal year must submit a report describing use of the funds. The data must be identified on Form SF-425, Federal Financial Report, and submitted to the appropriate FNS Regional Office on a semiannual basis. The reports, including a final report, must be submitted by the dates requested by FNS.
(h)
Cooperative agreements.
State agencies that carry out a Farm to Food Bank Project may enter into cooperative agreements with State agencies of other States to maximize the use of foods donated under the project.
[89 FR 87252, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 251.14
Miscellaneous.
(a)
USDA Foods not income.
In accordance with section 206 of Public Law 98-8, as amended, and notwithstanding any other provision of law, USDA Foods distributed for home consumption and meals prepared from USDA Foods distributed under this part shall not be considered income or resources for any purposes under any Federal, State, or local law.
(b)
Nondiscrimination.
There shall be no discrimination in the distribution of USDA Foods for home consumption or availability of meals prepared from USDA Foods donated under this part because of race, color, national origin, sex, age, or handicap.
(c)
Use of volunteer workers and non-USDA foods.
In the operation of The Emergency Food Assistance Program, State agencies and eligible recipient agencies shall, to the maximum extent practicable, use volunteer workers and foods which have been donated by charitable and other types of organizations.
(d)
Maintenance of effort.
The State may not reduce the expenditure of its own funds to provide USDA Foods or services to organizations receiving funds or services under the Emergency Food Assistance Act of 1983 below the level of such expenditure existing in the fiscal year when the State first began administering TEFAP, or Fiscal Year 1988, which is the fiscal year in which the maintenance-of-effort requirement became effective, whichever is later.
(e)
Recruitment activities related to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).
Any entity that receives USDA Foods identified in this section must adhere to regulations set forth under § 277.4(b)(6) of this chapter.
[89 FR 87252, Oct. 31, 2024]
Pt. 252

# PART 252—NATIONAL COMMODITY PROCESSING PROGRAM
Sec.
252.1
Purpose and scope.
252.2
Definitions.
252.3
Administration.
252.4
Application to participate and agreement.
252.5
Recipient agency responsibilities.
252.6
Miscellaneous provisions.
252.7
OMB control number.

# Authority:
Sec. 416, Agricutural Act of 1949 (7 U.S.C. 1431).

# Source:
51 FR 23518, June 30, 1986, unless otherwise noted.
§ 252.1
Purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose.
This part provides a program whereby the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) and private processors of food may enter into agreements under which the processor will process and distribute designated donated food to eligible recipient agencies. The intent of the program is to encourage private industry, acting in cooperation with the States and FNS, to develop new markets in which donated food may be
utilized. It is expected that the processors will use their marketing abilities to encourage eligible recipient agencies to participate in the program. Additionally, recipient agencies will benefit by being able to purchase processed end products at a substantially reduced price.
(b)
Scope.
The terms and conditions set forth in this part are those under which processors may enter into agreements with FNS for the processing of commodities designated by the Secretary of Agriculture and the minimum requirements which NCP processors must meet. Also prescribed are distributing agency and recipient agency responsibilities.
(c)
Eligible recipient agencies.
Recipient agencies shall be eligible to participate in the NCP Program to the extent of their eligibility to receive the food involved in the NCP Program, pursuant to § 250.8 and part 251.
§ 252.2
Definitions.
The terms used in this part that are defined in §§ 250.3 and 251.3 shall have the meanings ascribed to them therein, except as set forth in this section.
Agreement value of the donated commodity
means the price assigned by the Department to a donated food which reflects the Department's current acquisition price, transportation and, if applicable, processing costs related to the food.
Distributing agencies
means State, Federal or private agencies which enter into agreements with the Department for the distribution of donated food to eligible recipient agencies and recipients; and FNS when it accepts title to commodities from the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) for distribution to eligible recipient agencies under the National Commodity Processing Program. A recipient agency may also be a distributing agency.
Donated food value return system
means a system used by a processor or distributor to reduce the price of the end product by the agreement value of the donated commodity.
NCP Program
means a program under which FNS and private processors of food may enter into agreements under which the processor will process and distribute designated donated food to eligible recipient agencies.
Recipient agency
means disaster organizations, charitable institutions, nonprofit summer camps for children, school food service authorities, schools, service institutions, welfare agencies, nutrition programs for the elderly, nonresidential child care institutions and emergency feeding organizations.
Refund
means (1) a credit or check issued to a distributor in an amount equal to the NCP contract value of donated foods contained in an end product sold by the distributor to a recipient agency at a discounted price or (2) a check issued to a recipient agency in an amount equal to the NCP contract value of donated foods contained in an end product sold to the recipient agency under a refund system.
Substitution
means (1) the replacement of donated food with like quantities of domestically produced commercial food of the same generic identity and of equal or better quality (i.e., cheddar cheese for cheddar cheese, nonfat dry milk for nonfat dry milk, etc.); or (2) in the case of donated nonfat dry milk, substitution as defined under (1) of this paragraph or replacement with an equivalent amount, based on milk solids content, of domestically produced concentrated skim milk.
[51 FR 23518, June 30, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 24977, July 2, 1987; 53 FR 34014, Sept. 2, 1988]
§ 252.3
Administration.
(a)
Role of FNS.
The Secretary will designate those commodities which will be available under the NCP Program. Only commodities made available without charge or credit under any nutrition program administered by USDA will be available under NCP. FNS will act as the distributing agency and the contracting agency under the NCP Program. The Department will pay costs for delivering donated commodities to participating NCP Program processors.
(b)
Food orders.
When NCP Program processors request donated food, FNS will determine whether the quantities ordered are consistent with the processor's ability to sell end products and/or the processor's past demonstrated
performance under the Program. If the quantities are appropriate, FNS will request from CCC the donated food for transfer of title to FNS and delivery to a mutually agreed upon location for use by the NCP Program processor. The title to these commodities transfers to FNS upon their acceptance by the processor. FNS retains title to such commodities until:
(1) They are distributed to eligible recipient agencies in processed form, at which time the recipient agency takes title;
(2) They are disposed of because they are damaged or out-of-condition; or
(3) Title is transferred to the NCP Program processor upon termination of the agreement.
(c)
Substituted food.
When the processor substitutes commercial food for donated food in accordance with § 252.4(c)(7) of this part, title to the substituted food shall transfer to FNS upon the initiation of the processing of the end product containing the substituted food. Title to the equivalent amount of donated food shall transfer to the processor at the same time (except when the substitution is necessary to meet the 100 percent yield requirement or to otherwise replace missing or out-of-condition donated food). Once title has transferred, the processor shall use the substituted food in accordance with the terms and conditions of this part.
(d)
Inventory levels.
FNS will monitor the inventory of each food processor to ensure that the quantity of donated food for which a processor is accountable is at the lowest cost-efficient level. In no event shall a processor hold in inventory more than a six-month supply, based on average monthly usage under the NCP Program, unless a higher level has been specifically approved by FNS on the basis of justification submitted by the processor. Under no circumstances should the amount of donated food requested by the processor be more than the processor can accept and store at any one time. FNS will make no further distribution to a processor whose inventory exceeds these limits until such time as the inventory is reduced.
(e)
Recipient agency registration.
FNS will register, upon request, eligible recipient agencies. FNS will make available to food processors a listing of registered eligible recipient agencies for marketing purposes. Any processor desiring additional listings will be charged a fee for the listing which is commensurate with the Department's policy on user fees.
[51 FR 23518, June 30, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 24978, July 2, 1987; 59 FR 62986, Dec. 7, 1994]
§ 252.4
Application to participate and agreement.
(a)
Application by processors to participate.
Any food processor is eligible to apply for participation in the NCP Program. Agreement applications may be filed with FNS at any time on an FNS-approved form. FNS will accept or reject the application of each individual food processor within 30 days from the date of receipt, except that FNS may, at its discretion, extend such period if it needs more information in order to make its determination. In determining whether to accept or reject an application, FNS shall take into consideration at least the following matters: the financial responsibility of the applicant; the ability of the applicant to meet the terms and conditions of the regulations and the NCP agreement; ability to accept and store commodities in minimum truckload quantities; historical performance under the State and NCP processing programs; anticipated new markets for NCP end products; geographic areas served by the processor; the ability of the applicant to distribute processed products to eligible recipient agencies; and a satisfactory record of integrity, business ethics and performance. In addition, the processors must demonstrate their ability to sell end products under NCP by submitting supporting documentation such as written intent to purchase, bids awarded, or historical sales performance. FNS will make a final determination based on all available documentation submitted.
(b)
Agreement between FNS and Participating Food Processors.
Upon approval of an application for participating in the NCP Program, FNS shall enter into an agreement with the applicant food processor. All agreements under the NCP Program will terminate on the
June 30th following the agreement approval date. However, FNS may extend processing contracts for two 1-year periods, provided that any changed information must be updated before any contract extension is granted, including the information in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(5) of this section.
(c)
Processor requirements and responsibilities.
In accordance with the following provisions and the NCP agreement, any processor participating in the NCP Program may sell to any eligible recipient agency nationwide a processed product containing the donated food received from FNS.
(1) The processor shall submit to FNS end product data schedules which include a description of each end product to be processed, the quantity of each donated food and any other ingredient which is needed to yield a specific number of units of each end product. FNS may permit processors to specify the total quantity of any flavorings or seasonings which may be used without identifying the ingredients which are, or may be, components of seasonings or flavorings. The end product data schedule shall provide pricing information supplied by the processor as requested by FNS and a thorough explanation of what this pricing information represents. The end product data schedule shall be made a part of the NCP agreement.
(2) When determining the value of the donated food, the processor shall use the agreement value of the donated food which shall be the price assigned by the Department to a donated food which reflects the Department's current acquisition price, transportation and, if applicable, processing costs related to the food.
(3) The processor shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of FNS that internal controls are in place to insure that duplicate reporting of sales under the NCP Program and any other food distribution program does not occur.
(4) The processor shall use a method of selling end products to recipient agencies which ensures that the price of each case of end product is reduced by the agreement value of the donated commodity and ensures proper accountability. In line with FNS guidelines and subject to FNS approval, the processor shall select one or more of the following donated food value return systems to use during the term of the agreement. Regardless of the method used, processors shall provide pricing information summaries to recipient agencies as soon as possible after contract approval by FNS. If the pricing information changes during the contract period, processors shall provide updated pricing information to FNS and the recipient agencies 30 days prior to the effective date. Regardless of the method chosen for selling end products, the processor shall reduce his inventory only by the amount of donated food represented by the discount or refund placed on the end product.
(i)
Direct sale.
A direct sale is a sale by the processor directly to the eligible recipient agency. The following two methods of direct sales are allowed:
(A)
Discount system.
When the recipient agency pays the processor directly for an end product purchased, the processor shall invoice the recipient agency at the net case price which shall reflect the value of the discount established in the agreement.
(B)
Refund system.
The processor shall invoice the recipient agency for the commercial/gross price of the end product. The recipient agency shall submit a refund application to the processor within 30 days of receipt of the processed end product, except that recipient agencies may submit refund applications to a single processor on a Federal fiscal quarterly basis if the total anticipated refund due for all purchases of end product from that processor during the quarter is 25 dollars or less. The processor shall pay directly to the eligible recipient agency within 30 days of receipt of the refund application from the recipient agency, an amount equal to the established agreement value of donated food per case of end product multiplied by the number of cases delivered to and accepted by the recipient agency, except that processors may group together refund applications for a single recipient agency on a Federal fiscal quarterly basis if the total anticipated refund due that recipient agency during the quarter is 25 dollars or less. In no event shall refund applications for purchases during the period of agreement be accepted by
the processor later than 60 days after the close of the agreement period.
(ii)
Indirect sale.
An indirect sale is a sale by the processor through a distributor to an eligible recipient agency. Indirect sales can be made with or without dual billing. Dual billing involves the processor billing the recipient agency for the end product and the distributor billing the recipient agency for the cost of services rendered in the handling and delivery of the end product. The following three methods of indirect sales are allowed:
(A)
Sale through distributor with dual billing.
When end products are sold to recipient agencies through a distributor under a system utilizing dual billing, the processor shall invoice the recipient agencies directly for the end products purchased at the net case price which reflects the value of the discount established in the agreement. The processor shall ensure that the distributor bills the recipient agencies only for the services rendered in the handling and delivery of the end product. The processor shall maintain delivery and/or billing invoices to substantiate the quantity of end product delivered to each recipient agency and the net case price charged by the processor which reflects the discount established by the agreement.
(B)
Sale through distributor without dual billing.
When end products are sold to recipient agencies through a distributor without dual billing, processors shall provide refunds to the distributor and ensure that the distributor provides discounts of equal value to recipient agencies. Under this system, the processor shall sell end products to a distributor at the processor's commercial/gross price for the end product. The processor's invoice shall reflect the value of commodities contained in the end product as established by the agreement. The processor shall ensure that the distributor submits a refund application to the processor within 30 days after the eligible recipient agency receives the processed end product. The processor shall ensure that the refund application includes documentation of the purchase of end products by the eligible recipient agency through substantiating invoices and that the recipient agency has purchased the end product at the net case price which reflects the value of the discount established by the agreement. Within 30 days of the receipt of the refund application, the processor shall issue payment directly to the distributor in an amount equal to the stated agreement value of the donated food contained in the purchased end products covered by the application. In no event shall refund applications for purchases during the period of agreement be accepted by the processors later than 60 days after the close of the agreement period. The processor shall verify a statistically valid sample of discount sales made by distributors without dual billing in a manner which ensures a 95 percent confidence level. All such sales reported during a quarter shall be verified at the end of that quarter. Processors shall verify that sales were made only to eligible recipient agencies and that the value of donated commodities was passed through to those recipient agencies. The processor shall report to FNS the level of invalid or inaccurate sales identified in each quarter within 60 days after the close of each quarter. At the same time such report is submitted, the processor shall submit to FNS a corrective action plan designed to correct problems identified in the verification effort. The processor shall adjust performance reports to reflect the invalid sales identified during the verification effort required by this paragraph. If, as a result of this verification, FNS determines that the value of donated food has not been passed on the recipient agencies or that end products have been improperly distributed, FNS may assert a claim against the processor.
(C)
Sale through distributor with a refund.
Under the refund system, processors shall sell end products to distributors at the commercial/gross price of the end product. Distributors shall sell end products to recipient agencies at the commercial/gross price of the end products. Processors shall ensure that their invoices and the invoices of distributors identify the discount established by the agreement. Recipient agencies shall submit refund applications to processors within 30 days of receipt of the processed end product.
Within 30 days of the receipt of the refund application from the recipient agency certifying actual purchases of end product from substantiating invoices maintained by the recipient agency, the processor shall compute the amount and issue payment of the refund directly to the recipient agency. In no event shall refund applications for purchases during the period of the agreement be accepted by the processor later than 60 days after the close of the agreement period.
(iii)
Other value pass-through systems.
Processors may submit to FNS for approval any proposed value pass-through (VPT) system not identified in this section. The “other” VPT system must, in the judgment of FNS, be verifiable and easily monitored. Any VPT system approved under this part must comply with the sales verification requirements specified in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section or an alternative system approved by FNS. If an alternative system is approved, FNS will notify the States in which the system will be used. The Department retains the authority to inspect and review all pertinent records under all VPT systems, including the verification of a required statistically valid sample of sales. FNS may consider the paperwork and resource burden associated with alternative value pass-through systems when considering approval and reserves the right to deny approval of systems which are labor-intensive and provide no greater accountability than those systems permitted under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
(5) The processor shall furnish to FNS prior to the ordering of any donated food for processing, a performance supply and surety bond obtained from surety companies listed in the current Department of Treasury Circular 570 or an irrevocable letter of credit to cover the amount of inventory on hand and on order.
(6) The processor shall draw down inventory only for the amount of donated food used to produce the end product. In instances in which concentrated skim milk is substituted for nonfat dry milk, the processor shall draw down donated nonfat dry milk inventory only in an amount equal to the amount of concentrated skim milk, based on milk solids content, used to produce the end product. Processors shall ensure that an amount equivalent to 100 percent of the donated food provided to the processor under the NCP Program is physically contained in end products. Additional commodities required to account for loss of donated food during production shall be obtained from non-donated food.
(7)(i) Only butter, cheese, corn grits, cornmeal, flour, macaroni, nonfat dry milk, peanut butter, peanut granules, roasted peanuts, rice, rolled oats, rolled wheat, shortening, vegetable oil, and spaghetti may be substituted as defined in § 252.2 and such other food as FNS specifically approves as substitutable under paragraph (c)(7)(i)(A) of this section (substitution of meat and poultry items shall not be permitted).
(A) Processors may request approval to substitute commercial foods for donated foods not listed in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section by submitting such request to FNS in writing and satisfying the requirements of paragraph (c)(7) of this section. FNS will notify the processor in writing of authorization to substitute commercial foods for donated foods not listed in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this section and such authorization shall apply for the duration of all current contracts entered into by the processor pursuant to this section.
(B) The processor shall maintain records to substantiate that it continues to acquire on the commercial market amounts of substitutable food consistent with their levels of non-NCP Program production and to document the receipt and disposition of the donated food.
(C) FNS shall withhold deliveries of donated food from processors that FNS determines have reduced their level of non-NCP Program production because of participation in the NCP Program.
(ii) When the processor seeks FNS approval to substitute donated nonfat dry milk with concentrated skim milk under paragraph (c)(7)(i)(A) of this section, an addendum must be added to the request which states:
(A) The percent of milk solids that, at a minimum, must be contained in the concentrated skim milk;
(B) The weight ratio of concentrated skim milk to donated nonfat dry milk:
(
1
) The weight ratio is the weight of concentrated skim milk which equals one pound of donated nonfat dry milk, based on milk solids;
(
2
) In calculating this weight, nonfat dry milk shall be considered as containing 96.5 percent milk solids;
(
3
) If more than one concentration of concentrated skim milk is to be used, a separate weight ratio must be specified for each concentration;
(C) The processor's method of verifying that the milk solids content in the concentrated skim milk is as stated in the request;
(D) A requirement that the concentrated skim milk shall be produced in a USDA approved plant or in a plant approved by an appropriate regulatory authority for the processing of Grade A milk products; and
(E) A requirement that the contact value of donated food for a given amount of concentrated skim milk used to produce an end product is the value of the equivalent amount of donated nonfat dry milk, based on the weight ratio of the two foods.
(iii) Substitution must not be made solely for the purpose of selling or disposing of the donated commodity in commercial channels for profit.
(8) The processor shall be liable for all donated food provided under the agreement. The processor shall immediately report to FNS any loss or damage to donated food and shall dispose of damaged or out-of-condition food in accordance with § 250.7.
(9) The processor shall submit to FNS monthly performance reports reflecting the sale and delivery of end products during the month.
(i) The processor shall ensure that the monthly performance report is postmarked no later than the last day of the month following the month being reported. The processor shall identify the month of delivery for each sale reported. The sale and delivery of end products for any prior month may be included on the monthly performance report. The processor monthly performance report shall include:
(A) The donated food inventory at the beginning of the reporting month;
(B) Amount of donated food received from the Department during the reporting month;
(C) Amount of donated food transferred to and/or from existing inventory;
(D) A list of all recipient agencies purchasing end products and the number of units of end products delivered to each during the report month;
(E) The net price paid for each unit of end product and whether the sale was made under a discount or refund system;
(F) When the sale is made through a distributor, the name of the distributor;
(G) The amount of inventory drawdown represented by reported sales; and
(H) The donated food inventory at the end of the reporting month.
(ii) In addition to reporting the information identified in paragraph (c)(9)(i) of this section, processors substituting concentrated skim milk for donated nonfat dry milk shall report the following information for the reporting period:
(A) The number of pounds of nonfat dry milk used in commercial products sold to outlets which are not recipient agencies; and
(B) The number of pounds of concentrated skim milk and the percent of milk solids contained therein, used in end products sold to recipient agencies.
(iii) At the end of each agreement period, there will be a final 90 day reconciliation period in which processors may adjust NCP sales for any month.
(10) The processor shall maintain complete and accurate records of the receipt, disposal and inventory of donated food including end products processed from donated food.
(i) The processor shall keep production records, formulae, recipes, daily or batch production records, loadout sheets, bills of lading, and other processing and shipping records to substantiate the use of the donated food and the subsequent redelivery to an eligible recipient agency.
(ii) The processor shall document that sales reported on monthly performance reports, specified in paragraph (c)(9) of this section were made only to eligible recipient agencies and that the normal wholesale price of the product was discounted or a refund
payment made for the agreement value of the donated commodity.
(iii) When donated food is commingled with commercial food, the processor shall maintain records which will permit an accurate determination of the donated commodity inventory.
(iv) The processor shall make all pertinent records available for inspection and review upon request by FNS, its representatives and the General Accounting Office (GAO). All records must be retained for a period of three years from the close of the Federal fiscal year to which they pertain. Longer retention may be required for resolution of an audit or of any litigation.
(11) The processor shall obtain, upon FNS request, Federal acceptance service grading and review of processing activities and shall be bound by the terms and conditions of the grading and/or review.
(12) The processor shall indemnify and save FNS and the recipient agency free and harmless from any claims, damages, judgments, expenses, attorney's fees, and compensation arising out of physical injury, death, and/or property damage sustained or alleged to have been sustained in whole or in part by any and all persons whatsoever as a result of or arising out of any act or omission of the processor, his/her agents or employees, or caused or resulting from any deleterious substance, including bacteria, in any of the products produced from donated food.
(13) The processor shall be liable for payment for all uncommitted food inventory remaining at agreement termination.
(i) When agreements are terminated at the request of the processor or at FNS' request because there has been noncompliance on the part of the processor with the terms and conditions of the agreement, or if any right of FNS is threatened or jeopardized by the processor, the processor shall pay FNS an amount equal to the CCC unrestricted sales price, the cost CCC of replacement on the date the agreement is terminated, or the agreement value of donated commodities, whichever is highest, for the inventory, plus any expenses incurred by FNS.
(ii) When the agreements are terminated at FNS' request where there has been no fault or negligence on the part of the processor, the processor shall pay FNS an amount equal to the CCC unrestricted sales price, the cost to CCC of replacement on the date the agreement is terminated, or the agreement value of the donated commodities, whichever is highest, for the inventory, unless FNS and the processor mutually agree on another value.
(14) The processor shall not assign the processing contract or delegate any aspect of processing under a subcontract or other arrangement without the written consent of FNS. The subcontractor shall be required to become a party to the processing contract and conform to all conditions contained in that contract.
(15) The processor shall comply fully with the provisions of the NCP agreement and all Federal regulations and instructions relevant to the NCP Program.
(16) The processor shall label end products in accordance with § 250.15(j) and, when end products contain vegetable protein products, in accordance with 7 CFR part 210, 225, or 226 appendix A.
(17) The processor shall return to FNS any funds received from the sale of donated food containers and the market value or the price received from the sale of any by-products of donated food or commercial food which has been substituted for donated food.
(18) For any year in which a processor receives more than $250,000 in donated food, the processor shall obtain an independent audit conducted by a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) for that year. Processors receiving $75,000 to $250,000 in donated food each year shall obtain an independent audit conducted by a CPA every two years and those receiving less than $75,000 in donated food each year shall obtain an independent audit conducted by a CPA every three years. Processors in the three year audit cycle shall move into the two year audit cycle when the value of donated food received reaches $75,000. If the Department determines that the audit is not acceptable or that the audit has disclosed serious deficiencies, the processor shall be subject to additional audits by OIG at the request of FNS.
(i) Audits shall be conducted in accordance with the auditing provisions set forth under the
Standards for Audit of Government Organizations, Programs, Activities and Functions,
and the FNS Audit Guide for Multi-State Processors.
(ii) The costs of the audits shall be borne by the processor.
(iii) Audit findings shall be submitted by the processors to FNS.
(iv) Noncompliance with the audit requirement contained in this part will render the processor ineligible to enter into another processing contract until the required audit has been conducted and deficiencies corrected.
[51 FR 23518, June 30, 1986, as amended at 52 FR 16369, May 5, 1987; 52 FR 24978, July 2, 1987; 53 FR 16379, May 9, 1988; 53 FR 34014, Sept. 2, 1988; 59 FR 62986, Dec. 7, 1994]
§ 252.5
Recipient agency responsibilities.
(a)
Registration.
Recipient agencies that have approved agreements with State distributing agencies to receive donated food may register with FNS on an FNS approved form to participate in the NCP Program. Upon request, FNS will provide recipient agencies with registration forms. Recipient agencies shall notify FNS when they are no longer eligible to receive donated food under an agreement. Failure to notify FNS shall result in claim action.
(b)
Recipient agency records.
Each recipient agency shall maintain accurate and complete records with respect to the receipt, disposal, and inventory of donated food, including products processed from donated food, and with respect to any funds which arise from the operation of the distribution program.
(c)
Refunds.
A recipient agency purchasing end products under the NCP Program from a processor utilizing a refund system shall submit a refund application supplied by the processor to the processor within 30 days of receipt of the end products, except that recipient agencies may submit refund applications to a single processor on a Federal fiscal quarterly basis if the total anticipated refund due for all purchases of end product from that processor during the quarter is 25 dollars or less. Recipient agencies must insure that any funds received as a result of refund payments be designated for use by the food service department.
(d)
Verification.
If requested by FNS, each recipient agency shall cooperate in the verification of end product sales reported by processors under the NCP Program. The recipient agency may be requested to verify actual purchases of end products as substantiated by the recipient agency's invoices and may also be requested to verify that the invoice correctly identifies the discount included or refund due for the value of the donated ingredient contained in the end product.
[51 FR 23518, June 30, 1986, as amended at 59 FR 62987, Dec. 7, 1994]
§ 252.6
Miscellaneous provisions.
(a)
Improper distribution or loss of or damage to donated food.
If a processor improperly distributes or uses any donated food, or causes loss of or damage to a donated food through its failure to provide proper storage, care, or handling, FNS shall require the processor to pay to the Department the value of the donated food as determined by the Department.
(b)
Disposition of damaged or out-of-condition food.
Donated food which is found to be damaged or out-of-condition and is declared unfit for human consumption by Federal, State, or local health officials, or by any other inspection services or persons deemed competent by the Department, shall be disposed of in accordance with instructions of the Department. This instruction shall direct that unfit donated food be sold in a manner prescribed by the Department with the net proceeds thereof remitted to the Department. Upon a finding by the Department that donated food is unfit for human consumption at the time of delivery to a recipient agency and when the Department or appropriate health officials require that such donated food be destroyed, the processor shall pay for any expenses incurred in connection with such donated food as determined by the Department. The Department may, in any event, repossess damaged or out-of-condition donated food.
(c)
FNS sales verification.
FNS may conduct a verification of processor reported sales utilizing a statistically valid sampling technique. If, as a result
of this verification, FNS determines that the value of the donated food has not been passed on to recipient agencies or if end products have been improperly distributed, FNS may assert a claim against the processor. This claim may include a projection of the verification sample to the total NCP sales reported by the processor.
(d)
Sanctions.
Any processor or recipient agency which has failed to comply with the provisions of this part or any instructions or procedures issued in connection herewith, or any agreements entered into pursuant hereto, may, at the discretion of the Department, be disqualified from further participation in the NCP Program. Reinstatement may be made at the option of the Department. Disqualification shall not prevent the Department from taking other action through other available means when considered necessary, including prosecution under applicable Federal statutes.
(e)
Embezzlement, misuse, theft, or obtainment by fraud of commodities and commodity related funds, assets, or property in child nutrition programs.
Whoever embezzles, willfully misapplies, steals, or obtains by fraud commodities donated for use in the NCP Program, or any funds, assets, or property deriving from such donations, or whoever receives, conceals, or retains such commodities, funds, assets, or property for his own use or gain, knowing such commodities, funds, assets, or property have been embezzled, willfully misapplied, stolen, or obtained by fraud, shall be subject to Federal criminal prosecution under section 12(g) of the National School Lunch Act, as amended, or section 4(c) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973, as amended. For the purpose of this paragraph “funds, assets, or property” include, but are not limited to, commodities which have been processed into different end products as provided for by this part, and the containers in which commodities have been received from the Department.
§ 252.7
OMB control number.
The information collection and reporting requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0325.
Pt. 253

# PART 253—ADMINISTRATION OF THE FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM FOR HOUSEHOLDS ON INDIAN RESERVATIONS
Sec.
253.1
General purpose and scope.
253.2
Definitions.
253.3
Availability of USDA Foods.
253.4
Administration.
253.5
State agency requirements.
253.6
Eligibility of households.
253.7
Certification of households.
253.8
Administrative disqualification procedures for intentional program violation.
253.9
Claims against households.
253.10
USDA Foods inventory management, storage, and distribution.
253.11
Administrative funds.
253.12
Administrative waivers.

# Authority:
91 Stat. 958 (7 U.S.C. 2011-2036).

# Source:
44 FR 35928, June 19, 1979, unless otherwise noted. Redesignated by Amdt. 1, 47 FR 14137, Apr. 2, 1982.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 253 appear at 89 FR 87228, Oct. 31, 2024.
§ 253.1
General purpose and scope.
This part describes the terms and conditions under which: USDA Foods (available under part 250 of this chapter) may be distributed to households on or near all or any part of any Indian reservation, the program may be administered by capable Indian tribal organizations (ITOs) and funds may be obtained from the Department for the costs incurred in administering the program. This part also provides for the concurrent operation of the Food Distribution Program and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) on Indian reservations when such concurrent operation is requested by an ITO.
[89 FR 87254, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 253.2
Definitions.
Disabled member
means a member of a household who:
(1) Receives supplemental security income benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act or disability or blindness payments under titles I, II, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act;
(2) Receives federally- or State-administered supplemental benefits under section 1616(a) of the Social Security Act provided that the eligibility to receive the benefits is based upon the disability or blindness criteria used under title XVI of the Social Security Act;
(3) Receives federally- or State-administered supplemental benefits under section 212(a) of Public Law 93-66;
(4) Receives disability retirement benefits from a governmental agency because of a disability considered permanent under section 221(i) of the Social Security Act;
(5) Is a veteran with a service-connected or non-service-connected disability rated by the Veteran's Administration (VA) as total or paid as total by the VA under title 38 of the United States Code;
(6) Is a veteran considered by the VA to be in need of regular aid and attendance or permanently housebound under title 38 of the United States Code;
(7) Is a surviving spouse of a veteran and considered by the VA to be in need of regular aid and attendance or permanently housebound or a surviving child of a veteran and considered by the VA to be permanently incapable of self-support under title 38 of the United States Code;
(8) Is a surviving spouse or surviving child of a veteran and considered by the VA to be entitled to compensation for a service-connected death or pension benefits for a non-service-connected death under title 38 of the United States Code and has a disability considered permanent under section 221(i) of the Social Security Act. “Entitled” as used in this definition refers to those veterans' surviving spouses and surviving children who are receiving the compensation or pension benefits stated or have been approved for such payments, but are not yet receiving them;
(9) Receives an annuity payment under: Section 2(a)(1)(iv) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 and is determined to be eligible to receive Medicare by the Railroad Retirement Board; or section 2(a)(1)(v) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 and is determined to be disabled based upon the criteria used under title XVI of the Social Security Act; or
(10) Is a recipient of interim assistance benefits pending the receipt of Supplemented Security Income, a recipient of disability related medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act, or a recipient of disability-based State general assistance benefits provided that the eligibility to receive any of these benefits is based upon disability or blindness criteria established by the State agency, which are at least as stringent as those used under title XVI of the Social Security Act (as set forth at 20 CFR part 416, subpart I, Determining Disability and Blindness as defined in Title XVI).
Elderly member
means a member of a household who is sixty years of age or older.
Exercises governmental jurisdiction
means the active exercise of the legislative, executive or judicial powers of government by an Indian tribal organization.
Food distribution program
means a food distribution program for households on Indian reservations operated pursuant to sections 4(b) and 1304(a) of Pub. L. 95-113.
Indian tribal household
means a household in which at least one household member is recognized as a tribal member by any Indian tribe, as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
Indian Tribal Organization (ITO)
means:
(1) The recognized governing body of any Indian tribe on a reservation; or
(2) The tribally recognized intertribal organization which the recognized governing bodies of two or more Indian tribes on a reservation authorize to operate SNAP or a Food Distribution Program on their behalf.
Indian tribe
means (1) any Indian tribe, Band, or other organized Indian group, for example, a Rancheria, Pueblo, or colony, and including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation (established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688)), and that is on a reservation and recognized as eligible for Federal programs and services provided to Indians because of their status as Indians; or (2) any Indian tribe or Band
on a reservation holding a treaty with a State government.
Overissuance
means the dollar value of USDA Foods issued to a household that exceeds the dollar value of USDA Foods it was eligible to receive.
Reservation
means the geographically defined area or areas over which an ITO exercises governmental jurisdiction so long as such area or areas are legally recognized by the Federal or a State government as being set aside for the use of Indians.
State
means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, and the reservation of an Indian tribe whose ITO meets the requirements of the Food Stamp Act of 1977 for participation as a State agency.
State agency
means:
(1) The agency of State government, including the local offices thereof, which enters into an agreement with FNS for the distribution of USDA Foods on all or part of an Indian reservation, and
(2) The ITO of any Indian tribe, determined by the Department to be capable of effectively administering a Food Distribution Program, which enters into an agreement with FNS for the distribution of USDA Foods on all or part of an Indian reservation.
(3) State agencies are also referred to as FDPIR administering agencies.
[44 FR 35928, June 19, 1979. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 1, 47 FR 14137, Apr. 2, 1982; 59 FR 1449, Jan. 11, 1994; 64 FR 73382, Dec. 30, 1999; 75 FR 4473, Jan. 28, 2010; 89 FR 87254, Oct. 31, 2024; 89 FR 104393, Dec. 23, 2024]
§ 253.3
Availability of USDA Foods.
(a)
Conditions for distribution.
In jurisdictions where SNAP is in operation, there shall be no distribution of USDA Foods to households under the authority of any law, except that distribution may be made:
(1) On a temporary basis under programs authorized by law to meet disaster relief needs;
(2) For the purpose of the USDA Foods programs in accordance with the requirements of part 250 of this chapter and with other Federal regulations applicable to specific food assistance programs; and
(3) Whenever a request for concurrent or separate Food Distribution Program on a reservation is made by an ITO.
(b)
Concurrent or separate food program operation.
Distribution of USDA Foods under the Food Distribution Program, with or without SNAP, shall be made whenever an ITO submits to FNS a completed application for the Food Distribution Program on all or part of a reservation and the application is approved by FNS.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, when the Food Distribution Program is operating on all or part of a reservation, all eligible households within those boundaries may participate in the Food Distribution Program, or, if the ITO has elected concurrent operation of SNAP, may elect to participate in either program, without regard to whether the household is an Indian tribal household.
(2) FNS may determine, based on the number of non-Indian tribal households located on all or part of a reservation, that concurrent operation is necessary. When such a determination has been made all households residing in such areas may apply to participate in either SNAP or the Food Distribution Program.
(c)
Household distribution.
USDA Foods acquired under section 416 of the Agricultural Act of 1949, as amended; section 32 of Public Law 320, 74th Congress, as amended; section 709 of the Food and Agricultural Act of 1963, as amended; and section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973, as amended, by section 1304 of the Food and Agriculture Act of 1977, may be made available under part 250 of this chapter for distribution to households in accordance with the provisions of that part and the additional provisions and requirements of this part.
(d)
Food distribution program benefits.
Households eligible under this part shall receive a monthly food package based on the number of household members. The food package offered to each household shall consist of a quantity and variety of USDA Foods made available by the Department to provide eligible households with an opportunity to obtain a more nutritious diet
and shall represent an acceptable nutritional alternative to SNAP benefits. The food package offered to each household by the State agency shall contain a variety of foods from each of the food groups in the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations Monthly Distribution Guide Rates by Household Size. FNS shall periodically notify State agencies of the kinds of USDA Foods it proposes to make available based, insofar as practicable, on the preferences of eligible households as determined by the State agency. In the event one or more of the proposed USDA Foods cannot be delivered, the Department shall arrange for delivery of a similar USDA Foods within the same food group. FNS shall periodically assess how the USDA Foods provided in the Food Distribution Program compares to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans and the market baskets of the Thrifty Food Plan and, to the extent practicable, will adjust the food package as needed to ensure that the food package benefit is in alignment. The food package benefit will not decrease based on this adjustment.
[44 FR 35928, June 19, 1979. Redesignated by Amdt. 1, 47 FR 14137, Apr. 2, 1982, as amended at 65 FR 47833, Aug. 4, 2000; 89 FR 87254, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 253.4
Administration.
(a)
Federal administration.
Within the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) shall be responsible for the Food Distribution Program. FNS shall have the power to determine the amount of any claim and to settle and adjust any claim.
(b)
State agency administration.
(1) If FNS determines that the ITO is capable of effective and efficient administration, the ITO shall administer the Food Distribution Program on all or part of the reservation. If FNS determines that the ITO is not capable of effective and efficient administration of the Food Distribution Program, the appropriate agency of the State government shall be responsible for the Food Distribution Program on all or part of the Indian reservation. In addition, the appropriate agency of the State government may administer the Program on behalf of an otherwise capable tribe if agreed to in writing by both parties.
(2) In the case where the Indian reservation boundaries cross State lines, the ITO and appropriate State agencies may jointly request FNS approval that a single State agency administer the Food Distribution Program on all or part of the Indian reservation.
(3) An agency of State government responsible for administering the Food Distribution Program may delegate Program functions to an ITO. These functions include, but are not limited to, outreach, preparation of bilingual materials, USDA Foods issuance, determination of food preferences of households, publicizing uses of USDA Foods, and transportation and on-site delivery services. The State agency may also use the ITO in prescreening translations, interpretive services and other noncertification functions. The State agency shall not delegate responsibility for certification activities such as interviews or eligibility determinations with an ITO that has been determined incapable of administering the Food Distribution Program. In all cases the State agency shall retain full responsibility for program administration.
(c)
Qualification as a reservation.
(1) The appropriate ITO of an established Indian reservation will qualify for participation under the provisions of this part, when that ITO files an application which demonstrates the status of an area as an established reservation, unless FNS determines that such area(s) does not qualify as a reservation as that term is defined in these regulations. For purposes of this part, established reservation means the geographically defined area(s) currently recognized and established by Federal or State treaty or by Federal statute whereby such geographically defined area(s) is set aside for the use of Indians. Where such established areas exist, the appropriate ITO is presumed to exercise governmental jurisdiction, unless otherwise determined by FNS.
(2) The appropriate ITO for other areas, in order to qualify as reservations for the provisions of this part, must show to FNS:
(i) That the ITO exercises governmental jurisdiction over a geographic
area(s) which enjoys legal recognition from the Federal or a State government and is set aside for the use of Indians;
(ii) A clear and precise description of the boundaries of such geographic area(s).
(d)
Application by an ITO.
Any ITO which desires to participate in the Food Distribution Program shall file an application with the FNS Regional Office serving the State or States in which the reservation is located. The ITO shall specify if it is requesting the Food Distribution Program alone or concurrently with SNAP. The ITO shall also specify whether it wants either or both programs on all or part of the reservation, and if on part, shall describe the geographic boundaries of the relevant part(s). Additionally, if the ITO wishes to serve areas near the reservation, the ITO shall describe the geographic boundaries of the near area(s) for FNS review and approval. The ITO application shall also provide other information requested by FNS, including but not limited to, that the ITO serves an established reservation or a reservation otherwise qualified as described in paragraph (c) of this section. Properly addressed applications shall be acknowledged by the FNS Regional Office in writing within five working days of receipt.
(e)
Tribal capability.
(1) In determining whether the ITO on a given reservation is potentially capable of effectively and efficiently administering a Food Distribution Program, allowing for fulfillment of that potential through training and technical assistance, FNS shall consult with other sources, such as the BIA, and shall consider the ITO's experience, if any, in operating other government programs and its management and fiscal capabilities. Other factors for evaluation include, but are not limited to, the ITO's ability to:
(i) Order and properly store USDA Foods,
(ii) Certify eligible households,
(iii) Arrange for physical issuance of USDA Foods,
(iv) Keep appropriate records and submit required reports,
(v) Budget and account for administrative funds,
(vi) Determine the food preferences of households, and
(vii) Conduct on-site reviews of certification and distribution procedures and practices.
(2) The Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) shall make a determination of potential Indian Tribal Organization (ITO) capability within 30 days of receipt of a completed application for the Food Distribution Program. FNS shall promptly advise ITOs of the need for additional information if an incomplete application is received.
(3) FNS shall, if requested by an ITO which has been determined by FNS to be potentially capable of administering a Food Distribution Program, provide the ITO's designees with appropriate training and technical assistance to prepare the ITO to take over program administration. In determining what training and technical assistance are necessary, FNS shall consult with the ITO and other sources, such as the BIA.
[44 FR 35928, June 19, 1979, as amended by Amdt. 163, 45 FR 14006, Mar. 4, 1980. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 1, 47 FR 14137, Apr. 2, 1982; 89 FR 87254, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 253.5
State agency requirements.
(a)
Plan of operation.
(1) The State agency that assumes responsibility for the Food Distribution Program shall submit a plan of operation for approval by FNS. Approval of the plan shall be a prerequisite to the donation of USDA Foods available for use by households under part 250 of this chapter. The approved plan shall be considered permanent, with amendments to be added as changes in State agency administration or management of the program, as described in the plan, are made, or at the request of FNS. No amendment to the plan of operation of any State agency shall be effective without prior approval of FNS, and FNS may require amendment of any plan as a condition of continuing approval. If the agency is not an ITO, the appropriate agency of the State government shall also:
(i) Consult in good faith with the ITO on the reservation where the appropriate agency of the State government is responsible for administering the Food Distribution Program.
(ii) A State agency which is not an ITO shall submit its plan of operation,
budget and any substantive subsequent amendments to the ITO for comment at least 45 days prior to submission of the plan, budget or amendment to FNS. Comments by the ITO shall be attached to the plan, budget or amendment which is submitted to FNS. This paragraph does not apply to amendments required by FNS under § 253.7(a)(1).
(2) The plan of operation shall describe the manner in which USDA Foods will be distributed, including, but not limited to, the storage and distribution facilities to be used, the procedures to assure ongoing consultation with the ITO where the appropriate agency of the State government administers the Program, the method by which the food preferences of households shall be determined, the manner in which the State agency plans to supervise the Food Distribution Program, and plans by which the State agency will control dual participation. The plan shall also include by reference or otherwise the following assurances:
(i) No household on any Indian reservation shall be permitted to participate simultaneously in SNAP and the Food Distribution Program.
(ii) The value of the USDA Foods provided to any eligible household shall not be considered income or resources for any purposes under any Federal, State, or local laws, including, but not limited to, laws relating to taxation, welfare, and public assistance programs; and no State agency shall decrease any assistance otherwise provided to a household because of the receipt of USDA Foods.
(iii) The distribution of USDA Foods shall not be used as a means for furthering the political interest of any individual or party.
(iv) There shall be no discrimination in the certification of applicant households or in the distribution of USDA Foods because of sex, race, color, age, political beliefs, religion, handicap or national origin.
(v) Households shall not be required to make any payments in money, materials or services for, or in connection with, the receipt of USDA Foods; and they shall not be solicited in connection with the receipt of USDA Foods for voluntary cash contributions for any purpose.
(vi) Adequate personnel, including supervisory personnel, to review the Food Distribution Program shall be provided to ensure compliance with the requirements of this part.
(vii) Use of disclosure of information obtained from food distribution applicant households, exclusively for the Food Distribution Program, shall be restricted to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the provisions of the Food Distribution Programs as defined in this part of this subchapter, the Food Stamp Act or regulations, or with other Federal or federally aided, means-tested assistance programs such as title IV-A (TANF), XIX (Medicaid), or XVI (SSI), or with general assistance programs that are subject to the joint processing requirements specified in § 273.2(j)(2).
(b)
Operating manuals.
The State agency shall maintain ongoing consultation with the ITO in developing the State agency's written internal policies, instructions, and forms which are necessary to carry out the Food Distribution Program and shall submit them to FNS for approval prior to their use. The State agency shall file any comments or recommendations offered by the ITO, for review by FNS.
(c)
Staffing.
Personnel used in the certification process shall be employed in accordance with (1) the current standards for a Merit System of Personnel Administration or any standards later prescribed by the Office of Personnel Management under section 208 of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 or (2) when appropriate, the ITO's personnel system if it incorporates the basic elements of a merit system.
(d)
Bilingual requirements.
(1) The State agency shall provide bilingual staff, certification forms, including the application form and certification notices as specified in § 253.7(a)(2) and (b)(3), respectively, and any form developed by the State agency for reporting changes in household composition and income, pursuant to § 253.7(c), and outreach materials, when either an estimated 100 or more low income households or the majority of low-income
households on the reservation are a single language minority. Single-language minority refers to households which speak the same non-English language and which do not contain adults(s) fluent in English as a second language. If the non-English language is spoken but not written, the State agency shall provide bilingual staff, if required, but not bilingual material.
(2) The State agency shall ensure that offices serving reservations subject to the criteria in paragraph (d)(1) of this section provide sufficient bilingual staff for the timely processing of non-English speaking applicants.
(3) The State agency shall develop estimates of the numbers of low-income, single-language minority households by using census data (including the Census Bureau's Current Population Report: Population Estimates and Projections, Series P-25, No. 627) and knowledge of the reservation. Local Bureau of Census offices, Community Services Administration offices, Community Action agencies, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Indian Health Services, planning agencies, the ITO and school officials may be important sources of information in determining the need for bilingual services.
(e)
Outreach and referral.
The State agency shall inform potentially eligible households of the availability of the Food Distribution Program. The State agency shall develop and distribute printed information in the appropriate languages about the program and eligibility requirements. Outreach material shall contain information about a household's right to file an application on the same date it contacts the certification office. The State agency shall be sufficiently familiar with general eligibility requirements for the Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC), the Commodity Supplemental Food Program (if available to reservation residents), the Supplemental Security Income Program (SSI), and appropriate public and general assistance programs, to identify those applicants whose households contain persons who may be eligible for these programs, to inform the applicants of their potential eligibility, and to provide the applicants with the addresses and telephone numbers for these programs. For example, the State agency should provide information on the WIC program to applicants whose households contain pregnant women, nursing or postpartum women, or children up to the fifth birthday.
(f)
Training requirements.
The State agency shall institute a training program for all personnel who are assigned responsibility for the certification of applicant households, for fair hearing officers, for field supervisors who review local Food Distribution Programs, for those involved in outreach and those responsible for ordering, storing, and distributing USDA Foods.
(1) State agency training programs shall cover eligibility criteria, certification procedures, USDA Foods ordering, storage and distribution practices, household rights and responsibilities and other job-related responsibilities. The content of the training material shall be reviewed and revised periodically to correct deficiencies in program operations or reflect changes in policy and procedures.
(2) FNS shall review the effectiveness of State agency training based on information obtained from field reviews, administrative analyses and other sources.
(g)
Nutrition education.
The State agency shall publicize how USDA Foods may be used to contribute to a nutritious diet and how USDA Foods may be properly stored by means of visual displays, and printed material. The State agency shall encourage appropriate organizations, county extension home economists, expanded Food and Nutrition Program aides, and qualified volunteers to provide food and nutrition information, menus, or cooking demonstrations, as appropriate for participating households. The State agency shall encourage the dissemination of food and nutrition information designed to improve the nutrition of households on reservations.
(h)
Records and reports.
The State agency shall keep records and submit reports and other information as required by FNS. Records required under this part shall be retained for a period of three years from the date of the submission of the annual financial status
report, SF-425; except that, if any litigation, claim or audit is started before the expiration of the three year period, the records shall be retained until all litigation, claims or audit findings involving the records have been resolved.
(i)
Monitoring.
In accordance with its responsibility for efficient and effective program administration the State agency shall monitor and review its operations under this part to ensure compliance with the provisions of this part and with any applicable instructions of FNS.
(1) The State agency shall review program operations at least annually, document program deficiencies and establish and implement specific plans of corrective action for deficiencies noted.
(2) Reviews of operations shall include, but not be limited to, certification of households, determination of food preferences, distribution of USDA Foods, fair hearing procedures, USDA Foods inventories and timeliness and accuracy of reports to FNS.
(3) Program reviews and corrective action plans shall be available to FNS upon request.
(j)
Investigations and complaints.
The State agency shall promptly investigate complaints received of irregularities in the handling, distribution, receipt or use of USDA Foods, other than use of USDA Foods by eligible households in the preparation of meals for home consumption, and shall take appropriate action to correct any irregularities. The State agency shall also promptly investigate complaints of irregularities relating to certification procedures or the delivery of services and shall take appropriate action to correct any irregularities or noncompliance with provisions relating to certification procedures, provision of services or household rights. The State agency shall document each investigation and action in sufficient detail to allow for FNS review of all State agency actions and information. The Department shall make investigations at the request of the State agency and ITO or when the Department determines an investigation is necessary.
(k)
Sanctions.
If the State agency fails to comply with the provisions of this part or its plan of operation, FNS may:
(1) Take action against any State agency under § 253.11(g) with respect to administrative funds available from FNS for use by the State agency or (2) disqualify the State agency from further distribution of USDA Foods to households. Disqualification of the State agency shall not prevent FNS or the Department from taking other actions, including prosecution under applicable Federal statutes, when deemed necessary. Reinstatement shall be contingent upon approval by FNS of the State agency's plan for corrective action or determination by FNS that the State agency has complied with any other requirements for reinstatement which FNS may set forth. These provisions apply to all State agencies, regardless of whether the Program is administered by an agency of the State government or an ITO. If the ITO is disqualified as a State agency, an appropriate agency of State government shall administer the Food Distribution Program on the reservation. If an agency of State government is disqualified as the State agency for the Food Distribution Program on the reservation, the ITO may request in writing a capability determination for program administration in accordance with § 253.4.
(l)
Appeals.
(1) The agency of the State government or an ITO may appeal an initial determination by FNS on:
(i) Whether or not the reservation definition is met;
(ii) The capability of an ITO to administer the Food Distribution Program;
(iii) Sanctions taken under paragraph (k) of this section or § 253.11(g); or
(iv) The Federal matching percentage level of administrative funding made available by FNS.
(2) At the time FNS advises the State agency or ITO of its determination, FNS shall also advise the State agency or ITO of its right to appeal and, except for appeals of funding determinations, shall advise the State agency or ITO of its right to request either a meeting to present its position in person or a review of the record. On appeals of funding determinations, FNS shall advise the State agency or ITO
that it may indicate if it wishes a meeting, however, FNS need schedule a meeting only if FNS determines a meeting is warranted to reach a proper adjudication of the matter. Otherwise, FNS shall review supportive information submitted by the State agency or ITO in paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section.
(3)
Procedure
—(i)
Time limit.
Any State agency or ITO that wants to appeal an initial FNS determination under paragraph (l) of this section must notify the Administrator of FNS, in writing, within 15 days from the date of the determination. If the appeal concerns either paragraph (l)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section, the implementation timeframes as specified in paragraph (m) of this section and the timeframe for determining an ITO's capability as specified in § 253.4(e)(2) are suspended from the date the appeal is requested to the date of the final determination.
(ii)
Acknowledgment.
Within five days of receipt by the Administrator, of FNS, of a request for review, FNS shall provide the State agency or ITO with a written acknowledgment of the request by certified mail, return receipt requested. The acknowledgment shall include the name and address of the official designated by the Administrator, FNS, to review the appeal. The acknowledgment shall also notify the State agency or ITO that within ten days of receipt of the acknowledgment, the State agency or ITO shall submit written information in support of its position.
(4)
Scheduling a meeting.
If the Administrator, FNS, grants a meeting FNS shall advise the State agency or ITO of the time, date and location of the meeting by certified mail, return receipt requested at least ten days in advance of the meeting. FNS shall schedule and conduct the meeting and make a decision within 60 days of the receipt of the information submitted in response to paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section.
(5)
Review.
If no meeting is conducted the official designated by the Administrator, FNS, shall review information presented by a State agency or ITO which requests a review and shall make a final determination in writing within 45 days of the receipt of the State agency's or ITO's information submitted in response to paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section setting forth in full the reasons for the determination.
(6)
Final decision.
The official's decision after a meeting or a review shall be final.
(m)
Implementation.
The State agency shall implement changes required by amendments to these regulations in accordance with schedules specified in the amendment.
(1)
Amendment 2.
(i) If an ITO currently participates in, but does not administer, the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations:
(A) FNS shall determine tribal eligibility and capability to administer the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations within 60 days of receipt of a completed application. If an incomplete application is received, FNS shall within 15 days, notify the ITO of what additional information is required. The processing time for the capability determination shall start from the date the additional information is received by FNS.
(B) Upon FNS' determination that the ITO will administer the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, FNS shall expeditiously plan for and provide needed training and technical assistance to facilitate timely commencement of tribal administrative responsibilities. The ITO shall have 120 days from FNS' determination in paragraph (m)(1)(i)(A) of this section to submit and have approved a plan of operation, operating manuals, and to commence program operations under the regulations as specified in this part. Extensions may be granted by FNS to ITOs if good cause is shown.
(C) If FNS determines that an ITO is not capable of administering the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, FNS shall direct the State to continue program operations and submit a new plan of operation and to commence program operations under the regulations as specified in this part within 120 days from FNS' determination in paragraph (m)(1)(i)(A) of this section.
(ii) If an ITO currently administers the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, the timeframes
specified in paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section apply except that:
(A) FNS shall determine tribal eligibility and capability to administer the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations within 30 days of receipt of a completed application.
(B) If FNS determines that the ITO will not administer the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, FNS shall direct the ITO to continue program operations until the State government can commence program operations. The State government shall have 120 days from FNS' determination in paragraph (m)(1)(i)(A) of this section to submit and have approved a plan of operation and to commence program operations under the regulations as specified in this part.
(iii) If an ITO does not currently participate in a Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, the timeframes in paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section apply except that if FNS determines that an ITO cannot administer the program, FNS shall direct the State to submit a plan of operation and to commence program operations under the regulations as specified in this part within 180 days from the determination.
(iv) Extensions to the above implementation timeframe (except for those timeframes set forth in paragraphs (m)(1) (i)(A) and (ii)(A) of this section) may be granted by FNS to ITOs or State government agencies if there is compelling justification involving circumstances which were not reasonably foreseeable and which are not the fault of the ITO or the State agency and which circumstances present extraordinary problems that would render earlier implementation impossible.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0071)
(44 U.S.C. 3506; E.O. 12372, July 14, 1982, 47 FR 30959, sec. 401(b) of the Intergovernmental Cooperation Act of 1968, 31 U.S.C. 6506(c))
[44 FR 35928, June 19, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 1, 47 FR 14137, Apr. 2, 1982; Amdt. 2, 47 FR 19665, May 7, 1982; 48 FR 29123, June 24, 1983; 62 FR 53731, Oct. 16, 1997; 64 FR 73383, Dec. 30, 1999; 65 FR 47833, Aug. 4, 2000; 81 FR 66498, Sept. 28, 2016; 89 FR 87255, Oct. 31, 2024; 89 FR 104394, Dec. 23, 2024]
§ 253.6
Eligibility of households.
(a)
Household concept.
(1) The State agency shall determine eligibility for the Food Distribution Program on a household basis. Household means any of the following individuals or groups of individuals, provided that such individuals or groups are not boarders or residents of an institution.
(i) An individual living alone.
(ii) An individual living with others, but customarily purchasing food and preparing meals for home consumption separate and apart from the others.
(iii) A group of individuals living together for whom food is customarily purchased in common and for whom meals are prepared together for home consumption.
(iv)
Spouses living separately.
For purposes of this part, spouses living separately and apart are considered separate households.
(2)
Nonhousehold members.
The following individuals residing with a household shall not be considered household members in determining the household's eligibility. Nonhousehold members specified in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) and (iv) who are otherwise eligible may participate in the Program as separate households.
(3)
Authorized representatives.
The head of the household, spouse, or any other responsible member of the household may designate an authorized representative to act on behalf of the household in making application for USDA Foods and/or obtaining USDA Foods as provided in § 253.7(a)(10)(i) and § 253.7(a)(10)(ii) respectively.
(4)
Children.
A child (other than a foster child) under 18 years of age who lives with and is under the parental control of a household member must be considered a member of the household. A child must be considered under parental control for purposes of this provision if they are financially or otherwise dependent on a member of the household, unless State law defines such a person as an adult.
(i) An individual living alone.
(ii) An individual living with others, but customarily purchasing food and preparing meals for home consumption separate and apart from the others.
(iii) A group of individuals living together for whom food is customarily
purchased in common and for whom meals are prepared together for home consumption.
(2)
Nonhousehold members.
The following individuals residing with a household shall not be considered household members in determining the household's eligibility. Nonhousehold members specified in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) and (v) who are otherwise eligible may participate in the Program as separate households.
(i)
Roomers.
Individuals to whom a household furnishes lodging, but not meals, for compensation.
(ii)
SSI recipients in “cash-out” States.
Recipients of SSI benefits who reside in a State designated by the Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare to have specifically included the value of the coupon allotment in its State supplemental payments. These persons are not eligible for Food Distribution Program benefits.
(iii)
Disqualified individuals.
Individuals disqualified from the Food Stamp Program for fraud, as set forth in § 273.16.
(iv)
Illegal residents.
Individuals who are not legal residents of the United States. While U.S. citizenship is not required for participation in the Food Distribution Program, persons receiving food distribution benefits must be lawfully living in the United States.
(v)
Others.
Other individuals who share living quarters with the household but who do not customarily purchase food and prepare meals with the household. For example, if the applicant household shares living quarters with another family to save on rent, but does not purchase and prepare food together with that family, the members of the other family are not members of the applicant household.
(3)
Authorized representatives.
The head of the household, spouse, or any other responsible member of the household may designate an authorized representative to act on behalf of the household in making application for commodities and/or obtaining commodities as provided in § 253.7(a)(10)(i) and § 253.7(a)(10)(ii) respectively.
(b)
Residency or citizenship.
(1) All households residing on a reservation on which the FDPIR operates shall be eligible to apply for program benefits on that reservation regardless of whether they include an Indian member. All Indian tribal households as defined in § 253.2 of this part which reside in near areas established under § 253.4(d) of this part shall be eligible to apply for program benefits. The ITO or State agency shall serve all income-eligible applicant households residing on reservations who apply for benefits, and all income-eligible applicant Indian tribal households residing in near areas. The ITO or State agency administering the program in a near area shall, for purposes of determining program eligibility, accept documentation from a household member's tribe of origin as proof of tribal membership. Residency shall not mean domicile nor shall the State agency impose any durational residency requirement. However, persons on the reservation solely for vacations shall not be considered residents. No household may participate in or in the Food Distribution Program in more than one geographical area at the same time.
(2) No person shall participate in the Food Distribution Program on an Indian reservation unless the person is legally a resident of the United States. A further discussion of “legal residency” is provided in paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section.
(c)
Income eligibility standards of public assistance, supplemental security income (SSI), and certain general assistance households.
(1) Households in which all members are included in a federally aided public assistance or SSI grant shall, if otherwise eligible under this part, be determined to be eligible to participate in the Food Distribution Program while receiving such grants without regard to the income of the household members.
(2) If FNS determines that a State or local general assistance program applies criteria of need the same as or similar to, those applied under any of the federally aided public assistance programs, households in which all members are included in such a general assistance grant, shall, if otherwise eligible under this part, be determined to be eligible to participate in the Food Distribution Program while receiving such grants without regard to the income of household members.
(d)
Income
—(1)
Income eligibility standards for nonassistance households.
(i) The State agency shall apply uniform national income eligibility standards for the Food Distribution Program except for households in which all members are recipients of public assistance, SSI, paragraph (c) of this section, or certain general assistance program payments as provided in § 283.6(c). The income eligibility standards shall be the applicable SNAP net monthly income eligibility standards for the appropriate area, increased by the amount of the applicable SNAP standard deduction for that area.
(ii) The income eligibility standards for the Food Distribution Program shall be adjusted each October 1, as necessary, to reflect changes in SNAP income eligibility limits and standard deductions.
(2)
Definition of income.
Household income shall mean all income from whatever source, excluding only items specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.
(i) Earned income shall include:
(A) All wages and salaries of an employee.
(B) The total gross income from a self-employment enterprise, including the net profit from the sale of any capital goods or equipment related to the business. Ownership of rental property shall be considered a self-employment enterprise. Payments from a roomer and returns on rental property shall be considered self-employment income.
(C) Training allowances from vocational and rehabilitative programs recognized by Federal, State or local governments, such as the Work Incentive Program, and programs authorized by the Job Training Partnership Act, to the extent they are not a reimbursement.
(ii) Unearned income shall include, but not be limited to:
(A) Assistance payments from Federal or Federally aided public assistance programs, such as Supplemental Security Income (SSI) or Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), General Assistance (GA) programs, or other assistance programs based on need.
(B) Annuities; pensions; retirement; veteran's or disability benefits; worker's or unemployment compensation; old-age, survivors, or social security benefits; strike benefits; foster care payments for children or adults.
(C) Support or alimony payments made directly to the household from nonhousehold members.
(D) Scholarships, education grants, fellowships, deferred payment loans for education, veteran's education benefit and the like in excess of amounts excluded under paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section.
(E) Payments from Government-sponsored programs, dividends, interest, royalties, and all other direct money payments from any source which can be construed to be a gain or benefit.
(F) Per capita payments that are derived from the profits of Tribal enterprises and distributed to Tribal members on a monthly basis.
(G) The earned or unearned income of an individual disqualified from participation in SNAP for fraud shall continue to be counted as income, less the pro rata share for the disqualified member. Procedures for calculating this pro rata share are described in § 253.7.
(iii) Income shall not include the following:
(A) Monies withheld from an assistance payment, earned income or other income source, or monies received from any income source which are voluntarily or involuntarily returned to repay a prior overpayment received from that income source.
(B) Child support payments received by TANF recipients which must be transferred to the agency administering title IV-D of the Social Security Act of 1935, as amended, to maintain TANF eligibility.
(3)
Income exclusions.
Only the following items shall be excluded from household income and no other income shall be disregarded:
(i) Any gain or benefit which is not in the form of money payable directly to the household, including:
(A)
In-kind income.
Nonmonetary or in-kind benefits, such as meals, clothing, public housing, or produce from a garden.
(B)
Vendor payments.
A payment made in money on behalf of a household shall be considered a vendor payment whenever a person or organization outside of the household uses its own funds to make a direct payment to either the household's creditors or a person or organization providing a service to the household. For example, if a relative, who is not a household member, pays out of its own resources the household's rent directly to the landlord, the payment is considered a vendor payment and is not counted as income to the household. Also, payments specified by a court order or other written support or alimony agreement to go directly to a third party rather than the household and support payments which are paid to a third party are excluded as vendor payments. Wages garnished or diverted by employers, or money deducted or otherwise diverted from a household's public assistance grant by a State for purposes such as managing the household's expenses, shall not be considered a vendor payment, since the person or organization making the payment is using money payable to the household rather than its own funds.
(ii) Any income in the certification period which is received too infrequently or irregularly to be reasonably anticipated, but not in excess of $30 in a quarter.
(iii) Education loans on which payment is deferred, grants scholarships, fellowships, veterans' educational benefits, and the like to the extent that they are used for tuition and mandatory school fees. Mandatory fees are those charged to all students or those charged to all students within a certain curriculum. For example, uniforms, lab fees, or equipment charged to all students to enroll in a chemistry course would be excluded. However, transportation, supplies, and textbook expenses are not uniformly charged to all students and, therefore, would not be excluded as mandatory fees.
(iv) All loans, including loans from private individuals as well as commercial institutions, other than education loans on which repayment is deferred.
(v) Reimbursements for past or future expenses to the extent they do not exceed actual expenses. For example, reimbursements of flat allowances for job or training related expenses such as travel per diem, uniforms, and transportation to and from the job or training site are excluded as income.
(vi) Monies received and used for care and maintenance of a third party beneficiary who is not a household member.
(vii) The earned income (as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section) of children who are members of the household, who are students at least half time and who have not attained their eighteenth birthday. The exclusion shall continue to apply during temporary interruptions in school attendance due to semester or vacation breaks, provided the child's enrollment will resume following the break. Individuals are considered children for purposes of this provision if they are under the parental control of another household member.
(viii) Money received in the form of a nonrecurring lump sum payment, including but not limited to, income tax refunds, rebates, or credits; retroactive lump-sum social security, SSI, public assistance, railroad retirement benefits or other payments, or retroactive lump-sum insurance settlements; refunds of security deposits on rental properties or utilities or lump-sum payments arising from land interests held in trust for, or by, a tribe.
(ix) The cost of producing self-employment income. The procedures for computing the cost of producing self-employment income are described in § 253.7(b)(1)(iii).
(x) Any income that is specifically excluded by any other Federal statute from consideration as income. The following Federal statutes provide such an exclusion.
(A) Reimbursements from the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policy Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646, section 216).
(B) Payments received under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (Pub. L. 92-203, section 21(a)).
(C) Any payment to volunteers under Title II (RSVP, foster grandparents, and others) and title III (SCORE and ACE) of the Domestic Volunteer Services Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-113), as amended. Payments under title I
(VISTA) to volunteers shall be excluded for those individuals receiving federally donated USDA Foods, SNAP, or public assistance at the time they joined the title I program, except that households which are receiving an income exclusion for a VISTA or other title I subsistence allowance at the time of implementation of these rules shall continue to receive an income exclusion for VISTA for the length of their volunteer contract in effect at the time of implementation of these rules. Temporary interruptions in food distribution shall not alter the exclusion once an initial determination has been made. New applicants who are not receiving federally donated USDA Foods, SNAP benefits or public assistance at the time they joined VISTA shall have these volunteer payments included as earned income.
(D) Income derived from certain submarginal land of the United States which is held in trust for certain Indian tribes (Pub. L. 94-114, section 6).
(E) Payments received by certain Indian tribal members under Pub. L. 94-540 regarding the Grand River Band of Ottawa Indians.
(xi)
Combat pay.
Combat pay is defined as additional payment that is received by or from a member of the United States Armed Forces deployed to a combat zone, if the additional pay is the result of deployment to or service in a combat zone, and was not received immediately prior to serving in a combat zone.
(xii) Per capita payments that are derived from the profits of Tribal enterprises and distributed to Tribal members less frequently than monthly (e.g., quarterly, semiannually or annually) are excluded from consideration as income.
(e)
Income deductions
—(1)
Earned income deduction.
Households with earned income, as defined in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section, shall be allowed a deduction of twenty percent of their gross earned income. Earned income excluded under paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall not be considered earned income for the purpose of computing this deduction.
(2)
Dependent care deduction.
Households shall also receive a deduction for the actual costs for the care of a child or other dependent when necessary for a household member to accept or continue employment or attend training or pursue education which is preparatory to employment.
(3)
Child support deduction.
Households will receive a deduction for legally required child support payments paid by a household member to or for a nonhousehold member, including payments made to a third party on behalf of the nonhousehold member (vendor payments). The State agency must allow a deduction for amounts paid towards overdue child support (arrearages). Alimony payments made to or for a nonhousehold member cannot be included in the child support deduction.
(4)
Excess medical deduction.
Households must receive a medical deduction for that portion of medical expenses in excess of $35 per month, excluding special diets, incurred by any household member who is elderly or disabled as defined in § 253.2. Spouses or other persons receiving benefits as a dependent of a Supplemental Security Income (SSI), or disability and blindness recipient are not eligible to receive this deduction; however, persons receiving emergency SSI benefits based on presumptive eligibility are eligible for this deduction. The allowable medical costs are those permitted at § 273.9(d)(3) of this chapter for the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP).
(5)
Shelter/utility deduction.
Households that incur monthly shelter and utility expenses will receive a shelter/utility deduction. The household may choose to receive a standard deduction or to provide actual expenses, subject to the provisions below.
(i) The household must incur, on a monthly basis, at least one allowable shelter/utility expense. The allowable shelter/utility expenses are those permitted at § 273.9(d)(6)(ii) of this chapter for SNAP.
(ii) The shelter/utility standard deduction amounts are set by FNS. The standard deductions are adjusted annually to reflect changes to SNAP maximum monthly excess shelter expense limits per § 273.9(d)(6)(ii) of this chapter. FNS will advise the State agencies of the updates prior to October 1 of each year.
(iii) Households that select actual expenses, may claim expenses up to the amount that does not exceed 50 percent of their net monthly income.
[44 FR 35928, June 19, 1979. Redesignated by Amdt. 1, 47 FR 14137, Apr. 2, 1982, and amended at 59 FR 1449, Jan. 11, 1994; 64 FR 73383, Dec. 30, 1999; 65 FR 47833, Aug. 4, 2000; 75 FR 4473; Jan. 28, 2010; 76 FR 18865, Apr. 6, 2011; 78 FR 52831, Aug. 27, 2013; 89 FR 87255, Oct. 31, 2024; 89 FR 104394, Dec. 23, 2024]
§ 253.7
Certification of households.
(a)
Application processing
—(1)
General purpose.
The application process includes filing and completing an application form, being interviewed, and having certain information verified. The State agency shall act promptly on all applications. Expedited service shall be available to household in immediate need. When the State agency is other than the ITO, the ITO, when appropriate, may receive copies of certification and/or termination notices to the extent requested or agreed upon by the household. State agencies and ITOs may develop formalized mechanisms to ensure ITO receipt of notices.
(2)
Food Distribution Program application form.
The State agency shall use an application form acceptable to FNS. The State agency shall consult with the ITO in developing the application form. The State agency shall make application forms readily accessible to potentially eligible households and those groups or organizations involved in outreach efforts. The State agency shall also provide an application form to anyone who requests the form. State agencies which elect joint PA or GA/Food Distribution Program procedures shall follow the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section for the application form. State agencies may also use an abbreviated recertification form.
(3)
Filing an application.
Households must file an application for the Food Distribution Program by submitting the form to a certification office in person, through an authorized representative or by mail. The State agency shall document the date the application was received. Each household has the right to file an application form the same day it contacts the certification office during office hours on the reservation where the household resides. The household shall be advised that it does not have to be interviewed before filing the application and may file an incomplete application form as long as the application contains the applicant's name and address and is signed by a responsible member of the household or the household's authorized representative.
(4)
Household cooperation.
To determine eligibility, the application form must be completed and signed, the household or its authorized representative must be interviewed, and certain information on the application must be verified. If the household refuses to cooperate with the State agency in completing this process, the application shall be denied upon a determination of refusal. For a determination of refusal to be made, the household must be able to cooperate, but clearly demonstrate that it will not take actions that it can take and that are required to complete the application process. For example, to be denied for refusal to cooperate, a household must refuse to be interviewed and not merely fail to appear for the interview. If there is any question as to whether the household has merely failed to cooperate, as opposed to refused to cooperate, the household shall not be denied solely for this reason. The household shall also be determined ineligible if it refuses to cooperate in any subsequent review of its eligibility. Once denied or terminated for refusal to cooperate, the household may reapply but shall not be determined eligible until it cooperates.
(5)
Interviews.
All applicant households, including those submitting applications by mail, shall have an interview with a qualified eligibility worker prior to initial certification and all recertifications. At State agency discretion, applicants may be interviewed by telephone or in the home. No household shall be interviewed by telephone for any two consecutive certifications without a face-to-face interview. State agencies must attempt to schedule home visits in advance. Home visits cannot extend required processing standards set forth in paragraphs (a)(7) and (a)(9) of this section. The individual interviewed may be the head of
household, spouse, any other responsible member of the household or an authorized representative. The household, if it wishes, may be accompanied to the interview by anyone of its choice. The interviewer shall not only review the information that appears on the application, but shall explore and resolve with the household unclear and incomplete information. Households shall be advised of their rights and responsibilities during the interview. The interview shall be conducted as an official and confidential discussion of household circumstances. The applicant's right to privacy shall be protected during the interview. Facilities shall be adequate to preserve the privacy and confidentiality of the interview.
(6)
Verification.
Verification is the use of third party information or documentation to establish the accuracy of statements on the application in order to determine eligibility or ineligibility of the household.
(i)
Mandatory verification.
(A)
Gross non-exempt income.
The State agency must obtain verification of each household's gross non-exempt income prior to certification. Households certified under the expedited service processing standards at paragraph (a)(9) of this section are not subject to this requirement. Income does not need to be verified to the exact dollar amount unless the household's eligibility would be affected, since Food Distribution Program benefits are not reduced as income rises. If the eligibility worker is unable to verify the household's income, the worker must determine an amount to be used for certification purposes based on the best available information. Reasons for inability to verify income include failure of the person or organization providing the income to cooperate with the household and the State agency, or lack of other sources of verification.
(B)
Legal obligation and actual child support payments.
The State agency must obtain verification of the household's legal obligation to pay child support, the amount of the obligation, and the monthly amount of child support the household actually pays. Documentation that verifies the household's legal obligation to pay child support, such as a court order, cannot be used to verify the household's actual monthly child support payments.
(C)
Medical expense deduction.
The State agency must obtain verification for those medical expenses that the household wishes to deduct in accordance with 7 CFR 253.6(e)(4). The allowability of services provided (e.g., whether the billing health professional is a licensed practitioner authorized by State law or other qualified health professional) must be verified, if questionable. Only out-of-pocket expenses can be deducted. Expenses reimbursed to the household by an insurer are not deductible. The eligibility of the household to qualify for the deduction (i.e., the household includes a member who is elderly or disabled) must be verified, if questionable.
(D)
Shelter/utility deduction.
A household must incur, on a monthly basis, at least one allowable shelter/utility expense in accordance with § 253.6(e)(5)(i) of this chapter to qualify for the shelter/utility deduction. The State agency must verify that the household incurs the expense. If the household chooses to provide actual expenses, then the State agency must obtain verification for each shelter/utility deduction that the household wishes to deduct.
(ii)
Verification of questionable information.
Eligibility criteria other than income, including residency on or near the reservation, shall be verified prior to certification only if they are questionable. To be considered questionable, the information on the application must be inconsistent with statements by the applicant, inconsistent with other information on the application or previous applications, or inconsistent with other information received by the State agency. However, due to the difficulty in verifying whether a group of individuals is a household, State agencies shall generally accept the household's statement regarding food preparation and consumption.
(iii)
Responsibility for obtaining verification.
The household has primary responsibility for providing documentary evidence or an acceptable collateral contact to support its income statements and to resolve any questionable information. However, the State agency shall assist the household
in obtaining the needed verification. The State agency shall accept any reasonable documentary evidence provided by the household and shall be primarily concerned with how adequately the verification proves the statements on the application. The State agency shall also accept verification from collateral contacts so long as the collateral contacts can provide accurate third party verification. The State agency shall rely on the household to provide the name of the collateral contact. The State agency is not required to use a collateral contact designated by the household if the collateral contact cannot be expected to provide accurate third party verification. If the collateral contact designated by the household is unacceptable to the State agency, the State agency shall ask the household to designate another collateral contact, and the State agency shall document the casefile as to the reason the collateral contact was rejected and an alternate was requested. The State agency shall use collateral contacts, rather than documentary evidence, for verification if such verification is acceptable, and would result in better service to the household. For example, the household may be able to obtain a wage stub from the employer, but the State agency could call the employer the same day to provide the verification of income. Home visits shall be used as verification only if documentary evidence and collateral contacts cannot be obtained, and the State agency attempts to schedule the visit in advance with the household.
(iv)
Documentation.
Casefiles must be documented to support a determination of eligibility or denial. Documentation shall be in sufficient detail to permit a reviewer to determine the reasonableness and accuracy of the determination.
(v)
Verification for recertification.
At recertification, the State agency shall verify a change in gross income if the source has changed or the amount has changed by more than $100 per month since the last time the gross income was verified. State agencies may verify income which is unchanged or has changed by $100 per month or less, provided verification is, at a minimum, required when information is questionable as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section. All other changes reported at the time of recertification shall be subject to the same verification procedures as apply at initial certification. Unchanged information, other than income, shall not be verified at recertification unless the information is questionable as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section.
(7)
Processing standards.
The State agency shall provide eligible households that complete the initial application process an opportunity to participate as soon as possible, but not later than seven calendar days excluding weekends and holidays after the application was filed. An application is filed the day the State agency receives an application containing the applicant's name and address and which is signed by either a responsible member of the household or the household's authorized representative.
(8)
Delays in processing.
If the State agency cannot determine a household's eligibility within seven calendar days excluding weekends and holidays of the date the application was filed due to lack of verification as required in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, the State agency shall authorize the distribution of USDA Foods to the household for one month pending verification. In order to certify the household pending verification, the information on the application form must be complete and indicate that the household will likely be eligible. No further distribution of USDA Foods shall be made without completing the eligibility determination.
(9)
Expedited service.
The State agency shall provide an opportunity to obtain USDA Foods within one calendar day excluding weekends and holidays after the date the application was filed for those households with no income in the current month and also for those households which, in the judgment of the certifying agency, would likely be eligible and would otherwise suffer a hardship. The basis for this determination shall be recorded in the casefile. State agencies shall provide same day service, if possible, to households eligible for expedited service which would likely suffer a hardship if required to
return to the office the next day. Warehouses or other distribution points need not be open during all certification hours to meet this need. However, accessibility to federally donated USDA Foods by appropriate certification or other personnel should be established for households in immediate need. When State agencies can demonstrate a need, FNS may approve other expedited timeframes based on circumstances such as distance to warehouses or other distribution points. To expedite the certification of households in immediate need the State agency shall postpone the verification required under paragraph (a)(6) of this section. However, the State agency shall verify the household's identity and address through a collateral contact or readily available documentary evidence. If possible, the household's income statements should be verified at the same time. The State agency shall complete the verification for households certified on an expedited basis prior to the distribution of USDA Foods to the household for any subsequent month.
(10)
Authorized representatives.
The head of the household, spouse, or any other responsible member of the household may designate an authorized representative to act on behalf of the household in one or all of the following capacities:
(i)
Making application for USDA Foods.
When the head of the household or the spouse cannot make application, another household member may apply or an adult nonhousehold member may be designated in writing as the authorized representative for that purpose. The head of the household or the spouse should prepare or review the application whenever possible, even though another household member or the authorized representative will actually be interviewed. Adults who are nonhousehold members may be designated as authorized representatives for certification purposes only if they are sufficiently aware of relevant household circumstances.
(ii)
Obtaining USDA Foods.
An authorized representative of the household may be designated to obtain USDA Foods. Designation shall be made at the time the application is completed except that the household may be permitted to designate an emergency authorized representative in the event that illness or other unforeseen circumstances prevent the household from otherwise obtaining USDA Foods. Designation of an emergency authorized representative must be made in writing by a responsible member of the household. State agencies may distribute USDA Foods to household members or authorized representatives presenting an identification card or other appropriate identification that satisfactorily identifies the member obtaining USDA Foods.
(b)
Eligibility determinations
—(1)
Determining income.
(i) The State agency shall take into account the income already received by the household during the certification period and any anticipated income the household and the State agency are reasonably certain will be received during the remainder of the certification period. If the amount of income that is anticipated is uncertain, that portion of the household's income that is uncertain shall not be counted by the State agency. For example, a household anticipating income from a new source, such as a new job or recently applied for public assistance benefits, may be uncertain as to the timing and amount of the initial payment. These monies shall not be anticipated by the State agency unless there is reasonable certainty concerning the month in which the payment will be received and in what amount. If the exact amount of the income is not known, that portion of it which can be anticipated with reasonable certainty shall be considered as income. In cases where the receipt of income is reasonably certain but the monthly amount may fluctuate, and the household's income is close to the income eligibility limit the State agency may elect to average income provided that such averaging does not disadvantage the household. Such averaging shall be based on income that is anticipated to be available to the household during the certification period. The State agency shall use income received in the past 30 days as an indicator of future income during the certification period unless changes in
income have occurred or can be anticipated.
(ii) Income anticipated during the certification period shall be counted as income only in the month it is expected to be received, unless the income is averaged.
(iii)(A) Self-employment income which represents a household's annual support including the net profit from the sale of any capital goods or equipment related to the business shall be annualized over a 12-month period, even if the income is received in only a short period of time. For example, self-employment income received by farmers shall be averaged over a 12-month period if the income represents the farmer's annual support.
(B) Self-employment income which represents only a part of a household's annual support, including the net profit from the sale of any capital goods or equipment related to the business, shall be averaged over the period of time the income is intended to cover. For example, self-employed vendors who work only in the summer and supplement their income from other sources during the balance of the year shall have their self-employment income averaged over the summer months rather than a 12-month period.
(C) For the period of time over which self-employment income is determined, the State agency shall add all gross self-employment income, exclude the cost of producing the self-employment income and divide the net self-employment income by the number of months over which the income will be averaged. The allowable costs of producing self-employment income include but are not limited to, the identifiable costs of labor, stock, raw materials, seed and fertilizer, interest paid to purchase income producing property, insurance premiums, and taxes paid on income producing property.
(D) In determining net self-employment income, payments on the principal of the purchase price of income-producing real estate and capital assets, equipment, machinery, and other durable goods, net losses from previous periods, Federal, State, and local income taxes, money set aside for retirement purposes, and other work-related personal expenses (such as transportation to and from work) will not be allowable costs of doing business.
(iv) The monthly net self-employment income shall be added to any other earned income received by the household. The total monthly earned income, less the 20 percent earned income deduction, shall then be added to all monthly unearned income received by the household.
(v) Allowable costs for dependent care shall be subtracted from the household's total monthly income to determine net monthly income.
(vi) The total net monthly income shall be compared to the income eligibility standard for the appropriate household size to determine the household's eligibility.
(2)
Certification periods.
(i) The State agency shall establish definite periods of time within which households shall be eligible to receive benefits. Further eligibility shall be established upon a recertification based upon a newly completed application, an interview, and such verification as required by paragraph (a)(6)(v) of this section.
(ii) Certification periods shall conform to calendar months. The first month in the certification period of initial applicants shall be the month in which eligibility is determined. For example, if a household submits an application in late January and the household is determined eligible on the fifth working day which falls in February, a six-month certification period would include February through July. Upon recertification, the certification period will begin with the month following the last month of the previous certification period.
(iii) A household shall be assigned a certification period for as long a period as the household's circumstances are expected to remain sufficiently stable such that the household is expected to continue to meet the program's eligibility standards.
(iv) In no event may a certification period exceed 12 months, except that households in which all adult members are elderly and/or disabled may be certified for up to 24 months. Households assigned certification periods that are longer than 12 months must be contacted by the State agency at least once every 12 months to determine if
the household wishes to continue to participate in the program and whether there are any changes in household circumstances that would warrant a redetermination of eligibility or a change in benefit level. The State agency may use any method it chooses for this contact, including a face-to-face interview, telephone call or a home visit. Contact with the household's authorized representative would not satisfy this requirement; the State agency must contact a household member. The case file must document the contact with the household and include the date of contact, method of contact, name of person contacted, whether the household wishes to continue to participate, and whether changes in household circumstances would warrant a redetermination of eligibility or a change in benefit level.
(3)
Certification notices
—(i)
Notice of eligibility.
If an application is approved, the State agency shall provide the household a written notice of eligibility and the beginning and ending dates of the certification period. Households certified on an expedited basis shall be advised that the subsequent month's eligibility will depend upon completion of the postponed verification.
(ii)
Notice of denial.
If the application is denied, the State agency shall provide the household written notice explaining the basis for the denial, the household's right to request a fair hearing, and the telephone number and address of the person to contact for additional information. If there is an individual or organization available which provides free legal representation, the notice shall also advise the household of the availability of the service.
(iii)
Notice of adverse action.
(A) Prior to any action to reduce or terminate a household's benefits within the certification period, except for households voluntarily switching program participation from the Food Distribution Program to SNAP, State agencies shall provide the household timely and adequate advance notice before the adverse action is taken. The notice must be issued within 10 days of determining that an adverse action is warranted. The adverse action must take effect with the next scheduled distribution of USDA Foods that follows the expiration of the advance notice period unless the household requests a fair hearing.
(B) In State agencies that have elected joint public assistance or general assistance and Food Distribution processing, the notice of adverse action shall be considered timely if the advance notice period conforms to that period of time defined by the State agency as an adequate notice period for its public or general assistance caseload, provided that the period includes at least 10 days from the date the notice is mailed to the date upon which the action becomes effective. In circumstances other than joint processing, the advance notice shall be considered timely if the advance notice period includes at least 10 days from the date the notice is issued to the date upon which the action becomes effective.
(C) The notice of adverse action must include the following in easily understandable language:
(
1
) The reason for the adverse action;
(
2
) The date the adverse action will take effect;
(
3
) The household's right to request a fair hearing and continue to receive benefits pending the outcome of the fair hearing;
(
4
) The date by which the household must request the fair hearing;
(
5
) The liability of the household for any overissuances received while awaiting the outcome of the fair hearing, if the fair hearing official's decision is adverse to the household;
(
6
) The telephone number and address of someone to contact for additional information; and
(
7
) The telephone number and address of an individual or organization that provides free legal representation, if available.
(D) The State agency shall continue distribution of USDA Foods to the household after the end of the adverse notice period if the household requests a fair hearing during the advance notice period.
(E) If the State agency determines that a household received more USDA Foods than it was entitled to receive, it must establish a claim against the
household in accordance with § 253.9. The initial demand letter for repayment must be provided to the household at the same time the notice of adverse action is issued. It may be combined with the notice of adverse action.
(c)
Reporting changes.
(1) The State agency must develop procedures for how changes in household circumstances are reported. Changes reported over the telephone or in person must be acted on in the same manner as those reported in writing. Participating households are required to report the following changes within 10 calendar days after the change becomes known to the household:
(i) A change in household composition;
(ii) An increase in gross monthly income of more than $100;
(iii) A change in residence;
(iv) When the household no longer incurs a shelter and utility expense; or
(v) A change in the legal obligation to pay child support.
(2) If the State agency determines that the household is no longer eligible or reduces the amount of USDA Foods due the household because the household has lost a member or members, the State agency shall provide the household with a notice of adverse action not later than ten days after the change is reported. If the reported change increases the amount of USDA Foods due the household, the household shall be notified that the increase shall be effective not later than the month following the date the change was reported.
(d)
Recertification.
(1) The State agency shall develop a procedure for notifying the household prior to or shortly after the end of its certification period that the household must reapply and be recertified for continued participation. Households shall also be notified of the date upon which termination from participation will be effective should the household fail to reapply before the expiration of the certification period.
(2) The State agency shall approve or deny a household's application for recertification and notify the household of that determination prior to the expiration of the household's current certification period. Households applying for recertification in the last month of the current certification period must be provided an opportunity to obtain USDA Foods distribution on an uninterrupted basis.
(3) The State agency shall continue distribution of USDA Foods to the household denied at the point of recertification if the household timely requests a fair hearing.
(e)
Controls for dual participation
—(1)
Prohibition on dual participation.
No household shall be allowed to participate simultaneously in SNAP and the Food Distribution Program. The State agency shall inform each applicant household of this prohibition and shall develop a method to detect dual participation. The method developed by the State agency shall, at a minimum, employ lists of currently certified households provided by and provided to the appropriate SNAP agency on a monthly basis. The State agency may also employ computer checks, address checks and telephone calls to prevent dual participation. The State agency shall coordinate with the appropriate SNAP agency or agencies in developing controls for dual participation.
(2)
Choice of programs.
Households eligible for either SNAP or the Food Distribution Program on reservations on which both programs are available may elect to participate in either program. Such households may elect to participate in one program, and subsequently elect the other at the end of the certification period. Households may also elect to switch from one program to the other program within a certification period only by terminating their participation and notifying the State agency of their intention to switch programs. Households certified in either the Food Distribution Program or SNAP on the first day of the month can only receive benefits in the program for which they are currently certified during that month. At the point the household elects to change programs, the household should notify the State agency of its intent to switch programs and should file an application for the program in which it wishes to participate. Households voluntarily withdrawing from one program with the intent of switching to the other shall have their eligibility terminated
for the program in which they are currently certified on the last day of the month in which the household notifies the State agency of its intent to change programs. Entitlement in the program for which a household is now filing an application, if all eligibility criteria are met, would begin in the month following the month of termination in the previous program.
(f)
Treatment of disqualified household members.
(1) The following are not eligible to participate in the Food Distribution Program:
(i) Household members disqualified from the Food Distribution Program for an intentional program violation under § 253.8. These household members may participate, if otherwise eligible, in the Food Distribution Program once the period of disqualification has ended.
(ii) Household members disqualified from SNAP for an intentional program violation under § 273.16 of this chapter. These household members may participate, if otherwise eligible, in the Food Distribution Program once the period of disqualification under SNAP has ended. The State agency must, in cooperation with the appropriate SNAP agency, develop a procedure that ensures that these household members are identified.
(iii) Households disqualified from the Food Distribution Program for failure to pay an overissuance claim. The circumstances under which a disqualification is allowed for such failure are specified in FNS Handbook 501.
(2) During the time a household member is disqualified, the eligibility and food distribution benefits of any remaining household members will be determined as follows:
(i)
Income.
A pro rata share of the income of the disqualified member will be counted as income to the remaining members. This pro rata share is calculated by dividing the disqualified member's earned (less the 20 percent earned income deduction) and unearned income evenly among all household members, including the disqualified member. All but the disqualified member's share is counted as income to the remaining household members.
(ii)
Eligibility and benefits.
The disqualified member will not be included when determining the household's size for purposes of assigning food distribution benefits to the household or for purposes of comparing the household's net monthly income with the income eligibility standards.
(g)
Joint processing PA/GA.
(1) State agencies which are responsible for and administer both the Food Distribution and public assistance (PA) or general assistance (GA) programs on Indian reservations may allow a household to apply for the Food Distribution Program at the same time the household applies for PA or GA benefits. However, while PA households are categorically eligible, GA households except for those households in GA programs which have been determined by FNS to have criteria of need the same as, or similiar to those under federally aided public assistance programs as provided for in § 253.6(c)(2) shall have their eligibility for USDA Foods based solely on Food Distribution eligibility criteria. All criteria provided in this paragraph (f), are applicable to State agencies which administer both the Food Distribution and assistance programs and which elect joint processing. Under joint processing, the State agency shall use joint application forms that contain all the information needed to determine eligibility for USDA Foods or shall attach a form for the other needed information.
(2) The State agency shall process all applications for PA or GA as applications for the Food Distribution Program as well, unless the household clearly indicates on a space on the application that the household does not want USDA Foods. The State agency shall conduct a single interview for PA or GA and Food Distribution Program eligibility, unless the State agency is unable to do so within the Food Distribution Program processing standards specified in paragraphs (a)(7) and (a)(9)of this section. In such cases the State agency shall provide separate certification for PA or GA and Food Distribution Program eligibility.
(3) The State agency may verify those factors of eligibility which must be verified for PA or GA, under PA or GA rules, but must follow the Food Distribution Program rules for all other factors.
(4) PA households have the same reporting requirements as any other food distribution household. PA households which report a change in circumstances to the PA worker shall be considered to have reported the change for food distribution purposes. All of the requirements pertaining to reporting changes for PA households shall be applied to GA households in project areas where GA and food distribution cases are processed jointly.
(5) The State agency must follow all Food Distribution Program timeliness rules for certification of households for the Food Distribution Program.
(h)
Fair hearing
—(1)
Availability of hearings.
The State agency shall provide a fair hearing to any household aggrieved by any action of the State agency which affects the participation of the household in the Food Distribution Program.
(2)
Timely action on hearings
—(i)
Time frames for the State agency.
The State agency must conduct the hearing, arrive at a decision, and notify the household of the decision within 60 days of receipt of a request for a fair hearing. The fair hearing decision may result in a change in the household's eligibility or the amount of USDA Foods issued to the household based on household size. The State agency must implement these changes to be effective for the next scheduled distribution of USDA Foods following the date of the fair hearing decision. If the USDA Foods are normally made available to the household within a specific period of time (for example, from the first day of the month through the tenth day of the month), the effective date of the disqualification will be the first day of that period.
(ii)
Household requests for postponement.
The household may request and is entitled to receive, a postponement of the scheduled hearing. The postponement shall not exceed 30 days and, the time limit for action on the decision may be extended for as many days as the hearing is postponed.
(3)
Notification of right to request hearing.
At the time of application, each household shall be informed of its right to a hearing, of the method by which a hearing may be requested, and that its case may be presented by a household member or a representative, such as a legal counsel, a relative, a friend or other spokesperson. If there is an individual or organization available which provides free legal representation, the household shall also be informed of the availability of that service. Hearing procedures shall be published by the State agency and made available to any interested party.
(4)
Time period for requesting hearing.
A household shall be allowed to request a hearing on any action by the State agency which occurred in the prior 90 days or which affects current benefits.
(5)
Request for hearing.
A request for a hearing is any clear expression, oral or written, by the household or its representative to the State agency that it wishes to present its case to a higher authority. The freedom to make such a request shall not be limited or interfered with in any way. Upon request, the State agency shall make available without charge the specific materials necessary for a household or its representative to determine whether a hearing should be requested or to prepare for a hearing.
(6)
Denial or dismissal of request for hearing.
The State agency shall not deny or dismiss a request for a hearing unless:
(i) The request is not received within the time period specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section;
(ii) The request is withdrawn in writing by the household or its representative; or
(iii) The household or its representative fails, without good cause, to appear at the scheduled hearing.
(7)
Notification of time and place of hearing.
The time, date and place of the hearing shall be convenient to the household. At least 15 days prior to the hearing, advance written notice shall be provided to all parties involved to permit adequate preparation of the case. The notice shall:
(i) Advise the household or its representative of the name, address, and the phone number of the person to notify in the event it is not possible for the household to attend the scheduled hearing.
(ii) Specify that the State agency will dismiss the hearing request if the household or its representative fails to
appear for the hearing without good cause.
(iii) Include the State agency hearing procedures and any other information that would provide the household with an understanding of the proceedings, and that would contribute to the effective presentation of the household's case.
(iv) Explain that the household or representative may examine the casefile prior to the hearing.
(8)
Hearing official.
Hearings shall be conducted by an impartial official(s), designated by the State agency, who does not have any personal interest or involvement in the case and who was not directly involved in the initial determination of the action which is being contested. The hearing official shall:
(i) Administer oaths or affirmations if required by the State;
(ii) Ensure that all relevant issues are considered;
(iii) Request, receive and make part of the record all evidence determined necessary to decide the issues being raised;
(iv) Regulate the conduct and course of the hearing consistent with due process to ensure an orderly hearing; and
(v) Render a hearing decision in the name of the State agency, in accordance with paragraph (g)(11) of this section, which will resolve the dispute.
(9)
Attendance at hearing.
The hearing shall be attended by a representative of the State agency which initiated the action being contested and by the household and/or its representative. The hearing may also be attended by friends or relatives of the household upon household consent.
(10)
Conduct of hearing.
The household may not be familiar with the rules of order and it may be necessary to make particular efforts to arrive at the facts of the case in a manner that makes the household feel most at ease. The household or its representative must be given adequate opportunity to:
(i) Examine all documents and records to be used at the hearing at a reasonable time before the date of the hearing, as well as during the hearing. The contents of the casefile, including the application forms and documents of verification used by the State agency shall be made available, provided the confidential information is protected from release. The State agency shall provide a free copy of the relevant portions of the casefile if requested by the household or its representative. Confidential information that is protected from release and other documents or records which the household will not otherwise have an opportunity to contest or challenge shall not be introduced at the hearing or affect the hearing official's decision.
(ii) Present the case or have it presented by a legal counsel or other person.
(iii) Bring witnesses.
(iv) Advance arguments without undue interference.
(v) Question or refute any testimony or evidence, including an opportunity to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses.
(vi) Submit evidence to establish all pertinent facts and circumstances in the case.
(11)
Hearing decisions.
(i) Decisions of the hearing officials shall comply with Federal law or regulations and shall be based on the hearing record. The verbatim transcript or recording of testimony and exhibits or an official report containing the substance of what transpired at the hearing, together with all papers and requests filed in the proceeding, shall constitute the exclusive record for a final decision by the hearing official.
(ii) A decision by the hearing official shall be binding on the State agency and shall summarize the facts of the case, specify the reasons for the decision and identify the supporting evidence and the pertinent FNS regulations. The decision shall become a part of the record.
(iii) Within 10 days of the date the fair hearing decision is issued, the State agency must issue a notice to the household advising it of the decision.
(A) If the decision upheld the adverse action by the State agency, the notice must advise the household of the right to pursue judicial review.
(B) If the decision upheld a disqualification, the notice must also include the reason for the decision, the date the disqualification will take effect,
and the duration of the disqualification (that is, 12 months; 24 months; or permanent). The State agency must also advise any remaining household members if the household's benefits will change, or if the household is no longer eligible as a result of the disqualification.
(iv) The State agency must revise the demand letter for repayment issued previously to the household to include the value of all overissued USDA Foods provided to the household during the appeal process, unless the fair hearing decision specifically requires the cancellation of the claim. The State agency must also advise the household that collection action on the claim will continue, in accordance with FNS Handbook 501, unless suspension is warranted.
(12)
Agency conferences.
(i) The State agency shall offer agency conferences to households which request an immediate resolution by a higher authority of a denial of eligibility for food distribution benefits. The State agency may also offer agency conferences to households adversely affected by any agency action. The State agency shall advise households that use of an agency conference is optional and that such use shall in no way delay or replace the fair hearing process. The agency conferences may be attended by the eligibility worker responsible for the agency action, and shall be attended by an eligibility supevisor and/or the agency director, as well as the household and/or its representative. An agency conference may lead to an informal resolution of the dispute. However, a fair hearing must still be held if requested by the household.
(ii) An agency conference for households requesting an immediate resolution by a higher authority of an eligibility issue shall be scheduled within four working days of the request unless the household requests that it be scheduled later or states that it does not wish to have an agency conference.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0071)
(44 U.S.C. 3506)
[44 FR 35928, June 19, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 1, 47 FR 14137, Apr. 2, 1982; 64 FR 73383, Dec. 30, 1999; 65 FR 47833, Aug. 4, 2000; 75 FR 4473, Jan. 28, 2010; 78 FR 52831, Aug. 27, 2013; 89 FR 87256, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 253.8
Administrative disqualification procedures for intentional program violation.
(a)
What is an intentional program violation?
An intentional program violation is considered to have occurred when a household member knowingly, willingly, and with deceitful intent:
(1) Makes a false or misleading statement, or misrepresents, conceals, or withholds facts in order to obtain Food Distribution Program benefits which the household is not entitled to receive; or
(2) Commits any act that violates a Federal statute or regulation relating to the acquisition or use of Food Distribution Program USDA Foods.
(b)
What are the disqualification penalties for an intentional program violation?
Household members determined by the State agency to have committed an intentional program violation will be ineligible to participate in the program:
(1) For a period of 12 months for the first violation;
(2) For a period of 24 months for the second violation; and
(3) Permanently for the third violation.
(c)
Who can be disqualified?
Only the household member determined to have committed the intentional program violation can be disqualified. However, the disqualification may affect the eligibility of the household as a whole, as addressed under paragraphs (e)(5) and (h) of this section.
(d)
Can the disqualification be appealed?
Household members determined by the State agency to have committed an intentional program violation may appeal the disqualification, as provided under § 253.7(h)(1).
(e)
What are the State agency's responsibilities?
(1) Each State agency must
implement administrative disqualification procedures for intentional program violations that conform to this section.
(2) The State agency must inform households in writing of the disqualification penalties for intentional program violations each time they apply for benefits, including recertifications. This notice must also advise households that an intentional program violation may be referred to authorities for prosecution.
(3) The State agency must attempt to substantiate all suspected cases of intentional program violation. An intentional program violation is considered to be substantiated when the State agency has clear and convincing evidence demonstrating that a household member committed one or more acts of intentional program violation, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section.
(4) Within 10 days of substantiating that a household member has committed an intentional program violation, the State agency must provide the household member with a notice of disqualification, as described in paragraph (f) of this section. A notice must still be issued in instances where the household member is not currently eligible or participating in the program.
(5) The State agency must advise any remaining household members if the household's benefits will change or if the household will no longer be eligible as a result of the disqualification.
(6) The State agency must provide the household member to be disqualified with an opportunity to appeal the disqualification through a fair hearing, as required by § 253.7(h).
(7) The State agency must refer all substantiated cases of intentional program violations to Tribal, Federal, State, or local authorities for prosecution under applicable statutes. However, a State agency that has conferred with its legal counsel and prosecutors to determine the criteria for acceptance for possible prosecution is not required to refer cases that do not meet the prosecutors' criteria.
(8) The State agency must establish claims, and pursue collection as appropriate, on all substantiated cases of intentional program violation in accordance with § 253.9.
(f)
What are the requirements for the notice of disqualification?
(1) Within 10 days of substantiating the intentional program violation, the State agency must issue to the household member a notice of disqualification. The notice must allow an advance notice period of at least 10 days. The disqualification must begin with the next scheduled distribution of USDA Foods that follows the expiration of the advance notice period, unless the household member requests a fair hearing. A notice must still be issued in instances where the household member is not currently eligible or participating in the program.
(2) The notice must conform to the requirements of § 253.7(b)(3)(iii)(C) for notices of adverse action.
(g)
What are the appeal procedures for administrative disqualifications?
—(1)
Appeal rights.
The household member has the right to request a fair hearing to appeal the disqualification in accordance with the procedures at § 253.7(h).
(2)
Notification of hearing.
The State agency must provide the household member with a notification of the time and place of the fair hearing as described in § 253.7(h)(7). The notice must also include:
(i) A warning that if the household member fails to appear at the hearing, the hearing decision will be based solely on the information provided by the State agency; and
(ii) A statement that the hearing does not prevent the Tribal, Federal, State, or local government from prosecuting the household member in a civil or criminal court action, or from collecting any overissuance(s).
(h)
What are the procedures for applying disqualification penalties?
(1) If the household member did not request a fair hearing, the disqualification must begin with the next scheduled distribution of USDA Foods that follows the expiration of the advance notice period of the notice of adverse action. If the USDA Foods are normally made available to the household within a specific period of time (for example, from the first day of the month through the tenth day of the month), the effective date of the disqualification will be the first day of that period. The State agency must apply the disqualification
period (that is, 12 months, 24 months, or permanent) specified in the notice of disqualification. The State agency must advise any remaining household members if the household's benefits will change or if the household is no longer eligible as a result of the disqualification.
(2) If the household member requested a fair hearing and the disqualification was upheld by the fair hearing official, the disqualification must begin with the next scheduled distribution of USDA Foods that follows the date the hearing decision is issued. If the USDA Foods are normally made available to the household within a specific period of time (for example, from the first day of the month through the tenth day of the month), the effective date of the disqualification will be the first day of that period. The State agency must apply the disqualification period (that is, 12 months, 24 months, or permanent) specified in the notice of disqualification. No further administrative appeal procedure exists after an adverse fair hearing decision. The decision by a fair hearing official is binding on the State agency. The household member, however, may seek relief in a court having appropriate jurisdiction. As provided under § 253.7(h)(11)(iii)(B), the State agency must advise any remaining household members if the household's benefits will change, or if the household is no longer eligible as a result of the disqualification.
(3) Once a disqualification has begun, it must continue uninterrupted for the duration of the penalty period (that is, 12 months; 24 months; or permanent). Changes in the eligibility of the disqualified household member's household will not interrupt or shorten the disqualification period.
(4) The same act of intentional program violation continued over a period of time will not be separated so that more than one penalty can be imposed. For example, a household intentionally fails to report that a household member left the household, resulting in an overissuance of benefits for 5 months. Although the violation occurred over a period of 5 months, only one penalty will apply to this single act of intentional program violation.
(5) If the case was referred for Tribal, Federal, State, or local prosecution and the court of appropriate jurisdiction imposed a disqualification penalty, the State agency must follow the court order.
[64 FR 73384, Dec. 30, 1999, as amended at 89 FR 87257, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 253.9
Claims against households.
(a)
What are the procedures for establishing a claim against a household for an overissuance?
(1) The State agency must establish a claim against any household that has received more Food Distribution Program USDA Foods than it was entitled to receive.
(2) The procedures for establishing and collecting claims against households are specified in FNS Handbook 501, The Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations.
(b)
Who is responsible for repaying a household overissuance claim?
(1) All adult household members are jointly and separately liable for the repayment of the value of any overissuance of Food Distribution Program benefits to the household.
(2) Responsibility for repayment continues even in instances where the household becomes ineligible or is not participating in the program.
[64 FR 73385, Dec. 30, 1999, as amended at 89 FR 87257, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 253.10
USDA Foods inventory management, storage, and distribution.
(a)
Control and accountability.
The State agency shall be responsible for the issuance of USDA Foods to households and the control of and accountability for the USDA Foods upon its acceptance of the USDA Foods at time and place of delivery.
(b)
USDA Foods inventories.
The State agency shall, in cooperation with the FNS Regional office, develop an appropriate procedure for determining and monitoring the level of USDA Foods inventories at storage facilities and at each local distribution point. The State agency shall maintain the inventories at proper levels taking into consideration, among other factors, household preferences and the historical and projected volume of distribution at each site. The procedures shall provide
that USDA Foods inventories at each storage facility and each local distribution point are not in excess, but are adequate for, an uninterrupted distribution of USDA Foods.
(c)
Inventory management and control.
The State agency shall as a minimum ensure that: all USDA Foods are stored and inventory is maintained per §§ 250.12 and 250.14 of this chapter.
(d)
Distribution.
The State agency shall distribute USDA Foods only to households eligible to receive them under this part. If the State agency uses any other agency, administration, bureau, service, or similar organization to effect or assist in the certification of households or distribution of USDA Foods, the State agency shall impose upon such organization responsibility for determining that households to whom USDA Foods are distributed are eligible under this part. The State agency shall not delegate to any such organization its responsibilities to the Department for overall management and control of the Food Distribution Program. The State agency shall as a minimum ensure that:
(1) Notification is provided to certified households of the location of distribution sites and days and hours of distribution.
(2) An adequate supply of USDA Foods which are available from the Department is on hand at all distribution sites.
(3) Sufficient distribution sites, either stationary or mobile, are geographically located or routed in relation to population density of eligible households.
(4) Days and hours of distribution are sufficient for caseload size and convenience.
(5) Households are advised they may refuse any USDA Foods not desired, even if the USDA Foods are prepackaged by household size.
(6) Emergency issuance of USDA Foods will be made to households certified for expedited service in accordance with the provisions of § 253.7(a)(9).
(7) Eligible households or authorized representatives are identified prior to the issuance of USDA Foods.
(8) Authorized signatures are obtained for USDA Foods issued and the issue date recorded.
(9) Posters are conspicuously displayed advising program participants to accept only those USDA Foods, and in such quantities, as will be consumed by them.
(10) Complete and current records are kept of all USDA Foods received, issued, transferred, and on hand and of any inventory overages, shortages, and losses.
(11) A list of USDA Foods offered by the Department is displayed at distribution sites so that households may indicate preferences for future orders.
(e)
Improper distribution or loss of or damage of USDA Foods.
State agencies shall take action to obtain restitution in connection with claims arising in their favor for improper distribution, use or loss, or damage of USDA Foods in accordance with §§ 250.16 and 250.17 of this chapter.
(f)
Damaged or out-of-condition USDA Foods.
The State agency shall immediately notify the appropriate FNS Regional Office if any USDA Foods are found to be damaged or out- of-condition at the time of arrival, or at any subsequent time, whether due to latent defects or any other reason. The FNS Regional Office shall advise the State agency of the appropriate action to be taken with regard to such USDA Foods. If the USDA Foods are declared unfit for human consumption in accordance with § 250.15 of this chapter, they shall be disposed of as provided for under that section. When out-of-condition USDA Foods do not create a hazard to other food at the same location, they shall not be disposed of until the FNS Regional Office or the responsible contractor approves. When circumstances require prior disposal of USDA Foods, the quantity and manner of disposition shall be reported to the appropriate FNS Regional Office. If any damaged or out-of-condition USDA Foods are inadvertently issued to a household and are rejected or returned by the household because the USDA Foods were unsound at the time of issuance and not because the household failed to provide proper storage, care or handling, the State agency shall replace the damaged or out-of-condition USDA Foods with the same or similar kind of USDA Foods which are sound
and in good condition. The State agency shall account for such replacements on its monthly inventory report.
[89 FR 87257, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 253.11
Administrative funds.
(a)
Allocation of administrative funds to FNS Regional Offices.
Each fiscal year, after enactment of a program appropriation for the full fiscal year and apportionment of funds by the Office of Management and Budget, administrative funds will be allocated to each FNS Regional Office for further allocation to State agencies. To the extent practicable, administrative funds will be allocated to FNS Regional Offices in the following manner:
(1) 65 percent of all administrative funds available nationally will be allocated to each FNS Regional Office in proportion to its share of the total number of participants nationally, averaged over the three previous fiscal years; and
(2) 35 percent of all administrative funds available nationally will be allocated to each FNS Regional Office in proportion to its share of the total current number of State agencies administering the program nationally.
(b)
Allocation of administrative funds to State agencies.
Prior to receiving administrative funds, State agencies must submit a proposed budget reflecting planned administrative costs to the appropriate FNS Regional Office for approval. Planned administrative costs must be allowable under part 277 of this chapter. To the extent that funding levels permit, the FNS Regional Office allocates to each State agency administrative funds necessary to cover no less than 80 percent of approved administrative costs.
(c)
State agency matching requirement.
State agencies must match administrative funds allocated to them as follows:
(1) Unless Federal administrative funding is approved at a rate higher than 80 percent of approved administrative costs, in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section, each State agency must contribute 20 percent of its total approved administrative costs. Cash or non-cash contributions, including third party in-kind contributions, and the value of services rendered by volunteers, may be used to meet the State agency matching requirement. Funds provided from another Federal source may be used to meet the State agency matching requirement, provided that such use is consistent with the purpose of those funds and complies with this subsection. To use funds from another Federal source, the State agency must submit documentation for approval to the FNS Regional Office which shows the source, value, and purpose of those funds. In accordance with part 277 of this chapter, such contributions must:
(i) Be verifiable;
(ii) Be necessary and reasonable to accomplish program objectives;
(iii) Be allowable under part 277 of this chapter; and
(iv) Be included in the approved budget.
(2) Upon request from a State agency, an FNS Regional Office may approve a waiver reducing a State agency's matching requirement below 20 percent. To request a waiver, the State agency must submit compelling justification for the waiver to the appropriate FNS Regional Office. Compelling justification is based on either financial inability to meet the match requirement or the match requirement imposing a substantial burden. The request for the match waiver must be submitted with the following and in accordance with other FNS instructions:
(i) For a waiver based on financial inability, a summary statement and recent financial documents showing that the State agency is unable to meet the 20 percent matching requirement and that additional administrative funds are necessary for the effective operation of the program; or
(ii) For a waiver based on substantial burden, a signed letter from the leadership of the State agency or, in the case of an Indian Tribal Organization, from the leadership of the Tribal agency that oversees the Food Distribution Program, describing why meeting the 20 percent matching requirement would impose a substantial burden on the State agency, and why additional administrative funds are necessary for the effective operation of the program, along with supporting documentation, as needed.
(3) The FNS Regional Office may not reduce any benefits or services to State agencies that are granted a waiver.
(d)
Use of funds by State agencies.
Any funds received under this section shall be used only for costs that are allowable under part 277 of this chapter, and that are incurred in operating the food distribution program. Such funds may not be used to pay costs that are, or may be, paid with funds provided from other Federal sources.
(e)
Application for funds.
(1) Any State agency administering a Food Distribution Program that desires to receive administrative funds under this section shall submit form SF-424, “Application for Federal Assistance,” to the appropriate FNS Regional Office at least three months prior to the beginning of a Federal fiscal year. The application shall include budget information, reflecting by category of expenditure the State agency's best estimate of the total amount to be expended in the administration of the program during the fiscal year. FNS may require that detailed information be submitted by the State agency to support or explain the total estimated amounts shown for each budget cost category. As required by 2 CFR part 200, subpart D, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, agencies of State government shall submit the application for Federal assistance to the State clearinghouse before submitting it to the FNSRO. ITOs shall not be subject to this requirement.
(2) Approval of the application by FNS shall be a prerequisite to the payment of any funds to State agencies.
(f)
Availability of funds.
(1) FNS shall review and evaluate the budget information submitted by the State agency in relationship to the State agency's plan of operation and any other factors which may be relevant to FNS' determination as to whether the estimated expenditures itemized by budget category are reasonable and justified. FNS shall give written notification to the State agency of (i) its approval or disapproval of any or all of the itemized expenditures, (ii) the amount of funds which will be made available, and (iii) the period for which funds are available.
(2) FNS shall review and evaluate applications submitted by State agencies for administrative funds available under this section in the following order of priority and shall give preference in making payments of funds under this section in the same order of priority:
(i) Applications from State agencies which desire to continue a Food Distribution Program now in operation,
(ii) Applications from State agencies, in the order received, which FNS determines are immediately capable of effectively and efficiently administering the Program, and
(iii) Applications from other States agencies, in the order received.
(g)
Method of payment to State agencies.
(1) Payments are made to State agencies through a Letter of Credit or an advance by Treasury check. The Letter of Credit funding method shall be used by FNS except when the advances to be made within a 12 month period are estimated to be less than $120,000. However, FNS may, at its option, reimburse a State agency by Treasury check regardless of the amount in response to a valid claim submitted by the State agency.
(2) The Letter of Credit funding method shall be done in conjunction with Treasury Department procedures, Treasury Circular No. 1075 and through an appropriate Treasury Regional Disbursing Office (RDO). The Standard Form 183, “Request for Payment on Letter of Credit and Status of Funds Report,” shall be correctly prepared and certified by a duly appointed official of the State for requesting payment from an RDO.
(3) The advance by Treasury check method shall be done by use of the Standard Form 270, “Request for Advance or Reimbursement,” and procedures associated with its use. State agencies receiving payments under this method may request payments before cash outlays are made.
(4) Any State agency receiving payment under the Letter of Credit method or the advance by Treasury check method shall have in place and in operation, a financial management system which meets the standards for fund control and accountability prescribed in part 277 of this chapter, as amended.
The State agency shall demonstrate on a continuing basis its willingness and ability to have and to function within procedures that will minimize the time lapse between the transfer of funds and its disbursement to meet obligations. For any State agency which does not meet the requirement of this paragraph, the reimbursement by Treasury check method shall be the preferred method for FNS to make payments to that State agency.
(h)
Accounting for funds.
Each State agency which receives administrative funds under this section shall establish and maintain an effective system of fiscal control and accounting procedures. Expenditures and accountability of such funds shall be in accordance with the appropriate provisions of part 277. The accounting procedures maintained by the State agency shall be such as to accurately reflect the receipt, expenditure and current balance of funds provided by FNS and to facilitate the prompt preparation of reports required by FNS. The accounting procedures shall also provide for segregation of costs specifically identifiable to the Food Distribution Program from any other costs incurred by the State agency. Any budget revisions by a State agency which require the transfer of funds from an approved cost category to another shall be in accordance with the budget revision procedures set forth in 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, and shall be approved by FNS prior to any transfer of funds.
(i)
Return, reduction, and reallocation of funds.
(1) FNS may require State agencies to return, during the period of performance of their administrative grant and after receipt of administrative funds, any or all unobligated funds received under this section, and may reduce the amount it has apportioned or agreed to pay to any State agency if FNS determines that:
(i) The State agency is not administering the Food Distribution Program in accordance with its plan of operation approved by FNS and the provisions of this part, or
(ii) The amount of funds which the State agency requested from FNS is in excess of actual need, based on reports of expenditures and current projections of Program needs.
(iii) Circumstances or conditions justify the return reallocation or transfer of funds to accomplish the purpose of this part.
(2) The State agency shall return to FNS, within ninety (90) days following the close of the period of performance of each administrative grant, any funds received under this section which are unobligated at that time.
(j)
Records, reports, audits.
(1) The State agency shall:
(i) Keep such accounts and records as may be necessary to enable FNS to determine whether there has been compliance with this section, and
(ii) Adhere to the retention and custodial requirements for records set forth in § 277.4 of this chapter.
(2) The State agency receiving funds either through a Treasury RDO Letter of Credit system or Treasury check shall submit quarterly reports to FNS on Form SF-425, “Financial Status Report,” by the 30th day after close of the reporting quarter and shall submit such other reports as may be required by FNS.
(3) The appropriate provisions of part 277 are adaptable to this section for additional guidance.
(Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0071)
(44 U.S.C. 3506)
[44 FR 35928, June 19, 1979, as amended at 47 FR 746, Jan. 7, 1982. Redesignated and amended by Amdt. 1, 47 FR 14137, Apr. 2, 1982, as amended at 62 FR 53731, Oct. 16, 1997. Redesignated at 64 FR 73385, Dec. 30, 1999, as amended at 77 FR 50907, Aug. 23, 2012; 81 FR 66498, Sept. 28, 2016; 84 FR 45877, Sept. 3, 2019; 85 FR 42303, July 14, 2020]
§ 253.12
Administrative waivers.
(a) The Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service may waive or modify specific regulatory provisions contained in this part for one or more State agencies. Waivers may be issued only in the following situations:
(1) The specific regulatory provision cannot be implemented due to extraordinary temporary situations;
(2) FNS determines that the waiver would result in a more effective and efficient administration of the program; or
(3) Unique geographic conditions within the geographic area served by the administering agency preclude effective implementation of the specific regulatory provision and require an alternate procedure.
(b) FNS shall not approve waivers when:
(1) The waiver would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008; or
(2) The waiver would result in material impairment of any statutory or regulatory rights of participants or potential participants.
(c) FNS shall approve waivers for a period not to exceed one year unless the waiver is for an on-going situation. If the waiver is requested for longer than a year, appropriate justification shall be required and FNS will determine if a longer period is warranted and if so, the duration of the waiver. Extensions may be granted provided that State agencies submit appropriate justification to FNS.
(d) When submitting requests for waivers, State agencies shall provide compelling justification for the waiver in terms of how the waiver will meet the conditions of paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and/or (3) of this section. At a minimum, requests for waivers shall include but not necessarily be limited to:
(1) Reasons why the waiver is needed;
(2) Anticipated impact on service to participants or potential participants who would be affected;
(3) Anticipated time period for which the waiver is needed; and
(4) Thorough explanation of the proposed alternative provision to be used in lieu of the waived or modified regulatory provision.
[89 FR 87258, Oct. 31, 2024]
Pt. 254

# PART 254—ADMINISTRATION OF THE FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM FOR INDIAN HOUSEHOLDS IN OKLAHOMA
Sec.
254.1
General purpose.
254.2
Definitions.
254.3
Administration by an ITO.
254.4
Application by an ITO.
254.5
Household eligibility.

# Authority:
Pub. L. 97-98, sec. 1338; Pub. L. 95-113.

# Source:
49 FR 32756, Aug. 16, 1984, unless otherwise noted.
§ 254.1
General purpose.
This part sets the requirement under which USDA Foods (available under part 250 of this chapter) may be distributed to households residing in FNS service areas in Oklahoma. This part also sets the conditions for administration of the Food Distribution Program by eligible Oklahoma tribes determined capable by the Department.
[49 FR 32756, Aug. 16, 1984, as amended at 89 FR 87258, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 254.2
Definitions.
(a)
Exercises governmental jurisdiction
means the exercise of authorities granted to ITOs under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act of 1936 or by BIA regulations (25 CFR part 81 et. seq.).
(b)
FNS service area
means the areas over which FNS has approved the food distribution program in Oklahoma.
(c)
Food Distribution Program
means a food distribution program for households on Indian reservations administered pursuant to section 4(b) of the Food Stamp Act and 1304(a) of Pub. L. 97-98.
(d)
Indian tribal household
means a household in which at least one household member is recognized as a tribal member by any Indian tribe, as defined in § 253.2 of this chapter.
(e)
Indian tribal organization (ITO)
means (1) any Indian tribe, band, or group organized under the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act of 1936, and which has a tribal organization approved by the Bureau of Indian Affairs; (2) a tribal organization established and approved under Federal regulations issued by the Bureau of Indian Affairs; or (3) an intertribal council authorized by eligible tribes to act in behalf of the tribes to operate the program.
(f)
Overissuance
means the dollar value of USDA Foods issued to a household that exceeds the dollar value of USDA Foods it was eligible to receive.
(g)
State agency
means the ITO of an Indian tribe, determined by the Department to be capable of effectively administering a Food Distribution Program, or an agency of State government, which enters into an agreement
with FNS for the distribution of USDA Foods on an Indian reservation.
[49 FR 32756, Aug. 16, 1984, as amended at 59 FR 1449, Jan. 11, 1994; 64 FR 73385, Dec. 30, 1999; 89 FR 87258, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 254.3
Administration by an ITO.
(a)
Applicability of part 253.
All of the provisions of part 253 are herein incorporated and apply to part 254, except as specifically modified by part 254.
(b) Section 253.4 Administration, does not apply and is replaced by § 254.3.
(c)
Federal administration.
Within the Department of Agriculture, the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), shall be responsible for the Food Distribution Program. FNS shall have the power to determine the amount of any claim and to settle and adjust any claim against an ITO.
(d)
ITO administration.
The ITO, acting as State agency, shall be responsible for the Food Distribution Program within the approved FNS service areas if FNS determines the ITO capable of effective and efficient administration.
(e)
Qualification as an ITO.
The ITO of a tribe in Oklahoma must document to the satisfaction of FNS that the ITO meets the definition of an ITO in § 254.2, is organized under the provisions of the Oklahoma Indian Welfare Act of 1936 or has a tribal organization established and approved under BIA regulations.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (e) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0316)
§ 254.4
Application by an ITO.
(a)
Application to FNS Regional Office.
An ITO which desires to participate in the Food Distribution Program shall file an application with the FNS Regional Office. The application shall also provide other information requested by FNS, including but not limited to, the tribe's qualification as a reservation as described in § 254.2, paragraph (f). Properly addressed applications shall be acknowledged by the FNS Regional Office in writing within five working days of receipt. FNS shall promptly advise ITOs of the need for additional information if an incomplete application is received.
(b)
Tribal capability.
(1) In determining whether the ITO is potentially capable of effectively and efficiently administering a Food Distribution Program in an FNS Service area, allowing for fulfillment of that potential through training and technical assistance, FNS shall consult with other sources such as the BIA, and shall consider the ITO experience, if any, in operating other government programs, as well as its management and fiscal capabilities. Other factors for evaluation include, but are not limited to, the ITO's ability to:
(i) Order and properly store USDA Foods,
(ii) Certify eligible households,
(iii) Arrange for physical issuance of USDA Foods,
(iv) Keep appropriate records and submit required reports,
(v) Budget and account for administrative funds,
(vi) Determine the food preferences of households, and
(vii) Conduct on-site reviews of certification and distribution procedures and practices.
(2) FNS shall make a determination of potential ITO capability within 60 days of receipt of a completed application for the Food Distribution Program. FNS may, however, extend the period for determination of ITO capability if FNS finds that a given ITO's eligibility under § 254.3 is difficult to establish.
(3) FNS shall, if requested by an ITO which has been determined by FNS to be potentially capable of administering a Food Distribution Program, provide the ITO's designees with appropriate training and technical assistance to prepare the ITO to take over program administration. In determining what training and technical assistance are necessary, FNS shall consult with the ITO and other sources, such as the BIA.
(c)
Most capable tribe.
In cases where two or more applicant tribe(s) have
overlapping boundaries, FNS shall select the tribe most capable of administering a FDP within that service area.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragaph (a) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0316)
[49 FR 32756, Aug. 16, 1984, as amended at 89 FR 87258, Oct. 31, 2024]
§ 254.5
Household eligibility.
(a)
Certification procedures.
All applicant households shall be certified in accordance with the eligibility and certification provisions in §§ 253.6 and 253.7.
(b)
Eligible households.
Only Indian tribal households, as defined in § 254.2, may be eligible for the Food Distribution Program in FNS service areas.
(The information collection requirements contained in paragraph (a) were approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0584-0316)
[49 FR 32756, Aug. 16, 1984, as amended at 64 FR 1098, Jan. 8, 1999; 89 FR 87258, Oct. 31, 2024]

# SUBCHAPTER C—SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE AND FOOD DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to subchapter C appear by Amdt. 381, 65 FR 64586, Oct. 30, 2000.
Pt. 271

# PART 271—GENERAL INFORMATION AND DEFINITIONS
Sec.
271.1
General purpose and scope.
271.2
Definitions.
271.3
Delegations to FNS for administration.
271.4
Delegations to State agencies for administration.
271.5
Benefits as obligations of the United States, crimes and offenses.
271.6
Complaint procedure.
271.7
Allotment reduction procedures.
271.8
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB
271.9
Promotional activities.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2011-2036.

# Editorial Note:
Nomenclature changes to part 271 appear at 78 FR 11972, Feb. 21, 2013.
§ 271.1
General purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose of SNAP.
SNAP is designed to promote the general welfare and to safeguard the health and well being of the Nation's population by raising the levels of nutrition among low-income households. Section 2 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 states, in part:
Congress hereby finds that the limited food purchasing power of low-income households contributes to hunger and malnutrition among members of such households. Congress further finds that increased utilization of food in establishing and maintaining adequate national levels of nutrition will promote the distribution in a beneficial manner of the Nation's agricultural abundance and will strengthen the Nation's agricultural economy, as well as result in more orderly marketing and distribution of foods. To alleviate such hunger and malnutrition, a supplemental nutrition assistance program is herein authorized which will permit low-income households to obtain a more nutritious diet through normal channels of trade by increasing food purchasing power for all eligible households who apply for participation.
(b)
Scope of the regulations.
Part 271 contains general information, definitions, and other material applicable to all parts of this subchapter. Part 272 sets forth policies and procedures governing State agencies which participate in the program. Part 273 describes the eligibility criteria to be applied by State agencies and related processing requirements and standards. Part 274 provides requirements for the issuance of SNAP benefits to eligible households and establishes related issuance responsibilities. Part 275 sets forth guidelines for monitoring SNAP, analyzing the results and formulating corrective action. Part 276 establishes State agency liability and certain Federal sanctions. Part 277 outlines procedures for payment of administrative costs of State agencies. Part 278 delineates the terms and conditions for the participation of retail food stores, wholesale food concerns, meal services, and insured financial institutions. Part 279 establishes the procedures for administrative and judicial reviews requested by food retailers, food wholesalers, and meal services. Part 280 explains procedures for issuing emergency benefit allotments to certain victims of disasters unable to purchase adequate amounts of food. Part 281 sets forth guidelines for designating Indian tribes as State agencies. Part 282 provides guidelines for initiation, selection, and operation of demonstration, research, and evaluation projects. Part 284 provides for a nutrition assistance program for the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands (CNMI). Part 285 describes the general terms and conditions under which grant funds are provided to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47882, Oct. 17, 1982, as amended by Amdt. 216, 47 FR 23461, May 28, 1982; Amdt. 248, 48 FR 16832, Apr. 19, 1983; Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994; 85 FR 52031, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 271.1, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 102362, Dec. 17, 2024, § 271.1 was amended by revising paragraph (a), effective Jan. 16, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 271.1
General purpose and scope.
(a)
Purpose of SNAP.
SNAP is designed to promote the general welfare and to safeguard the health and well-being of the Nation's population by raising the levels of nutrition among low-income households. In keeping with section 2 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, the USDA established SNAP under the Act as the limited food purchasing power of low-income households contributes to hunger and malnutrition among members of such households. The increased utilization of food in establishing and maintaining adequate national levels of nutrition also promotes the distribution in a beneficial manner of the Nation's agricultural abundance and strengthens the Nation's agricultural economy, as well as result in more orderly marketing and distribution of foods. To alleviate hunger and malnutrition, SNAP permits low-income households to obtain a more nutritious diet through normal channels of trade by increasing food purchasing power for all eligible households who apply for participation. SNAP includes as a purpose to assist low-income adults in obtaining employment and increasing their earnings. Such employment and earnings, along with program benefits, permits low-income households to obtain a more nutritious diet through normal channels of trade by increasing food purchasing power for all eligible households who apply for participation.
§ 271.2
Definitions.
Access device
means any card, plate, code, account number, or other means of access that can be used alone, or in conjunction with another access device, to obtain payments, allotments, benefits, money, goods, or other things of value, or that can be used to initiate a transfer of funds under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended.
Active case
means a household which was certified prior to, or during, the sample month and issued SNAP benefits for the sample month.
Active case error rate
means an estimate of the proportion of cases with an error in the determination of eligibility or basis of issuance. This estimate will be expressed as a percentage of the completed active quality control reviews excluding all results from cases processed by SSA personnel or participating in a demonstration project identified by FNS as having certification rules that are significantly different from standard requirements.
Adequate notice
in a periodic reporting system such as monthly reporting or quarterly reporting means a written notice that includes a statement of the action the agency has taken or intends to take; the reason for the intended action; the household's right to request a fair hearing; the name of the person to contact for additional information; the availability of continued benefits; and the liability of the household for any overissuances received while awaiting a fair hearing if the hearing official's decision is adverse to the household. Depending on the timing of a State's system and the timeliness of report submission by participating households, such notice may be received prior to agency action, at the time reduced benefits are received, or, if benefits are terminated, at the time benefits would have been received if they had not been terminated. In all cases, however, participants will be allowed ten days from the mailing date of the notice to contest the agency action and to have benefits restored to their previous level. If the 10-day period ends on a weekend or a holiday and a request is received the day after the weekend or holiday, the State agency shall consider the request to be timely.
Alien Status Verification Index (ASVI)
means the automated database maintained by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) which may be accessed by State agencies to verify immigration status.
Allotment
means the total value of benefits a household is authorized to receive during each month or other time period.
Application form
means: (1) The application form designed or approved by FNS, which is completed by a household member or authorized representative; or
(2) For households consisting solely of public assistance or general assistance recipients, it may also mean the application form used to apply for public assistance or general assistance, including attachments approved by FNS, which is completed by a household member or authorized represen- tative.
Assessment
an in-depth evaluation of employability skills coupled with
counseling on how and where to search for employment. If combined with work experience, employment search or training, an assessment of this nature could constitute part of an approvable employment and training component.
Authorization document
means an intermediary document issued by the State agency and used in an issuance system to authorize a specific benefit amount for a household.
Beginning month(s)
in a Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting system means either the first month for which the household is certified for SNAP benefits (where the State agency has adopted a one month accounting system) or the first month for which the household is certified for SNAP benefits and the month thereafter (where the State agency has adopted a two month accounting system). Except for beginning months in sequence as described in the preceding sentences, a beginning month cannot be any month which immediately follows a month in which a household is certified. The month following the month of termination resulting from a one-month temporary change in household circumstances shall not be considered a beginning month.
Benefit
means the value of supplemental nutrition assistance provided to a household by means of an EBT system or other means of providing assistance, as determined by the Secretary.
Benefit issuer
means any office of the State agency or any person, partnership, corporation, organization, political subdivision or other entity with which a State agency has contracted for, or to which it has delegated functional responsibility, in connection with the issuance of benefits to households.
Budget month
in a Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting system means the fiscal or calendar month from which the State agency uses income and other circumstances of the household to calculate the household's SNAP allotment to be provided for the corresponding issuance month.
Communal dining facility
means a public or nonprofit private establishment, approved by FNS, which prepares and serves meals for elderly persons, or for supplemental security income (SSI) recipients, and their spouses, a public or private nonprofit establishment (eating or otherwise) that feeds elderly persons or SSI recipients, and their spouses, and federally subsidized housing for the elderly at which meals are prepared for and served to the residents. It also includes private establishments that contract with an appropriate State or local agency to offer meals at concessional prices to elderly persons or SSI recipients, and their spouses.
Coupon
means any coupon, stamp, type of certificate, authorization card, cash or check issued in lieu of a coupon, or access device, including an electronic benefit transfer card or personal identification number issued pursuant to the provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, for the purchase of eligible food.
Deficiency
means any aspect of a State's program operations determined to be out of compliance with the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, FNS Regulations, or program requirements as contained in the State agency's manual, the State agency's approved Plan of Operation or other State agency plans.
Department
means the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Drug addiction or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation program
means any drug addiction or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation program conducted by a private, nonprofit organization or institution, or a publicly operated community mental health center, under part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x
et seq.
). Under part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act is defined as meeting the criteria which would make it eligible to receive funds, even if it does not actually receive funding under part B of title XIX.
Elderly or disabled member
means a member of a household who: (1) Is 60 years of age or older;
(2) Receives supplemental security income benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act or disability or blindness payments under titles I, II, X, XIV, or XVI of the Social Security Act;
(3) Receives federally or State-administered supplemental benefits under section 1616(a) of the Social Security Act provided that the eligibility to receive the benefits is based upon the disability or blindness criteria used under title XVI of the Social Security Act;
(4) Receives federally or State-administered supplemental benefits under section 212(a) of Pub. L. 93-66;
(5) Receives disability retirement benefits from a governmental agency because of a disability considered permanent under section 221(i) of the Social Security Act.
(6) Is a veteran with a service-connected or non-service-connected disability rated by the Veteran's Administration (VA) as total or paid as total by the VA under title 38 of the United States Code;
(7) Is a veteran considered by the VA to be in need of regular aid and attendance or permanently housebound under title 38 of the United States Code;
(8) Is a surviving spouse of a veteran and considered by the VA to be in need of regular aid and attendance or permanently housebound or a surviving child of a veteran and considered by the VA to be permanently incapable of self-support under title 38 of the United States Code;
(9) Is a surviving spouse or surviving child of a veteran and considered by the VA to be entitled to compensation for a service-connected death or pension benefits for a nonservice-connected death under title 38 of the United States Code
and
has a disability considered permanent under section 221(i) of the Social Security Act. “Entitled” as used in this definition refers to those veterans' surviving spouses and surviving children who are receiving the compensation or pension benefits stated or have been approved for such payments, but are not yet receiving them; or
(10) Receives an annuity payment under: section 2(a)(1)(iv) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974
and
is determined to be eligible to receive Medicare by the Railroad Retirement Board; or section 2(a)(1)(v) of the Railroad Retirement Act of 1974 and is determined to be disabled based upon the criteria used under title XVI of the Social Security Act.
(11) Is a recipient of interim assistance benefits pending the receipt of Supplemented Security Income, a recipient of disability related medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act, or a recipient of disability-based State general assistance benefits
provided
that the eligibility to receive any of these benefits is based upon disability or blindness criteria established by the State agency which are at least as stringent as those used under title XVI of the Social Security Act (as set forth at 20 CFR part 416, subpart I, Determining Disability and Blindness as defined in Title XVI).
Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) account
means a set of records containing demographic, card, benefit, transaction and balance data for an individual household within the EBT system that is maintained and managed by a State or its contractor as part of the client case record.
Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) card
means a method to access EBT benefits issued to a household member or authorized representative through the EBT system by a benefit issuer. This method may include an on-line magnetic stripe card, an off-line smart card, a chip card, a contactless digital wallet with a stored card, or any other similar benefit access technology approved by FNS.
Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) contractor or vendor
means an entity that is selected to perform EBT-related services for the State agency.
Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) system
means an electronic payments system under which household benefits are issued from and stored in a central databank, maintained and managed by a State or its contractor, and uses electronic funds transfer technology for the delivery and control of food and other public assistance benefits.
Eligible foods
means:
(1) Any food or food product intended for human consumption except alcoholic beverages, tobacco, and hot foods and hot food products prepared for immediate consumption and any deposit fee in excess of the amount of the State fee reimbursement (if any) required to
purchase any food or food product contained in a returnable bottle, can, or other container, regardless of whether the fee is included in the shelf price posted for the food or food product;
(2) Seeds and plants to grow foods for the personal consumption of eligible households;
(3) Meals prepared and delivered by an authorized meal delivery service to households eligible to use SNAP benefits to purchase delivered meals; or meals served by an authorized communal dining facility for the elderly, for SSI households or both, to households eligible to use SNAP benefits for communal dining;
(4) Meals prepared and served by a drug addict or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation center to narcotic addicts or alcoholics and their children who live with them;
(5) Meals prepared and served by a group living arrangement facility to residents who are blind or disabled as defined in paragraphs (2) through (11) of the definition of “Elderly or disabled member” contained in this section;
(6) Meals prepared by and served by a shelter for battered women and children to its eligible residents;
(7) In the case of certain eligible households living in areas of Alaska where access to food stores is extremely difficult and the households rely on hunting and fishing for subsistence, equipment for the purpose of procuring food for eligible households, including nets, lines, hooks, fishing rods, harpoons, knives, and other equipment necessary for subsistence hunting and fishing but not equipment for the purpose of transportation, clothing or shelter, nor firearms, ammunition or other explosives;
(8) In the case of homeless SNAP households, meals prepared for and served by an authorized public or private nonprofit establishment (e.g. soup kitchen, temporary shelter), approved by an appropriate State or local agency, that feeds homeless persons; and
(9) In the case of homeless SNAP households, meals prepared by a restaurant which contracts with an appropriate State agency to serve meals to homeless persons at concessional (low or reduced) prices.
Employment and Training (E
T) component
a work experience, work training, supervised job search or other program described in section 6(d)(4)(B)(i) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4)(B)(i)) designed to help SNAP participants move promptly into unsubsidized employment.
Employment and Training (E
T) mandatory participant
a supplemental nutrition assistance program applicant or participant who is required to work register under 7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(1) or (2) and who the State determines should not be exempted from participation in an employment and training program and is required to participate in E
T.
Employment and Training (E
T) participant
means an individual who meets the definition of a mandatory or voluntary E
T participant.
Employment and Training (E
T) program
means a program operated by each State agency consisting of case management and one or more E
T components.
Employment and Training (E
T) voluntary participant
means a supplemental nutrition assistance program applicant or participant who volunteers to participate in an employment and training (E
T) program.
Error
for active cases results when a determination is made by a quality control reviewer that a household which received SNAP benefits during the sample month is ineligible or received an incorrect allotment. Thus, errors in active cases involve dollar loss to either the participant or the government. For negative cases, an “error” means that the reviewer determines that the decision to deny, suspend, or terminate a household was incorrect.
Exempted
for purposes of § 273.7 excluding paragraphs (a) and (b)—this term refers to a work registered person or persons excused by the State, under the conditions in § 273.7(e) from participation in an employment and training program.
Exercises governmental jurisdiction
means the active exercise of the legislative, executive or judicial powers of government by an Indian tribal organization.
Federal fiscal year
means a period of 12 calendar months beginning with
each October 1 and ending with September 30 of the following calendar year.
Firm.
(1)
Firm
means:
(i) A retail food store that is authorized to accept or redeem SNAP benefits;
(ii) A retail food store that is not authorized to accept or redeem SNAP benefits; or
(iii) An entity that does not meet the definition of a retail food store.
(2) For purposes of the regulations in this subchapter and SNAP policies, the terms firm, entity, retailer, and store are used interchangeably.
Firm's practice
means the usual manner in which personnel of a firm or store accept SNAP benefits as shown by the actions of the personnel at the time of the investigation.
FNS
means the Food and Nutrition Service of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008
means the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (Pub. L. 95-113), including any subsequent amendments thereto.
General assistance (GA)
means cash or another form of assistance, excluding in-kind assistance, financed by State or local funds as part of a program which provides assistance to cover living expenses or other basic needs intended to promote the health or well-being of recipients.
Group living arrangement
means a public or private nonprofit residential setting that serves no more than sixteen residents that is certified by the appropriate agency or agencies of the State under regulations issued under section 1616(e) of the Social Security Act or under standards determined by the Secretary to be comparable to standards implemented by appropriate State agencies under section 1616(e) of the Social Security Act. To be eligible for SNAP benefits, a resident of such a group living arrangement must be blind or disabled as defined in paragraphs (2) through (11) of the definition of “Elderly or disabled member” contained in this section.
Homeless individual
means an individual who lacks a fixed and regular nighttime residence or an individual whose primary nighttime residence is: (1) A supervised shelter designed to provide temporary accommodations (such as a welfare hotel or congregate shelter);
(2) A halfway house or similar institution that provides temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized;
(3) A temporary accommodation for not more than 90 days in the residence of another individual; or
(4) A place not designed for, or ordinarily used, as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings (a hallway, a bus station, a lobby or similar places).
Homeless meal provider
means:
(1) A public or private nonprofit establishment (e.g., soup kitchens, temporary shelters) that feeds homeless persons; or
(2) A restaurant which contracts with an appropriate State agency to offer meals at concessional (low or reduced) prices to homeless persons.
House-to-house trade route
means any retail food business operated from a truck, bus, pushcart, or other mobile vehicle.
Identification (ID) card
means a card for the purposes of 7 CFR 278.2(j).
Indian tribe
means: (1) Any Indian tribe, Band, Nation, or other organized Indian group on a reservation for example, a Rancheria, Pueblo or Colony, and including any Alaska Native Village or regional or village corporation (established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (85 Stat. 688)), that is on a reservation and is recognized as eligible for Federal programs and services provided to Indians because of their status as Indians; or (2) any Indian tribe or Band on a reservation holding a treaty with a State government.
Indian tribal organization (ITO)
means: (1) The recognized governing body of any Indian tribe on a reservation; or (2) the tribally recognized intertribal organization which the recognized governing bodies of two or more Indian tribes on a reservation authorizes to operate SNAP or a Food Distribution Program on their behalf.
Insured financial institution
means a financial institution insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) or financial institutions which are insured under the Federal Credit
Union Act and which have retail food stores or wholesale food concerns in their field of membership.
Interoperability
means a system that enables program benefits issued to be redeemed outside the State that issued the benefits.
Issuance month
in a Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting system means the fiscal or calendar month for which the State agency shall issue a SNAP allotment. Issuance is based upon income and circumstances in the corresponding budget month. In prospective budgeting, the budget month and issuance month are the same. In retrospective budgeting, the issuance month follows the budget month and the issuance month shall begin within 32 days after the end of the budget month.
Large project area
means those project areas/management units with monthly active caseloads of more than 25,000 households based on the most current information available at the time the large project area review schedule is developed.
Low-income household
means a household whose annual income does not exceed 125 percent of the Office of Management and Budget poverty guidelines.
Management Evaluation (ME) reviews
means reviews conducted by States at the project area level to determine if State agencies are administering and operating SNAP in accordance with program requirements.
Management unit
means an area based on a welfare district, region, or other administrative structure designated by the State agency and approved by FNS to be reviewed for ME review purposes.
Manual transaction
means an EBT transaction that is processed with the use of a paper manual voucher when there is an EBT system outage.
Manual voucher
means a paper document signed by the EBT cardholder that allows a retailer to redeem benefits through a manual transaction.
Master issuance file
means a cumulative file containing the individual records and status of households, and the amount of benefits, if any, each household is authorized to receive.
Meal delivery service
means a political subdivision, a private nonprofit organization, or a private establishment with which a State or local agency has contracted for the preparation and delivery of meals at concessional prices to elderly persons, and their spouses, and to the physically or mentally handicapped and persons otherwise disabled, and their spouses, such that they are unable to adequately prepare all of their meals.
Medicaid
means medical assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act, as amended.
Medium project area
means those project areas/management units with monthly active caseloads of 5,000 to 25,000 households based on the most current information available at the time the medium project area review schedule is developed.
Minimum benefit
means the minimum monthly amount of SNAP benefits that one- and two-person households receive. The amount of the minimum benefit shall be determined according to the provisions of § 273.10 of this chapter.
National performance measure
means the sum of the products of each State agency's payment error rate times that State agency's proportion of the total value of the national allotments issued for the fiscal year using the most recent issuance data available at the time the State agency is notified of its performance error rate.
Negative case
means any action taken to deny, suspend, or terminate a case.
Negative case error rate
means an estimate of the proportion of denied, suspended, or terminated cases where the household was incorrectly denied, suspended, or terminated. This estimate will be expressed as a percentage of completed negative quality control reviews excluding all results from cases processed by SSA personnel or participating in a demonstration project identified by FNS as having certification rules that are significantly different from standard requirements.
Newly work registered
SNAP participants work registered at the point of application.
Nonprofit cooperative food purchasing venture
means any private nonprofit association of consumers whose members pool their resources to buy food.
Offset year
means the calendar year during which offsets may be made to collect certain recipient claims from individuals' Federal income tax refunds.
Overissuance
means the amount by which benefits issued to a household exceeds the amount it was eligible to receive.
Overpayment error rate
means the percentage of the value of all allotments issued in a fiscal year that are either: (1) Issued to households that fail to meet basic program eligibility requirements, or
(2) Overissued to eligible households.
Payment error rate
means the sum of the point estimates of two component error rates: an overpayment error rate and an underpayment error rate. Each component error rate is the value of allotments either overissued or underissued expressed as a percentage of all allotments issued to completed active sample cases, excluding those cases processed by SSA personnel or participating in certain demonstration projects designated by FNS.
Personal identification number (PIN)
means a numeric code selected by or assigned to a household and used to verify the identity of an EBT cardholder when performing an EBT transaction.
Point-of-Sale (POS) terminal
means a range of devices deployed at authorized retail food stores for redeeming benefits by initiating electronic debits and credits of household EBT accounts and retailer bank accounts.
Primary account number (PAN)
means a number embossed or printed on the EBT card and encoded onto the card to identify the State and EBT account holder.
Project area
means the county or similar political subdivision designated by a State as the administrative unit for program operations. Upon prior FNS approval, a city, Indian reservation, welfare district, or any other entity with clearly defined geographic boundaries, or any combination of such entities, may be designated as a project area, or a State as a whole may be designated as a single project area.
Prospective budgeting
in a Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting system means the computation of a household's SNAP allotment for an issuance month based on an estimate of income and circumstances which will exist in that month.
Public assistance (PA)
means any of the following programs authorized by the Social Security Act of 1935, as amended: Old-age assistance, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), including TANF for children of unemployed fathers, aid to the blind, aid to the permanently and totally disabled and aid to aged, blind, or disabled.
Quality control review
means a review of a statistically valid sample of active and negative cases to determine the extent to which households are receiving the SNAP allotments to which they are entitled, and to determine the extent to which decisions to deny, suspend, or terminate cases are correct.
Record-for-issuance file
means a file which is created monthly from the master issuance file, which shows the amount of benefits each eligible household is to receive for the issuance month, and the amount actually issued to the household.
Regulations
means the provisions of this subchapter. Regulatory citations refer to provisions of this subchapter unless otherwise specified.
Reservation
means the geographically defined area or areas over which an ITO exercises governmental jurisdiction so long as such area or areas are legally recognized by the Federal or a State government as being set aside for the use of Indians.
Retail food store
means:
(1) An establishment or house-to-house trade route that sells food for home preparation and consumption normally displayed in a public area, and either offers for sale qualifying staple food items on a continuous basis, evidenced by having no fewer than seven different varieties of food items in each of the four staple food categories with a minimum depth of stock of three stocking units for each qualifying staple variety, including at least one variety of perishable foods in at least three such categories, (Criterion A) as set forth in § 278.1(b)(1) of this chapter, or has more than 50 percent of its total gross retail sales in staple foods (Criterion B) as set forth
in § 278.1(b)(1) of this chapter as determined by visual inspection, marketing structure, business licenses, accessibility of food items offered for sale, purchase and sales records, counting of stockkeeping units, or other accounting recordkeeping methods that are customary or reasonable in the retail food industry as set forth in § 278.1(b)(1) of this chapter. Entities that have more than 50 percent of their total gross retail sales in: Food cooked or heated on-site by the retailer before or after purchase; and hot and/or cold prepared foods not intended for home preparation and consumption, including prepared foods that are consumed on the premises or sold for carry-out are not eligible for SNAP participation as retail food stores under § 278.1(b)(1) of this chapter. Establishments that include separate businesses that operate under one roof and share the following commonalities: Ownership, sale of similar foods, and shared inventory, are considered to be a single firm when determining eligibility to participate in SNAP as retail food stores.
(2) Public or private communal dining facilities and meal delivery services; private nonprofit drug addict or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation programs; publicly operated community mental health centers which conduct residential programs for drug addicts and/or alcoholics; public or private nonprofit group living arrangements; public or private nonprofit shelters for battered women and children; public or private nonprofit establishments, approved by an appropriate State or local agency, that feed homeless persons; or a restaurant that contracts with an appropriate State agency to provide meals at concessional (low or reduced) prices to homeless SNAP households;
(3) Any stores selling equipment for procuring food by hunting and fishing to eligible households in Alaska, as specified in the definition of eligible foods;
(4) Any private nonprofit cooperative food purchasing venture, including those whose members pay for food prior to receipt of the food; and
(5) A farmers' market.
Retailer EBT Data Exchange (REDE) system
means the FNS system that allows the automated exchange of authorized retailer demographic data between FNS and the State and/or EBT contractor for notification of changes in retailer Program participation.
Retrospective budgeting
in a Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting system means the computation of a household's SNAP allotment for an issuance month based on actual income and circumstances which existed in a previous month, the “budget month.”
Review date
for quality control active cases means a day within the sample month, either the first day of the calendar or fiscal month or the day a certification action was taken to authorize the allotment, whichever is later. The “review date” for negative cases, depending on the characteristics of individual State systems, could be the date on which the eligibility worker makes the decision to suspend, deny, or terminate the case, the date on which the decision is entered into the computer system, the date of the notice to the client or the date the negative action becomes effective. For no case is the “review date” the day the quality control review is conducted.
Review period
means the 12-month period from October 1 of each calendar year through September 30 of the following calendar year.
Sample frame
means a list of all units from which a sample is actually selected.
Sample month
means the month of the sample frame from which a case is selected (e.g., for all cases selected from a frame consisting of households participating in January, the sample month is January).
Screening
an evaluation by the eligibility worker as to whether a person should or should not be referred for participation in an employment and training program. This activity would not be considered an approvable E
T component.
Secretary
means the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Shelter for battered women and children
means a public or private nonprofit residential facility that serves battered women and their children. If such a facility serves other individuals, a portion of the facility must be set aside on
a long-term basis to serve only battered women and children.
Small project area
means those project areas/management units with monthly active caseloads of 4,999 households or fewer based on the most current information available at the time the small project area review schedule is developed.
SSA processed/demonstration case
means a case that is participating or has been denied based upon processing by SSA personnel or is participating or has been denied/terminated based upon the rules of a demonstration project with significantly different certification rules (as identified by FNS).
Staple food
means those food items intended for home preparation and consumption in each of the following four categories: Meat, poultry, or fish; bread or cereals; vegetables or fruits; and dairy products. The meat, poultry, or fish staple food category also includes up to three types of plant-based protein sources (
i.e.,
nuts/seeds, beans, and peas) as well as varieties of plant-based meat analogues (e.g., tofu). The dairy products staple food category also includes varieties of plant-based dairy alternative staple food items such as, but not limited to, almond milk and soy yogurt. Hot foods are not eligible for purchase with SNAP benefits and, therefore, do not qualify as staple foods for the purpose of determining eligibility under § 278.1(b)(1) of this chapter. Commercially processed foods and prepared mixtures with multiple ingredients that do not represent a single staple food category shall only be counted in one staple food category. For example, foods such as cold pizza, macaroni and cheese, multi-ingredient soup, or frozen dinners, shall only be counted as one staple food item and will be included in the staple food category of the main ingredient as determined by FNS. Accessory food items include foods that are generally considered snack foods or desserts such as, but not limited to, chips, ice cream, crackers, cupcakes, cookies, popcorn, pastries, and candy, and other food items that complement or supplement meals, such as, but not limited to, coffee, tea, cocoa, carbonated and uncarbonated drinks, condiments, spices, salt, and sugar. Items shall not be classified as accessory food exclusively based on packaging size but rather based on the aforementioned definition and as determined by FNS. A food product containing an accessory food item as its main ingredient shall be considered an accessory food item. Accessory food items shall not be considered staple foods for purposes of determining the eligibility of any firm.
State
means any one of the fifty States, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and the reservation of an Indian tribe whose ITO meets the requirements of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 for participation as a State agency.
State agency
means: (1) The agency of State government, including the local offices thereof, which is responsible for the administration of the federally aided public assistance programs within the State, and in those States where such assistance programs are operated on a decentralized basis, it includes the counterpart local agencies which administer such assistance programs for the State agency, and (2) the Indian tribal organization of any Indian tribe determined by the Department to be capable of effectively administering a supplemental nutrition assistance program or a Food Distribution Program in accordance with provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.
State Income and Eligibility Verification System (IEVS)
means a system of information acquisition and exchange for purposes of income and eligibility verification which meets the requirements of section 1137 of the Social Security Act, generally referred to as the IEVS.
State Wage Information Collection Agency (SWICA)
means the State agency administering the State unemployment compensation law, another agency administering a quarterly wage reporting system, or a State agency administering an alternative system which has been determined by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, to be as effective and timely in providing employment related income and eligibility data as the two just mentioned agencies.
Sub-units
means the physical location of an organizational entity within a project area/management unit involved in the operation of SNAP, excluding Post Offices.
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP or Program)
means the program operated pursuant to the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.
Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
means monthly cash payments made under the authority of: (1) Title XVI of the Social Security Act, as amended, to the aged, blind and disabled; (2) section 1616(a) of the Social Security Act; or (3) section 212(a) of Pub. L. 93-66.
Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE)
means the INS program whereby State agencies may verify the validity of documents provided by aliens applying for SNAP benefits by obtaining information from a central data file.
Thrifty food plan
means the diet required to feed a family of four persons consisting of a man and a woman 20 through 50, a child 6 through 8, and a child 9 through 11 years of age, determined in accordance with the Secretary's calculations. The cost of such diet shall be the basis for uniform allotments for all households regardless of their actual composition. In order to develop maximum SNAP allotments, the Secretary shall make household size and other adjustments in the Thrifty Food Plan taking into account economies of scale and other adjustments as required by law.
Trafficking
means:
(1) The buying, selling, stealing, or otherwise effecting an exchange of SNAP benefits issued and accessed via Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) cards, card numbers and personal identification numbers (PINs), or by manual voucher and signature, for cash or consideration other than eligible food, either directly, indirectly, in complicity or collusion with others, or acting alone;
(2) The exchange of firearms, ammunition, explosives, or controlled substances, as defined in section 802 of title 21, United States Code, for SNAP benefits;
(3) Purchasing a product with SNAP benefits that has a container requiring a return deposit with the intent of obtaining cash by discarding the product and returning the container for the deposit amount, intentionally discarding the product, and intentionally returning the container for the deposit amount;
(4) Purchasing a product with SNAP benefits with the intent of obtaining cash or consideration other than eligible food by reselling the product, and subsequently intentionally reselling the product purchased with SNAP benefits in exchange for cash or consideration other than eligible food; or
(5) Intentionally purchasing products originally purchased with SNAP benefits in exchange for cash or consideration other than eligible food.
(6) Attempting to buy, sell, steal, or otherwise affect an exchange of SNAP benefits issued and accessed via Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) cards, card numbers and personal identification numbers (PINs), or by manual voucher and signatures, for cash or consideration other than eligible food, either directly, indirectly, in complicity or collusion with others, or acting alone.
Underissuance
means the amount by which the allotment to which the household was entitled exceeds the allotment which the household received.
Underissuance error rate.
(See
Underpayment error rate.
)
Underpayment error rate
means the ratio of the value of allotments underissued to recipient households to the total value of allotments issued in a fiscal year by a State agency.
United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
means the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
Universe
means all units for which information is desired.
Variance
means the incorrect application of policy and/or a deviation between the information that was used to authorize the sample month issuance and the verified information that should have been used to calculate the sample month issuance.
Wholesale food concern
means an establishment which sells eligible food to retail food stores or to meal services for resale to households.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47882, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 271.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 271.2, Nt.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 89 FR 102362, Dec. 17, 2024, § 271.2 was amended by revising the definitions of “Homeless individual” and “Screening”, effective Jan. 16, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 271.2
Definitions
Homeless individual
means
(1) An individual who lacks a fixed and regular nighttime residence, including, but not limited to, an individual who will imminently lose their nighttime residence; or
(2) An individual whose primary nighttime residence is:
(i) A supervised shelter designed to provide temporary accommodations (such as a welfare hotel or congregate shelter);
(ii) A halfway house or similar institution that provides temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized;
(iii) A temporary accommodation for not more than 90 days in the residence of another individual; or
(iv) A public or private place not designed for, or ordinarily used, as a regular sleeping accommodation for human beings (a hallway, a bus station, a lobby, or similar places).
Screening
means an evaluation by an eligibility worker of an individual for all exemptions from the general work requirements, all exceptions from the able-bodied adults without dependents time limit, and whether the individual should be referred for participation in an employment and training program. Screening for participation in employment and training programs is not considered a part of the E
T program.
2. At 89 FR 90568, Nov. 18, 2024, § 271.2 was further amended by adding definitions for “Completion of participation in E
T” and “Former E
T participant,” and revising the definition of “Employment and Training (E
T) participant”, effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised and added text is set forth as follows:
§ 271.2
Definitions.
Completion of participation in E
T
means that an E
T participant has not received any E
T services for at least 90 days and no future services are planned.
Employment and Training (E
T) participant
means an individual who meets the definition of a mandatory or voluntary participant who is referred to E
T and begins at least one part of an E
T program, including orientation, assessment, case management services or a component.
Former E
T participant
means an individual who is no longer participating in E
T services because the individual is no longer receiving SNAP benefits.
§ 271.3
Delegations to FNS for administration.
(a)
Delegation.
Within the Department, FNS acts on behalf of the Department in the administration of SNAP with the exception of those functions, which may be delegated to other agencies within the Department. The right is reserved at any time to withdraw, modify, or amend any delegation of authority. When authority is delegated to FNS, the responsibilities may be carried out by the Administrator or by another official of FNS, or by State agencies with respect to claims against households, as designated.
(b)
Claims settlement.
FNS shall have the power to determine the amount of and to settle and adjust any claim arising under the provisions of the act or this subchapter, and to compromise or deny all or part of any claim.
(c)
Demonstration authority.
FNS is authorized to undertake demonstration projects which test new methods designed to improve program administration and benefit delivery. FNS is authorized to initiate program research and evaluation efforts for the purposes of improving and assessing program administration and effectiveness. The procedure for initiating and conducting these projects is established in part 282.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47882, Oct. 17, 1982]
§ 271.4
Delegations to State agencies for administration.
(a)
General delegation.
The State agency shall be responsible for the administration of the program within the State, including, but not limited to:
(1) Certification of applicant households;
(2) Issuance, control, and accountability of SNAP benefits and EBT cards;
(3) Developing and maintaining complaint procedures;
(4) Developing, conducting, and evaluating training;
(5) Conducting performance reporting reviews;
(6) Keeping records necessary to determine whether the program is being conducted in compliance with these regulations; and
(7) Submitting accurate and timely financial and program reports.
(b)
Claims delegation.
FNS delegates to the State agency, subject to the standards in § 273.18, the authority to determine the amount of, and settle, adjust, compromise or deny all or part of any claim which results from fraudulent or nonfraudulent overissuances to participating households.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47882, Oct. 17, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 207, 47 FR 52333, Nov. 19, 1982; 85 FR 52032, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 271.5
Benefits as obligations of the United States, crimes and offenses.
(a)
Benefits as obligations.
Pursuant to section 15(d) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, benefits are an obligation of the United States within the meaning of 18 United States Code (U.S.C.) 8. The provisions of Title 18 of the United States Code, “Crimes and Criminal Procedure,” relative to counterfeiting, misuse and alteration of obligations of the United States are applicable to benefits and EBT cards.
(b)
Penalties.
Any unauthorized issuance, redemption, use, transfer, acquisition, alteration, or possession of benefits, EBT cards, or other program access device may subject an individual, partnership, corporation, or other legal entity to prosecution under sections 15 (b) and (c) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 or under any other applicable Federal, State or local law, regulation or ordinance.
(c)
Security for benefits and EBT cards.
All individuals, partnerships, corporations, or other legal entities including State agencies and their delegatees (referred to in this paragraph as “persons”) having custody, care and control of benefits and EBT cards shall, at all times, take all precautions necessary to avoid acceptance, transfer, negotiation, or use of spurious, altered, or counterfeit benefits and EBT cards and to avoid any unauthorized use, transfer, acquisition, alteration or possession of benefits and EBT cards. These persons shall safeguard benefits and EBT cards from theft, embezzlement, loss, damage, or destruction.
(d)
Benefit issuers.
(1) Any benefit issuer or any officer, employee or agent, thereof convicted of failing to provide the monthly reports required in § 274.5 or convicted of violating part 274 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $1,000, or imprisoned for not more than 1 year, or both.
(2) Any benefit issuer or any officer, employee or agent, thereof convicted of knowingly providing false information in the reports required under § 274.5 shall be subject to a fine of not more than $10,000, or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.
(e)
Forfeiture and denial of property rights
—(1)
General.
(i) Any nonfood items, moneys, negotiable instruments, securities, or other things of value furnished or intended to be furnished by any person in exchange for food benefits, authorization cards, or other program benefit instruments or access devices in any manner not authorized by the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 or regulations issued pursuant to the Act, shall be subject to forfeiture and denial of property rights. Such property is deemed forfeited to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) at the time it is either exchanged or offered in exchange.
(ii) These forfeiture and denial of property rights provisions shall apply to property exchanged or offered in exchange during investigations conducted by the Inspector General, USDA, and by other authorized Federal law enforcement agencies.
(iii) These forfeiture and denial of property rights provisions shall not
apply to property exchanged or intended to be exchanged during the course of internal investigations by retail firms, during investigations conducted solely by State and local law enforcement agencies and without the participation of an authorized Federal law enforcement agency, or during compliance investigations conducted by the Food and Nutrition Service.
(2)
Custodians and their responsibilities.
(i) The Inspector General, USDA, the Inspector General's designee, and other authorized Federal law enforcement officials shall be custodians of property acquired during investigations.
(ii) Upon receiving property subject to forfeiture the custodian shall:
(A) Place the property in an appropriate location for storage and safekeeping, or
(B) Request that the General Services Administration (GSA) take possession of the property and remove it to an appropriate location for storage and safekeeping.
(iii) The custodian shall store property received at a location in the judicial district where the property was acquired unless good cause exists to store the property elsewhere.
(iv) Custodians shall not dispose of property prior to the fulfillment of the notice requirements set out in paragraph 3, or prior to the conclusion of any related administrative, civil, or criminal proceeding, without reasonable cause. Reasonable cause to dispense with notice requirements might exist, for example, where explosive materials are being stored which may present a danger to persons or property.
(v) Custodians may dispose of any property in accordance with applicable statutes or regulations relative to disposition. The custodian may:
(A) Retain the property for official use;
(B) Donate the property to Federal, State, or local government facilities such as hospitals or to any nonprofit charitable organizations recognized as such under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code; or
(C) Request that GSA take custody of the property and remove it for disposition or sale.
(vi) Proceeds from the sale of forfeited property and any moneys forfeited shall be used to pay all proper expenses of the proceedings for forfeiture and sale including expenses of seizure, maintenance of custody, transportation costs, and any recording fees. Moneys remaining after payment of such expenses shall be deposited into the general fund of the United States Treasury.
(3)
Notice requirements.
(i) The custodian shall make reasonable efforts to notify the actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property subject to forfeiture except for the good cause exception if the owner cannot be notified.
(ii) The notice shall:
(A) Include a brief description of the property;
(B) Inform the actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property subject to forfeiture of the opportunity to request an administrative review of the forfeiture;
(C) Inform the actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property subject to forfeiture of the requirements for requesting administrative review of the forfeiture; and
(D) State the title and address of the official to whom a request for administrative review of the forfeiture may be addressed.
(iii) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(3) (iv) and (v) of this section, notice shall be given within 45 days from the date the United States convicts, acquits, or declines to act against the person who exchanged the property.
(iv) Notice may be delayed if it is determined that such action is likely to endanger the safety of a law enforcement official or compromise another ongoing criminal investigation conducted by OIG, the United States Secret Service, the United States Postal Inspection Service, or other authorized Federal law enforcement agency.
(v) Notice need not be given to the general public.
(4)
Administrative review.
(i) The actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property shall have 30 days from the
date of the delivery of the notice of forfeiture to make a request for an administrative review of the forfeiture.
(ii) The request shall be made in writing to the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, Office of Inspector General, USDA, or to his/her designee, hereinafter referred to as the reviewing official.
(iii) A request for an administrative review of the forfeiture of property shall include the following:
(A) A complete description of the property, including serial numbers, if any;
(B) Proof of the person's property interest in the property; and,
(C) The reason(s) the property should not be forfeited.
(iv) The requestor may, at the time of his/her written request for administrative review, also request an oral hearing of the reasons the property should not be forfeited.
(v) The burden of proof will rest upon the requestor, who shall be required to demonstrate, by a preponderance of the evidence, that the property should not be forfeited.
(vi) Should the administrative determination be in their favor, the actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property subject to forfeiture may request that forfeited items be returned or that compensation be made if the custodian has already disposed of the property.
(vii) The reviewing official shall not remit or mitigate a forfeiture unless the requestor:
(A) Establishes a valid, good faith property interest in the property as owner or otherwise; and
(B) Establishes that the requestor at no time had any knowledge or reason to believe that the property was being or would be used in violation of the law; and
(C) Establishes that the requestor at no time had any knowledge or reason to believe that the owner had any record or reputation for violating laws of the United States or of any State for related crimes.
(viii) The reviewing official may postpone any decision until the conclusion of any related administrative, civil, or criminal proceeding.
(ix) The decision of the reviewing official as to the disposition of the property shall be the final agency determination for purposes of judicial review.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47882, Oct. 17, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 221, 47 FR 35168, Aug. 13, 1982; Amdt. 269, 51 FR 10782, Mar. 28, 1986; Amdt. 334, 57 FR 3911, Feb. 3, 1992; 59 FR 51354, Oct. 11, 1994; 85 FR 52032, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 271.6
Complaint procedure.
(a)
State agency responsibility
—(1)
General scope.
The State agency shall maintain a system of its choosing for handling program complaints filed by participants, potential participants, or other concerned individuals or groups. This shall not include complaints alleging discrimination on the basis of race, sex, age, religious creed, national origin, political beliefs or disability; such complaints shall be handled in accordance with § 272.6. This procedure also need not include complaints that can be pursued through a fair hearing. Complaints regarding such areas as processing standards and service to participants and potential participants would generally be handled under this complaint procedure.
(2)
Minimum requirements.
The State agency shall follow up on complaints, resolve complaints and take corrective action where warranted, and respond to the complainant on the State agency's disposition of the complaint. The State agency shall make information on the complaint system and how to file a complaint available to participants, potential participants and other interested persons. The State agency may make the information available through written materials or posters at certification offices or other appropriate means.
(3)
Complaint analysis.
The State agency shall maintain records of complaints received and their disposition, and shall review records at least annually to assess whether patterns of problems may be present in local offices, project areas, or throughout the State. The results of this review shall be provided to the Performance Reporting System coordinator for appropriate action, and for inclusion, if appropriate, in the State Corrective Action Plan in accordance with § 275.16 of this chapter.
The information provided to the Performance Reporting System Coordinator shall include the identification, if any, of potential or actual patterns of deficiencies in local offices, project areas, or throughout the State, and any identification of causes of these problems.
(4)
Monitoring.
FNS shall monitor State compliance with these requirements through the Performance Reporting System.
(b)
Regional office responsibility.
(1) Persons or agencies desiring program information or wishing to file a complaint may contact the appropriate FNS Regional Office.
(i) For Delaware, the District of Columbia, Maryland, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Puerto Rico, Virginia, the Virgin Islands of the United States, and West Virginia: Mid-Atlantic Regional Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, CN 02150, Trenton, NJ 08650.
(ii) For Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee: Southeast Regional Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 77 Forsyth Street SW., suite 112, Atlanta, GA 30303-3427.
(iii) For Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin: Midwest Regional Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 77 West Jackson Blvd., 20th Floor, Chicago, IL 60604-3507.
(iv) For Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas: Southwest Regional Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 1100 Commerce Street, suite 5-C-30, Dallas, TX 75242.
(v) For Alaska, Arizona, California, Guam, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon and Washington: Western Regional Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 550 Kearny Street, room 400, San Francisco, CA 94108.
(vi) For Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York, Rhode Island, and Vermont: Northeast Regional Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 10 Causeway St., Boston, MA 02222-1069.
(vii) For Colorado, Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming: Mountain Plains Regional Office, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Food and Nutrition Service, 1244 Speer Blvd., suite 903, Denver, CO 80204-3581.
(2) Complainants shall be advised of the appropriate State complaint handling and fair hearing procedures. Upon household request, other complaints shall be pursued by the Department rather than the State agency, unless the complaint is one upon which the complainant wishes to request a fair hearing.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47882, Oct. 17, 1978, as amended at 45 FR 71350, Oct. 28, 1980; Amdt. 187, 45 FR 85699, Dec. 30, 1980; Amdt. 211, 47 FR 53315, Nov. 26, 1982; Amdt. 237, 47 FR 57668, Dec. 28, 1982; Amdt. 250, 48 FR 22130, May 17, 1983; Amdt. 269, 51 FR 10782, Mar. 28, 1986; Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994; 76 FR 27606, May 12, 2011]
§ 271.7
Allotment reduction procedures.
(a)
General purpose.
This section sets forth the procedures to be followed if the monthly SNAP allotments determined in accordance with the provisions of § 273.10 must be reduced, suspended, or cancelled to comply with section 18 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended. The best available data pertaining to the number of people participating in the program and the amounts of benefits being issued shall be used in deciding whether such action is necessary.
(b)
Nature of reduction action.
Action to comply with section 18 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, may be a suspension or cancellation of allotments for one or more months, a reduction in allotment levels for one or more months or a combination of these three actions. If a reduction in allotments is deemed necessary, allotments shall be reduced by reducing maximum SNAP allotments amounts for each household size by the same percentage. This results in all households of a given size having their benefits reduced by the same dollar amount. The dollar reduction would be smallest for one-person households and greatest for the largest households. Since the dollar amount would be the same for all households of the same size, the rate of
reduction would be lowest for zero net income households and greatest for the highest net income households. All one- and two-person households affected by a reduction action shall be guaranteed the minimum benefit unless the action is a cancellation of benefits, a suspension of benefits, or a reduction of benefits of 90 percent or more of the total amount of benefits projected to be issued in the affected month.
(c)
Reduction method.
If a reduction in allotments is deemed necessary, the maximum SNAP allotments amounts for all household sizes shall be reduced by a percentage specified by FNS. For example, if it is determined that a 25 per cent reduction in the maximum SNAP allotments amount is to be made, the reduction for all four-person households would be calculated as follows: The maximum SNAP allotments amount for a four-person household ($209 in November 1980) would be reduced by 25% to $157. Then 30 percent of the household's net SNAP income would be deducted from the reduced maximum SNAP allotments amount. For example, 30 per cent of a net SNAP income of $200, $60, would be deducted from the reduced maximum SNAP allotments amount ($157), resulting in a reduced allotment of $97.
(d)
Implementation of allotment reductions
—(1)
Reductions.
(i) If a decision is made to reduce monthly SNAP allotments, FNS shall notify State agencies of the date the reduction is to take effect and by what percentage maximum SNAP allotments amounts are to be reduced.
(ii) Upon receiving notification that a reduction is to be made in an upcoming month's allotment, State agencies shall act immediately to implement the reduction. Such action could differ from State to State depending on the nature of the issuance system in use. Where there are computerized issuance systems, the program used for calculating allotments shall be altered to reflect the appropriate percentage reduction in the maximum SNAP allotments for each household size and the computer program shall be adjusted to allow for the minimum benefit for one- and two-person households. The computer program shall also be adjusted to provide for the rounding of benefit levels of $1, $3 and $5 to $2, $4 and $6, respectively. FNS will provide State agencies with revised issuance tables reflecting the percentage reductions to be made in the maximum SNAP allotments amounts and reduce maximum SNAP allotments levels. In States where manual issuance is used, State agencies shall reproduce the issuance tables provided by FNS and distribute them to issuance personnel. State agencies shall ensure that the revised issuance tables are distributed to issuance agents and personnel in time to allow benefit reductions during the month ordered by FNS. In an HIR card system State agencies have the option of enacting the reduction in benefits either by changing all HIR cards before issuance activity for the affected month begins or by adjusting allotments at the point of issuance as each household appears at the issuance office.
(2)
Suspensions and cancellations.
(i) If a decision is made to suspend or cancel the distribution of SNAP benefits in a given month, FNS shall notify State agencies of the date the suspension or cancellation is to take effect. In the event of a suspension or cancellation of benefits, the provision for the minimum benefit for households with one or two members only shall be disregarded and all households shall have their benefits suspended or cancelled. Upon receiving notification that an upcoming month's issuance is to be suspended or cancelled, State agencies shall take immediate action to effect the suspension or cancellation. This action would involve making necessary computer adjustments, and notifying issuance agents and personnel.
(ii) Upon being notified by FNS that a suspension of benefits is over, State agencies shall act immediately to resume issuing benefits to certified households and shall resume benefit issuance as soon as practicable.
(3)
Affected allotments.
Whenever a reduction of allotments is ordered for a particular month, reduced benefits shall be calculated for all households for the designated month. However, any household with one or two members whose reduced benefits would be
less than the minimum benefit shall receive the minimum benefit except as provided in § 273.10(e)(2). Allotments or portions of allotments representing restored or retroactive benefits for a prior unaffected month would not be reduced, suspended, or cancelled even though they are issued during an affected month.
(4)
Notification of eligible households.
Reductions, suspensions and cancellations of allotments shall be considered to be Federal adjustments to allotments. As such, State agencies shall notify households of reductions, suspensions and cancellations of allotments in accordance with the notice provisions of § 273.12(e)(1), except that State agencies shall not provide notices of adverse action to households affected by reductions, suspensions or cancellations of allotments.
(5)
Restoration of benefits.
Households whose allotments are reduced or cancelled as a result of the enactment of these procedures are not
entitled
to the restoration of the lost benefits at a future date. However, if there is a surplus of funds as a result of the reduction or cancellation, FNS shall direct State agencies to provide affected households with restored benefits unless the Secretary determines that the amount of surplus funds is too small to make this practicable. The procedures implemented by State agencies for reducing and cancelling benefits shall be designed so that in the event FNS directs the restoration of benefits, such benefits are issued promptly.
(e)
Effects of reductions, suspensions and cancellations on the certification of eligible households.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, determinations of the eligibility of applicant households shall not be affected by reductions, suspensions or cancellations of allotments. State agencies shall accept and process applications during a month(s) in which a reduction, suspension or cancellation is in effect in accordance with the requirements of part 273. Determinations of eligibility shall also be made according to the provisions of part 273. If an applicant is found to be eligible for benefits and a reduction is in effect, the amount of benefits shall be calculated by reducing the maximum SNAP allotments amount by the appropriate percentage for the applicant's household size and then deducting 30 percent of the household's net SNAP income from the reduced maximum SNAP allotments amount. If an applicant is found to be eligible for benefits while a suspension or cancellation is in effect, no benefits shall be issued to the applicant until issuance is again authorized by FNS.
(2)
Expedited service.
(i) Households eligible to receive expedited processing who apply for program benefits during months in which reductions or suspensions are in effect, shall have their cases processed in accordance with the expedited processing provisions of § 273.2(i).
(A) Those households that receive expedited service in months in which reductions are in effect and that are determined to be eligible shall be issued allotments that are reduced in accordance with the reduction in effect. These reduced allotments shall be made available to the households within the benefit delivery timeframe specified in § 273.2(i).
(B) Those households that receive expedited service in months in which suspensions are in effect and that are determined to be eligible shall have benefits issued to them within the timeframe specified in § 273.2(i). However, if the suspension is still in effect at the time issuance is to be made, the issuance shall be suspended until the suspension is ended.
(ii) Households eligible to receive expedited processing who apply for Program benefits during months in which cancellations are in effect shall receive expedited service. However, the deadline for completing the processing of such cases shall be five calendar days or the end of the month of application, whichever date is later. All other rules pertaining to expedited service, contained in § 273.2(i), shall be applicable to these cases.
(3) The reduction, suspension or cancellation of allotments in a given month shall have no effect on the certification periods assigned to households. Those participating households whose certification periods expire during a month in which allotments have been reduced, suspended or cancelled
shall be recertified according to the provisions of § 273.14. Households found eligible to participate during a month in which allotments have been reduced, suspended or cancelled shall have certification periods assigned in accordance with the provisions of § 273.10.
(f)
Fair hearings.
Any household that has its allotment reduced, suspended or cancelled as a result of an order issued by FNS in accordance with these rules may request a fair hearing if it disagrees with the action, subject to the following conditions. State agencies shall not be required to hold fair hearings unless the request for a fair hearing is based on a household's belief that its benefit level was computed incorrectly under these rules or that the rules were misapplied or misinterpreted. State agencies shall be allowed to deny fair hearings to those households who are merely disputing the fact that a reduction, suspension or cancellation was ordered. Furthermore, since the reduction, suspension or cancellation would be necessary to avoid an expenditure of funds beyond those appropriated by Congress, households do not have a right to a continuation of benefits pending the fair hearing. A household may receive retroactive benefits in an appropriate amount if it is determined that its benefits were reduced by more than the amount by which the State agency was directed to reduce benefits.
(g)
Issuance services.
State agencies must have issuance services available to serve housholds receiving restored or retroactive benefits for a prior, unaffected month.
(h)
Penalties.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, FNS may take one or more of the following actions against a State agency that fails to comply with a directive to reduce, suspend or cancel allotments in a particular month.
(1) If FNS ascertains that a State agency does not plan to comply with a directive to reduce, suspend or cancel allotments for a particular month, a warning will be issued advising the State agency that if it does not comply, FNS may cancel 100 percent of the Federal share of the State agency's administrative costs for the affected month(s). If, after receiving such a warning, a State agency does not comply with a directive to reduce, suspend or cancel allotments, FNS may cancel 100 percent of the Federal share of the State agency's administrative costs for the affected month(s).
(2) If FNS ascertains after warning a State agency as provided in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, that the State agency does not plan to comply with a directive to reduce, suspend or cancel allotments, a court injunction may be sought to compel compliance.
(3) If a State agency fails to reduce, suspend or cancel allotments as directed, FNS will bill the State agency for all over issuances that result. If a State agency fails to remit the billed amount to FNS within a prescribed period of time the funds will be recovered through offsets against the Federal share of the State agency's administrative costs, or any other means available under law.
[Amdt. 146, 46 FR 1426, Jan. 6, 1981, as amended by Amdt. 207, 47 FR 52333, Nov. 19, 1982; Amdt. 211, 47 FR 53315, Nov. 26, 1982; Amdt. 233, 47 FR 53830, Nov. 30, 1982; Amdt. 269, 51 FR 10782, Mar. 28, 1986; 54 FR 24154, June 6, 1989; 56 FR 63596, Dec. 4, 1991; Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994; 78 FR 11972, Feb. 21, 2013]
§ 271.8
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
7 CFR section where requirements are described
Current OMB control No.
272.1(f)
0584-0010
0584-0025
0584-0034
0584-0037
0584-0064
0584-0069
0584-0074
0584-0080
0584-0081
0584-0083
0584-0299
0584-0303
0584-0336
0584-0339
272.2(d)
0584-0064
272.2(a), (c), (d), (e), (f)
0584-0083
272.5(c)
0584-0083
272.3(a), (b), (c)
0584-0083
272.6(g), (h)
0584-0025
273.2(a), (b), (c), (e), (f), (h)
0584-0064
273.5(b)
0584-0064
273.7(a), (d), (e)
0584-0339
273.7(c)
0584-0083
0584-0339
273.8(b), (e )
0584-0064
273.9(d)
0584-0496
273.9(d) (c)
0584-0064
273.10(e), (g)(1)
0584-0064
273.11(b)
0584-0496
273.11(i)(1)-(4)
0584-0080
0584-0081
273.11(i)(5)
0584-0081
273.11(i)(6)
0584-0080
0584-0081
273.12(a), (b), (c), (d)
0584-0064
273.13(a), (b)
0584-0064
273.14(b)
0584-0064
273.16(a), (b), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h), (i)
0584-0064
273.18(h)
0584-0069
273.21(h)
0584-0064
273.24(f)
0584-0479
274.3(d)
0584-0069
0584-0080
274.4(a)
0584-0080
274.4(b)
0584-0080
0584-0081
274.6(a), (b) and (e)
0584-0080
0584-0081
275.2(a)
0584-0010
0584-0303
275.4(a)
0584-0010
0584-0303
275.4(b)
0584-0010
275.4(c)
0584-0034
0584-0074
0584-0299
275.5(a), (b)
0584-0010
275.6(b)
0584-0010
275.8(a)
0584-0010
275.9(b), (g)
0584-0010
275.10(a)
0584-0074
0584-0299
0584-0303
275.11(a)
0584-0303
275.12(b), (c), (d), (e)
0584-0074
275.12(f), (g)
0584-0299
275.13(b), (d), (e)
0584-0034
275.14(c), (d)
0584-0034
0584-0074
0584-0299
275.16(b), (c), (d)
0584-0010
275.17(a), (b)
0584-0010
275.18(a), (b)
0584-0010
275.19(a), (b), (c)
0584-0010
275.20(a)
0584-0010
275.21(b)
0584-0034
0584-0074
0584-0299
275.21(c), (d), (e)
0584-0034
275.22(a), (b)
0584-0010
275.23
0584-0010
0584-0034
0584-0074
0584-0299
277.18(a), (c), (d), (f), (i)
0584-0083
278.1(a), (b), (l)
0584-0008
278.5(c), (d), (f)
0584-0008
278.6(b)
0584-0008
278.7(b), (c)
0584-0008
278.8(a)
0584-0008
280.7(c), (d), (g)
0584-0336
280.9(b)
0584-0037
280.10(a)
0584-0336
[82 FR 2034, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 271.8, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 90568, Nov. 18, 2024, § 271.8 was amended by adding an entry in the table for “273.7(c)(17)” in numerical order, effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 271.8
Information collection/recordkeeping—OMB assigned control numbers.
7 CFR section where requirements are described
Current OMB Control No.
* * * * *
273.7(c)(17)
0584-0614
* * * * *
§ 271.9
Promotional activities.
No funds authorized to be appropriated under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, shall be used for recruitment or promotion activities as described in § 277.4(b)(5). No entity receiving funds under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, shall be permitted to perform activities described in § 277.4(b)(6) of this chapter.
[81 FR 92556, Dec. 20, 2016]
Pt. 272

# PART 272—REQUIREMENTS FOR PARTICIPATING STATE AGENCIES
Sec.
272.1
General terms and conditions.
272.2
Plan of operation.
272.3
Operating guidelines and forms.
272.4
Program administration and personnel requirements.
272.5
Program informational activities.
272.6
Nondiscrimination compliance.
272.7
Procedures for program administration in Alaska.
272.8
State income and eligibility verification system.
272.9
Approval of homeless meal providers.
272.10
ADP/CIS Model Plan.
272.11
Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program.
272.12
Computer matching requirements.
272.13
Prisoner verification system (PVS).
272.14
Deceased matching system.
272.15
Major changes in program design.
272.16
National Directory of New Hires.
272.17
Substantial lottery or gambling winnings.
272.18
National Accuracy Clearinghouse.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2011-2036.

# Editorial Note:
OMB control numbers relating to this part 272 are contained in § 271.8.
§ 272.1
General terms and conditions.
(a)
Coupons do not reduce benefits.
The coupon allotment provided any eligible
household shall not be considered income or resources for any purpose under any Federal, State, or local laws including, but not limited to, laws on taxation, welfare, and public assistance programs. No participating State or political subdivision shall decrease any assistance otherwise provided an individual or individuals because of the receipt of a coupon allotment.
(b)
No sales taxes on SNAP purchases.
(1) A State shall not participate in SNAP if State or local sales taxes or other taxes or fees, including but not limited to excise taxes, are collected within the State on purchases made with SNAP coupons. “Purchases made with food coupons” for purposes of this provision shall refer to purchases of “eligible foods” as defined in § 271.2. Where the total value of groceries being bought by the recipient is larger than the amount of coupons being presented by the recipient, only the portion of the sale made in exchange for SNAP benefits must be exempt from taxation in order for a State to satisfy the requirements of this provision. Although a SNAP recipient may use a combination of cash and SNAP benefits in making a food purchase, only the dollar amount represented by the food coupons needs to be exempt from taxation.
(2) State and/or local law shall not permit the imposition of tax on food paid for with coupons. FNS may terminate the issuance of coupons and disallow administrative funds otherwise payable pursuant to part 277 in any State where such taxes are charged. Action to disallow administrative funds shall be taken in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 276.4.
(3) A State or local area which taxes some, but not all, eligible food items shall ensure that retail food stores in that locale sequence purchases of eligible foods paid for with a combination of coupons and cash so as to not directly or indirectly charge or assign a tax to SNAP recipients on eligible food items purchased with coupons. Prohibited methods include, but are not limited to, the allocation of coupons first to non-taxable eligible items, and the application of cash, rather than coupons, to taxable eligible food.
(c)
Disclosure.
(1) Use or disclosure of information obtained from SNAP applicant or recipient households shall be restricted to:
(i) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 or regulations, other Federal assistance programs, federally-assisted State programs providing assistance on a means-tested basis to low income individuals, or general assistance programs which are subject to the joint processing requirements in § 273.2(j)(2).
(ii) Persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the programs which are required to participate in the State income and eligibility verification system (IEVS) as specified in § 272.8(a)(2), to the extent the SNAP information is useful in establishing or verifying eligibility or benefit amounts under those programs;
(iii) Persons directly connected with the verification of immigration status of aliens applying for SNAP benefits, through the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program, to the extent the information is necessary to identify the individual for verification purposes.
(iv) Persons directly connected with the administration of the Child Support Program under part D, title IV of the Social Security Act in order to assist in the administration of that program, and employees of the Secretary of Health and Human Services as necessary to assist in establishing or verifying eligibility or benefits under titles II and XVI of the Social Security Act;
(v) Employees of the Comptroller General's Office of the United States for audit examination authorized by any other provision of law; and
(vi) Local, State, or Federal law enforcement officials, upon their written request, for the purpose of investigating an alleged violation of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 or regulation. The written request shall include the identity of the individual requesting the information and his authority to do so, violation being investigated, and the identity of the person on whom the information is requested.
(vii) Local, State, or Federal law enforcement officers acting in their official capacity, upon written request by such law enforcement officers that includes the name of the household member being sought, for the purpose of obtaining the address, social security number, and, if available, photograph of the household member, if the member is fleeing to avoid prosecution or custody for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, that would be classified as a felony (or a high misdemeanor in New Jersey), or is violating a condition of probation or parole imposed under a Federal or State law. The State agency shall provide information regarding a household member, upon written request of a law enforcement officer acting in his or her official capacity that includes the name of the person being sought, if the other household member has information necessary for the apprehension or investigation of the other household member who is fleeing to avoid prosecution or custody for a felony, or has violated a condition of probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law. The State agency must accept any document that reasonably establishes the identity of the household member being sought by law enforcement authorities. If a law enforcement officer provides documentation indicating that a household member is fleeing to avoid prosecution or custody for a felony, or has violated a condition of probation or parole, the State agency shall follow the procedures in § 273.11(n) to determine whether the member's eligibility in SNAP should be terminated. A determination and request for information that does not comply with the terms and procedures in § 273.11(n) would not be sufficient to terminate the member's participation. The State agency shall disclose only such information as is necessary to comply with a specific written request of a law enforcement agency authorized by this paragraph.
(viii) Local educational agencies administering the National School Lunch Program established under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act or the School Breakfast Program established under the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, for the purpose of directly certifying the eligibility of school-aged children for receipt of free meals under the School Lunch and School Breakfast programs based on their receipt of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits.
(2) Recipients of information released under paragraph (c)(1) of this section must adequately protect the information against unauthorized disclosure to persons or for purposes not specified in this section. In addition, information received through the IEVS must be protected from unauthorized disclosure as required by regulations established by the information provider. Information released to the State agency pursuant to section 6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 shall be subject to the safeguards established by the Secretary of the Treasury in section 6103(l) of the Internal Revenue Code and implemented by the Internal Revenue Service in its publication,
Tax Information and Security Guidelines.
(3) If there is a written request by a responsible member of the household, its currently authorized representative, or a person acting on its behalf to review material and information contained in its casefile, the material and information contained in the casefile shall be made available for inspection during normal business hours. However, the State agency may withhold confidential information, such as the names of individuals who have disclosed information about the household without the household's knowledge, or the nature or status of pending criminal prosecutions.
(4) Disclosure of information obtained from the National Accuracy Clearinghouse (NAC), as described in § 272.18, shall be restricted to persons directly connected with the administration or enforcement of the provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, or SNAP regulations in this subchapter. Information obtained from the NAC may only be used for the purpose of preventing multiple issuances of SNAP benefits to an individual by more than one State agency in a given month. Recipients of information from the NAC must adequately protect the information against disclosure to unauthorized persons and use
for purposes not specified in this paragraph (c)(4).
(d)
Information available to the public.
(1) Federal regulations, Federal procedures embodied in FNS notices and policy memos, State Plans of Operation, and corrective action plans shall be available upon request for examination by members of the public during office hours at the State agency headquarters as well as at FNS regional and national offices. State agency handbooks shall be available for examination upon request at each local certification office within each project area as well as at the State agency headquarters and FNS Regional offices. State agencies, at their option, may require other offices within the State to maintain a copy of Federal regulations.
(2) Copies of regulations, plans of operation, State manuals, State corrective action plans, and Federal procedures may be obtained from FNS in accordance with part 295 of this chapter.
(e)
Records and reports.
Each State agency shall keep such records and submit such reports and other information as required by FNS.
(f)
Retention of records.
Each State agency shall retain all Program records in an orderly fashion for audit and review purposes for no less than 3 years from the month of origin of each record. In addition:
(1) The State agency shall retain fiscal records and accountable documents for 3 years from the date of fiscal or administrative closure. Fiscal closure means that obligations for or against the Federal government have been liquidated. Administrative closure means that the State agency has determined and documented that no further action to liquidate the obligation is appropriate. Fiscal records and accountable documents include, but are not limited to, claims and documentation of lost benefits.
(2) Case records relating to intentional Program violation disqualifications and related notices to the household shall be retained indefinitely until the State agency obtains reliable information that the record subject has died or until FNS advises via the disqualified recipient database system edit report that all records associated with a particular individual, including the disqualified recipient database record, may be permanently removed from the database because of the individual's 80th birthday.
(3) Disqualification records submitted to the disqualified recipient database must be purged by the State agency that submitted them when the supporting documents are no longer accurate, relevant, or complete. The State agency shall follow a prescribed records management program to meet this requirement. Information about this program shall be available for FNS review.
(g)
Implementation.
The implementation schedule for any amendment to the regulations shall be specified in the amendment.
(1)
Amendment 132.
Program changes required by Amendment 132 to the SNAP regulations shall be implemented as follows:
(i) State agencies shall eliminate the purchase requirement for all households on or before January 1, 1979. The State agency shall designate the month the purchase requirement is to be eliminated. If the month designated is other than January 1979, the State agency shall obtain prior approval of FNS. FNS shall approve the designation of months prior to January 1979, if the State agency demonstrates that an accounting procedure for the new issuance system will be in place. The submission dates for the forms FNS-250 and FNS-256, stipulated in § 274.8(a), shall be effective with the reports for the first month of issuance without a purchase requirement. For example, if EPR is implemented in January, the FNS-250 and FNS-256 for January would be due by March 17, 1979. The FNS-259 shall be submitted in accordance with § 274.8(a)(3) starting with the quarter beginning January 1979.
(ii) State agencies may implement all eligibility rules contained in part 273 and all issuance rules contained in part 274 at the same time the purchase requirement is eliminated, but in no case shall eligibility and issuance rules be implemented prior to elimination of the purchase requirement. State agencies may also implement portions of part 273 and part 274 separately after the purchase requirement is eliminated, provided that the eligibility
rules setting the income standards, the income deductions and the household allotment calculation are implemented at the same time, and all rules are implemented no later than 3 months after the purchase requirement is eliminated. However, if a State agency implements EPR after December 1, 1978, it shall implement the certification and other issuance regulations for all new applications and recertifications no later than March 1, 1979.
(iii) State agencies shall have up to 4 months following the first day that applications are taken under the new rules, to convert the current caseload to the new program. Households coming due for recertification during this time will be converted to the new program at recertification. Remaining households shall be converted by a desk review during that 4-month period. The new income definition, deductions, and allotment calculation shall be completed for all households which are converted through a desk review. To the extent that the case file and other information available to the State agency permit, other eligibility criteria, such as work registration, resources, tax dependency, and alien status, shall be considered during the desk review. Otherwise, nonincome eligibility factors shall be deferred until the household's scheduled recertification. In no event shall a household's certification period be extended as a result of the desk review. Until recertified or converted by a desk review, a household shall continue to receive the bonus portion of the allotment, calculated in accordance with the income, deduction, and basis of issuance provisons of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 of 1964. During the case file conversion period, some households may be participating on the basis of the old program rules and some on the new rules. Claims against households and restoration of benefits shall not be assessed provided that whichever program rules are in use for a particular case are correctly applied during the conversion period. However, errors caused by miscalculations based on the old or new program rules which result in an entitlement to restoration of lost benefits or an overissuance shall be assessed in accordance with §§ 273.17 and 273.18 of these regulations. The procedures for calculating lost benefits or overissuances as specified in §§ 273.17 and 273.18 shall be applied to any case found to be in error after the implementation of these procedures, even though the action which caused the error may have occurred prior to the date of implementation. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the preceding provisions of this paragraph, State agencies shall have up to four months following the first day that applications are taken under the new rules, to convert the current caseload to the new program. Households coming due for recertification during this time shall be converted to the new Program at recertification. However, if the State agency elects to schedule a desk review for these households earlier in the four-month period, conversion shall take place after the desk review. Further, State agencies may elect to do a point-in-time computer conversion in lieu of individual desk reviews. Such a computer conversion must cover entire categories of households, such as public assistance households, all households in a particular project area, all households currently in the computer files, etc., and the State agency may not elect to postpone the conversion of certain cases until recertification.
(iv) State agencies shall implement § 273.17 on the restoration of lost benefits on or before March 1, 1979. State agencies are encouraged to implement restoration of lost benefits concurrent with the elimination of the purchase requirement, especially as they relate to households which are entitled to lost benefits but which have been unable to receive them because the households are currently ineligible. State agencies shall notify currently ineligible households of the availability of their lost benefits by using one of the following procedures:
(A) State agencies which can readily identify the ineligible households which are entitled to lost benefits shall notify these households and restore the lost benefits within 4 months of the date restoration of lost benefits is implemented.
(B) Other State agencies shall issue a one-time-only press release notifying
ineligible households that benefits can be restored. The press release shall advise households to contact the local SNAP office for more information. In addition, State agencies issuing the press release shall request the assistance of local Community Action Programs, general assistance agencies, legal services programs funded by the Legal Services Corporation, State employment service and unemployment compensation offices and other State and Federal governmental agencies providing services to low-income households, such as the Social Security Administration or the Community Services Administration. FNS shall provide the State agency with copies of the letter to be used to request assistance from outreach organizations and governmental agencies, and the fliers and posters which will be distributed upon request to such organizations and agencies. The language of the request for assistance, the notice to households and the poster is contained in the appendix to this rulemaking. State agencies shall mail the request for assistance and display posters in all local agency SNAP certification and issuance offices and welfare offices within 30 days of receipt from FNS. In project areas subject to the bilingual requirements of § 272.4(c), State agencies shall provide translations of the posters and fliers. Upon request, FNS shall provide Spanish posters and fliers. FNS shall reimburse State agencies for all costs of providing translations of the posters and fliers in languages other than Spanish. The State agency shall display the posters in its offices for six months. Households whose entitlement to benefits has been clearly established may apply for restoration of lost benefits under this paragraph for an indefinite period. Households whose entitlement to restoration of lost benefits was established more than three years prior to application for retroactive benefits under this paragraph shall be permitted to document entitlement if entitlement cannot be verified from State agency records. Such households shall sign an affidavit under penalty of perjury explaining their entitlement. In lieu of the requirements of this paragraph, State agencies may elect to provide notice pursuant to paragraph (g)(1)(iv)(A) of this section, in any or all project areas within the State.
(v) State agencies shall assume the authority to settle or adjust recipient claims delegated under § 271.4(b) on or before July 1, 1979.
(vi) State agencies without a currently approved utility standard required in § 273.9(d)(5) shall develop and implement an FNS approved utility standard on or before October 1, 1979. The State agency shall notify households certified at the time the utility standard is implemented of the availability of the standard and the conditions for its use in lieu of actual expenses. Households qualified to use the standard and which elect to do so shall have the standard applied as any other change in circumstances. Otherwise, actual utility expenses shall continue to be used for households qualified for the standard until their next recertification.
(vii) State agencies shall advise FNS of their determination of the need for bilingual services as required by § 272.4(c) on or before December 1, 1978. If the State agency cannot determine, based on available information sources, whether or not bilingual services are required in particular project areas, it shall so advise FNS on or before December 1, 1978. The State agency shall then develop procedures to record the number of non-English-speaking low-income households which make contact with its offices in these project areas as required by § 272.4(c)(6). These procedures shall be implemented on or before March 1, 1979, and shall continue for 6 months. The State agency shall submit to FNS its determination(s) of the need for bilingual services not later than 60 days following the end of the 6-month period. Bilingual outreach materials shall be available for distribution within 90 days of the State agency's determination that such materials are required. When the State agency determines that bilingual staff and certification materials are required, it shall also make a determination of whether volunteers or paid staff will be used. When volunteers are to be used,
the State agency shall provide the materials and arrange for volunteers within 90 days. Paid staff and materials shall be provided within 180 days.
(viii) Prior to the certification of households under these regulations, State agencies shall implement staff training for the transition as required in § 272.4(e)(3), and training for outreach workers, receptionists, and others, as required in § 272.4(e)(1) (v) and (vi). Beginning with these training sessions for the transition, State agencies shall implement the requirements for public participation at training sessions, as specified in § 272.4(e)(1)(iv). State agencies shall designate a training coordinator and develop and implement the ongoing training program required by § 272.4(e) on or before July 1, 1979.
(ix) Elimination of the purchase requirement and the implementation of the basic financial and nonfinancial eligibility criteria and other coupon issuance criteria shall not be extended for any reason. FNS may grant extensions for other provisions contained in these rules, provided that the State agency presents compelling justification for a delay and establishes an acceptable alternative schedule in advance of the implementation deadline. In no event will FNS grant an extension in excess of 120 days from the specified implementation date. In those cases where extensions are granted, the relevant Department regulations under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 of 1964 shall remain in effect until superseded by implementation of the new rules.
(2)
Amendment 137.
Program changes required by Amendment 137 to the SNAP regulations shall be implemented for all households initially applying for SNAP benefits no later than 90 days following the publication of this amendment.
(3)
Amendment 146.
The procedures contained in Amendment 146 shall be implemented by State agencies in time to be able to issue reduced SNAP allotments or to suspend or cancel allotments within 60 days after the date of publication of this amendment in the
Federal Register.
(4)
Amendment 141.
State agencies shall begin planning for and conducting ongoing consultations with the Indian tribal organizations of the reservations within their jurisdiction as soon as possible after the effective date of this amendment. Portions of the State Plan of Operation to be submitted for fiscal year 1980 shall be subject to ITO comment as required by § 281.2(a). The funding authority in § 281.9 shall apply to budgets beginning with the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1979.
(5)
Amendment 211.
State agencies shall implement the new Social Security Number (SSN) provisions for new applicants no later than February 1, 1983 and convert the current caseload at recertification or when the case is otherwise reviewed, whichever occurs first. The citizenship provisions must be implemented on or before April 1, 1983. All other provisions shall be implemented at State agency discretion.
(6)
Amendment 149.
Changes to States' Quality Control systems as required by this amendment shall be implemented as follows:
(i)
All
State agencies shall continue conducting modified QC reviews [in accordance with regulations published February 9, 1979 (43 FR 8548)] through August 31, 1979 and submit Form FNS-133 to FNS by September 15.
(ii) State agencies shall implement the requirements in subpart C of part 275 for conducting QC reviews no later than October 1, 1979. A quality control sampling plan (as specified in § 275.11(a) of these regulations) must be submitted by each State to the appropriate FNS Regional Office no later than September 1, 1979 (30 days prior to implementation). This will allow time necessary for approval of the plans prior to the October 1 implementation date.
(iii) State agencies are encouraged to implement QC September 1, if possible. States opting to implement early would not be required to operate
for this month
under an approved sampling plan. These States must, however, submit sampling plans in accordance with paragraph (g)(6)(ii) of this section. The month of September (sampling month) would serve as a test phase. Therefore, data collected for the sample month would not be required to be submitted to FNS or used in determining a
State's cumulative allotment error rate.
(iv) Regulations published October 17, 1978 (43 FR 47846) which implement major aspects of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 provide for the conversion of cases via a desk review (§ 272.1(g)(1)(iii)). Desk converted cases would be converted to the new eligibility criteria for income and deductions but may not have been converted to the new criteria for resources, work registration, tax dependency, etc. Therefore, States will have households participating in the program based on some of the eligibility criteria of the 1964 Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. Desk converted cases as provided in § 272.1(g)(1)(iii) and cases which should have been converted via desk review (some cases may not undergo the conversion process as required), shall be subject to standard QC review procedures. When the QC reviewer detects a variance in one of these cases which results from an element of eligibility which was not converted and was not required to have been converted, the reviewer shall disregard the variance. When the reviewer detects a variance in a case when an element of eligibility was, or should have been converted, the reviewer shall handle the variance like any other QC variance as identified in § 275.12 of these regulations. It is possible that desk converted cases may continue to show up in QC samples through February 1980.
(v) State agencies shall submit reports of QC review activity (one copy to the appropriate FNS Regional Office and one copy to the Deputy Administrator for Family Nutrition Programs, Washington, DC) as follows:
(A) Each State agency shall report the monthly progress of sample selection and completion on a form provided by FNS. This report shall be submitted to FNS so that it is received no later than 10 days after the end of each month, beginning December 10, 1979. Each report shall reflect sampling and review activity for the previous month.
(B) Each State agency shall report the results of QC review activity on a form provided by FNS. This report shall be submitted to FNS so that it is received no later than 90 days from the end of the reporting period.
(C) Corrections to information on the above reports requested by FNS must be submitted within 10 days of the request.
(7)
Amendment 151.
(i) State agencies shall implement the program changes required by amendment for all new applications and recertifications no later than January 1, 1980. Currently eligible households shall be converted at recertification or when they request conversion to the new deduction system by responding to the notice required in paragraph (g)(7)(iii) of this section or by otherwise requesting recomputation.
(ii) State agencies may but are not required to convert the current caseload to the shelter deduction system provided for in § 273.9(d)(5) through desk reviews or by computer search. State agencies are encouraged to convert eligible households to the new shelter deduction as soon as possible to allow these households to benefit during the winter months.
(iii) Notices explaining the changes and their applicability shall be available at all SNAP certification offices and shall also be mailed or otherwise provided individually to all currently certified households at least once prior to implementation. At a minimum, these notices shall be distributed in the month prior to implementation either with the ATP card or separately but no later than the 15th of the month. The notice shall advise the household of the availability of the new deductions and the procedures for reporting medical and shelter expenses. If the State agency can identify those households to which this amendment would apply, only these households need to receive the notice.
(iv) Fliers advising of the changes contained in this amendment shall be made available to public and general assistance offices, local Social Security offices, and any interested organizations, particularly those dealing with the elderly or disabled or those places where the elderly or disabled congregate, such as housing units. Also, posters explaining the changes shall be displayed in SNAP certification offices and shall be made available to public
and general assistance offices, local Social Security offices and any other interested groups. State agencies shall notify all organizations on its outreach contact list of the changes and of the availability of posters and fliers. State agencies shall issue press releases to the news media advising of the impending program changes.
(v) For the first two months of implementation, State agencies shall have up to 30 days to process changes in medical and shelter costs reported in conjunction with this amendment. The change shall be effective for the first issuance following that 30-day period with restoration of lost benefits to the point at which the change would normally become effective under § 273.12. The State agency may request an extension of processing time of up to 60 days to act on these changes. The State agency shall submit appropriate documentation to FNS for the State or any part of the State for which such an extension is requested. After the first two months the State agency shall act on these changes in accordance with the normal processing standards in § 273.12(c). For changes reported during a period of two months following a State agency's implementation of this amendment, verification of shelter and medical expenses required by § 273.2(f) must be obtained prior to the issuance of the third normal monthly allotment after the change is reported. If the household does not provide verification, the household's benefits will revert to the original level. State agencies are encouraged to complete such verification and, if needed, conduct an interview prior to processing the change. After this initial period, State agencies will verify these expenses in accordance with the normal timeliness standards.
(vi) Medical expenses shall be subject to the same rounding procedures used for shelter expenses in § 273.10(e)(1)(ii). This procedure shall be in effect until implementation of amendments to § 273.10(e)(1)(ii).
(vii) No household shall be entitled to restoration of lost benefits under this amendment for any period prior to the time the State agency has implemented its provisions. For the initial months after implementation, during which the longer processing time allowed under this amendment is in effect, a household shall be entitled to restoration of lost benefits back to the month the change would have become effective under the normal processing standards in § 273.12(c). After this initial period, no household shall be entitled to restoration of lost benefits unless the State agency does not act on reported changes in accordance with the timeliness standards in § 273.12(c) or the household is otherwise entitled under the provisions of § 273.17.
(viii) Implementation of these program changes falls in the last three months of the October 1979 to March 1980 reporting period for quality control. For the months of January, February and March 1980, all cases in which a household member is either 60 years of age or over, receives SSI, or disability benefits under title II of the Social Security Act will be subject to standard quality control review procedures, except that any varying information regarding medical deductions and/or shelter deductions in excess of the cap found in the review shall be disregarded in determining errors. Such information shall be noted on the Face Sheet of Form FNS-245 under part VII, Discrepancies and Other Information, and reported to the State agency for appropriate action on an individual case basis. Starting with the April-September 1980 reporting period, when the reviewer detects a variance in the medical deduction and/or the shelter deduction in excess of the cap, and these expenses were reported at application, recertification or during the certification period, the reviewer shall handle the variance like any other QC variance as identified in § 275.12 of the Performance Reporting System regulations.
(8)
Amendment 152.
The rounding procedure set forth in § 273.10(e) shall be in effect for new applications and recertifications no later than July 1, 1980. The State agency shall have up to 12 months following the implementation date of final regulations to convert the current caseload to the rounding procedure that is chosen under § 273.10(e)(1)(ii). The State agency shall have a choice of the following three options in converting households that are
already participating at the time the new rounding procedure goes into effect:
(i) Convert households at recertification; (ii) convert households by conducting a desk review; or (iii) convert all households, or all households in a certain category, at a point-in-time. For example, the State agency may convert all public assistance households or all households in a project area by computer. Point-in-time mass conversions shall be conducted no later than July 1, 1980. In any case, the State agency shall advise FNS regarding which rounding and caseload conversion procedures are chosen and when the conversion will be completed.
(9)
Amendment 154.
State agencies shall implement the program changes required by Amendment 154 as follows:
(i) State agencies shall begin requiring social security numbers for all new applications and recertifications no later than the first day of the first month which commences 120 days from the date of publication of final rules. Participating households shall be requested to provide or apply for social security numbers (SSN) for appropriate household members at recertification, or at the time of office contact for any other reason. The State agency shall provide advance notification of this requirement and the consequences of noncompliance by sending an individual notice to all participating households and by providing press releases for dissemination through the media. The individual notices may be sent as either a one-time notice prior to implementation and/or with the notices of expiration of a certification period.
(ii) If any affected member(s) of a household does not have his or her SSN readily available at the time of application, recertification, or any office contact, he or she shall follow the procedures for furnishing an SSN in accordance with § 273.6 as amended.
(iii) State agencies shall implement the fraud claims procedures contained in §§ 273.16 and 273.18. Implementation shall be no later than the first of the month following the 120th day from the date of publication of final rules. By implementation the State agency shall also have an approved system for handling claims, including a method for accounting for the fifty percent retention of the value of funds collected from fraud claims. Any collection action on fraud claims after implementation is subject to the fifty percent retention including claims established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 of 1964 as amended and under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended. However, only individuals found guilty of fraud through an administrative fraud hearing or through a court of law under regulations promulgating the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, are subject to the recovery provisions in §§ 273.16 and 273.18 retroactive to implementation of fraud claim provisions under the 1977 Act.
(10)
Amendment 207.
State agencies shall implement the changes in the rules required by Amendment 207 no later than January 1, 1983. Disabled parents who requested and were denied separate household status on or after September 8, 1982, will be entitled to benefits retroactive to the dates of their applications for separate household status.
(11)
Amendment 160.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of this amendment as follows:
(i) State agencies shall submit the initial State corrective action plans so they are received by FNS within 90 days of publication of these regulations as required in § 275.22(a) of this chapter. This initial plan shall contain all known deficiencies in the State which meet the criteria set forth in § 275.16(b) of this chapter and shall identify, for each such deficiency, the items required in § 275.17(b) of this chapter. Project areas also shall prepare and submit to the State corrective action plans for all identified deficiencies. These plans shall be submitted within 60 days of identification of a deficiency and shall include any deficiencies known to the project area prior to publication of these regulations for which corrective action has not been completed. Ninety days after publication of these regulations, all provisions of §§ 275.15, 275.16, 275.17, 275.18, 275.19 and 275.22 of this chapter shall be implemented.
(ii) State agencies shall have submitted management evaluation (ME) review schedules within 90 days of publication of these regulations as required by § 275.20 of this chapter. These review schedules shall contain all information required by § 275.20 of this chapter and shall be adhered to unless a change is necessary. If a modification to an ME review schedule is necessary at any time in the review period, the State shall notify the appropriate FNS Regional Office of the modification.
(iii) State agencies shall implement ME reviews within 90 days of publication of these regulations, following the provisions of §§ 275.5, 275.6, 275.7, 275.8, and 275.9 of this chapter. Any waiver from the requirements of § 275.7 or § 275.9 must be requested 60 days prior to its implementation as identified in § 275.5(c). Development or submission of requests for a deviation shall not delay implementation of the ME review sub-system past the required implementation date.
(iv) All provisions of these regulations which are not addressed in paragraphs (g)(11) (i) and (ii) of this section shall be implemented within 90 days of publication of these regulations. While this includes the requirements for a Performance Reporting System Coordinator and designation of an organizational entity for effecting corrective action as identified in § 275.2(a) of this chapter, this position and designation may be established on an interim basis; provided that the provisions of § 275.2(a) of this chapter are fully implemented by October 1, 1980. During this interim period States shall ensure that all responsibilities of the coordinator or entity are adhered to.
(12) [Reserved]
(13)
Amendment 162.
Program changes required by Amendment 162 of SNAP regulations shall be implemented as follows:
(i) The fee agent system for conducting interviews is currently in use and its continuing use is approved.
(ii) All other rules except paragraph (p) of § 272.8 shall be implemented as soon as practical but no later than 90 days following the date of final rulemaking. A fee agent training plan must be submitted within 45 days of the date of final rulemaking. Paragraph (p) of § 272.8 concerning points and hours shall be implemented following the time standards contained therein.
(14)
Amendment 142.
(i) State agencies shall restore lost benefits to households who had their eligibility or benefit levels adversely affected because Federal energy assistance payments were counted as income and/or resources. Entitlement to restoration of lost benefits shall be retroactive to October 1, 1979 for payments received under CSA's ECAP; to November 27, 1979 for payments received under DHEW's EAP; and to January 7, 1980 for the one-time-only energy assistance payments to SSI households in accordance with Pub. L. 96-126.
(ii) State agencies shall use the following procedures for notifying households of entitlement to restoration of benefits under Amendment 142:
(A) State agencies which can readily identify those SSI households who received the one-time payment and those households who received payments under the Energy Crisis Assistance or Energy Allowance Programs which lost benefits because their energy assistance payment was counted as income and/or resources must notify such households of entitlement to restoration of lost benefits.
(B) State agencies which cannot readily identify households entitled to restoration of lost benefits due to the circumstances described in § 272.1(g)(14)(i) must issue a one-time-only press release to notify households which have participated since October 1, 1979 of possible entitlement to restoration of lost benefits. State agencies may, at their option, use additional means of notification such as posters.
(15)
Amendment 163.
State agencies shall implement the provisions in this amendment no later than July 1, 1980.
(16)
Amendment 174.
State agencies shall implement the program changes required by Amendment
174
as follows:
(i) State agencies shall implement the income/resource disregard provision for Federal, State, and local energy assistance payments (§§ 273.8 and 273.9 of this subchapter) no later than October 1, 1981.
(ii) State agencies shall implement the new maximum resource limit and
the exemption of vehicles for the physically disabled (§ 273.12 of this subchapter) no later than October 1, 1981 for all new applicants. State agencies shall convert the current caseload to the new resource limit at the time of recertification, or at any other time the casefile is reviewed prior to recertification.
(iii) State agencies shall implement the student participation provisions of this amendment (§§ 273.1, 273.2, 273.5, 273.7 and 273.11 of this subchapter) no later than October 1, 1981 for all new applicants. Current caseload shall be converted at the time of recertification or any time the casefile is reviewed prior to recertification.
(17)
Amendment 158.
(i) The procedures contained in part 273 regarding SSI SNAP joint application processing shall become effective on August 1, 1980 for all State agencies except that:
(A) In those areas designated as SSI/Elderly Cash-out Demonstration Project Sites or Demonstration Project Comparison Sites, implementation of these provisions will be delayed. In addition, Social Security office service areas which contain either demonstration projects sites or demonstration comparison sites will be temporarily exempted, in their entirety, from implementation of these provisions whether or not their boundaries are co-terminous with demonstration project sites and/or demonstration comparison site boundaries. This temporary exemption removes the administrative problem of the same SSA office simultaneously operating under both joint processing and cash-out regulations. The procedures contained in this rulemaking shall become effective for these project areas on the first day of the month following the ninetieth day after the termination of the demonstration project.
(B) State agencies in SSI cash-out States as defined in § 273.20 shall not implement the provisions of this rulemaking. In the event an SSI cash-out State loses that status, the State agency shall implement the provisions of this rulemaking on the first day of the month following the ninetieth day after the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines that the State no longer qualifies for cash-out status.
(ii) State agencies shall distribute fliers advising of the changes contained in this amendment to public and general assistance offices, local Social Security offices, any interested organizations, particularly those dealing with the elderly or disabled, and those places where the elderly or disabled congregate, such as housing units senior citizens centers, and elderly feeding programs. Also, posters explaining the changes shall be displayed in SNAP certification offices and shall be made available to public and general assistance offices, local Social Security offices and any other interested groups. State agencies shall notify all organizations on their outreach contact lists of the changes and of the availability of posters and fliers. State agencies shall issue press releases to the news media advising of the impending program changes. FNS will supply State agencies with model language describing the changes which State agencies may use in their publications.
(18)
Amendment 168.
The provisions of Amendment 168 shall be effective on the thirtieth day following their publication. Any claims filed against State agencies for incidents that occur after the publication of this amendment shall be filed in accordance with the provisions of this amendment. Any claims filed against State agencies for incidents that occurred prior to the publication of this amendment shall be filed in accordance with the rules in effect at the time they occurred. However, the administrative review procedures contained in this amendment shall be applicable to all claims that are filed after the effective date of this amendment.
(19)-(20) [Reserved]
(21)
Amendment 178.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of §§ 273.8 and 273.9 of this amendment for all new applicants no later than February 1, 1981. States shall convert the current caseload to the new rules at recertification or at the time the case is otherwise reviewed, whichever comes first.
(22)
Amendment 179.
State agencies shall implement those verification procedures mandated in §§ 273.2 and 273.8
no later than the first of the month 120 days following publication of final regulations. State agencies may implement those provisions allowed at State agency option in §§ 273.2 and 273.12, once the options have been approved by FNS and the State certification manuals have been revised to incorporate the options.
(23)
Amendment 171.
(i) All States operating an ATP issuance system shall submit the first Form FNS-46, Food Stamp Reconciliation Report, in accordance with Amendment No. 171, for the month of February 1981. This report shall be submitted to the FNS Regional Office within 90 days from the end of the report month.
(ii) All States shall submit the Form FNS-388, State Coupon Issuance and Particpation Estimates, for February 1981 and each month thereafter. Those States that have not submitted procedures for estimating program participation, shall submit them to the FNS Regional Office on or before February 9, 1981.
(24)
Amendment 186.
The procedures of part 275 regarding SSA/SNAP joint processing and demonstration cases shall become effective on August 1, 1980 for all applicable State agencies. These procedures must be implemented by October 1, 1980.
(25)
Amendment 187.
State agencies shall implement the complaint procedures required by § 271.6(a) no later than 180 days following publication of final regulations.
(26)
Amendment 165.
State welfare agencies and State employment agencies shall implement the provisions of Amendment 165 no later than the first of the month following 120 days from publication of amendment 165 in the
Federal Register
as follows:
(i) Both agencies shall begin immediately to develop the work registration plan and agreements discussed in § 273.7(c) and (d) of Amendment 165. The plan and agreements must be approved and implemented within the 120 day timeframe established for implementation of all provisions of the final rule.
(ii) The provisions of amendment 165 shall be applied to households at the time of initial application, recertification, or reregistration, beginning no later than the first of the month following 120 days from publication of the amendment.
(27)
Amendment 189.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of Amendment No. 189 no later than July 1, 1982.
(28)
Amendment 156.
State agencies shall implement the program changes required by Amendment 156 within 120 days after publication of these regulations, meeting the submittal deadlines outlined in §§ 272.2 and 272.3.
(29)
Amendment 190.
State agencies shall implement these regulations no later than January 1, 1982. The rules are effective November 9, 1981.
(30) [Reserved]
(31)
Amendment 169.
The provisions of Amendment 169 shall be effective March 30, 1981. These provisions shall apply to the period beginning October 1, 1980, except that the provisions of § 277.4(b)(2) shall apply to the period October 1, 1978 through October 1, 1980. No State shall be subject to sanctions based upon quality control error rates for any period prior to October 1, 1980. No State shall receive enhanced funding based upon quality control data for a period prior to the date upon which its quality control system was in operation.
(32)-(33) [Reserved]
(34)
Amendment 198.
State agencies opting to match earnings data provided by applicants and participants with information maintained by the Social Security Administration shall first execute data exchange agreements with the Social Security Administration. After the effective date of this rule and after execution of this agreement, State agencies may implement wage match provisions at their discretion.
(35)
Amendment 202.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of Amendment No. 202 as follows:
(i) The rules shall be implemented no later than October 1, 1981, including the provisions for a medical deduction, separate dependent care deduction, and uncapped shelter expense deduction for the elderly and disabled in Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands. All households who apply October 1 or later and those households who are recertified October 1, 1981 or later shall be processed in accordance with these
provisions. The proration of initial month benefits shall begin no later than October 1, 1981.
(ii) Conversion of the current caseload to the new gross income test and earned income deduction amount shall be completed no later than 90 days from October 1, 1981, or 90 days from the date of implementation approved through waiver requests in accordance with paragraph (g)(35)(vi) of this section.
(iii) Conversion of the current caseload to the new household definition; ineligibility of strikers and boarders; and, in Puerto Rico, Guam, and the Virgin Islands, a medical deduction, separate dependent care deduction, and uncapped excess shelter expense deduction shall be completed at or before recertification. In no event shall the new medical, dependent care, and excess shelter provisions for Guam, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands be implemented prior to October 1, 1981.
(iv) Notification to affected households of these changes shall be done, at a minimum, in the same manner required for mass changes in public assistance grants prescribed in § 273.12(e)(2)(ii).
(v) Beginning October 1, 1981, outreach activities engaged in by State agencies shall be ineligible for Federal matching funds.
(vi) FNS will consider requests for waivers to these timeframes, except for the timeframe in paragraph (g)(35)(v) of this section, on a state-by-state basis, if good cause can be established and justified, in writing, for the need for a longer timeframe.
(36)
Amendment 259.
State agencies may implement this Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting rule at any time, but shall implement this rule no later than January 1, 1984. Prior to January 1, 1984, this rule may be implemented Statewide, in only part of a State (such as in certain project areas), or for only certain reasonable classifications of households (such as for only households receiving Temporary Assistance for Needy Families) so long as the implementation is completed by January 1, 1984. State agencies shall have begun to send monthly reports to households so that they can report their January 1984 circumstances in accordance with § 273.21(h). However, the changes in the interim provisions made by this final rule need not be implemented on January 1, 1984. The changes made by this final rule shall be implemented no later than May 1, 1984. Unless otherwise specified in § 273.21 of this chapter, all other SNAP regulations shall apply to State agencies and to applying or participating households.
(37)
Amendment 205.
The procedures extending eligibility to otherwise eligible residents of shelters for battered women and children contained in Amendment 205 shall be implemented by State agencies no later than April 1, 1982.
(38)-(39) [Reserved]
(40)
Amendment 213.
All State agencies shall execute the appropriate data exchange agreements and implement the provisions of this amendment not later than January 1, 1983. State agencies may opt to match earnings data with information maintained by the Social Security Administration upon publication of final regulations provided they have executed data exchange agreements with the Social Security Administration. State agencies which are not prohibited by State law from wage matching with agencies administering unemployment compensation may do so upon publication of final regulations, provided they have executed the appropriate data exchange agreements.
(41) State agencies shall implement the provisions of Amendment 215 upon publication.
(42)
Amendment 217.
The regulations concerning the optional workfare program contained in Amendment 217 shall be in effect November 8, 1982. Workfare programs may be implemented after this date provided FNS has approved the workfare plan.
(43)
Amendment 220.
State agencies shall implement Amendment 220 on October 1, 1982.
(44)
Amendment 221.
State agencies shall implement on a case by case basis the provisions of this rule, excluding the provision which revises the application form, beginning the first of the month 30 days from the date of publication. The provision requiring a notice of verification on the application form
shall be implemented on or before the first day of the month beginning at least 90 days from the date of publication. If the State agency has not depleted its existing supply of application forms, the State agency may opt to implement this provision by providing an insert to the application form containing the notice of verification.
(45)
Amendment 222.
This amendment shall be implemented by the first day of the month following the 30th day after publication. As of that date prior approval of forms, manuals, instructions, or any other type of operating guidelines will no longer be required and waivers will be granted or denied based on the new criteria contained herein. Additionally, as of that date State agencies shall inform FNS of changes, as they occur, in their organizational outline and agreements with other agencies. The submission requirement for the Budget Projection Statement, Form FNS-366A, as set forth in § 272.2(e) shall become effective on August 15, 1983, for the 1984 Federal fiscal year beginning October 1, 1983 through September 30, 1984.
(46)
Amendment 225.
The State agency shall obtain FNS approval for the exclusion of energy assistance provided under any State or local program, in accordance with the criteria set forth in §§ 273.8(e)(14) and 273.9(c)(11), within six months of the date of publication of the final rule. State or local energy assistance which is not approved during this six month period shall cease to be excluded at the end of the period. The new provisions concerning restoration of lost benefits in § 273.17 (a) and (e) shall be implemented no later than 120 days following publication of the final rule.
(47) [Reserved]
(48)
Amendment 228.
FNS will consider requests for waivers to monthly reporting requirements beginning November 5, 1982.
(49)
Amendment 245.
The mail issuance loss rates of 0.75 percent and $2,250 are effective January 1, 1983. The mail issuance loss rate of 0.5 percent and $1,500 are effective October 1, 1983. For the second quarter of fiscal year 1983 only, FNS will look at Statewide loss rates and the loss rates of individual reporting units within the State. Where the loss rate for individual reporting units within the State is over the tolerance in that quarter and the Statewide loss rate is also over tolerance, FNS will assess liability for losses exceeding the tolerance reported for the second quarter of 1983. Where the loss rate for individual reporting units within a State are over tolerance for the second quarter, but the Statewide loss rate is under tolerance, State agencies shall have one additional quarter (the third Fiscal Year 1983 quarter) to bring such individual reporting units' loss rates into compliance with the tolerance levels. Thus for these reporting units, FNS will assess liability beginning with the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1983 and each quarter thereafter for losses which exceed the tolerance levels, regardless of Statewide loss rate. FNS will bill State agencies for losses on a semiannual basis.
(50)
Amendment 230.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of Amendment 230 no later than January 1, 1983.
(51)-(52) [Reserved]
(53)
Amendment 233.
State agencies shall implement these regulations no later than February 1, 1983.
(54)
Amendment 234.
The provisions of Amendment 234 shall apply to those sponsored aliens on behalf of whom the sponsor signed an affidavit of support or similar statement (as a condition of the alien's entry into the United States as a lawful permanent resident) on or after February 1, 1983.
(55)
Amendment 235.
Except for the provisions which simply extend options to State agencies, State agencies shall implement the changes made by Amendment 235 no later than February 1, 1983. Elderly/disabled persons who requested and were denied separate household status or other considerations granted disabled persons on or after September 8, 1982, will be entitled to benefits retroactive to the dates of their applications for separate household status or other special considerations.
(56) [Reserved]
(57)
Amendment 240.
The provisions of Amendment 240 shall be effective on January 11, 1983. The enhanced funding,
which the amendment implements, is available to political subdivisions retroactive to October 1, 1982. The enhanced funding is available to a political subdivision for a workfare participant who begins working on or after October 1, 1982.
(58)
Amendment 242.
State agencies shall implement the disqualification penalties for intentional Program violation, and the improved recovery of overpayments provisions contained in Amendment 242 no later than April 1, 1983.
(i) The provision in § 273.11(c) for handling the income and resources of an individual disqualified for intentional Program violation shall apply to any individual disqualified for such a violation since the implementation of the fraud disqualification provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. The disqualification procedures for intentional Program violation in § 273.16 shall apply to any individual alleged to have committed one or more acts of intentional Program violation since the implementation of the fraud disqualification provisions under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. However, the disqualification penalties in § 273.16(b) shall apply only to individuals disqualified for acts of intentional Program violation which occur after implementation of this amendment. In addition, the disqualification penalties in § 273.16(b) shall apply only to individuals disqualified for acts of intentional Program violation which occurred either during a certification period based on an application form containing these penalties or after receipt of written notification from the State agency of these penalties. Recurring acts of intentional Program violation which occur over a period of time prior to and after implementation of this final rule shall not be separated. Only one penalty can be imposed for such recurring violations and the household member shall be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification penalties specified in this amendment. The reporting requirements of § 273.16(i) shall become effective upon implementation, however, the State agency shall have until October 1, 1983, to submit such reports on individuals disqualified under previous regulations implementing the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.
(ii) The recovery provisions for claims against households in § 273.18 shall apply to any overissuance caused by an action which occurred after implementation of regulations promulgating the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended. And, the procedures for calculating the amount of overissuances as specified in § 273.18(c) shall apply to any month in which an overissuance occurred retroactive to March 1, 1979. However, State agency retention of 50 percent of the value of collected intentional Program violation claims and 25 percent of the value of collected inadvertent household error claims as provided in § 273.18(h) shall apply to any collection action retroactive to January 1, 1982. The State agency shall have the option of reinstating any claim previously suspended, but not terminated, under the recovery provisions of regulations implementing the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and, once reinstated, such claims shall be subject to the recovery provisions contained in this amendment. However, the State agency shall not reinstate any amount of a claim compromised or any claim terminated under previous regulations implementing the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended. The submission requirements for the Form FNS-209, Status of Claims Against Households, as set forth in § 273.18(h) shall become effective with the quarter ending March 31, 1983.
(59)
Amendment 243.
(i) State agencies shall implement the provisions contained in § 274.1(d) statewide no later than October 1, 1983. FNS will consider requests for waivers to this timeframe on a State-by-State basis if the State agency establishes good cause through submission of written justification of the need for a longer timeframe and submits a plan that shows when the system will be implemented.
(ii) State agencies shall implement the correction made to § 273.1(a)(1)(iv) retroactive to September 8, 1982.
(iii) The Commonwealth of Puerto Rico shall implement the changes to part 285 on January 1, 1984, as published in the
Federal Register
for December 21, 1984.
(60)
Amendment 244.
State agencies shall implement the provisions regarding joint SNAP/public assistance case processing at State agency discretion. The provisions regarding certification periods must be implemented at time of application or at recertification no later than July 1, 1983.
(61) [Reserved]
(62)
Amendment 247.
State agencies must implement the provisions relative to noncompliance with other programs no later than April 1, 1985. The provisions relative to disclosure of information must be implemented no later than February 1, 1985.
(63)
Amendment 251.
State agencies shall implement the program changes required by this amendment as follows:
(i) State agencies shall apply the work registration, job search, and voluntary quit provisions of this rule, amending portions of § 273.7, to new applicants no later than January 2, 1985. The provisions shall apply to participating households at recertification or at the time of office contact for any other reason.
(64)
Amendment 252.
(i) The sanction/incentive provisions of § 275.25 were effective October 1, 1982. The previous provisions of § 275.25 shall continue to apply to the review periods prior to October 1982.
(ii) The funding provisions of § 277.4(b)(2) were effective on October 1, 1982, and shall apply to the October 1982, through September 1983, review period and every review period thereafter.
(iii) The revised funding provisions of § 277.4(b)(7) shall apply to the 6-month review periods October 1, 1981 through March 1982 and April through September 1982.
(65)
Amendment 253.
The provisions of § 274.8(a)(6) (i), (ii), and (iii) shall be implemented the first month beginning on or after the 90th day following publication of this final rule. In that month, the FNS-388 report shall provide the actual second preceding month data. The initial semiannual coupon issuance and NA/PA household and person participation data shall be provided in September 1985 for the month of July 1985. State agencies will cease submission of the FNS-256 report as of July 1985.
(66)
Amendment 254.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of Amendment 254 no later than October 19, 1983.
(67) [Reserved]
(68)
Amendment 260.
(i) The quality control review provisions contained in Amendment 260 are effective starting with the beginning of Fiscal Year 1984, except as provided in the following sentences. All cases sampled for the six months October 1983 through March 1984 shall be disposed of and reported within 95 days of March 31, 1984. Cases sampled for April 1984 and for months thereafter shall be disposed of and reported according to § 275.21. For example, 90 percent of April cases are due within 75 days of April 30, and 100 percent are due within 95 days of that date. The structure of sample frames specified in § 275.11(e) must be implemented no later than the sample month of October 1984.
(ii) Starting with the October 1983 sample month, cases must be determined complete, not complete, or not subject to review according to §§ 275.12(g) and 275.13(e). As of the beginning of Fiscal Year 1984 the sample sizes stated in § 275.11(b) and related sampling plan requirements are effective, and State agencies are required to meet the completion standard stated in § 275.11(d). State agencies currently sampling at the levels provided in § 275.11(b)(1)(iii) must submit to their respective FNS Regional Offices the reliability statement required by § 275.11(a)(2) within 30 days of the publication of this rule, or no later than the second month after publication of this rule begin sampling at the levels specified in § 275.11(b)(1)(ii).
(69)
Amendment 261.
State agencies shall implement this amendment establishing the Alaska urban and rural allotment levels and the new cap for Guam no later than August 1, 1984. Households in rural Alaska which request retroactive benefits by February 1, 1985 will be entitled to retroactive benefits for the period after September 8, 1982, during which they lived in rural Alaska and participated in SNAP in that area. These retroacive benefits will be provided over a period of time not to exceed one year. The amount provided each month will be the higher
of $50 or one-twelfth of the total amount due. Households in Guam which request retroactive benefits by February 1, 1985 will be entitled to retroactive benefits for the period October 1, 1982, through September 30, 1983, during which they lived in Guam, participated in SNAP in that area, and were in household sizes two, five, or eight or more.
(70)
Amendment 264.
These rules are effective on May 29, 1986. No later than that date State agencies are required to submit the attachment to their State Plan of Operation specified in § 272.2 and in § 272.8(i), documenting either full implementation of these rules or good faith efforts to implement them. The documentation of full implementation or of good faith efforts shall show either that the State agency is routinely requesting and using, or shall show the dates when it will begin routinely to request the use, information from the various data sources specified in § 272.8(a) according to the frequencies for requests, timeframes and other requirements of § 272.8(e), (f) and (g). Full implementation shall include requests for available information from the Social Security Administration for all recipients for which such information has not been previously requested. The 30-day timeframe specified in § 272.8(g) is effective for applicant households which become recipients as discussed in § 272.8(e)(1) as soon as a State agency begin receiving information from particular data sources.
(i) A Plan describing good faith efforts shall at a minimum document that the State agency is currently in compliance with wage match criteria as specified in the final rulemaking of November 5, 1982 (47 FR 50180), assure that such compliance will continue at current levels until such time as these provisions are implemented, and provide an implementation schedule that reflects full compliance in the minimum amount of additional time. Requests for delays of implementation beyond May 29, 1986 shall identify the applicable regulation part, the date for implementation, justification for the delay, and the implementation plan.
(ii) The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services and with the Secretary of the Department of Labor prior to the approval of Plans of Operation documenting good faith efforts. In no event shall the Secretary approve a delay of the provisions of individual notification in § 273.2(f)(9) beyond the initial implementation date of any of these new provisions.
(iii) Implementation schedules beyond September 30, 1986 are not approvable, with the following exception: If on April 1, 1985 no SWICA exists in a particular State, the provisions of the rule as they relate to SWICAs shall be effective upon the designation of a SWICA. Implementation of a SWICA after April 1, 1985 shall take place as soon thereafter as possible but in no event later than September 30, 1988. All SWICAs with delayed implementation shall be in operation so that wage information is reported to them starting with the month of October 1988.
(71)
Amendment No. 266.
The provisions contained in Amendment No. 266 shall be implemented by March 6, 1987.
(i) All Fiscal Year 1987 review schedules shall continue in force despite the implementation of these provisions. However, a State agency may, at its option, seek a change in that schedule.
(ii) Waivers shall remain in force until their expiration. If a State agency wishes to cancel a waiver it should contact its Regional Office and negotiate whatever change it needs.
(iii) The first periodic Corrective Action Plan update required by this amendment shall be submitted by May 1, 1987.
(72)
Amendment 267.
State agencies shall implement the eligibility requirements of this rulemaking as they apply to offsetting farm self-employment losses and publicly operated community mental health centers not later than March 27, 1986. State agencies must begin taking applications from residents of publicly operated community mental health centers (as defined in § 271.2) not later than March 27, 1986. FNS field offices may authorize these centers to act as retail food stores on February 25, 1986.
(73)
Amendment 269.
The correction to § 273.7(n)(1)(v) outlined in amendment 269 is effective retroactively to October 3, 1984. State agencies which may have implemented the voluntary quit error
prior to receiving FNS notification not to effectuate the change, shall issue lost benefits to affected households, but not prior to November 2, 1984 (the effective date of the October 3, 1984 final rule). State agencies shall implement the revisions to the rules outlined in amendment 269 for all new applicants no later than the first day of the month following June 26, 1986. Any conversion of the current caseload necessitated by this amendment shall be done at recertification or at the time the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first.
(74)
Amendment 270.
(i) State agencies shall implement the earned income and dependent care deduction amounts and the resource limit provisions of Amendment 270 on May 1, 1986. If, for any reason, a State agency fails to implement these provisions on that date, households shall be provided the lost benefits which they would have received if the State agency had implemented these provisions as required.
(ii) The provisions of § 272.1(b) regarding the prohibition of State or local sales taxes on foods purchased with SNAP coupons shall be implemented on October 1 of the calendar year during which the first regular session of each State's Legislature is convened following enactment of Pub. L. 99-198 (enacted December 23, 1985). A “regular session” means a scheduled session of a State's legislature convened to address the usual range of statutory and budgetary issues. A “budgetary” session of a legislature shall be considered a “regular session” if State rules allow for statutory issues to be introduced at these “budgetary” sessions even if rules governing these special procedures are stringent.
(A) FNS may approve a delay in the above implementation date if a State provides FNS a request documenting that such date would either:
(
1
) Have an adverse and disruptive effect on the administration of SNAP in such State; or
(
2
) would provide inadequate time for retail stores to implement required changes in sales tax policy.
(B) FNS has no authority to approve any State implementation schedule with an effective date later than October 1, 1987.
(75)
Amendment 273.
The State agency shall implement this amendment establishing Alaska urban, Rural I, and Rural II allotment levels by April 1, 1986.
(76)
Amendment 274.
(i) The provisions of this amendment at §§ 271.2, 273.2, 273.5, 273.9, 273.10(d)(6), and 273.21(b) shall be implemented for all new applications and the current caseload no later than August 1, 1986. If, for any reason, a State agency fails to implement these provisions on this date, households shall be provided lost benefits which they would have received if the State agency had implemented these provisions as required.
(ii) The provisions of this amendment at § 273.18 and part 285 shall be implemented June 20, 1986.
(iii) The provisions of this amendment at § 273.21(a)(4)(i)(A) and the second sentence in § 273.10(f)(7) are effective retroactive to August 31, 1981. Section § 273.21(a)(4)(ii)(A) and the first two sentences of § 273.21(a)(4)(ii)(B) described in this amendment are retroactive to September 8, 1982. The provisions of this amendment at §§ 272.3, 273.21(a), 273.21(a)(3), 273.21(a)(4)(i)(B), the third sentence at § 273.10(f)(7), and the last two sentences of § 273.21(a)(4)(ii)(B) are effective retroactive to December 2, 1983. The provision of this amendment at § 276.7(j) is effective retroactive to December 23, 1985.
(77)
Amendment 275.
The program change in § 273.2(l) of Amendment 275 shall be effective October 1, 1986.
(78)
Amendment 276.
(i) This rule is effective retroactively to December 23, 1985. Any household that applied and was denied benefits from that date until implementation of this rule is entitled to restored benefits if it:
(A) Was categorically eligible as defined in this rule;
(B) Is otherwise entitled to benefits; and
(C) Requests a review of its case or if the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed.
Restored benefits for these households shall be made available, if appropriate, in accordance with § 273.17 back to the date of the SNAP application or December 23, 1985, whichever is later. The State agency shall implement the
changes in this rule immediately upon publication and any eligibility determination or issuance made on or after that date shall be made in accordance with this rule.
(ii) For quality control (QC) purposes only, QC reviewers shall not identify variances resulting solely from either implementation or nonimplementation of this rule in cases with review dates between December 23, 1985 and October 31, 1986, inclusive.
(79)
Amendment 277.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of Amendment 277 on August 22, 1986. If, for any reason, a State agency fails to implement the provisions, affected households shall be entitled to restored benefits but not prior to August 22, 1986.
(80) [Reserved]
(81)
Amendment 279.
(i) For State agencies which elected to implement a $160 dependent care deduction limit for all households prior to October 18, 1986, the dependent care deduction provision of Amendment No. 279 is effective retroactive to May 1, 1986 in accordance with section 638 of Pub. L. 99-500. In such States, for QC purposes only, QC reviewers shall not include in the error determination variances which resulted from early implementation by these States of the deduction limit provided the implementation occurred during the period beginning May 1, 1986 through October 1986.
(ii) For all other State agencies, the $160 dependent care deduction provision of Amendment No. 279 shall be implemented for elderly and disabled applicant and participating households on December 1, 1986. State agencies shall implement the provision as a mass change in accordance with § 273.12(e), except that affected households in Alaska, Hawaii and Guam shall be issued an individual notice which, at a minimum, informs the households of the general nature of the mass change, the effect of the deduction limit on the household's allotment, and the month the change will take effect. If for any reason the State agency fails to implement the provision on the required date, affected households shall be provided restored benefits, back to December 1, 1986. For QC purposes only in such States, QC reviewers shall not include in the error determination variances which resulted solely from a State agency's implementation or nonimplementation of the deduction limit between December 1, 1986 and January 1, 1987.
(82)
Amendment 281.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of this amendment no later than April 1, 1987.
(83)
Amendment 282.
The changes to § 273.2(i)(3)(i) contained in Amendment No. 282 are effective January 12, 1987 and shall be implemented no later than February 11, 1987.
(84)
Amendment 285.
(i) The provisions of Amendment No. 285 at §§ 273.9(d)(6)(i), 273.9(d)(6)(ii), 273.9(d)(6)(v)(B), 273.10(d)(1)(i) and 273.10(d)(6) are retroactively effective to October 1, 1986. The State agency shall implement the provisions immediately upon publication and any eligibility determination made on or after that date shall be made in accordance with this rule. The State agency shall review a case to determine if the household was denied benefits under these amendments whenever the household requests a review or the State agency becomes aware that such a denial may have occurred. Any household that was denied benefits as a result of an eligibility or benefit calculation (e.g., processed change report) made on or after October 1, 1986 is entitled to restored benefits. Restored benefits for these households shall be made available, if appropriate, in accordance with § 273.17 back to:
(A) October 1, 1986 or the date of application whichever is later for new applications; or
(B) October 1, 1986 or the first month in which the application of these amendments would have affected the household's benefits, whichever is later, for certified households.
(ii) For quality control (QC) purposes only, a variance resulting solely from either the implementation or non-implementation of this rule shall not be identified between October 1, 1986 and April 1, 1987.
(85)
Amendment No. 286.
(i) The provisions of Amendment No. 286 which permit homeless meal providers to apply for authorization to accept SNAP benefits were effective March 11, 1987.
(ii) All other provisions of this amendment were effective April 1, 1987.
(86)
Amendment No. 287.
The provisions of this amendment are effective April 7, 1987.
(87)
Amendment No. 288.
The removal of the word “funded” from the last sentence in § 273.11(e)(1), the amendments to the first and fourth sentences in § 278.1(e), and the revision of paragraph (a)(2)(iii) in § 273.11 are effective February 25, 1986 and shall be implemented not later than March 27, 1986.
(88)
Amendment No. 292.
(i) The effective date of the provisions of this amendment is retroactive to November 6, 1986.
(ii) The actual dates upon which aliens may become eligible under § 273.4(a) (8), (9), (10), and (11) are specified in those paragraphs. State agencies must inform their staff of the respective dates as they pertain to the eligibility or ineligibility of applicant aliens.
(89)
Amendment No. 293.
The provisions of Amendment No. 293 are effective retroactively to October 17, 1986 and shall be implemented as follows:
(i) State agencies shall implement the provisions of this amendment for new applicant households which apply for program benefits on or after June 1, 1987.
(ii) State agencies shall convert their affected current caseload to the provisions of this amendment at household request, at recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first and provide restored benefits, if appropriate, back to the date of application of October 17, 1986, whichever occurred later.
(iii) Any affected household that applied for Program benefits from October 17, 1986 until implementation of this rule and was denied benefits is entitled to restored benefits back to the date of application or October 17, 1986, whichever occurred later, if the household:
(A) Is otherwise entitled to benefits, and
(B) Requests a review of its case or the State agency otherwise becomes aware that review is needed.
(iv) For quality control (QC) purposes only, QC shall not identify variances resulting solely from either implementation or nonimplementation of the provisions of this amendment for cases with review dates between October 17, 1986 (the date of enactment of Pub. L. 99-498) and August 31, 1987.
(90)
Amendment No. 294.
State agencies shall implement the Title IV-D child support income exclusion provision of Amendment No. 294 at its own option, provided it has procedures in place, at the time of implementation, for applying the provision to all affected households and for calculating and reimbursing FNS as required under the provision. State agencies shall implement the remaining provisions of Amendment No. 294 retroactively to April 1, 1987. State agencies shall provide restored benefits, if appropriate, back to the date of application or April 1, 1987, whichever occurred later. Any affected household that applied for Program benefits from April 1, 1987 until implementation of this rule and was denied benefits is entitled to restored benefits back to the date of application or April 1, 1987, whichever occurred later, if the household is otherwise entitled to benefits and requests a review of its case or the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed. The provision at 7 CFR 273.17, limiting restored benefits to 12 months, shall not apply to households entitled to resorted benefits under the provisions of
Amendment No. 294.
For QC purposes, implementation variances shall not be identified unless a case meets all four of the following conditions: the case's review date is after August 31, 1987; the State agency certified or recertified the case (or was required to recertify the case) after August 31, 1987; the certification or recertification was effective for the review date (or the required recertification should have been effective for the review date); and in a retrospective budget system, the household's budget month was September 1987 or later or in a prospective budget system, the household's issuance month was September 1987 or later. For the purpose of this amendment, State agencies shall not establish a claim against any household which received overissued benefits resulting solely from retroactive implementation of the JTPA income provision in § 273.9(b)(1)(v).
(91)
Amendment No. 295
—(i)
Automated Federal information exchange systems.
States' QC liability exemption for errors resulting from proper use of a Federal automatic information exchange system is effective beginning with the Fiscal Year 1986 reporting period.
(ii)
FNS timeframes.
The timeframes for notifying States of their payment error rates and payment error rate liabilities, if any, and the timeframe by which FNS must initiate collection action on claims for such liabilities are effective beginning with the Fiscal Year 1986 reporting period.
(92)
Amendment No. 284.
State agencies shall submit their ADP/CIS plans to FNS for approval no later than October 1, 1987. Portions of ADP/CIS plans may be submitted no later than January 1, 1988. Plans must be approvable within 60 days of State agency receipt of FNS comments but no later than March 1, 1988. State agencies must begin to implement provisions contained in their approved plans by October 1, 1988.
(93)
Amendment No. 298.
The provisions of Amendment No. 298 are effective, and shall be implemented, as follows:
(i) The provision in § 271.2 of this amendment which defines “General assistance” and the provisions contained in § 273.9(b)(2)(i), § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(A), (c)(1)(ii)(B), and (c)(1)(ii)(C), regarding exclusion of certain PA/GA vendor payments are effective retroactively to April 1, 1987. The provision in § 273.9(c)(1)(iv)(B), exclusion of emergency/special PA/GA vendor payments, is also effective retroactive to April 1, 1987, however, this provision reflects current policy and requires no implementation efforts by State agencies. State agencies shall immediately implement the other provisions listed above. Affected households shall be entitled to restored benefits back to the date of application or April 1, 1987, whichever occurred later.
(ii) The technical amendment to part 277 is effective September 29, 1987, and does not require implementation efforts by State agencies. The remaining provisions of Amendment No. 298 are effective, and must be implemented, as follows:
(A) Section 271.2, definition of “Homeless individual,” effective July 22, 1987. State agencies shall immediately inform caseworkers of the new definition. No other implementation efforts are required to the State agencies.
(B) Section 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(D), the income exclusion of certain PA/GA vendor payments, is effective and shall be implemented for new applicant households which apply for benefits during the period beginning October 20, 1987 and ending September 30, 1989. This provision does not apply to allotments issued to any household for any month beginning before the effective period of the provision. State agencies shall convert their affected current caseload to this provision, if otherwise eligible, at recertification, when the household requests a review of its case, or when the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed but not prior to October 20, 1987.
(C) Section 272.5, the financial reimbursement for Program informational activities for the homeless, is effective July 22, 1987.
(D) Section 273.1(a)(2)(i)(C), § 273.1(a)(2)(i)(D), § 273.10(f)(2), the exception to certain household composition requirements, and the rule regarding recertification of households subject to the exception, are effective and must be implemented on October 1, 1987. Households which apply for benefits on or after October 1, 1987 may be granted separate household status under this provision. Current participants which may be eligible for separate household status under this provision, may be granted separate status, but not prior to October 1, 1987, if the household requests separate status and the State agency determines that the household meets the requirements of this provision.
(E) Section 273.2(i), the expansion of expedited service, is effective, and must be implemented, for affected households applying for Program benefits on or after December 1, 1987.
(F) Section 273.9(a)(3), regarding the date of making the annual adjustment to the income standards, is effective with the 1988 annual adjustment. The July 1, 1987 income limits will remain in effect until October 1, 1988.
(G) The first three sentences of § 273.9(d)(8)(i), the raising of the shelter deduction limit for the 48 States and DC., Alaska, Hawaii, Guam and Virgin Islands, are effective October 1, 1987. State agencies shall implement the higher deduction limits appearing in the first sentence of § 273.9(d)(8)(i) on October 1, 1987 only for households whose certification periods begin on or after October 1, 1987. State agencies shall implement the lower deduction limits appearing in the second sentence of § 273.9(d)(8)(i) on October 1, 1987 only for households whose certification periods begin before October 1, 1987. The State agency shall implement the higher deduction limits for households whose certification periods begin before October 1, 1987 beginning with the month in which such household is recertified after October 1, 1987.
(H) Section 273.9(d)(7)(i), the change in the standard deduction methodology, is effective October 1, 1987.
(I) The last sentence of § 273.9(d)(8)(i), the change in the excess shelter deduction methodology, is effective, October 1, 1988.
(J) Section 273.18(c)(2)(ii), the earned income deduction penalty, is effective on September 5, 1987. State agencies which issue on a calendar month basis, shall apply this provision to allotments issued for October 1987 and all allotments for subsequent months. State agencies which issue on other than a calendar month basis shall apply the provision to the issuance for the first issuance month beginning after September 5, 1987.
(iii) State agencies must implement the provisions as outlined in paragraph (g)(93)(ii) of this section on the specific dates required for each provision. If, for any reason, the State agency fails to implement the provisions on the required date, affected households, if appropriate, shall be entitled to restored benefits back to the date of application or the effective date of the provision involved, whichever occurred later.
(iv)
Quality control variance exclusion.
(A) For QC purposes only, QC reviewers shall not identify variances resulting solely from implementation or nonimplementation of the following provisions in cases with review dates during the periods indicated:
(
1
) Sections 273.9(b)(2)(i), 273.9(c)(1) (ii)(A), 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(B), 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(C) and 273.9(c)(1)(iv)(B), concerning PA/GA vendor payments, from April 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987;
(
2
) Section 271.2, concerning the definition of “Homeless individual”, from July 22, 1987 to December 31, 1987;
(
3
) Section 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(D), concerning PA/GA vendor payments for certain housing assistance provided on behalf of households residing in temporary housing, from October 20, 1987 to December 31, 1987;
(
4
) Sections 273.1(a)(2)(i) (C) and (D), concerning household composition, from October 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987;
(
5
) Section 273.2(i), concerning entitlement to expedited service, from December 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987;
(
6
) Section 273.9(d)(8)(i), the first three sentences only, concerning the shelter deduction limit, from October 1, 1987 to December 31, 1987.
(B) State agencies may choose to exclude these variances in Federal subsample reviews; State agencies are not required to do so. To exclude the variances, they shall provide FNS with the following information by April 1, 1994: The review number of each affected Federal subsample review, the sample month, the reason and justification for excluding the variance, and the revised finding.
(94)
Amendment No. 299.
The changes to § 273.2(i)(3)(ii) are effective January 12, 1987 and shall be implemented no later than February 11, 1987.
(95)
Amendment No. 268.
The QC arbitration provisions shall be implemented by State agencies on February 22, 1988, for all cases for which the regional case findings or the regional arbitrator's decision are received on or after February 22, 1988.
(96)
Amendment 301.
This rule pertains to the Income and Eligibility Verification System (IEVS). It is effective March 18, 1988, except for paragraphs 272.8(i) (3) and (4) and 272.8(j)(1) which will be effective upon publication in the
Federal Register
of the approval of the information collection burden by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
(97)
Amendment No. 278.
State agencies shall implement the provisions of
this amendment no later than October 18, 1988.
(98)
Amendment No. 303.
The income exclusion provision § 273.9(c) of
Amendment No. 303
shall be implemented immediately upon publication of the Amendment as follows:
(i) State agencies must apply the provision of this amendment for any eligibility or benefit calculation made on or after February 1, 1988.
(ii) Affected households which were denied benefits because the household's eligibility or benefit calculation during the second Federal fiscal year quarter of 1988 (but not prior to February 1, 1988) did not include the income exclusion provision of this amendment shall be entitled to restored benefits at the time of recertification, whenever the household requests a review of its case, or when the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review of a particular case is needed.
(iii) Benefits shall be restored back to February 1, 1988 or the date of the SNAP application, whichever occurred later. Restoration shall be made in accordance with § 273.17 except that the twelve-month limit for restoring benefits shall not apply.
(iv) For Quality Control (QC) purposes only, QC reviewers shall not identify variances resulting solely from implementation or nonimplementation of
Amendment No. 303
for cases with review dates between February 1, 1988 and August 31, 1988. For retrospectively budgeted cases, QC reviewers shall begin identifying variances when September becomes the budget month. Variances shall not be identified in cases where
Amendment No. 303
was not implemented prior to the QC review when the State agency correctly followed the implementation provisions of this section.
(99) [Reserved]
(100)
Amendment 289.
(i) This rule is effective August 11, 1988.
(ii) State agency Work Plans setting forth proposals for conducting Simplified Application/Standardized Benefit Projects must be postmarked no later than November 9, 1988. Local agency Work Plans must be postmarked no later than December 9, 1988.
(101)
Amendment No. 291.
The provisions of Amendment No. 291 are effective September 19, 1988.
(102)
Amendment No. 307.
The provisions of this amendment are effective immediately and shall be implemented as follows:
(i) No later than October 1, 1988, for all new applicants, and no later than the first recertification on or after October 1, 1988, for the participating caseload, State agencies shall implement the provisions of § 272.2(b) relating to the alien/citizenship statement and notification of verification with INS; the provisions of § 273.1(b) relating to nonhousehold members; the provisions of § 273.2(f)(1)(ii) relating to the mandatory verification of alien status; the provisions of § 273.2(h)(3) relating to delays in application processing; and the provisions of § 272.11(c) relating to the treatment of income and resources of nonhousehold members; and
(ii) Unless a waiver has been approved by FNS by October 1, 1988, State agencies shall implement all other provisions of this rule no later than October 1, 1988. Implementation by October 1, 1988 shall be accomplished either by obtaining FNS approval to a Plan of Operation as required in the rule at § 272.11(e) or by submitting to FNS a substantially approvable Plan of Operation as described in material which FNS Regional Offices provided State agencies on or about September 2, 1988. That material provided points for State agencies to consider relative to requesting waivers. State agencies should contact FNS Regional Offices if they need further guidance on waivers.
(103)
Amendment No. 308.
The quality control changes to § 275.12(d)(2) shall be implemented for the quality control review period beginning October 1, 1988.
(104)
Amendment No. 300.
State agencies shall implement the requirements of this rulemaking no later than May 1, 1989.
(105)
Amendment No. 271.
This rule becomes effective April 1, 1989, and the State agencies shall implement all provisions on that date, with the exception of the following provisions: the new provisions on replacement issuances shall be implemented
by
October 1, 1989; the new liabilities for
State agencies using authorization document issuance systems shall be implemented
on
October 1, 1989; the new mail issuance reporting and liability assessments shall be implemented
on
October 1, 1989; State agencies wanting to change their current unit-level of mail issuance loss reporting must submit their initial plans
by
May 15, 1989; the new provision on quality control case reviews shall be implemented for federal Fiscal Year 1990; State agencies shall begin to use the revised Form
FNS-46,
Issuance Reconciliation Report, to report figures for the month of October 1989; and, provisions pertaining to staggered issuance contained in any currently-approved waivers will automatically be cancelled April 1, 1989.
(106)
Amendment No. 310.
(i) The provisions of this amendment which adopt, as final, interim provisions published July 17, 1987 and those which redesignate or otherwise slightly modify the July 17 interim provisions for clarity only are effective retroactively to April 1, 1987. The conforming amendment at § 273.11(e)(7) is effective retroactively to February 25, 1986. The remaining technical amendments contained in this amendment at §§ 273.2(e)(2), 273.7(b)(1)(vii), 273.9(b)(1)(iii), 276.2(d) and 278.1(e) are effective April 24, 1989. These provisions do not alter or change current policy or procedures under which State agency are operating or do not require special implementation efforts by State agencies.
(ii) The provision in § 273.9(b)(1)(v) which limits application of the provision to on-the-job training programs under section 204(5), Title II, of the Job Training Partnership Act is effective retroactively to April 1, 1987 and shall be implemented as follows:
(A) State agencies shall implement the provision for all new applicant households no later than June 1, 1989. Affected applicant households which applied for Program benefits during the period April 1, 1987 and the date the State agency implemented this change and were denied benefits shall be provided restored benefits, if applicable, back to April 1, 1987 or the date of the SNAP application, whichever occurs later, if the household is otherwise entitled to benefits and requests a review of its case or the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed.
(B) All other households shall be converted to the provision at household request, at recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. Restored benefits shall be provided, if applicable, for such households back to April 1, 1987 or the date of the SNAP application, whichever occurs later.
(C) The provision at 7 CFR 273.17, limiting restored benefits to 12 months, does not apply for households entitled to restored benefits under
Amendment No. 310.
(107)
Amendment No. 313.
The performance-based funding provisions for Employment and Training programs shall be effective October 1, 1989.
(108)
Amendment No. 314.
(i) The provision of
Amendment No. 314
which adds five sentences to § 273.2(j)(1)(iv) and the provisions which add a new paragraph § 273.2(j)(2)(iii)(B) and amend §§ 273.17 and 273.18 are effective July 7, 1989 and shall be implemented no later than September 1, 1989.
(ii) All remaining provisions of
Amendment No. 314,
which adopt the interim provisions of August 5, 1986 as final without change or modify the interim provisions for clarity only, are effective retroactively to December 23, 1985 (the effective date of the interim rulemaking). These provision do not reflect a change in intended policy and, therefore, do not require special implementation efforts by State agencies.
(109)
Amendment No. 315.
Program changes required by Amendment No. 315 to the SNAP regulations shall be implemented as follows:
(i) The provisions relating to migrant and seasonal farmworkers (7 CFR 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(E) and 273.10(a)(1)(ii)) are effective September 1, 1988 for all households applying or certified subsequent to August 31, 1988. Changes affecting currently participating households are to be implemented at recertification or when it is necessary to implement other changes affecting the household.
(ii) State agencies were required to implement the provision of this rule
regarding a technical correction concerning energy assistance payments (7 CFR 273.9(c)(11)) on September 19, 1988.
(iii) State agencies were required to implement revised SNAP allotments on October 1, 1988 (7 CFR 271.2, 271.7, 273.10(e)(2), 273.10(e)(4)(ii), and 273.12(e)). Revised allotments were implemented as mass changes in accordance with 7 CFR 273.12(e).
(iv) State agencies were required to implement the provision relating to the dependent care deduction, 7 CFR 273.9(d)(4), 273.10(d)(1)(i), and 273.10(e)(1)(i)(E), and monthly reporting and retrospective budgeting, 7 CFR 273.21(a) and (b), on October 1, 1988. These provisions were immediately effective for all households certified subsequent to September 30, 1988. Changes affecting currently participating households were to be implemented upon recertification, at the household's request, or when it was necessary to implement other changes affecting the household. (For example, a change reported by a nonmonthly reporting retrospectively budgeted household was to be implemented in accordance with 7 CFR 273.12.) The Department was not requiring State agencies to conduct a casefile review to implement monthly reporting and retrospective budgeting changes for currently participating households. Monthly reports submitted by households which became exempt from MRRB as a result of the Hunger Prevention Act, such as non-migrant seasonal farmworkers or the homeless, were to be treated as change reports and processed prospectively in accordance with 7 CFR 273.12(c).
(v) State agencies were required to implement the provisions of this rule concerning the exclusion of advance payment of earned income tax credits, 7 CFR 273.8(c)(1) and 273.9(c)(14), on January 1, 1989. Households applying subsequent to December 31, 1988 should have had this provision applied to them as of their date of application. Changes affecting households participating as of December 31, 1988 were to be implemented upon recertification, at the household's request, or when it was necessary to implement other changes affecting the household.
(vi) All other provisions of this rule, relating to technical corrections concerning the urban Alaska TFP (7 CFR 272.7(c)), Alaska proration (7 CFR 272.7(f)(3)(iii)), and the dependent care deduction (7 CFR 273.11(c)(2)(iii) and 273.12(e)(1)(i)(C)), are to be implemented August 1, 1989.
(vii) Quality control errors made as a result of this rule's changes to §§ 273.9, 273.10, and 273.21 during the required implementation time frame established by this rulemaking shall be handled in accordance with interim regulations published at 53
FR
44171, dated November 2, 1988. SNAP allotment changes are not covered by the interim regulation because this is a mass change.
(viii) State agencies which failed to implement any of these provisions by the required dates shall provide affected households with the lost benefits they would have received if the State agency had implemented these provisions as required.
(110)
Amendment No. 316.
State welfare agencies shall implement the provisions of
Amendment No. 316
as follows:
(i) The provisions contained in § 274.2(b) of
Amendment No. 316
are effective retroactively to January 1, 1989 and shall be implemented by State welfare agencies no later than January 1, 1990 for all households which newly apply for Program benefits or apply for recertification on or after that date.
(ii) The remaining provisions are effective July 1, 1989 and must be implemented on that date for all households which newly apply for Program benefits or apply for recertification on or after that date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first and restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to July 1, 1989 or the date of the application, whichever is later. Additionally, households which applied for Program benefits between July 1, 1989 and the date the State agency implemented these provisions, and were denied benefits, shall be entitled to restored benefits back to July 1, 1989 or the date of the application, whichever occurred later, if the household:
(A) Is otherwise entitled to benefits, and
(B) Requests a review of its case or the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed.
(111)
Amendment No. 296.
The provisions of Amendment 296 are effective July 5, 1989.
(112)
Amendment No. 309.
(i) The State agency shall have until June 18, 1990, to request regional arbitration of regional office case findings which the State received before February 22, 1988.
(ii) The State agency shall have until June 18, 1990, to request national office arbitration of regional arbitration decisions which the State agency received before February 22, 1988.
(113)
Amendment (320).
(i) The provisions of this rule are effective April 2, 1990.
(ii) The provisions relating to the Expanded Food and Nutrition Education Program (§ 272.5(b)(1)(iv)), the collection of fraud claims § 273.18, the monitoring of claims against households (§ 273.18(k)(5)), adverse action notice on claim demand letters (§ 273.18(d)(3)), notices of fair hearings (§ 273.18(d)(3)), and the results of geographic error prone profiles (§ 275.15(g)) shall be implemented no later than July 2, 1990. The provision relating to fraud detection units (§ 272.4(h)) shall be implemented no later than September 4, 1990. State agencies shall complete the first review of SNAP office hours (§ 272.4(g)) during Federal Fiscal Year 1990.
(iii) State agencies may submit attachments to their Plans of Operation pertaining to the intercept of unemployment compensation benefits to repay intentional Program violations claims as specified in §§ 272.2 (a) and (d) and 272.12(a) of this amendment as of February 22, 1990.
(114)
Amendment No. 322.
The changes contained in this amendment are effective October 15, 1990 and shall be implemented no later than that date. The changes to 7 CFR 273.11 contained in this amendment will apply only to disqualifications imposed after the effective date of this rulemaking.
(115)
Amendment No. 324.
The quality control changes to § 275.12 that are made by Amendment No. 324 shall be implemented for the quality control review period beginning January 1, 1991.
(116)
Amendment No. 330.
The provisions of Amendment No. 330 are effective and must be implemented on August 1, 1991. Any variance resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 90 days from this required implementation date in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii). The provisions must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first, and the State agency must provide restored benefits back to the required implementation date. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of application, whichever is later.
(117)
Amendment No. 332.
The provision of
Amendment No. 332
regarding the resource exemption for PA and SSI recipients is effective and must be implemented no later than February 1, 1992. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 90 days from this required implementation date, in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii). The provision must be implemented for all households that newly applied for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first, and the State agency must provide restored benefits back to the required implementation date. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of application whichever is later.
(118)
Amendment No. 321.
(i) The provisions contained in §§ 273.7(d)(1)(ii)(A) and 273.9(c)(5)(i) (A) and (F) of Amendment No. 321, which implement section 404(c) of the Hunger Prevention Act of 1988, are effective and must be implemented retroactively to July 1, 1989.
(ii) The remaining provisions of Amendment No. 321 are effective October 1, 1988 and must be implemented no later than March 1, 1992. State agencies may implement the conciliation procedure provisions contained in § 273.7(g)(1)(ii) immediately upon publication of Amendment No. 321. However, in no case shall the conciliation procedures be implemented any later than March 1, 1992. By implemented, the Department means that the State agency shall begin to use conciliation procedures in all cases where the State agency has determined on or after the above implementation date that an individual has refused or failed to comply with an E
T requirement under § 273.7(f).
(119)
Amendment No. 328.
(i) The requirements for State agencies to begin implementation or corrective action for deficiencies which are the cause for non-entitlement to enhanced funding for the Fiscal Year 1986 review period, and review periods thereafter were effective as of October 1, 1985, pursuant to section 604 of Public Law 100-435.
(ii) The requirements for State agencies to begin the implementation of corrective action for deficiencies which result in underissuances, improper denials or improper terminations of benefits to eligible households where such errors are caused by State agency rules, practices or procedures were effective July 1, 1989, pursuant to section 320 of Public Law 100-435. The corrective action must address all such deficiencies which occurred on or after July 1, 1989.
(iii) The State agency shall have until December 27, 1991, to implement changes in the development of quality control sampling plans, such that only those State agencies proposing non-proportional integrated, or other alternative sampling plan designs must:
(A) Demonstrate that the alternative design provides payment error rate estimates with equal-or-better predicted precision than would be obtained had the State agency reviewed simple random samples of the sizes specified in § 275.11(b)(1) of the regulations,
(B) Describe all weighting, and estimation procedures if the sample design is non-self-weighted, or uses a sampling technique other than systematic sampling,
(C) Demonstrate that self-weighting is actually achieved in sample designs claimed to be self-weighting.
(iv) The State agency shall have until January 27, 1992, to request regional arbitration of any federally subsampled underissuance cases for which the State agency received FNS regional office QC findings on or after February 22, 1988.
(v) The State agency shall have until January 27, 1992, to request national arbitration of any regional arbitration decisions involving underissuance cases for which the State agency received FNS regional arbitration findings on or after February 22, 1988.
(120)
Amendment No. 335.
The provisions contained in
Amendment No. 335
are effective and shall be implemented as follows:
(i) The provisions contained in §§ 271.2, 271.7, 273.1(e)(1)(iii), 273.2(k)(1)(i)(H), 273.2(m), 273.10, 273.18 and 278.1 of Amendment No. 335 are effective on February 1, 1992 and shall be implemented on that date as follows:
(A) The Guam and Virgin Islands State agencies shall communicate the two new group home provisions (§§ 271.2, 273.1(e)(1)(iii) and 278.1) to group homes in their areas by this date so that they can apply for the appropriate certification and residents can apply for SNAP benefits without delay. All State agencies shall implement the expanded group home provisions for applicants newly applying for program benefits on or after February 1, 1992 for approved group homes.
(B) No special implementation efforts are required with regard to the provisions in §§ 273.2(k)(1)(i)(H) and 273.2(m) about informing SSI applicants about SNAP and the availability of an application at the social security office.
(C) State agencies are not required to adjust their computers or train their caseworkers immediately in order to implement the provisions in §§ 271.2, 271.7, 273.10 and 273.18 relative to the minimum benefit for one- and two-person households because the methodology for annually adjusting the minimum benefit will not result in an increase in the minimum benefit for some time. However, State agencies
are expected to have the capability of implementing a change in the minimum benefit in a timely manner when such a change in announced and, therefore, shall not wait until an actual change in the minimum benefit to adjust computers and train caseworkers.
(ii) The remaining provisions of Amendment No. 335 are effective February 1, 1992. The provisions which reflect that a joint application is no longer required for SSI applicants §§ 273.2 (c)(1), 273.2(i)(3)(i), and 273.2(k)(1)(i)(D) do not require implementation efforts by State agencies. The remaining provisions (§§ 273.4, 273.9(b) and 273.9(c)) also do not require special implementation efforts by State agencies as the provisions reflect current policy.
(iii) Any variance resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from quality control error analysis for 90 days from the required implementation date which shall be handled in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii).
(121)
Amendment No. 336.
The provisions of Amendment No. 336 are effective and must be implemented as follows:
(i) The provision that gives State agencies the option of using retrospective budgeting for nonmonthly reporting households other than those exempt from monthly reports (7 CFR 273.21(b) introductory text) was effective as of November 28, 1990, the date of enactment of the Leland Act.
(ii) The delegation of the responsibility for design of the monthly report form (§ 273.21(h)(3) and § 273.21(j)(1)(ii) of this chapter) must be implemented by February 1, 1992.
(iii) The remaining provisions are effective January 3, 1992 and must be implemented by July 1, 1992.
(iv) Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 90 days from the required implementation dates in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii).
(122)
Amendment No. 337.
The provisions of Amendment No. 337 are effective and must be implemented as follows:
(i) State agencies shall implement the provisions of
Amendment No. 337
on February 1, 1992, except as provided in paragraph (g)(122)(ii) of this section.
(ii) The amendments to revise the introductory text of § 273.2(j) and § 273.2(j)(3) as they relate to categorical eligibility and the amendment adding § 273.2(j)(4) are effective and must be implemented February 1, 1992 for recipients of GA from a State program. They are effective and must be implemented August 1, 1992 for recipients of GA from a local program.
(iii) Any variance resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii) for 90 days from the required implementation date. The provisions must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date, the date of the SNAP application or the date the household was determined categorically eligible in accordance with § 273.2(j)(4), whichever is later.
(iv) The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. The State agency must provide restored benefits back to the required implementation date.
(123)
Amendment No. 338.
The provisions of
Amendment No. 338
are effective and must be implemented on February 1, 1992. The provisions must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date of February 1, 1992. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. If, for any reason, a State agency fails to implement by the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of the SNAP application, whichever is later. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this
amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 90 days from this required implementation date in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii).
(124)
Amendment No. 325.
The quality control changes to § 275.23 that are made by Amendment No. 325 shall be implemented effective January 24, 1992.
(125)
Amendment No. 345.
The provisions of Amendment No. 345 are effective on April 1, 1992, and shall be implemented as follows:
(i) Currently operating demonstration projects shall submit to FNS for approval a plan no later than June 30, 1992, to satisfy the requirements of this regulation. The plan shall address the areas in which the State EBT demonstration project does not comply with the provisions of this rule and how the State agency plans to bring its system into compliance. The State agency shall submit a schedule of any actions it proposes to take and when they are to be completed. Compliance with the provisions of this final regulation shall occur within two years from the effective date unless approved by FNS to continue operations under the authority of section 17 of the Act (7 U.S.C. 2026) as a demonstration project. In seeking FNS approval to continue under Section 17 authority, the State agency shall state what research value would be obtained in continuing the demonstration.
(ii) For State agencies that have proposals or planning documents currently under review by the Department, the State agencies and the Department shall establish at what point the State agency is in the planning process and how the State agency will fit into the approval process of these rules. All such State agencies will be expected to comply with the standards of these rules.
(iii) A State agency that wishes to obtain approval for an EBT system shall submit a Planning Advanced Planning Document for FNS approval as prescribed herein.
(126)
Amendment No. 327.
(i) The statutory provision reflected in § 275.23(e)(6)(v) of Amendment No. 327 was effective October 1, 1985 pursuant to Public Law 100-435.
(ii) The remaining provisions are effective October 28, 1992.
(127)
Amendment No. 340.
(i) The provisions at § 273.7(d)(1)(i)(A) and § 273.7(d)(1)(i)(B) are effective retroactive to October 1, 1991.
(ii) The provision at § 273.7(c)(4)(viii) is effective and must be implemented by August 15, 1993, the date E
T plans must be submitted to FNS.
(iii) The provision at § 273.10(d)(1)(i) is effective January 19, 1993 and must be implemented by March 1, 1993.
(iv) The remaining provisions of Amendment No. 340 are effective and must be implemented retroactively to February 1, 1992.
(v) Any variances resulting from implementation of the provision at § 273.10(d)(1)(i) shall be excluded from error analysis for 90 days from the required implementation date in accordance with 7 CFR 273.12(d)(2)(vii).
(128)
Amendment No. 326.
The provisions of this amendment are effective and must be implemented no later than December 1, 1993. Any variance resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from quality control error analysis for 60 days from the required implementation date which shall be handled in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii).
(129)
Amendment No. 349.
The provisions of
Amendment No. 349
are effective, and shall be implemented, as follows:
(i) § 273.1(a)(2)(i)(C), § 273.1(a)(2)(i)(D) and § 273.10(f)(2) are effective as of October 1, 1987; § 273.2(i)(1) (iii) and (iv) are effective as of December 1, 1987; the new § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(G) is effective as of April 1, 1987. However, application of § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)G) in conjunction with the provisions at § 273.9 (c)(1)(ii) (A) through (F) and (c)(5)(i)(F) is effective as of the date the individual provisions at 7 CFR 273.9 (c)(1)(ii) (A) through (F) and (c)(5)(i)(F) became effective. Those dates are: § 273.9(c)(1)(ii) (A), (B), and (C), April 1, 1987; § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(D), October 20, 1987; § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(E), September 1, 1988, and § 273.9(c)(1)(ii)(F), August 1, 1991. The amendment to the first sentence of § 273.9(c)(1)(iv)(B) to include a regulatory reference to 7 CFR 273.9(c)(5)(i)(F) is effective as of August 1, 1991 (the date the individual provision at 7 CFR 273.9(c)(5)(i)(F) became
effective), and § 273.18(c)(2)(ii) is effective as of September 5, 1987. To the extent that these provisions represent new or different policy from that under which the State agency is currently operating, the State agency shall implement the provisions not later than April 1, 1994 for households newly applying for Program benefits on or after such implementation date. State agencies shall convert their affected current caseload to these provisions (except for § 273.18(c)(2)(ii)) at recertification, when the household requests a review of its case, or when the State agency otherwise becomes aware that a review is needed, whichever occurs first. To the extent that the provisions will result in restored benefits for affected households, such benefits shall be provided back to the effective date of the provision or the date of the household's first initial application, whichever occurs later;
(ii) The remaining provisions of
Amendment No. 349
adopt as final, without change, interim provisions published September 29, 1987 and are effective as of the date the corresponding interim provision became effective as established at 7 CFR 272.1(g)(93). These provisions and the effective dates are: § 271.2, definition of “Homeless individual,” July 22, 1987; § 272.5, July 22, 1987; § 273.9(a)(3), October 1, 1988; § 271.2, definition of “General assistance,” April 1, 1987; § 273.9(b)(2)(i), April 1, 1987; § 273.9(c)(1) (ii)(A), (ii)(B) and (ii)(C), April 1, 1987; § 273.9(d)(7)(i), October 1, 1987; § 273.9(d)(8)(i), October 1, 1987 (except for the last sentence, which is effective October 1, 1988). The provisions do not change policy or procedures under which State agencies are currently operating and, therefore, do not require specific implementation efforts by State agencies.
(130)
Amendment No. 342.
The provision relating to household election of repayment method for IPV claims at § 273.18(d)(4)(ii) is effective retroactive to November 28, 1990. The provision relating to household election of repayment method for IHE claims at § 273.18(d)(4)(i) is effective December 13, 1991. The provisions for State agency retention rates on claim collections at § 273.18(h)(2) and (i) are effective retroactive to October 1, 1990. The provisions at § 277.18 which reduce the enhanced funding level for ADP is effective October 1, 1991, for costs incurred on that date and thereafter and does not apply to ADP funding approved prior to November 28, 1990.
(131)
Amendment No. 347.
The provisions of this amendment are effective as specified in paragraphs (g)(131)(ii) (A), (B), and (C) of this section. State agencies are not required to do file searches for cases relating to PASS households unless the question on an income exclusion for PASS had been raised with the State agency prior to December 13, 1991.
(i) The provisions at §§ 271.2, 273.1, and 273.11 were effective and had to be implemented no later than February 1, 1992.
(ii) The provision at § 273.9(c)(17) is effective the earlier of:
(A) December 13, 1991, the date of enactment of Pub. L. 102-237;
(B) October 1, 1990, for SNAP households for which the State agency knew, or had notice, that a household member had a PASS; or
(C) Beginning on the date that a fair hearing was requested contesting the denial of an income exclusion for amounts provided for a PASS.
(132)
Amendment No. 316.
The provisions of this final rule that amend 7 CFR 273.2(b)(3), 273.2(c)(5), 273.2(f)(8)(i)(A) and (ii), and paragraph (11) of the “Elderly or disabled member” definition in 7 CFR 271.2 are effective as of May 6, 1994. The State agency shall implement the provisions not later than September 5, 1994 for all households newly applying for Program benefits on or after such implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first, and the State agency must provide restored benefits back to the required implementation date. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of application whichever is later. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be
excluded from error analysis for 90 days from this required implementation date in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii).
(133)
Amendment No. 352.
The provisions of this amendment are effective April 11, 1994.
(134)
Amendment No. 355.
The provisions of Amendment No. 355 are effective and must be implemented on August 1, 1994. Any variance resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from this required implementation date in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii) as modified by section 13951(c)(2) of Pub. L. 103-66. The provisions must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first, and the State agency must provide restored benefits back to the required implementation date. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of application, whichever is later.
(135)
Amendment No. 348.
The provisions of Amendment No. 348 are effective August 5, 1994 and must be implemented for all QC billing actions beginning with Fiscal Year 1986.
(136)
Amendment No. 346.
The provision of Amendment No. 346 regarding an income exclusion for homeless households living in transitional housing is effective and must be implemented no later than September 1, 1994. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from this required implementation date in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii). The provision must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at the household's request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. The State agency must provide restored benefits to such households back to the required implementation date or the date of application whichever is later. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of application, whichever is later.
(137)
Amendment No. 350.
The provisions of Amendment No. 350 are effective and must be implemented as follows:
(i) The provision at § 273.8(e)(12)(i) of this chapter is effective and must be implemented according to statute retroactive to January 1, 1991.
(ii) The provision at § 273.8(e)(12)(ii) of this chapter will be effective and must be implemented on September 1, 1994.
(iii) The provision at § 273.21(b) of this chapter against establishing new monthly reporting requirements for households residing on Indian reservations if no monthly reporting system was in place on March 25, 1994 is effective and must be implemented according to statute retroactive to March 25, 1994.
(iv) The provision in § 273.2(j) of this chapter concerning categorical eligibility for GA recipients is effective and must be implemented according to statute retroactive to February 1, 1992.
(v) The remaining provisions are effective and must be implemented October 28, 1994.
(138)
Amendment No. 359.
The provision of
Amendment No. 359
regarding the medical expense deduction is effective and must be implemented no later than October 1, 1994. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from this required implementation date in accordance with 275.12(d)(2)(vii) of this chapter. The provision must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date. State agencies must notify households eligible for the deduction of the change in medical deduction reporting requirements and the right of the household
to be converted to those new procedures immediately. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at the household's request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first.
(139)
Amendment No. 351.
The provisions of Amendment No. 351 to amend 7 CFR 273.7(d) are effective October 1, 1993. State agencies are not required to take any action to implement these provisions.
(140)
Amendment No. 333.
The provisions of Amendment No. 333 are effective and must be implemented as follows:
(i) The provisions relating to aggregated (combined) allotments to households applying after the 15th of the month and mail issuance in rural areas where households experience transportation difficulties in obtaining benefits are effective and must be implemented by statute retroactive to February 1, 1992.
(ii) The provision relating to staggered issuance on Indian reservations was in place on March 25, 1994, is effective and must be implemented according to statute retroactive to March 25, 1994.
(iii) The remaining provisions are effective and must be implemented September 1, 1995.
(141)
Amendment No. 360.
This provision is effective September 20, 1995, and must be implemented no later than the first day of the first month beginning December 19, 1995.
(142)
Amendment No. 357.
The provisions of Amendment No. 357 are effective and must be implemented as follows:
(i) The provision relating to the increased penalties at 7 CFR 273.16(b) is effective and must be implemented retroactive to September 1, 1994. This includes providing notification of the increased penalties on the application form.
(ii) The remaining provisions are effective and must be implemented October 23, 1995.
(143)
Amendment 367.
The provisions of Amendment 367 must be implemented no later than October 2, 1995 except that State agencies currently participating in the Federal Income Tax Refund Offset Program (FTROP) must implement section 272.2(d)(1)(xii), which relates to the submission of the Plan of Operations, within November 30, 1995.
(144)
Amendment No. (370).
The provisions of Amendment No. (370) are effective and must be implemented as follows:
(i) Sections 273.5(b)(1), (b)(4), and (b)(9) are effective February 1, 1992. The introductory paragraph of 273.5(b)(6) is effective February 1, 1992. The introductory paragraph of 273.5(b)(10) is effective February 1, 1992. Sections 273.5(b)(11)(ii), (b)(11)(iii), and (b)(11)(iv) are effective February 1, 1992.
(ii) Sections 273.5(b)(6)(i) and (b)(6)(ii) and sections 273.5(b)(10)(i) and (b)(10)(ii) and the remaining provisions of this regulation are effective November 1, 1995 and shall be implemented no later than February 1, 1996.
(iii) The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at the household's request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. The State agency shall provide restored benefits back to the effective date.
(iv) Any variance resulting from implementation of a provision in this rule shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from the required implementation date of that provision.
(145)
Amendment No. 369.
The provisions of
Amendment No. 369
are effective May 31, 1996. State agencies must implement no later than November 27, 1996. The provisions of this amendment are applicable for determinations of intentional failure to comply made on or after the effective date of the amendment.
(146)
Amendment No. 368.
The provisions of Amendment No. 368 are effective on July 29, 1996.
(147)
Amendment No. 364.
Except for the provisions of § 273.14(b)(2), the provisions of
Amendment No. 364
are effective November 18, 1996 and must be implemented no later than May 1, 1997. The effective date and implementation date of the provisions of § 273.14(b)(2) will be announced in a document in the
Federal Register.
The provisions must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after either the required implementation date or the date the
State agency implements the provision prior to the required implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions following implementation at the household's request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. The State agency must provide restored benefits to required implementation date or the date the State agency implemented the provision prior to the required implementation date. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement by the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of application whichever is later, but for no more than 12 months in accordance with § 273.17(a) of this chapter. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from this required implementation date in accordance with § 275.12(d)(2)(vii) of this chapter and 7 U.S.C. 2025(c)(3)(A).
(148)
Amendment No. 362.
The provision of section 13921 of Public Law 103-66 establishing a child support deduction was effective September 1, 1994, and was required to be implemented no later than October 1, 1995. The provisions of Amendment No. 362 are effective December 16, 1996 and must be implemented no later than May 1, 1997. State agencies shall implement the provisions no later than the required implementation date. The provisions must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after either the required implementation date or the date the State agency implemented the provision prior to the required implementation date, whichever is earlier. State agencies are required to adjust the cases of participating households at the next recertification, at household request, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever comes first. State agencies which fail to implement or adjust cases by the required implementation date shall provide restored benefits as appropriate. For quality control purposes, any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions are excluded from error analysis for 120 days from the required implementation date, in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii) and 7 U.S.C. 2025(c)(3)(A). State agencies which implement prior to the required implementation date must notify the appropriate regional office prior to implementation that they wish the variance exclusion period to begin with actual implementation, as provided in 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii)(A). Absent such notification, the exclusionary period will begin with the required implementation date.
(149)
Amendment No. 374.
The Higher Education Act Amendments of 1986, as amended in 1987, were effective and required to be implemented for the 1988-89 school year; the Perkins Act was effective and required to be implemented on July 1, 1991; the Mickey Leland Act (as amended by the 1991 Technical Amendments to the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008) was effective and required to be implemented on February 1, 1992, and the exclusions contained in the Higher Education Act Amendments of 1992 for the Tribal Development Student Assistance Revolving Loan Program were effective and required to be implemented on October 1, 1992, and for Title IV and BIA student assistance on July 1, 1993. The provisions of Amendment No. 374 are effective December 16, 1996 and must be implemented by March 1, 1997. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at the household's request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. If implementation of the acts referenced in this paragraph or this amendment is delayed, benefits shall be restored, as appropriate, in accordance with the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. Any variance resulting from implementation of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from March 1, 1997.
(150)
Amendment No. 365.
This provision is effective December 16, 1996 and must be implemented no later than March 1, 1997. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from this required implementation date in accordance with § 275.12(d)(2)(vii) of this chapter.
(151)
Amendment No. 375.
Public Law 103-66, the Mickey Leland Childhood Hunger Relief Act, was effective and required to be implemented on September 1, 1994. The provisions of Amendment No. 375 are effective December 16, 1996, and must be implemented by March 1, 1997. The State agency shall implement the provisions of this amendment no later than the appropriate required implementation date for all households newly applying for Program benefits on or after such implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at household request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first, and the State agency must provide restored benefits, as may be appropriate under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, back to the appropriate required implementation date. If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the appropriate implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the appropriate required implementation date or the date of application, whichever is later. Any variances resulting from implementation of this amendment shall be excluded from quality control error analysis for 120 days from March 1, 1997.
(152)
Amendment No. 361
The provisions of
Amendment No. 361
are effective December 26, 1996, and must be implemented May 27, 1997. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from this required implementation date in accordance with 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii). The provision must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after the required implementation date. The current caseload shall be converted to these provisions at the household's request, at the time of recertification, or when the case is next reviewed, whichever occurs first. The State agency must provide restored benefits to such households back to the required implementation date or the date of application whichever is later.
If for any reason a State agency fails to implement on the required implementation date, restored benefits shall be provided, if appropriate, back to the required implementation date or the date of application whichever is later, but for no more than 12 months in accordance with § 273.17(a) of this chapter.
(153)
Amendment No. 366.
(i) With the exception of the changes to § 275.3(c)(4) [Arbitration], § 275.23(e)(5) [State agencies' liabilities for payment error-Fiscal Year 1992 and beyond], § 275.23(e)(7) [Good Cause], and § 275.23(e)(9) [timeframes], all quality control changes that are made by Amendment No. 366 shall be implemented July 2, 1997.
(ii) The quality control changes to § 275.3(c)(4) [Arbitration], § 275.23(e)(5) [State agencies' liabilities for payment error-Fiscal Year 1992 and beyond], § 275.23(e)(7) [Good Cause], and § 275.23(e)(9) [Timeframes], shall be implemented after approval of the provisions at § 275.3(c)(4) [Arbitration], and § 275.23(e)(7) [Good Cause] by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995. FNS will publish a notice in the
Federal Register
announcing the implementation date. It shall be a date occurring after the publication date of the notice.
(154)
Amendment No. 386.
The provisions of Amendment No.386 are effective August 4, 2000. State agencies may begin implementing the rule August 4, 2000 but not later than January 2, 2001. State agencies that have already implemented EBT shall have one year in which to grandfather adjustment disclosure into their training materials according to 7 CFR 274.12(f)(10)(viii).
(155)
Amendment No. 373.
The provision at § 275.23(e)(5)(iii) is effective and is to be implemented on July 16, 1999. The following provisions are effective on October 1, 1999 and are to be implemented on October 1, 2000, with the start of the Fiscal Year 2001 quality control review period: § 271.2; § 275.3(c)(3)(ii); § 275.10(a); § 275.11(c)(1); § 275.11(e)(2); § 275.11(f)(2); § 275.13(a); § 275.13(b); § 275.13(c)(1); § 275.13(c)(2); § 275.13(f)(2) and § 275.23(c)(4). The remaining provisions of this rule are effective and are to be implemented October 1, 1999, with the start of the Fiscal Year 2000 quality control review period, which begins with the October 1999 sample month.
(156)
Amendment No. 379.
The provision of
Amendment No.
379 regarding the 15-percent exemption and additional funding for E
T is effective and must be implemented no later than November 2, 1999. Any variances resulting from implementation of the provisions of this amendment shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from this required implementation date in accordance with § 275.12(d)(2)(vii) of this chapter.
(157)
Amendment No. 381.
The provisions of Amendment 381 are implemented as follows:
(i) The definition of “Homeless individual” in § 271.2, and the amendments to § 273.1(b)(1)(ii), § 273.2(i)(3)(i) and (i)(3)(ii) were to be implemented August 22, 1996;
(ii) The amendments to § 273.8(f)(1) and § 273.10(e)(4)(ii) were to be implemented October 1, 1996;
(iii) The amendment to § 273.9(d)(8) was to be implemented January 1, 1997;
(iv) The amendments to § 273.1(b)(1)(iii) and § 273.8(e)(3)(i)(A) must be implemented no later than March 1, 2001; and
(v) All remaining amendments must be implemented no later than January 1, 2001.
(158)
Amendment No. 382.
The provisions of Amendment No.379 are effective and must be implemented March 30, 2000.
(159)
Amendment (385).
The provisions in § 277.11(d) regarding time limits for State agencies to file claims to amend a prior expenditure report to request retroactive funding for costs previously incurred are effective October 1, 2000. The conforming amendment to SNAP regulations in §§ 272.1(g), 272.2(c)(3), 272.11(d) and (e), 274.12(k), 277.4(b) and (g), 277.9(b), 277.18(b), (d), and (f), and 2 CFR part 200, subpart D and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 are effective June 23, 2000.
(160) Amendment 389. The Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Pub. L. 104-193, (PRWORA) set the date of enactment, August 1, 2000, as the effective date for the provisions of the law relating to recipient claims. These non-discretionary provisions of this rule are at § 273.18(c)(1)(ii)(B), § 273.18(f) and § 273.18(g) and are effective retroactive to August 1, 2000. The remaining amendments of this rule are effective and must be implemented no later than August 1, 2000.
(161)
Amendment No. 388
The provisions of Amendment No. 388 are implemented as follows:
(i) State agencies may implement the following amendments at their discretion at any time on or after the effective date: § 272.8; § 272.11(a); § 273.2(f)(9)(i); § 273.2(f)(10); § 273.2(j)(2)(ii); § 273.9(d)(6)(i); § 273.9(d)(6)(iii)(E); § 273.11(a)(3)(v); § 273.12(a)(1)(vii); § 273.25; and § 277.4(b).
(ii) State agencies may implement the following amendment at their discretion at any time after the effective date established by OMB approval of the associated information collection burden: § 273.12(f)(4).
(iii) State agencies must implement the following amendments no later than 180 days after the effective date established by OMB approval of the associated information collection burden for all households newly applying for Program benefits: § 273.2(c)(2)(i), § 273.2(e)(1), § 273.2(e)(2)(i), § 273.2(e)(2)(ii), § 273.2(e)(3), § 273.4(c)(3)(iv); and § 273.12(c)(3). State agencies must convert current caseloads no later than the next recertification following the implementation date.
(iv) State agencies must implement the amendment to § 273.2(b)(4)(iv) no later than August 1, 2001, for all households newly applying for Program benefits.
(v) State agencies must implement all remaining amendments no later than June 1, 2001, for all households newly applying for Program benefits. State agencies must convert current caseloads no later than the next recertification following the implementation date.
(vi) Acting under policy guidance the Department issued previous to the publication of this final rule, several State agencies that have identified programs to confer categorical eligibility for SNAP benefits that do not meet the criteria established at §§ 273.2(j)(2)(i)(B), 273.2(j)(2)(i)(C), 273.2(j)(2)(ii)(A), or 273.2(j)(2)(ii)(B) of this chapter. Any such State agency may continue to use these programs to
confer categorical eligibility for SNAP purposes until September 30, 2001.
(vii) A State agency which first implements option 1 under 7 CFR 273.11(c)(3)(ii), and then decides at a later date to implement option 2 under that same paragraph is entitled to a second variance exclusion period under 7 CFR 275.12(d)(2)(vii).
(162)
Amendment No. 384.
The provisions of Amendment No. 384 are effective September 14, 2000, and must be implemented as follows:
(i) Any new contract executed after October 16, 2000, must have provisions for interoperability and portability which include an implementation date for this functionality no later than October 1, 2002, except under the following circumstances:
(A) State agencies with contracts entered into before October 16, 2000, are not required to re-negotiate their EBT services contract to include interoperability and portability, even if the contract expires after the October 1, 2002 deadline; such State agencies are exempt from the interoperability requirement until they re-negotiate or re-procure their EBT contract.
(B) Smart Card systems are not required to be interoperable with other State EBT systems until such time that the Department determines a practicable technological method is available for interoperability with on-line EBT systems.
(ii) Enhanced funding is available for interoperability costs incurred after February 11, 2000, and before October 1, 2002, for State agencies which have implemented standards of interoperability and portability adopted by a majority of State agencies, and for such costs incurred after September 1, 2002, for State agencies that have adopted standards for interoperability and portability in accordance with this regulation at 7 CFR 274.12.
(163) [Reserved]
(164)
Amendment No. 390.
The provisions of Amendment No. 390 are effective November 3, 2000. State agencies may implement the provisions anytime after the effective date. However, Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) systems must be in place statewide no later than October 1, 2002, as required by the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996.
(165)
Amendment No. 387
—This rule is effective no later than {insert the first day of the month 60 days after publication of the final rule, except for the amendment to 7 CFR 272.2(d)(1)(xiii) which is effective August 1, 2001. State agencies must implement the provisions in this final rule no later than August 1, 2001.
(166)
Amendment No. 393.
The provisions of Amendment No. 393, regarding the Work Provisions of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 are effective August 19, 2002.
(167)
Amendment No. 376.
The provisions of Amendment No. 376 are effective May 29, 2003 and must be implemented no later than November 1, 2003. The provisions must be implemented for all households that newly apply for Program benefits on or after either the required implementation date or the date the State agency implements the provision prior to the required implementation date. The current change reporting caseload shall be converted to these provisions no later than the required implementation date in accordance with procedures established by the State agency. However, for households subject to the reporting requirements at § 273.12(a)(1)(i)(C)(
1
) or (
2
) of this chapter, the State agency has until January 1, 2004 to convert households to 6 month certification periods. Monthly reporting households shall be converted in accordance with § 273.21(r) of this chapter. For quality control purposes, any variances resulting from the implementation of this rule shall be excluded from error analysis for 120 days from the required implementation date, in accordance with § 275.12(d)(2)(vii) of this chapter.
(168)
Amendment No. 394.
The interim and final provisions of Amendment No. 394 are effective May 11, 2005. State agencies may implement the provisions anytime after May 11, 2005 but no later than October 11, 2005.
(169)
Amendment No. 395.
The provisions of Amendment 395 are effective December 15, 2003.
(170)
Amendment No. 396.
The provisions of amendment number 396 are effective April 8, 2005.
(171)
Amendment No. 397.
The provisions of Amendment No. 397 are effective January 4, 2006. State agencies may implement the provisions anytime after the rule is published but no later than June 5, 2006.
(172) Amendment No. 400. The provisions of Amendment No. 400, regarding the Employment and Training Program Provisions of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 are effective August 8, 2006.
(173)
Amendment No. 401.
The provisions of Amendment No. 401 are implemented as follows:
(i) The following amendments were to be implemented October 1, 2002: 7 CFR 273.4(a)(6)(ii)(H), 7 CFR 273.8(b), and 7 CFR 273.9(d)(1).
(ii) The following amendments were to be implemented April 1, 2003: 7 CFR 273.4(a)(6)(ii)(B) through 7 CFR 273.4(a)(6)(ii)(F) and 273.4(a)(6)(iii).
(iii) The following amendments were to be implemented October 1, 2003: 7 CFR 273.4 (a)(6)(ii)(J); 7 CFR 273.4(c)(3)(vi).
(iv) State agencies must implement the following amendments no later than August 1, 2010: 7 CFR 273.4(c)(2)(v), 7 CFR 273.4(c)(3)(iv), 7 CFR 273.4(c)(3)(vii), 7 CFR 273.9(b)(1)(vi), and 7 CFR 273.9(c)(3)(ii)(A).
(v) State agencies may implement all other amendments on or after the effective date.
(vi) State agencies that implemented discretionary provisions, either under existing regulations or policy guidance issued by the Department, prior to the publication of this final rule have until August 1, 2010 to amend their policies to conform to the final rule requirements.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47884, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 272.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 272.2
Plan of operation.
(a)
General purpose and content
—(1)
Purpose.
State agencies shall periodically plan and budget program operations and establish objectives. When planning and budgeting for program operations for the next year, State agencies shall consider major corrective action objectives, existing program strengths and deficiencies, and other factors anticipated to impact on the operation of the State's SNAP and on projected expenditures.
(2)
Content.
The basic components of the State Plan of Operation are the Federal/State Agreement, the Budget Projection Statement, and the Program Activity Statement. In addition, certain attachments to the Plan are specified in this section and in § 272.3. The requirements for the basic components and attachments are specified in § 272.2(c) and § 272.2(d) respectively. The Federal/State Agreement is the legal agreement between the State and the Department of Agriculture. This Agreement is the means by which the State elects to operate SNAP and to administer the program in accordance with the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, regulations issued pursuant to the Act and the FNS-approved State Plan of Operation. The Budget Projection Statement and Program Activity Statement provide information on the number of actions and amounts budgeted for various functional areas such as certification and issuance. The Plan's attachments include the Quality Control Sample Plan, the Disaster Plan (currently reserved), the Employment and Training Plan, the optional Nutrition Education Plan, the optional plan for Program informational activities directed to low-income households, the optional plan for intercepting Unemployment Compensation (UC) benefits for collecting claims for intentional Program violations, the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Plan, and the plan for the State Income and Eligibility Verification System. The State agency shall either include the Workfare Plan in its State Plan of Operation or append the Workfare Plan to the State Plan of Operation, as appropriate, in accordance with § 273.22(b)(3) of this chapter. The Workfare Plan shall be submitted separately, in accordance with § 273.22(b)(1) of this chapter. The ADP/CIS Plan is considered part of the State Plan of Operation but is submitted separately as prescribed under § 272.2(e)(8). State agencies and/or political subdivisions
selected to operate a Simplified Application/Standardized Benefit Project shall include that Project's Work Plan in the State Plan of Operation. The Plan's attachments shall also include the Mail Issuance Loss Reporting Level Plan.
(b)
Federal/State Agreement.
(1) The wording of the Federal/State Agreement is as follows:
The SNAP State agency of ______ and the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), hereby agree to act in accordance with the provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, implementing regulations and the FNS approved State Plan of Operation. The State agency and FNS USDA further agree to fully comply with any changes in Federal law and regulations. This agreement may be modified with the mutual written consent of both parties.

# Provisions
The State agrees to:
1. Administer the program in accordance with the provisions contained in the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, and in the manner prescribed by regulations issued pursuant to the Act; and to implement the FNS-approved State Plan of Operation.
2. Assurance of Civil Rights Compliance: Comply with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d
et seq.
), Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972 (20 U.S.C. 1681
et seq.
), Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101
et seq.
), section 11(c) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2020), Title II and Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990 as amended by the ADA Amendments Act of 2008 (42 U.S.C. 12131-12189) as implemented by Department of Justice regulations at 28 CFR part 35 and 36, Executive Order 13166, “Improving Access to Services for Persons with Limited English Proficiency” (August 11, 2000), and all requirements imposed by the regulations issued by the Department of Agriculture to the effect that, no person in the United States shall, on the grounds of sex, including gender identity and sexual orientation, race, color, age, political belief, religious creed, disability, or national origin, be excluded from participation in, be denied the benefits of, or be otherwise subject to discrimination under SNAP. This includes program-specific requirements found at 7 CFR part 15
et seq.
and 7 CFR 272.6.
This assurance is given in consideration of and for the purpose of obtaining any and all Federal assistance extended to the State by USDA under the authority of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended. Federal financial assistance includes grants, and loans of Federal funds; reimbursable expenditures, grants, or donations of Federal property and interest in property; the detail of Federal personnel; the sale, lease of, or permission to use Federal property or interest in such property; the furnishing of services without consideration, or at a nominal consideration, or at a consideration that is reduced for the purpose of assisting the recipient or in recognition of the public interest to be served by such sale, lease, or furnishing of services to the recipient; or any improvements made with Federal financial assistance extended to the State by USDA. This assistance also includes any Federal agreement, arrangement, or other contract that has as one of its purposes the provision of cash assistance for the purchase of food, cash assistance for purchase or rental of food service equipment or any other financial assistance extended in reliance on the representations and agreements made in this assurance.
By accepting this assurance, the State agency agrees to compile data, maintain records, and submit records and reports as required, to permit effective enforcement of nondiscrimination laws and permit authorized USDA personnel during hours of program operation to review and copy such records, books, and accounts, access such facilities and interview such personnel as needed to ascertain compliance with the nondiscrimination laws. If there are any violations of this assurance, USDA, FNS, shall have the right to seek judicial enforcement of this assurance. This assurance is binding on the State agency, its successors, transferees and assignees as long as it
receives assistance or retains possession of any assistance from USDA. The person or persons whose signatures appear below are authorized to sign this assurance on behalf of the State agency.
3. (For States with Indian Reservations only). Implement the Program in a manner that is responsive to the special needs of American Indians on reservations and consult in good faith with tribal organizations about that portion of the State's Plan of Operation pertaining to the implementation of the Program for members of the tribe on reservations.
4. FNS agrees to: 1. Pay administrative costs in accordance with the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, implementing regulations, and an approved Cost Allocation Plan.
2. Carry out any other responsibilities delegated by the Secretary in the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended.
Date
Signature

# (Chief Executive Officer of a State or Authorized Designee)
Date
Signature

# (Regional Administrator, FNS)
(2) The State agency may propose alternative language to any or all the provisions listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The alternative language is subject to approval by both parties before signature.
(c)
Budget Projection Statement and Program Activity Statement.
(1) The State agency shall submit to FNS for approval a Budget Projection Statement and Program Activity Statement in accordance with the submittal dates in § 272.2(e).
(i) The Budget Projection Statement solicits projections of the total costs for major areas of program operations. The Budget Projection Statement shall be submitted annually and updated as necessary through the year. The Budget Projection Statement shall contain projections for each quarter of the next Federal fiscal year. The State agency shall submit with the Budget Projection Statement a narrative justification documenting and explaining the assumptions used to arrive at the projections. The narrative shall cover such subjects as: The number and salary level of employees; other factors affecting personnel costs including anticipated increases in pay rates or benefits, and reallocations of staff among units or functions, insofar as these might result in cost increases or decreases; costs for purchasing, leasing, and maintaining equipment and space, especially as concerns any upcoming, one-time-only purchases of new capital assets such as ADP equipment, renegotiation of leases, changes in depreciation rates or procedures, relocation of offices, maintenance and renovation work, and inflation; issuance system costs, including renegotiation of issuing agent fees and plans to change issuance systems; changes in caseload and factors contributing to increases or decreases in the number of participants; recertifications, including the anticipated impact of economic conditions (and in particular unemployment) and seasonality; cost implications of corrective action plans; anticipated changes in program regulations and operating guidelines and instructions; training needs; travel costs; and adjustments in insurance premiums. The narrative should cover as many of the items listed above, and any other items deemed relevant by the State agency, that will have a significant impact on costs. The State agency is not required to discuss every item in the list in every submission of a Budget Projection Statement. The narrative should concentrate on items that account for increases or decreases in costs from the preceding submissions.
(ii) The Program Activity Statement, to be submitted quarterly (unless otherwise directed by FNS), solicits a summary of Program activity for the State agency's operations during the preceding reporting period.
(2) The organizational outline submitted in 1982 as an attachment to the Program Activity Statement shall be considered the basic outline. Henceforth, changes to this outline shall be provided to FNS as they occur. The outline contains the following information:
(i) The position of the head of the State agency responsible for administering SNAP in relation to the overall State organizational structure, i.e., the Program Director in relation to the Commissioner of Welfare;
(ii) A description of the organizational structure through which the State agency will administer and operate SNAP, including whether the Program is State, county, locally, or regionally-administered; whether the workers have single SNAP or multi-program functions; and the title and position of the individual or panel designated as the hearing authority and whether officials conduct both fair and fraud hearings.
(iii) A description of the funding arrangement by which State, county, and local jurisdictions will contribute to the State agency portion of administrative costs;
(iv) The position within the State organizational structure of the Performance Reporting System (PRS) coordinator, including whether the PRS coordinator is full or part-time, and is responsible for direct supervision over Quality Control or Management Evaluation or if these functions are handled separately, and whether quality control reviewers have single SNAP or multi-program review responsibilities;
(v) The position of the training coordinator and whether this is a full or part-time position; and
(vi) The organizational entity responsible for corrective action.
(3)
Additional attachments.
Attached for informational purposes (not subject to approval as part of the plan submission procedures) to the Program Activity Statement and submitted as required in paragraph (e)(3) of this section shall be the agreements between the State agency and the United States Postal Service for coupon issuance, and between the State agency and the Social Security Administration for supplemental income/SNAP joint application processing and for routine user status.
(d)
Planning documents.
(1) The following planning documents shall be submitted:
(i) Quality Control Sampling Plan as required by § 275.11(a)(4);
(ii) Disaster Plan as required by § 280.6 (currently reserved), or certification that a previously submitted Disaster Plan has been reviewed and remains current;
(iii) Nutrition Education Plan if the State agency elects to request Federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Education (SNAP-Ed) grant funds to conduct nutrition education and obesity prevention services as discussed in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(iv) A plan for the State Income and Eligibility Verification System required by § 272.8.
(v) Employment and Training Plan as required in § 273.7 (c)(6).
(vi) ADP/CIS Plan as required by § 272.10.
(vii) A plan for the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program as required by § 272.11(e).
(viii) Mail Issuance Loss Reporting Level Plan required by § 276.2(b)(4), for the State agency using mail issuance, shall contain the unit level of reporting mail issuance losses for the upcoming fiscal year as elected by the State agency. If a State agency does not revise its Plan by August 15 in any given year, FNS shall continue to require reporting and to assess liabilities for the next fiscal year at the level last indicated by the State agency. If the agency has selected the unit provided for in § 276.2(b)(4)(ii), a listing of the issuance sites or counties comprising each administrative unit within the State agency shall also be included in the Plan.
(ix) A plan for Program informational activities as specified in § 272.5(c).
(x) Claims Management Plan as required by § 273.18(a)(3) to be submitted for informational purposes only; not subject to approval as part of the plan submission procedures under paragraph (e) of this section.
(xi)-(xii) [Reserved]
(xiii) If the State agency chooses to implement the optional provisions specified in (273.11(k), (l), (o), (p), and (q) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment the options it selected, the guidelines it will use, and
any good cause criteria under paragraph (o). For § 273.11(k) of this chapter, the State agency must identify which sanctions in the other programs this provision applies to. The State agency must also include in the plan a description of the safeguards it will use to restrict the use of information it collects in implementing the optional provision contained in § 273.11(p) of this chapter.
(xiv) The State agency's disqualification plan, in accordance with § 273.7(f)(3) of this chapter.
(xv) If the State agency chooses to implement the provisions for a work supplementation or support program, the work supplementation or support program plan, in accordance with § 273.7(l)(1) of this chapter.
(xvi) If the State agency chooses to implement the optional provisions specified in:
(A) Section 273.2(c)(7)(viii) and 273.2(c)(7)(ix) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment the option to accept telephonic signatures and gestured signatures on the application and reapplication forms (other than for households the State may be required to accept such signatures as a reasonable accommodation under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act or in compliance with other civil rights laws) and a description of the procedures being pursued under the provision;
(B) Sections 273.2(e)(2) and 273.14(b)(3) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment the option to provide telephone interviews in lieu of face-to-face interviews at initial application and reapplication for households other than those that meet the hardship criteria and a description of the procedures being pursued under the provision;
(C) Sections 273.2(f)(1)(xii), 273.2(f)(8)(i)(A), 273.9(d)(5), 273.9(d)(6)(i) and 273.12(a)(4) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment the options it has selected;
(D) Section 273.5(b)(5) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment the option to average student work hours and a description of how student work hours will be calculated;
(E) Section 273.8(e)(19) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment a statement that the option has been selected and a description of the resources being excluded under the provision;
(F) Section 273.9(c)(3) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment a statement that the option has been selected and a description of the types of educational assistance being excluded under the provision;
(G) Sections 273.9(c)(18) and 273.9(c)(19) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment a statement of the options selected and a description of the types of payments or the types of income being excluded under the provisions;
(H) Section 273.12(a)(5) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment a statement that the option has been selected and a description of the types of households to whom the option applies;
(I) Section 273.12(c) of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment a statement that the option has been selected and a description of the deductions affected; and
(J) Section 273.26 of this chapter, it must include in the Plan's attachment a statement that transitional SNAP benefits are available and a description of the eligible cash-assistance programs by which households may qualify for transitional benefits; if one of the eligible programs includes a State-funded cash assistance program; whether household participation in that program runs concurrently, sequentially, or alternatively to TANF; the categories of households eligible for such benefits; the maximum number of months for which transitional benefits will be provided.
(xvii) A plan indicating the definition of fleeing felon the State agency has adopted, as provided for in § 273.11(n).
(xviii) A list indicating the names of gaming entities with which the State agency has entered into cooperative agreements and the frequency of data matches with such entities.
(2)
Nutrition Education Plan.
If submitted, the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program Education (SNAP-Ed) Plan must include the following:
(i) Conform to standards established in this regulation, SNAP-Ed Plan Guidance, and other FNS policy. A State
agency may propose to implement an annual or multiyear Plan of up to three years;
(ii) Identify the methods the State will use to notify applicants, participants and eligible individuals to the maximum extent possible of the availability of SNAP-Ed activities in local communities;
(iii) Describe methods the State agency will use to identify its target audience. FNS will consider for approval targeting strategies and supporting data sources included in SNAP-Ed Plan Guidance and alternate targeting strategies and supporting data sources proposed by State agencies;
(iv) Present a valid and data-driven needs assessment of the nutrition, physical activity, and obesity prevention needs of the target population, and their barriers to accessing healthy foods and physical activity. The needs assessment should consider the diverse characteristics of the target population, including race/ethnicity, gender, employment status, housing, language, transportation/mobility needs, and other factors;
(v) Ensure interventions are appropriate for the low-income population defined as SNAP participants and low-income individuals eligible to receive benefits under SNAP or other means-tested Federal assistance programs and individuals residing in communities with a significant low-income population. The interventions must recognize the population's constrained resources and potential eligibility for Federal food assistance;
(vi) Describe the evidence-based nutrition education and obesity prevention services that the State will provide in SNAP-Ed and how the State will deliver those services, either directly or through agreements with other State or local agencies or community organizations, and how the interventions and strategies meet the assessed nutrition, physical activity, and obesity prevention needs of the target population;
(vii)
Use of Funds.
(A) A State agency must use the SNAP-Ed nutrition education and obesity prevention grant to fund the administrative costs of planning, implementing, operating, and evaluating its SNAP-Ed program in accordance with its approved SNAP-Ed Plan; State agencies shall provide program oversight to ensure integrity of funds and demonstrate program effectiveness regarding SNAP-Ed outcomes and impacts;
(B)
Definitions.
SNAP nutrition education and obesity prevention services are defined as a combination of educational strategies, accompanied by supporting environmental interventions, demonstrated to facilitate adoption of food and physical activity choices and other nutrition-related behaviors conducive to the health and well-being of SNAP participants and low-income individuals eligible to receive benefits under SNAP or other means-tested Federal assistance programs and individuals residing in communities with a significant low-income population. Nutrition education and obesity prevention services are delivered through multiple venues, often through partnerships, and involve activities at the individual, interpersonal, community, and societal levels. Acceptable policy level interventions are activities that encourage healthier choices based on the current Dietary Guidelines for Americans. Intervention strategies may focus on increasing consumption of certain foods, beverages, or nutrients as well as limiting consumption of certain foods, beverages, or nutrients consistent with the Dietary Guidelines for Americans;SNAP-Ed nutrition education and obesity prevention activities must be evidence-based. An evidence-based approach for nutrition education and obesity prevention is defined as the integration of the best research evidence with best available practice-based evidence. The best research evidence refers to relevant rigorous nutrition and public health nutrition research including systematically reviewed scientific evidence. Practice-based evidence refers to case studies, pilot studies and evidence from the field on nutrition education interventions that demonstrate obesity prevention potential. Evidence may be related to obesity prevention target areas, intervention strategies and/or specific interventions. The target areas are identified in the current Dietary Guidelines for Americans. SNAP-Ed
services may also include emerging strategies or interventions, which are community- or practitioner-driven activities that have the potential for obesity prevention, but have not yet been formally evaluated for obesity prevention outcomes. Emerging strategies or interventions require a justification for a novel approach and must be evaluated for effectiveness. Intervention strategies are broad approaches to intervening on specific target areas. Interventions are a specific set of evidence-based, behaviorally-focused activities and/or actions to promote healthy eating and active lifestyles. Evidence-based allowable uses of funds for SNAP-Ed include conducting and evaluating intervention programs, and implementing and measuring the effects of policy, systems and environmental changes in accordance with SNAP-Ed Plan Guidance;
(C) SNAP-Ed activities must promote healthy food and physical activity choices based on the most recent Dietary Guidelines for Americans.
(D) SNAP-Ed activities must include evidence-based activities using two or more of these approaches: individual or group-based nutrition education, health promotion, and intervention strategies; comprehensive, multi-level interventions at multiple complementary organizational and institutional levels; community and public health approaches to improve nutrition and physical activity;
(viii) Include a description of the State's efforts to coordinate activities with national, State, and local nutrition education, obesity prevention, and health promotion initiatives and interventions, whether publicly or privately funded. States must consult and coordinate with State and local operators of other FNS programs, including the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), the National School Lunch Program, Farm to School, and the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, to ensure SNAP-Ed complements the nutrition education and obesity prevention activities of those programs. States may engage in breastfeeding education, promotion, and support that is supplementary to and coordinated with WIC, which has the lead and primary role in all breastfeeding activities among FNS programs. The relationship between the State agency and other organizations it plans to coordinate with for the provision of services, including statewide organizations must be described. Copies of contracts and Memoranda of Agreement or Understanding that involve funds made available under the State agency's Federal SNAP-Ed grant must be available for inspection upon request;
(ix) Include an operating budget for the Federal fiscal year with an estimate of the cost of operation for one or more years, according to the State's approved SNAP-Ed Plan. As part of the budget process, the State must inform FNS by the end of the first quarter of each Federal fiscal year (December 31) of any portion of its prior year allocation that it cannot or does not plan to spend for SNAP-Ed activities by the end of the Federal fiscal year.
(x)
Federal financial participation and allocation of grants.
(A) A State agency's receipt of a Federal SNAP-Ed grant is contingent on FNS' approval of the State agency's SNAP-Ed Plan. If an adequate Plan is not submitted or an extension granted, FNS may reallocate a State agency's grant among other State agencies with approved Plans. These funds are the only source of Federal funds to States available under section 28 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, for SNAP nutrition education and obesity prevention services. Funds in excess of the grants are not eligible for SNAP Federal reimbursement. The grant requires no State contribution or match;
(B) Shall identify the uses of funding for State or local projects and show that the funding received shall remain under the administrative control of the State agency;
(C) For each of fiscal years (FY) 2011-2013, each State agency that submitted an approved 2009 SNAP-Ed Plan received a Federal grant based on the State's SNAP-Ed expenditures in FY 2009, as reported to the Secretary in February 2010, in proportion to FY 2009 SNAP-Ed expenditures by all States in that year.
(D) For FY 2014 and subsequent years, the allocation formula (prescribed insection 28(d)(2)(A) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008) is based on a ratio of:
(
1
) A State's share of national SNAP-Ed expenditures in FY 2009 in relation to State SNAP-Ed expenditures nationally (as described in paragraph (d)(2)(x)(C) of this section) and
(
2
) The percentage of the number of individuals participating in SNAP in the State during the preceding fiscal year in relation to the percentage of SNAP participation nationally during that year.
(E) The second part of the formula applicable to FY 2014 and subsequent years, the ratio of SNAP participation in a State in relation to SNAP participation nationally, will annually increase as a percentage of the annual Federal SNAP-Ed funding. In FY 2014, the formula's ratio of State FY 2009 SNAP-Ed expenditures to SNAP participation was 90/10. SNAP participation will increase as a factor in the funding formula until FY 2018, when the ratio will be 50/50. The 50/50 ratio shall continue after FY 2018.
The allocations to a State for SNAP-Ed grants will be:
(
1
) For FY 2013, in direct proportion to a State's SNAP-Ed expenditures for FY 2009, as reported in February 2010;
(
2
) For FY 2014, 90 percent based on a State's FY 2009 SNAP-Ed expenditures, and 10 percent based on the State's share of national SNAP participants for the 12-month period February 1, 2012 to January 31, 2013;
(
3
) For FY 2015, 80 percent based on a State's FY 2009 SNAP-Ed expenditures, and 20 percent based on the State's share of national SNAP participants for the 12-month period February 1, 2013 to January 31, 2014;
(
4
) For FY 2016, 70 percent based on a State's FY 2009 SNAP-Ed expenditures, and 30 percent based on the State's share of national SNAP participants for the 12-month period February 1, 2014 to January 31, 2015;
(
5
) For FY 2017, 60 percent based on a State's FY 2009 SNAP-Ed expenditures, and 40 percent based on the State's share of national SNAP participants for the 12-month period February 1, 2015 to January 31, 2016; and,
(
6
) For FY 2018 and subsequent years, 50 percent based on a State's FY 2009 SNAP-Ed expenditures, and 50 percent based on the State's share of national SNAP participants for the previous 12-month period ending January 31;
(F) If a participating State agency notifies FNS as required in (ix) above that it will not obligate or expend all of the funds allocated to it for a fiscal year under this section, FNS may reallocate the unobligated or unexpended funds to other participating State agencies that have approved SNAP-Ed Plans during the period for which the funding is available for new obligations by FNS. Reallocated funds received by a State will be considered part of its base FY 2009 allocation for the purpose of determining the State's allocation for the next fiscal year; funds surrendered by a State shall not be considered part of its base FY 2009 allocation for the next fiscal year for the purpose of determining the State's allocation for the next fiscal year.
(xi) Fiscal recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Each participating State agency must meet FNS fiscal recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Total SNAP-Ed expenditures and State, private, and other contributions to SNAP-Ed activities are reported through the financial reporting means and in the timeframe designated by FNS;
(xii) Additional information may be required of the State agency, on an as needed basis, regarding the type of nutrition education and obesity prevention activities offered and the characteristics of the target population served, depending on the contents of the State's SNAP-Ed Plan, to determine whether nutrition education goals are being met;
(xiii) The State agency must submit a SNAP-Ed Annual Report to FNS by January 31 of each year. The report shall describe SNAP-Ed Plan project activities, outcomes, and budget for the prior year.
(e)
Submittal requirements.
States shall submit to the appropriate FNS Regional Office for approval each of the components of the Plan of Operation for approval within the timeframes established by this paragraph. Approval or denial of the document
may be withheld pending review by FNS. However, if FNS fails to either approve, deny, or request additional information within 30 days, the document is approved. If additional information is requested, the State agency shall provide this as soon as possible, and FNS shall approve or deny the Plan within 30 days after receiving the information.
(1) The Federal/State agreement shall be signed by the Governor of the State or authorized designee and shall be submitted to FNS within 120 days after publication of these regulations in final form and shall remain in effect until terminated.
(2) The Budget Projection Statement and Program Activity Statement shall be signed by the head of the State agency or its chief financial officer and submitted as follows:
(i) The Budget Projection Statement shall be submitted annually, no later than August 15 of each year.
(ii) The Program Activity Statement shall be submitted quarterly (unless otherwise directed by FNS) based on the Federal fiscal year.
(3) Changes to the organizational outline required by § 272.2(c)(2) and the agreements with other agencies outlined in § 272.2(c)(3)(ii) shall be provided to FNS as changes occur. The attachments outlined in § 272.2(c)(3)(i) shall be submitted annually with the Program Activity Statement.
(4) The Quality Control Sampling Plan shall be signed by the head of the State agency and submitted to FNS prior to implementation as follows:
(i) According to the timeframes specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, prior to each annual review period each State agency shall submit any changes in their sampling plan for FNS approval or submit a statement that there are no such changes. These submittals shall include the statement required by § 275.11(a)(2), if appropriate. The Quality Control Sampling Plan in effect for each State agency as of the beginning of Fiscal Year 1984 shall be considered submitted and approved for purposes of this section, provided that the State agency has obtained prior FNS approval of its sampling plan.
(ii) Initial submissions of and major changes to sampling plans and changes in sampling plans resulting from general changes in procedure shall be submitted to FNS for approval at least 60 days prior to implementation. Minor changes to approved sampling plans shall be submitted at least 30 days prior to implementation.
(5)
Disaster Plan.
[Reserved]
(6) The SNAP-Ed Plan shall be signed by the head of the State agency and submitted prior to funding of nutrition education and obesity prevention activities when the State agency elects to request Federal grant funds to conduct these SNAP-Ed activities. The Plan shall be submitted for approval no later than August 15. Approved plans become effective the following FFY October 1 to September 30.
(7) Where applicable, State agencies shall consult (on an ongoing basis) with the tribal organization of an Indian reservation about those portions of the State Plan of Operation pertaining to the special needs of the members of the tribe.
(8)
ADP/CIS Plan.
The ADP/CIS Plan shall be signed by the head of the State agency and submitted to FNS by October 1, 1987. State agencies which require additional time to complete their ADP/CIS plan may submit their plan in two phases as described in § 272.10(a)(2), with the first part of the plan being submitted October 1, 1987. State agencies requiring additional time shall submit the second part of their plans by January 1, 1988. If FNS requests additional information to be provided in the State agency ADP/CIS Plan or if FNS requests that changes be made in the State agency ADP/CIS Plan, State agencies must comply with FNS comments and submit an approvable ADP/CIS Plan within 60 days of their receipt of the FNS comments but in no event later than March 1, 1988. Requirements for the ADP/CIS plan are specified in § 272.10.
(9) The Employment and Training Plan shall be submitted as specified under § 273.7(c)(8).
(f)
Revisions.
Revisions to any of the planning documents or the Program and Budget Summary Statement shall be prepared and submitted for approval to the appropriate FNS Regional Office in the same manner as the original document. However, revisions to the
budget portion of the Budget Projection Statement and Program Activity Statement shall be submitted as follows:
(1)
Program funds.
(i) For program funds, State agencies shall request prior approvals promptly from FNS for budget revisions whenever:
(A) The revision indicates the need for additional Federal funding;
(B) The program budget exceeds $100,000, and the cumulative amount of transfers among program functions exceeds or is expected to exceed five percent of the program budget. The same criteria apply to the cumulative amount of transfers among functions and activities when budgeted separately for program funds provided to a subagency, except that FNS shall permit no transfer which would cause any Federal appropriation, or part thereof, to be used for purposes other than those intended;
(C) The revisions involve the transfer of amounts budgeted for indirect costs to absorb increases in direct costs; or
(D) The revisions pertain to the addition of items requiring prior approval by FNS in accordance with the provisions of the applicable cost principles specified 2 CFR part 200, subpart E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(ii) No other changes to the Program fund budget require approval from FNS. Examples of changes which do not require Federal approval are: The use of State agency funds to accomplish program objectives over and above the State agency minimum share included in the approved Program budget; and the transfer of amounts budgeted for direct costs to absorb authorized increases in indirect costs.
(iii) The requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(i)(B) of this section may be waived by FNS provided that:
(A) No different limitation or approval requirement may be imposed; and,
(B) FNS shall not permit a transfer which would cause any Federal appropriation, or part, thereof, to be used for purpose other than those intended.
(2)
Authorized funds exceeding State agency needs.
When it becomes apparent that the funds authorized by the Letter of Credit will exceed the needs of the State agency, FNS will make appropriate adjustments in the Letter of Credit in accordance with part 277.
(3)
Method of requesting approvals.
When requesting approval for budget revisions, State agencies shall use the same format as the Budget Projection Statement used in the previous submission. However, State agencies may request by letter the approvals required by paragraph (f)(1)(i)(D) of this section.
(4)
Notification of approval or disapproval.
Within 30 days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, FNS shall review the request and notify the State agency whether or not the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 days, FNS shall inform the State agency in writing as to when the decision will be made.
[Amdt. 156, 46 FR 6315, Jan. 21, 1981]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 272.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 272.3
Operating guidelines and forms.
(a)
Coverage of operating guidelines.
State agencies shall prepare and provide to staff responsible for administering the Program written operating procedures. In those States which have State regulations that outline these Operating Procedures, these are equivalent to Operating Guidelines. Other examples of Operating Guidelines are manuals, instructions, directives or transmittal memos. The following categories shall be included in the Operating Guidelines:
(1) Certification of households, including but not limited to:
(i) Application processing;
(ii) Nonfinancial eligibility standards;
(iii) Financial criteria and the eligibility determination;
(iv) Actions resulting from eligibility determinations;
(v) Determining eligibility of special situation households as specified in § 273.11;
(vi) Additional certification functions such as processing changes during certification periods and reporting requirements for households;
(vii) Lost benefits/claims against households;
(viii) Fair/fraud hearings;
(ix) A list of Federal and State energy assistance programs that qualify for the resource and income exclusions discussed in §§ 273.8(e)(14) and 273.9(c)(11) and how these payments are identified as being eligible for the exemption;
(x) Work registration and employment and training requirements.
(2) Issuance, accountability, and reconciliation;
(3) The Performance Reporting System, including instructions or directives for conducting quality control and management evaluation reviews and the quality control sample plan;
(4) A description of the training program, including a listing of the organizational component which conducts training, to whom and how often training is provided;
(5) The fair/fraud hearing procedures if not included in the Certification Handbook.
(6) The consultation process (where applicable) with the tribal organization of an Indian reservation about the State Plan of Operation and Operating Guidelines in terms of the special needs of members of the tribe and the method to be used for incorporating the comments from the tribal organization into the State Plan of Operations and Operating Guidelines.
(b)
Submittal of operating guidelines and forms.
(1) State agencies shall develop the necessary forms, except the Application for Food Stamps, and other operating guidelines to implement the provisions of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and regulations. In accordance with §§ 273.2(b) and 273.12(b)(1) State agencies shall use the FNS-designed Application for SNAP benefits or an FNS-approved deviation.
(2) State agencies shall submit their operating guidelines and forms and amendments to these materials to FNS for review and audit purposes simultaneous with distribution within the States.
(3) State agencies may request that FNS review and provide comments on their operating guidelines, forms and any amendments to these materials prior to distribution of the materials within the State.
(4) If deficiencies are discovered in a State agency's materials, FNS shall provide the State agency with written notification.
(c)
Waivers.
(1) The Administrator of the Food and Nutrition Service or Deputy Administrator for Family Nutrition Programs may authorize waivers to deviate from specific regulatory provisions. Requests for waivers may be approved only in the following situations:
(i) The specific regulatory provision cannot be implemented due to extraordinary temporary situations such as a sudden increase in the caseload due to the loss of SSI cash-out status;
(ii) FNS determines that the waiver would result in a more effective and efficient administration of the program; or
(iii) Unique geographic or climatic conditions within a State preclude effective implementation of the specific regulatory provision and require an alternate procedure; for example, the use of fee agents in Alaska to perform many of the duties involved in the certification of households including conducting the interviews.
(2) FNS shall not approve requests for waivers when:
(i) The waiver would be inconsistent with the provisions of the Act; or
(ii) The waiver would result in material impairment of any statutory or regulatory rights of participants or potential participants.
(3) FNS shall approve waivers for a period not to exceed one year unless the waiver is for an on-going situation. If the waiver is requested for longer than a year, appropriate justification shall be required and FNS will determine if a longer period is warranted and if so, the duration of the waiver. Extensions may be granted provided that States submit appropriate justification as part of the State Plan of Operation.
(4) When submitting requests for waivers, State agencies shall provide compelling justification for the waiver
in terms of how the waiver will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the administration of the Program. At a minimum, requests for waivers shall include but not necessarily be limited to:
(i) Reasons why the waiver is needed;
(ii) The portion of caseload or potential caseload which would be affected and the characteristics of the affected caseload such as geographic, urban, or rural concentration;
(iii) Anticipated impact on service to participants or potential participants who would be affected;
(iv) Anticipated time period for which the waiver is needed; and
(v) Thorough explanation of the proposed alternative provision to be used in lieu of the waived regulatory provision.
(5) Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs, waivers may be granted by the Food and Nutrition Service as provided in section 5(f) of the Act. Waivers authorized by this paragraph are not subject to the public comment provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.
(6) Notwithstanding the preceding paragraphs, waivers may be granted by the Food and Nutrition Service as provided in section 6(c) of the Act. Waivers authorized by this paragraph are not subject to the public comment provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.
(d)
Public comment.
State agencies shall solicit public input and comment on overall Program operations as State laws require or as the individual State agency believes would be useful.
[Amdt. 156, 46 FR 6315, Jan. 21, 1981]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 272.3, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 272.4
Program administration and personnel requirements.
(a)
Merit personnel.
(1) State agency personnel used in the certification process shall be employed in accordance with the current standards for a merit system of personnel administration or any standards later prescribed by the U.S. Civil Service Commission under section 208 of the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970.
(2) State agency employees meeting the standards outlined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall perform the interviews required in § 273.2(e). Volunteers and other non-State agency employees shall not conduct certification interviews or certify SNAP applicants. Exceptions to the use of State merit system personnel in the interview and certification process are specified in § 273.2(k) for SSI households, § 272.7(d) for households residing in rural Alaska, and part 280 for disaster victims. State agencies are encouraged to use volunteers in activities such as outreach, prescreening, assisting applicants in the application and certification process, and in securing needed verification. Individuals and organizations who are parties to a strike or lockout, and their facilities, may not be used in the certification process except as a source of verification for information supplied by the applicant. Only authorized employees of the State agency, coupon issuers, coupon bulk storage points, and Federal employees involved in administration of the program shall be permitted access to food coupons, ATP's, or other issuance documents.
(b)
Bilingual requirements.
(1) Based on the estimated total number of low-income households in a project area which speak the same non-English language (a single-language minority), the State agency shall provide bilingual program information and certification materials, and staff or interpreters as specified in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section. Single-language minority refers to households which speak the same non-English language and which do not contain adult(s) fluent in English as a second language;
(2) The State agency shall provide materials used in Program informational activities in the appropriate language(s) as follows:
(i) In project areas with less than 2,000 low-income households, if approximately 100 or more of those households are of a single-language minority;
(ii) In project areas with 2,000 or more low-income households, if approximately 5 percent or more of those households are of a single-language minority; and
(iii) In project areas with a certification office that provides bilingual service as required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
(3) The State agency shall provide both certification materials in the appropriate language(s) and bilingual staff or interpreters as follows:
(i) In each individual certification office that provides service to an area containing approximately 100 single-language minority low-income households; and
(ii) In each project area with a total of less than 100 low-income households if a majority of those households are of a single-language minority.
(A) Certification materials shall include the SNAP application form, change report form and notices to households.
(B) If notices are required in only one language other than English, notices may be printed in English on one side and in the other language on the reverse side. If the certification office is required to use several languages, the notice may be printed in English and may contain statements in other languages summarizing the purpose of the notice and the telephone number (toll-free number or a number where collect calls will be accepted for households outside the local calling area) which the household may call to receive additional information. For example, a notice of eligibility could in the appropriate language(s) state:
Your application for SNAP benefits has been approved in the amount stated above. If you need more information telephone ________.
(4) In project areas with a seasonal influx of non-English-speaking households, the State agency shall provide bilingual materials and staff or interpreters, if during the seasonal influx the number of single-language minority low-income households which move into the area meets or exceeds the requirements in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section.
(5) The State agency shall insure that certification offices subject to the requirements of paragraph (b) (3) or (4) of this section provide sufficient bilingual staff or interpreters for the timely processing of non-English-speaking applicants.
(6) The State agency shall develop estimates of the number of low-income single-language minority households, both participating and not participating in the program, for each project area and certification office by using census data (including the Census Bureau's Current Population Report: Population Estimates and Projections, Series P-25, No. 627) and knowledge of project areas and areas serviced by certification offices. Local Bureau of Census offices, Community Services Administration offices, community action agencies, planning agencies, migrant service organizations, and school officials may be important sources of information in determining the need for bilingual service. If these information sources do not provide sufficient information for the State agency to determine if there is a need for bilingual staff or interpreters, each certification office shall, for a 6-month period, record the total number of single-language minority households that visit the office to make inquiries about the program, file a new application for benefits, or be recertified. Those certification offices that are contacted by a total of over 100 single-language minority households in the 6-month period shall be required to provide bilingual staff or interpreters. State agencies shall also combine the figures collected in each certification office to determine the need for bilingual outreach materials in each project area.
(c)
Internal controls
—(1)
Requirements.
In order to safeguard certification and issuance records from unauthorized creation or tampering, the State agency shall establish an organizational structure which divides the responsibility for eligibility determinations and coupon issuance among certification, data management, and issuance units. The certification unit shall be responsible for the determination of household eligibility and the creation of records and documents to authorize the issuance of coupons to eligible households. The data management unit, in response to input from the certification unit, shall create and maintain the household issuance record (HIR) master file on cards, computer discs, tapes, or similar memory devices. The issuance unit shall provide
certified households with the authorized allotments. In cases where personnel are periodically, or on a part-time basis, shifted from one unit to another, supervisory controls should be sufficient to assure that the unauthorized creation or modification of case records is not possible.
(2)
Exceptions.
With prior written FNS approval, a project area may combine unit responsibilities if the controls specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section have been found to be administratively infeasible.
(i) To receive approval of combined operations, the State agency shall establish special review requirements which at a minimum include:
(A) Biweekly reconciliation and verification of transactions; and
(B) Semiannual comparison of HIR cards and case records as required by § 274.6(d) and, at least once every other month, second-party review of certification actions.
(ii) The State agency shall annually determine whether each combined operation continues to be justified and shall so advise FNS in writing.
(d)
Court suit reporting
—(1)
State agency responsibility.
(i) In the event that a State agency is sued by any person(s) in a State or Federal Court in any matter which involves the State agency's administration of SNAP, the State agency shall immediately notify FNS that suit has been brought and shall furnish FNS with copies of the original pleadings. State agencies involved in suits shall, upon request of FNS, take such action as is necessary to join the United States and/or appropriate officials of the Federal Government, such as the Secretary of USDA or the Administrator of FNS, as parties to the suit. FNS may request to join the following types of suits:
(A) Class action suits;
(B) A suit in which an adverse decision could have a national impact;
(C) A suit challenging Federal policy such as a provision of the Act or regulations or an interpretation of the regulations; or,
(D) A suit based on an empirical situation that is likely to recur.
(ii) FNS may advise a State agency to seek a settlement agreement of a court suit if the State agency is being sued because it misapplied Federal policy in administering the Program.
(iii) State agencies shall notify FNS when court cases have been dismissed or otherwise settled. State agencies shall also provide FNS with information that is requested regarding the State agency's compliance with the requirements of court orders or settlement agreements.
(2) FNS shall notify all State agencies of any suits brought in Federal court that involve FNS' administration of the Program and which have the potential of affecting many State agencies' Program operations. (State agencies need not be notified of suits brought in Federal Court involving FNS' administration of the Program which may only affect Program operations in one or two States.) The notification provided to State agencies shall contain a description of the Federal policy that is involved in the litigation.
(e)
State monitoring of duplicate participation.
(1) Each State agency shall establish a system to assure that no individual participates more than once in a month, in more than one jurisdiction, or in more than one household within the State in SNAP. To identify such individuals, the system shall use names and social security numbers at a minimum, and other identifiers such as birth dates or addresses as appropriate.
(i) If the State agency detects a large number of duplicates, it shall implement other measures, such as more frequent checks or increased emphasis on prevention.
(ii) If the State agency provides cash assistance in lieu of coupons for SSI recipients or for households participating in cash-out demonstration projects, the State agency shall check to assure that no individual receives both coupons and other benefits provided in lieu of coupons. Checks to detect individuals receiving both food coupons and cash-out benefits, or any other form of duplicate benefits, shall be made at the time of certification, recertification, and whenever a new member is added to an existing household. However, if the State agency can show that these time frames are incompatible with its system, the State agency shall check
for duplicate benefits when necessary, but no less often than annually.
(2) Processing standards for duplicate participation checks at certification and recertification shall not delay the issuance of benefits.
(i) If the State agency chooses to check at the time of certification and recertification, the check for duplicates shall not delay processing of the application and provision of benefits beyond the normal processing standards in § 273.2(g).
(ii) If a duplicate is found in making such a check, the duplication needs to be resolved in accordance with § 273.2(f)(4)(iv) before the application can be processed and benefits provided. Delays in processing caused by this resolution shall be handled in accordance with § 273.2(h).
(3) State agencies shall develop follow-up procedures and corrective action requirements, including time frames within which action must be taken, to be applied to data obtained from matching for duplicate participation. Follow-up actions shall include, but not be limited to, the adjustment of benefits and eligibility, filing of claims, disqualification hearings, and referrals for prosecution, as appropriate.
(4) FNS reserves the right to review State agencies' use of data obtained from matching for duplicate participation and may require State agencies to take additional specific action to ensure that such data is being used to protect Program integrity.
(f)
Hours of operation.
State agencies are responsible for setting the hours of operation for their SNAP offices. In doing so, State agencies must take into account the special needs of the populations they serve including households containing a working person.
(g)
Fraud detection units.
State agencies shall establish and operate fraud detection units in all project areas in which 5,000 or more households participate in the Program. The fraud detection unit shall be responsible for detecting, investigating and assisting in the prosecution of Program fraud and need not be physically located in each 5,000 household “catchment area”. The workers fulfilling this function need not work full-time in fraud detection nor work exclusively on the Program. A written State agency procedure which systematically identifies and refers potential fraud cases to Investigators shall be considered a “detection” activity meeting the requirements of this section. The fraud detection function may be performed by persons not employed by the State agency.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47884, Oct. 17, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 221, 47 FR 35168, Aug. 13, 1982; Amdt. 211, 47 FR 53315, Nov. 26, 1982; Amdt. 237, 47 FR 57668, 57669, Dec. 28, 1982; Amdt. 262, 49 FR 50597, Dec. 31, 1984; 54 FR 7003, Feb. 15, 1989; 54 FR 24527, June 7, 1989; Amdt. 320, 55 FR 6238, Feb. 22, 1990; Amdt. 371, 61 FR 60010, Nov. 26, 1996; Amdt. 388, 65 FR 70192, Nov. 21, 2000]
§ 272.5
Program informational activities.
(a)
Definition.
“Program informational activities” are those activities that convey information about the Program, including household rights and responsibilities, through means such as publications, telephone hotlines, and face-to-face contacts.
(b)
Minimum requirements.
State agencies shall comply with the following minimum information requirements for applicants and recipients.
(1) Rights and responsibilities. State agencies shall inform participant and applicant households of their Program rights and responsibilities. This information may be provided through whatever means the State agencies deem appropriate.
(2) All Program informational material shall be available in languages other than English as required in § 272.4(b) and shall include a statement that the Program is available to all without regard to race, color, sex, age, handicap, religious creed, national origin or political belief.
(c)
Program informational activities for low-income households.
At their option, State agencies may carry out and claim associated costs for Program informational activities designed to inform low-income households about the availability, eligibility requirements, application procedures, and benefits of SNAP. Allowable informational activities shall not include recruitment activities as described in § 277.4(b)(5) of this chapter. Program informational materials used in such activities shall
be subject to § 272.4(b), which pertains to bilingual requirements. Before FNS considers costs for allowable informational activities eligible for reimbursement at the fifty percent rate under part 277 of this chapter, State agencies shall obtain FNS approval for the attachment to their Plans of Operation as specified in § 272.2(d)(1)(ix). In such attachments, State agencies shall describe the subject activities with respect to the socio-economic and demographic characteristics of the target population, types of media used, geographic areas warranting attention, and outside organizations which would be involved. State agencies shall update this attachment to their Plans of Operation when significant changes occur and shall report projected costs for this Program activity in accordance with § 272.2(c), (e), and (f).
[Amdt. 207, 47 FR 52334, Nov. 19, 1982. Redesignated by Amdt. 211, 47 FR 53316, Nov. 26, 1982; Amdt. 262, 49 FR 50597, Dec. 31, 1984; 52 FR 36398, Sept. 29, 1987; 54 FR 24527, June 7, 1989; Amdt. 320, 55 FR 6239, Feb. 22, 1990; 78 FR 20422, Apr. 5, 2013; 81 FR 92556, Dec. 20, 2016]
§ 272.6
Nondiscrimination compliance.
(a)
Requirement.
State agencies shall not discriminate against any applicant or participant in any aspect of program administration, including, but not limited to, the certification of households, the issuance of coupons, the conduct of fair hearings, or the conduct of any other program service for reasons of age, race, color, sex, disability, religious creed, national origin, or political beliefs. Discrimination in any aspect of program administration is prohibited by these regulations, the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (Pub. L. 94-135), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-112, section 504), Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101) and title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d). Enforcement action may be brought under any applicable Federal law. Title VI complaints shall be processed in accord with 7 CFR part 15.
(b)
Right to file a complaint.
Individuals who believe that they have been subject to discrimination as specified in paragraph (a) of this section may file a written complaint with the Secretary or the Administrator, FNS, Washington, DC 20250, and/or with the State agency, if the State agency has a system for processing discrimination complaints. The State agency shall explain both the FNS and, if applicable, the State agency complaint system to each individual who expresses an interest in filing a discrimination complaint and shall advise the individual of the right to file a complaint in either or both systems.
(c)
FNS complaint requirements.
(1) Complaints shall contain the following information to facilitate investigations:
(i) The name, address, and telephone number or other means of contacting the person alleging discrimination.
(ii) The location and name of the organization or office which is accused of discriminatory practices.
(iii) The nature of the incident or action or the aspect of program administration that led the person to allege discrimination.
(iv) The reason for the alleged discrimination (age, race, color, sex, handicap, religious creed, national origin, or political belief).
(v) The names, titles (if appropriate), and addresses of persons who may have knowledge of the alleged discriminatory acts.
(vi) The date or dates on which the alleged discriminatory actions occurred.
(2) If a complainant makes allegations verbally and is unable or is reluctant to put the allegations in writing, the FNS employee to whom the allegations are made shall document the complaint in writing. Every effort shall be made by the individual accepting the complaint to have the complainant provide the information specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3) Complaints will be accepted by the Secretary or the Administrator, FNS, even if the information specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section is not complete. However, investigations will be conducted only if information concerning paragraphs (c)(1) (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section is provided.
(4) A complaint must be filed no later than 180 days from the date of the alleged discrimination. However, the
time for filing may be extended by the Secretary.
(d)
State agency complaint requirements.
(1) The State agency may develop and use a State agency complaint system.
(2) The State agency shall submit to FNS a report on each discrimination complaint processed at the State level. The report shall contain as much information in paragraph (c)(1) of this section as is available to the State agency, the findings of the investigation, and, if appropriate, the corrective action planned or taken.
(e)
Reviews.
[Reserved]
(f)
Public notification.
The State agency shall: (1) Publicize the procedures described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and, if applicable, the State agency's complaint procedures; (2) insure that all offices involved in administering the program and that also serve the public display the nondiscrimination poster provided by FNS; and (3) insure that participants and other low-income households have access to information regarding nondiscrimination statutes and policies, complaint procedures, and the rights of participants, within 10 days of the date of a request.
(g)
Data collection.
The State agency must obtain racial and ethnic data on participating households in the manner specified by FNS. The application form must clearly indicate that the information is voluntary, that it will not affect the eligibility or the level of benefits, and that the reason for the information is to assure that program benefits are distributed without regard to race, color, or national origin. The State agency must develop alternative means of collecting the ethnic and racial data on households when the information is not provided voluntarily by the household on the application form. These alternative means of data collection shall not include observation (also known as visual observation).
(h)
Reports.
As required by FNS, the State agency must report the racial and ethnic data on participating household contacts on forms or formats provided by FNS.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47884, Oct. 17, 1979. Redesignated by Amdt. 211, 47 FR 53315, Nov. 26, 1982, as amended by Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994; 71 FR 28763, May 18, 2006; 76 FR 27606, May 12, 2011; 88 FR 86566, Dec. 14, 2023]
§ 272.7
Procedures for program administration in Alaska.
(a)
Purpose.
To achieve the efficient and effective administration of SNAP in rural areas of Alaska, FNS has determined that it is necessary to develop additional regulations which are specifically designed to accommodate the unique demographic and climatic characteristics which exist in these rural areas. The regulations established in this section, except for paragraph (f) of this section, shall apply only in those areas of Alaska designated as “rural” in paragraph (b) of this section. All regulations not specifically modified by this section shall remain in effect.
(b)
Area Designations.
(1) Rural I Alaska TFP refers to a Thrifty Food Plan (TFP) that is the higher of the TFP that was in effect in each area on October 1, 1985, or 28.52 percent higher than the Anchorage TFP, as calculated by FNS, with rounding and other reductions that are appropriate. It is to be used in the following areas: In all places in Kodiak Island Borough with the exception of Kodiak; in all places in the Kenai Peninsula Borough that are west of Cook Inlet (including Tyonek, Kustatan, Kalgin Island, Iliamna, Chenik, and Augustine Island) and Chugach Island, English Bay, Port Graham, Portlock, Pt. Gore, Pye Island, and Seldovia. In the Yukon-Koyukuk Census Area, the city of Nenana; and Skwentna in the Matanuska-Susitna Borough. In the Valdez-Cordova Census Area, all places except Dayville and Valdez; and in the Southeast Fairbanks Census Area all places except Big Delta, Delta Junction, and Fort Greely. In the Skagway-Yakutat-Angoon Census Area, all places except Skagway; in Sitka Borough all places except Sitka; in the Wrangell-Petersburg Census Area, all places except Wrangell and Petersburg; in the Ketchikan Gateway Borough, all places except Ketchikan, Saxman, and
Ward Cove; in the Prince of Wales-Outer Ketchikan Census Area, all places except Craig, Hyder, and Metlakatla.
(2) Rural II Alaska TFP refers to a TFP that is 56.42 percent higher than the Anchorage TFP, as calculated by FNS, with rounding and other reductions that are appropriate. It is to be used in the following areas: North Slope Borough; Kobuk Census Area; Nome Census Area; Yukon-Koyukuk Census Area except for the city of Nenana; Wade Hampton Census Area; Bethel Census Area; Denali in the Matanuska-Susitna Borough; Dillingham-Bristol Bay Borough; and in all places in the Aleutian Islands except for Cold Bay and Adak.
(3) Urban Alaska TFP refers to a TFP that is the higher of the TFP that was in effect in each area on October 1, 1985, or .79 percent higher than the Anchorage TFP, as calculated by FNS, with rounding and other reductions that are appropriate. It is to be used in the following areas: Cold Bay and Adak in the Aleutian Islands; Kodiak in Kodiak Island Borough; Valdez and Dayville in the Valdez-Cordova Census Area; all places in Kenai Peninsula Borough that are on the Kenai Peninsula except for those specifically designated as Rural I; the entire Anchorage Borough; the entire Matanuska-Susitna Borough except for Denali and Skwentna; the entire Fairbanks-North Star Borough; the entire Juneau Borough; the entire Haines Borough; Sitka in the Sitka Borough; Skagway in the Skagway-Yakutat-Angoon Census Area; Wrangell and Petersburg in the Wrangell-Petersburg Census Area; Ketchikan, Saxman, and Ward Cove in the Ketchikan-Gateway Borough; Craig, Hyder, and Metlakatla in the Prince of Wales-Outer Ketchikan Census Area; and Big Delta, Delta Junction, and Fort Greely in the Southeast-Fairbanks Census Area.
(4) The State agency may, in consultation with FNS, change the designation of any Alaska subdivision contained in the Plan of Operation to reflect changes in demographics or the cost of food within the subdivision.
(c)
Fee agents.
“Fee agent” means a paid agent who, on behalf of the State, is authorized to make applications available to low-income households, assist in the completion of applications, conduct required interviews, secure required verification, forward completed applications and supporting documentation to the State agency, and provide other services as required by the State agency. Such services shall not include making final decisions on household eligibility or benefit levels.
(d)
Application
processing. The State agency may modify the application processing requirements in § 273.2 of this chapter as necessary to insure prompt delivery of services to eligible households. The following restrictions apply:
(1)
Fee agent processing.
If the signed application is first submitted by a household to a fee agent, the fee agent shall mail the application to the State agency within 5 days of receipt. The fee agent shall give the household the maximum amount of time to provide needed verification as long as the five-day processing period is met.
(2)
Application filing date.
An application is considered filed for purposes of timely processing when it is received by an office of the State agency.
(3)
Application processing timeframes.
Eligible households must be provided an opportunity to participate as soon as possible but no later than 30 days after the application is received by an office of the State agency.
(4)
Expedited service.
(i) If the signed application is first submitted by a household to a fee agent, the fee agent shall mail the application to the State agency within 5 days of receipt. If the household is eligible for expedited service, the State agency will mail the coupons no later than the close of business of the second working day following the date the application was received by the State agency.
(ii) If the signed application is submitted directly to the State agency in person by a rural resident or its authorized representative or by mail, the State agency shall process the application and issue coupons to households eligible for expedited service in accordance with the time standards contained in § 273.2(i)(3) of this chapter.
(iii) If an incomplete application is submitted directly to the State agency
by mail, the State agency shall conduct the interview by the first working day following the date the application was received if the fee agent can contact the household or the household can be reached by telephone or radio-phone and does not object to this method of interviewing on grounds of privacy. Based on information obtained during the interview, the State agency shall complete the application and process the case. Because of the mailing time in rural areas, the State agency shall not return the completed application to the household for signature. The processing standard shall be calculated from the date the application was filed.
(5)
SSI Joint Processing.
SSA workers shall mail all jointly processed applications to the appropriate State agency office within 5 days of receipt of the application. A jointly processed application shall be considered filed for purposes of timely processing when it is received by an office of the State agency. The household, if determined eligible, shall receive benefits retroactive to the first day of the month in which the jointly processed application was received by the SSA worker.
(6)
Interviews.
The State agency shall interview applicant households in the most efficient manner possible, either by face-to-face contact, telephone, radiophone, or other means of correspondence including written correspondence. In instances in which an interview cannot be conducted, the State agency may postpone the interview until after the household is certified.
(e)
Determining household eligibility and benefit level.
If a household submits its application to a fee agent, it shall, if eligible, receive benefits retroactive to the date the application is received by the fee agent. If a household submits its application directly to a State agency office, it shall, if determined eligible, receive benefits retroactive to the date the application is received by the State agency.
(f)
Vehicles.
In areas of the State where there are no licensing requirements, snowmobiles and boats used by the household for basic transportation shall be evaluated in accordance with § 273.8(h) of this chapter even though they are unlicensed. Vehicles necessary for subsistence hunting and fishing shall not be counted as a household resource.
(g)
Reporting changes.
The State agency shall allow the household to choose to report changes either directly to the State agency or to the fee agent. If the household reports the change to the fee agent, the fee agent will mail the change report to the State agency office within two working days of the date of receipt. The household's obligation to report the change will have been met if it submits the change to the fee agent within 10 days of the date the change becomes known to the household. However, for purposes of State agency action for increasing or decreasing benefits, the change will be considered to have been reported when it is received by a State agency office.
(h)
Fair hearings, fraud hearings, and agency conferences.
The State agency shall conduct fair hearings, administrative fraud hearings, and agency conferences with households that wish to contest denial of expedited service in the most efficient manner possible, either by face-to-face contact, telephone, radiophone, or other means of correspondence including written correspondence, in order to meet the respective time standards contained in §§ 273.15 and 273.16 of this chapter.
(i)
Issuance services.
With the approval of FNS, coupons may be mailed on a quarterly or semiannual basis to certain rural areas of Alaska when provisions are not available on a monthly basis. The decision to allow the distribution of coupons in this manner will be made on an annual basis. These areas shall be listed in the State's Plan of Operation. The State agency shall advise households that live in rural areas where quarterly or semiannual allotments are authorized. If, as the result of the issuance of quarterly or semiannual allotments, food coupons are overissued or underissued, the State agency shall process claim determinations and restore lost benefits.
[Amdt. 162, 45 FR 73003, Nov. 4, 1980]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 272.7, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 272.8
State income and eligibility verification system.
(a)
General.
(1) State agencies shall maintain and use an income and eligibility verification system (IEVS), as specified in this section. By means of the IEVS, State agencies may request wage and benefit information from the agencies identified in this paragraph (a)(1) and use that information in verifying eligibility for and the amount of SNAP benefits due to eligible households. Such information may be requested and used with respect to all household members, including any considered excluded household members as specified in § 273.11(c) of this chapter whenever the SSNs of such excluded household members are available to the State agency. If not otherwise documented, State agencies must obtain written agreements from these information provider agencies affirming that they must not record any information about individual SNAP households and that staff in those agencies are subject to the disclosure restrictions of the information provider agencies and § 272.1(c). The information provider agencies, at a minimum, are:
(i) The State Wage Information Collection Agency (SWICA) which maintains wage information;
(ii) The Social Security Administration (SSA) which maintains information about net earnings from self-employment, wages, and payments of retirement income, which is available pursuant to section 6103(1)(7)(A) of the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Code; and information which is available from SSA regarding Federal retirement, and survivors, disability, SSI and related benefits;
(iii) The IRS from which unearned income information is available pursuant to section 6103(1)(7)(B) of the IRS Code; and
(iv) The agency administering Unemployment Insurance Benefits (UIB) which maintains claim information and any information in addition to information about wages and UIB available from the agency which is useful for verifying eligibility and benefits, subject to the provisions and limitations of section 303(d) of the Social Security Act.
(2) State agencies may exchange with State agencies administering certain other programs in the IEVS information about SNAP households' circumstances which may be of use in establishing or verifying eligibility or benefit amounts under SNAP and those programs. State agencies may exchange such information with these agencies in other States when they determine that the same objectives are likely to be met. These programs are:
(i) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families;
(ii) Medicaid;
(iii) Unemployment Compensation (UC);
(iv) Food Stamps; and
(v) Any State program administered under a plan approved under title I, X, or XIV (the adult categories), or title XVI of the Social Security Act.
(3) State agencies must provide information to those administering the Child Support Program (title IV-D of the Social Security Act) and titles II (Federal Old Age, Survivors, and Disability Insurance Benefits) and XVI (Supplemental Security Income for the Aged, Blind, and Disabled) of the Social Security Act.
(4) Prior to requesting or exchanging information with other agencies, State agencies must execute data exchange agreements with those agencies. The agreements must specify the information to be exchanged and the procedures which will be used in the exchange of information. These agreements are not part of the State agency's Plan of Operation.
(5) State agencies must provide information to FNS and to the State agencies administering the National School Lunch Program for the purpose of direct certification of children for school meals as described in § 245.12(c)(2) of this chapter. In addition, State agencies must execute a data exchange and privacy agreement in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section and § 272.1(c).
(b)
Alternate data sources.
A State agency may continue to use income information from an alternate source or sources to meet any requirement under paragraph (a) of this section.
(c)
Actions on recipient households.
(1) State agency action on information
items about recipient households shall include:
(i) Review of the information and comparison of it to case record information;
(ii) For all new or previously unverified information received, contact with the households and/or collateral contacts to resolve discrepancies as specified in §§ 273.2(f)(4)(iv) and 273.2 (f)(9)(iii) and (f)(9)(iv); and
(iii) If discrepancies warrant reducing benefits or terminating eligibility, notices of adverse action.
(2) State agencies must initiate and pursue the actions on recipient households specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section so that the actions are completed within 45 days of receipt of the information items. Actions may be completed later than 45 days from the receipt of information if:
(i) The only reason that the actions cannot be completed is the nonreceipt of verification requested from collateral contacts; and
(ii) The actions are completed as specified in § 273.12 of this chapter when verification from a collateral contact is received or in conjunction with the next case action when such verification is not received, whichever is earlier.
(3) When the actions specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section substantiate an overissuance, State agencies must establish and take actions on claims as specified in § 273.18 of this chapter.
(4) State agencies must use appropriate procedures to monitor the timeliness requirements in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(5) Except for the claims actions specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, State agencies may exclude from the actions required in paragraph (c) of this section information items pertaining to household members who are participating in one of the other programs listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
(d)
IEVS information and quality control.
The requirements of this section do not relieve the State agency of its responsibility for determining erroneous payments and/or its liability for such payments as specified in part 275 of this chapter (which pertains to quality control) and in guidelines on quality control established under that part.
(e)
Documentation.
The State agency must document, as required by § 273.2(f)(6) of this chapter, information obtained through the IEVS both when an adverse action is and is not instituted.
[65 FR 70192, Nov. 21, 2000, as amended at 78 FR 12231, Feb. 22, 2013; 84 FR 15093, Apr. 15, 2019]
§ 272.9
Approval of homeless meal providers.
The State SNAP agency, or another appropriate State or local governmental agency identified by the State SNAP agency, shall approve establishments serving the homeless upon sufficient evidence, as determined by the agency, that the establishment does in fact serve meals to homeless persons. Where the State SNAP agency identifies another appropriate State or local agency for the purpose of approving establishments serving the homeless, the State SNAP agency will remain responsible for insuring that the provisions of the preceding sentence are effectively carried out. The State SNAP agency, or another appropriate State or local governmental agency identified by the State SNAP agency or private nonprofit organization under contract with the State SNAP agency shall execute contracts with restaurants wishing to sell meals in exchange for SNAP benefits to homeless SNAP households. Such contracts shall specify that such meals are to be sold at “concessional” (low or reduced) prices and shall also specify the approximate prices which will be charged, or the amount and type of price reduction.
[56 FR 54777, Oct. 23, 1991, as amended at 61 FR 53600, Oct. 15, 1996]
§ 272.10
ADP/CIS Model Plan.
(a)
General purpose and content
—(1)
Purpose.
All State agencies are required to sufficiently automate their SNAP operations and computerize their systems for obtaining, maintaining, utilizing and transmitting information concerning SNAP. Sufficient
automation levels are those which result in effective programs or in cost effective reductions in errors and improvements in management efficiency, such as decreases in program administrative costs. Thus, for those State agencies which operate exceptionally efficient and effective programs, a lesser degree of automation may be considered sufficient than in other State agencies. In order to determine a sufficient level of automation in each State, each State agency shall develop an ADP/CIS plan. FNS may withhold State agency funds under § 276.4(a) for failure to submit an ADP/CIS plan in accordance with the deadlines for submission, for failure to make appropriate changes in their ADP/CIS plan within 60 days of their receipt of FNS comments, or for failure to implement the approved ADP/CIS plan in accordance with the dates specified therein, unless extensions of time or deviations from the plan or schedules have been approved by FNS.
(2)
Content.
In developing their ADP/CIS plans, State agencies shall use one of the following three formats:
(i) State agencies which are sufficiently automated in each area specified in § 272.10(b) may provide a single certification statement that they are sufficiently automated in each area.
(ii) State agencies which are sufficiently automated in some, but not all, areas specified in § 272.10(b) shall submit an ADP/CIS plan which consists of two parts. The first part would be the State agency's certification as to the areas in which they are sufficiently automated. The second part would describe the areas of § 272.10(b) which the State agency has not automated or, in its opinion, has not automated sufficiently and include the State agency's plans for sufficiently automating these areas. State agencies shall include a description of how they intend to automate each area and a timetable for each planned activity, including a consideration of transfers as discussed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. State agencies which are not planning to automate each of the areas specified § 272.10(b) or which are not already automated in these areas shall provide justification. Any such justification shall include a cost-effectiveness analysis.
(iii) State agencies which are not sufficiently automated in any of the areas specified in § 272.10(b) shall submit an ADP/CIS plan which describes their plans for sufficiently automating each area, including a timetable for each planned activity, and including a consideration of transfers as discussed in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. State agencies which are not planning to automate each of the areas specified in § 272.10(b) or which are not, in their opinion, sufficiently automated in these areas shall provide justification. Any such justification shall include a cost-effectiveness analysis.
(3)
Transfers.
(i) State agencies planning additional automation shall consult with other State agencies and with the appropriate Regional Office to determine whether a transfer or modification of an existing system from another jurisdiction would be more efficient and cost effective than the development of a new system. In assessing the practicability of a transfer, State agencies should consult with other State agencies that have similar characteristics such as whether they are urban or rural, whether they are county or State administered, the geographic size of the States and the size of the caseload.
(ii) State agencies that plan to automate operations using any method other than transfers will need to be able to justify why they are not using transfers. The justification will need to include the results of the consultations with other State agencies, the relative costs of transfer and the system the State agency plans to develop, and the reasons for not using a transfer. Common reasons for not using transfers include: The State agency is required to use a central data processing facility and the (otherwise) transferable system is incompatible with it; the State agency's data base management software is incompatible with the transferable system; the State agency's ADP experts are not familiar with the software/hardware used by the transferable system and acquiring new expertise would be expensive; the transferable system is interactive or uses “generic”
caseworkers, the receiving State agency does not and it would be expensive to modify the existing system and/or procedures; and transfer would provoke disputes with the State agency's personnel union. State agencies that cite any of these reasons shall not automatically receive approval to develop non-transferred systems. State agencies shall show what efforts were considered to overcome the problems and that those efforts are cost ineffective. This justification will need to be included as part of the Advance Planning Document that the State agency must submit for approval of its proposed system.
(iii) FNS will assist State agencies that request assistance in determining what other States have systems that should be considered as possible transfers.
(b)
Model Plan.
In order to meet the requirements of the Act and ensure the efficient and effective administration of the program, a SNAP system, at a minimum, shall be automated in each of the following program areas in paragraphs (b)(1), Certification, and (b)(2), Issuance Reconciliation and Reporting of this section. The SNAP system must further meet all the requirements in paragraph (b)(3), General, of this section.
(1)
Certification.
(i) Determine eligibility and calculate benefits or validate the eligibility worker's calculations by processing and storing all casefile information necessary for the eligibility determination and benefit computation (including but not limited to all household members' names, addresses, dates of birth, social security numbers, individual household members' earned and unearned income by source, deductions, resources and household size). Redetermine or revalidate eligibility and benefits based on notices of change in households' circumstances;
(ii) Identify other elements that affect the eligibility of household members such as alien status, presence of an elderly person in the household, status of periodic work registration, disqualification actions, categorical eligibility, and employment and training status;
(iii) Provide for an automatic cutoff of participation for households which have not been recertified at the end of their certification period;
(iv) Notify the certification unit (or generate notices to households) of cases requiring Notices of:
(A) Case Disposition,
(B) Adverse Action and Mass Change, and
(C) Expiration;
(v) Prior to certification, crosscheck for duplicate cases for all household members by means of a comparison with SNAP records within the relevant jurisdiction;
(vi) Meet the requirements of the IEVS system of § 272.8. Generate information, as appropriate, to other programs.
(vii) Provide the capability to effect mass changes: Those initiated at the State level, as well as those resulting from changes at the Federal level (eligibility standards, allotments, deductions, utility standards, SSI, TANF, SAA benefits);
(viii) Identify cases where action is pending or follow-up must be pursued, for example, households and verification pending or households containing disqualified individuals or a striker;
(ix) Calculate or validate benefits based on restored benefits or claims collection, and maintain a record of the changes made;
(x) Store information concerning characteristics of all household members;
(xi) Provide for appropriate Social Security enumeration for all required household members; and
(xii) Provide for monthly reporting and retrospective budgeting as required.
(2)
Issuance, reconciliation and reporting.
(i) Generate authorizations for benefits in issuance systems employing ATP's, direct mail, or online issuance and store all Household Issuance Record (HIR) information including: name and address of household, household size, period of certification, amount of allotment, case type (PA or NA), name and address of authorized representative, and racial/ethnic data;
(ii) Prevent a duplicate HIR from being established for presently participating or disqualified households;
(iii) Allow for authorized under- or over-issuance due to claims collection or restored benefits;
(iv) Provide for reconciliation of all transacted authorization documents to the HIR masterfile. This process must incorporate any manually-issued authorization documents, account for any replacement or supplemental authorization documents issued to a household, and identify cases of unauthorized and duplicate participation;
(v) Provide a mechanism allowing for a household's redemption of more than one valid authorization document in a given month;
(vi) Generate data necessary to meet Federal issuance and reconciliation reporting requirements, and provide for the eventual capability of directly transmitting data to FNS including:
(A) Issuance:
(
1
) FNS-259—Summary of mail issuance and replacement;
(
2
) FNS-250—Reconciliation of redeemed ATPs with reported authorized coupon issuance.
(B) Reconciliation: FNS-46—ATP Reconciliation Report.
(vii) Generate data necessary to meet other reporting requirements and provide for the eventual capability of directly transmitting data to FNS, including:
(A) FNS-101—Program participation by race;
(B) FNS-209—Status of claims against households; and
(C) FNS-388—Coupon issuance and participation estimates.
(viii) Allow for sample selection for quality control reviews of casefiles, and for management evaluation reviews;
(ix) Provide for program-wide reduction or suspension of benefits and restoration of benefits if funds later become available and store information concerning the benefit amounts actually issued;
(x) Provide for expedited issuance of benefits within prescribed timeframes;
(xi) Produce and store a participation history covering three (3) year(s) for each household receiving benefits.
(xii) Provide for cutoff of benefits for households which have not been recertified timely; and
(xiii) Provide for the tracking, aging, and collection of recipient claims and preparation of the FNS-209, Status of Claims Against Households report.
(3)
General.
The following functions shall be part of an overall State agency system but need not necessarily be automated:
(i) All activities necessary to meet the various timeliness and data quality requirements established by FNS;
(ii) All activities necessary to coordinate with other appropriate Federal and State programs, such as TANF or SSI;
(iii) All activities necessary to maintain the appropriate level of confidentiality of information obtained from applicant and recipient households;
(iv) All activities necessary to maintain the security of automated systems to operate SNAP;
(v) Implement regulatory and other changes including a testing phase to meet implementation deadlines, generally within 90 days;
(vi) Generate whatever data is necessary to provide management information for the State agency's own use, such as caseload, participation and actions data;
(vii) Provide support as necessary for the State agency's management of Federal funds relative to SNAP administration, generate information necessary to meet Federal financial reporting requirements;
(viii) Routine purging of case files and file maintenance, and
(ix) Provide for the eventual direct transmission of data necessary to meet Federal financial reporting requirements.
[Amdt. 284, 52 FR 35226, Sept. 18, 1987, as amended by Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994]
§ 272.11
Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program.
(a)
General.
A State agency shall use an immigration status verification system established under section 1137 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-7) to verify the eligible status of all aliens applying for SNAP benefits. USCIS maintains the Systematic Alien
Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program to conduct such verification.
(b)
Agreements.
(1) Prior to implementing the SAVE Program, the State agency shall execute an agreement with USCIS. The agreement shall specify the information to be exchanged and the procedures which will be used in the exchange of information.
(2) The agreement shall cover at least the following areas:
(i) Identification of positions of all agency officials with authority to request immigration status information;
(ii) Identification and location of all SAVE access points covered by the agreement;
(iii) For automated SAVE verification through access to the Alien Status Verification Index (ASVI), a description of the access method and procedures;
(iv) For secondary verification as described in paragraph (d) of this section, the locations of USCIS District Offices to which verification requests will be directed;
(v) The safeguards limiting release or redisclosure as required by State or Federal law or regulation as discussed in § 272.1(c) and as may be required by other guidelines published by the Secretary; and
(vi) Reimbursement or billing agreements for ongoing SAVE operational costs, as well as any developmental costs associated with establishing access to the ASVI database.
(c)
Use of data.
The State agency shall use information obtained through the SAVE Program only for the purposes of:
(1) Verifying the validity of documentation of alien status presented by an applicant;
(2) Verifying an individual's eligibility for benefits;
(3) Investigating whether participating households received benefits to which they were not entitled, if an individual was previously certified to receive benefits on the basis of eligible alien status; and
(4) Assisting in or conducting administrative disqualification hearings, or criminal or civil prosecutions based on receipt of SNAP benefits to which participating households were not entitled.
(d)
Method of verification.
The State agency may verify the documentation presented by an alien applicant by completing USCIS Form G-845 and submitting photocopies of such documentation to the USCIS for verification as described in § 273.2(f)(10) of this chapter. In States that participate in SAVE, the State agency must use this secondary verification procedure whenever the applicant-individual's documented alien status has not been verified through automated access to the ASVI or significant discrepancies exist between the data on the ASVI and the information provided by the alien applicant.
(e)
Plan of operation.
The requirements for participation in the SAVE Program shall be included in an attachment to the State agency's Plan of Operation as required in § 272.2(d). This document shall include a description of procedures used, method of access and the agreement specified in paragraph (b) of this section, including steps taken to meet requirements of limiting disclosure and safeguarding of information obtained from SNAP households as specified in § 272.1.
[53 FR 39440, Oct. 7, 1988, as amended at 65 FR 33439, May 24, 2000; Amdt. 388, 65 FR 70193, Nov. 21, 2000; 84 FR 15093, Apr. 15, 2019]
§ 272.12
Computer matching requirements.
(a)
General purpose.
The Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act (CMA) of 1988, as amended, addresses the use of information from computer matching programs that involve a Federal System of Records. Each State agency participating in a computer matching program shall adhere to the provisions of the CMA if it uses an FNS system of records for the following purposes:
(1) Establishing or verifying initial or continuing eligibility for Federal Benefit Programs;
(2) Verifying compliance with either statutory or regulatory requirements of the Federal Benefit Programs; or
(3) Recouping payments or delinquent debts under such Federal Benefit Programs.
(b)
Matching agreements.
State agencies must enter into written agreements with USDA/FNS, consistent with
5 U.S.C. 552a(o) of the CMA, in order to participate in a matching program involving a USDA/FNS Federal system of records.
(c)
Use of computer matching information.
(1) A State agency shall not take any adverse action to terminate, deny, suspend, or reduce benefits to an applicant or recipient based on information produced by a Federal computer matching program that is subject to the requirements of the CMA, unless:
(i) The information has been independently verified by the State agency (in accordance with the independent verification requirements set out in the State agency's written agreement as required by paragraph (b) of this section) and a Notice of Adverse Action or Notice of Denial has been sent to the household, in accordance with § 273.2(f); or
(ii) The Federal agency's Data Integrity Board has waived the two-step independent verification and notice requirement and notice of adverse action has been sent to the household, in accordance with § 273.2(f) of this chapter.
(2) A State agency which receives a request for verification from another State agency, or from FNS pursuant to the provisions of § 273.16(i) of this chapter shall, within 20 working days of receipt, respond to the request by providing necessary verification (including copies of appropriate documentation and any statement that an individual has asked to be included in their file).
[77 FR 48055, Aug. 13, 2012]
§ 272.13
Prisoner verification system (PVS).
(a)
General.
Each State agency shall establish a system to monitor and prevent individuals who are being held in any Federal, State, and/or local detention or correctional institutions for more than 30 days from being included in a SNAP household.
(b)
Use of match data.
State prisoner verification systems shall provide for:
(1) The comparison of identifying information about each household member, excluding minors, as that term is defined by each State, and one-person households in States where a face-to-face interview is conducted, against identifying information about inmates of institutions at Federal, State and local levels;
(2) The reporting of instances where there is a match;
(3) The independent verification of match hits to determine their accuracy;
(4) Notice to the household of match results. The State must use the procedures laid forth in § 273.12(c)(3)(iii) of this chapter;
(5) An opportunity for the household to respond to the match prior to an adverse action to deny, reduce, or terminate benefits; and
(6) The establishment and collections of claims as appropriate.
(c)
Match frequency.
State agencies shall make a comparison of match data for adult household members at the time of application and at recertification. States that opt to obtain and use prisoner information collected under Section 1611(e)(1)(I)(i)(I) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1382(e)(1)(I)(i)(I)) shall be considered in compliance with this section. States shall enter into a computer matching agreement with the SSA under authority contained in 42 U.S.C. 405(r)(3).
[77 FR 48055, Aug. 13, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 2035, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 272.14
Deceased matching system.
(a)
General.
Each State agency shall establish a system to verify and ensure that benefits are not issued to individuals who are deceased.
(b)
Data source.
States shall use the SSA's Death Master File, obtained through the State Verification and Exchange System (SVES) and enter into a computer matching agreement with SSA pursuant to authority to share data contained in 42 U.S.C. 405(r)(3).
(c)
Use of match data.
States shall provide a system for:
(1) Comparing identifiable information about each household member against information from databases on deceased individuals. States shall make the comparison of matched data at the time of application and no less frequently than once a year.
(2) The reporting of instances where there is a match;
(3) The independent verification of match hits to determine their accuracy;
(4) Notice to the household of match results. The State must use the procedures laid forth in § 273.12(c)(3)(iii) of this chapter;
(5) An opportunity for the household to respond to the match prior to an adverse action to deny, reduce, or terminate benefits; and
(6) The establishment and collection of claims as appropriate.
[77 FR 48055, Aug. 13, 2012, as amended at 82 FR 2035, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 272.15
Major changes in program design.
(a)
States' reporting of major changes.
(1) State agencies shall notify FNS when they make major changes in their operation of SNAP. State agencies shall notify FNS when the plans for the change are approved by State leadership, but no less than 120 days prior to beginning implementation of the change or entering into contractual obligations to implement any proposed major changes. If it is not possible for a State to provide notification 120 days in advance, the State shall provide notification as soon as it is aware of the major change and explain why it could not meet the 120-day requirement. No approval from FNS is necessary for a State to proceed with implementation of the major change.
(2) Major changes shall include the following:
(i) Closure of any local office that performs major functions for 750 or more SNAP households or 5 percent of the State's total SNAP monthly caseload, whichever is less, and there is not another office available to serve the affected households within 35 miles. An office performing major functions is an office where households can file an application for SNAP in person and receive assistance from merit system personnel staff.
(ii) Substantial increased reliance on automated systems for the performance of responsibilities previously performed by State merit system personnel (as described in section 11(e)(6)(B) of the Act) or changes in the way that applicants and participants interact with the State's SNAP agency. This includes the replacement of the State's automated systems used in the certification process, adding functionality to the existing automated systems used in the certification process, or changes in the way applicants and participants interact with SNAP. For example, adding an overlay on an existing legacy automated system used by eligibility workers, adding online portals to an existing automated system for use by SNAP applicants, participants or community partners, establishment of an online application, use of telephonic technology to accept applications, relying upon an interactive voice response system to provide case status information to participants or implementation of finger imaging shall be considered major changes. Under this criterion, if the State documents that the change is expected to impact less than five percent of the State's SNAP applicants or participants, it will not be considered a major change. Reporting a major change as required in this section does not relieve States of meeting the requirements for new system approvals in § 277.18 of this chapter.
(iii) Changes in operations that potentially increase the difficulty of households reporting required information. This could include implementation of a call center or internet web portal for change reporting, a major modification to forms that households use to report changes or the discontinuation of an existing avenue for reporting changes (
e.g.,
households can no longer contact the local office because all changes must be reported to a unit that handles change reports). Selecting a different change reporting policy option as allowed in § 273.12 of this chapter, or the implementation of a policy waiver related to change reporting would not be a major change.
(iv) Any reduction or change of the functions or responsibilities currently assigned to SNAP merit system personnel.
(v) A decrease of more than 5 percent in the total number of merit system personnel involved in the SNAP certification process in the State from one year to the next. In addition, a decrease of more than eight percent in the total number of merit system personnel involved in the SNAP certification process in the State over a two year period would be a major change.
These decreases would include those resulting from State budget cuts or hiring freezes, but not include loss of personnel through resignation, retirement or release when the State is seeking to replace the personnel within 6 months. Evidence of the intent to replace personnel shall include advertising to fill positions and having sufficient funding in the personnel budget for the new hires.
(vi) Other major changes identified by FNS.
(3) When a State initially reports a major change to FNS as required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, an analysis of the expected impact of the major change shall accompany the report. The initial report to FNS that the State is making one of the major changes identified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, shall include a description of the change and an analysis of its anticipated impacts on program performance.
(i) The description of the change shall include the following:
(A) Identification of the major change the State is implementing;
(B) An explanation of what the change is intended to accomplish;
(C) The schedule for implementation;
(D) How the change will be tested and whether it will be piloted;
(E) Whether the change is statewide or identification of the jurisdictions it will encompass;
(F) How the major change is expected to affect applicants and/or participants and how they will be informed;
(G) How the change will affect caseworkers and, as applicable, how they will be trained;
(H) The projected administrative cost of the major change in the year it is implemented and the subsequent year;
(I) How the impact of the major change will be monitored;
(J) How the major change will affect operation of the State automated system;
(K) The State's backup plans if the major change creates significant problems in one or more of the program measures in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section;
(L) A description of any consultation with stakeholders/advocacy groups or public comment obtained regarding the planned changes; and
(M) Procedures the State will put in place to minimize the burdens on people with disabilities and other populations (as identified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(E) of this section) relative to the change.
(ii) The analysis portion of the State's initial report shall include the projected impact of the major change on:
(A) The State's payment error rate;
(B) Program access, including the impact on applicants filing initial applications and recertification applications;
(C) The State's negative error rate;
(D) Application processing timeliness including both the households entitled to 7-day expedited service and those subject to the 30-day processing standards;
(E) Whether the major change will increase the difficulty elderly households, households living in rural areas, households containing a disabled member, homeless households, non-English speaking households, or households living on a reservation will have obtaining SNAP information, filing an initial application, providing verification, being interviewed, reporting changes or reapplying for benefits;
(F) Customer service including the time it takes for a household to contact the State, be interviewed, report changes and any other parameter defined by the State agency; and
(G) Timeliness of recertification actions.
(b)
FNS and State action on reports.
(1) FNS will evaluate the initial report provided by a State to determine if the change is, in fact, a major change as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and notify the State of its determination. States implementing a major change shall report the following monthly State-level information to FNS on a quarterly basis beginning with the quarter prior to implementation of the major change:
(i) The number of initial applications received;
(ii) Of the number of initial applications received in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the number subject to expedited service;
(iii) Of the number of initial applications received in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the number broken out by method of application (
i.e.,
in-person, online, telephone, mail, fax);
(iv) The number of initial applications that are approved timely;
(v) Of the number of initial applications approved timely in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, the number subject to expedited service processed within the 7-day processing requirement;
(vi) The number of initial applications that are approved untimely;
(vii) Of the number of initial applications approved untimely in paragraph (b)(1)(vi) of this section, the number subject to expedited service processed outside the 7-day processing requirement;
(viii) The number of initial applications that are denied;
(ix) Of the number of initial applications that were denied in paragraph (b)(1)(viii) of this section, the number broken out by those denied due to ineligibility and those denied because the State agency was unable to determine eligibility;
(x) The total number of households due for recertification;
(xi) The number of recertification applications received;
(xii) Of the number of recertification applications received in paragraph (b)(1)(xi) of this section, the number broken out by method of application (
i.e.,
in-person, online, telephone, mail, fax);
(xiii) The number of households that were recertified without a delay or break in benefits;
(xiv) The number of households that the State recertifies with a delay or break in benefits of less than one month;
(xv) Of the total number of households due for recertification in paragraph (b)(1)(x) of this section, the number of households that fail to reapply for recertification by the required deadline;
(xvi) The number of recertification applications that are denied; and
(xvii) Of the number of recertification applications that were denied in paragraph (b)(1)(xvi) of this section, the number broken out by those denied due to ineligibility and those denied because the State agency was unable to determine eligibility.
(2) The information required by paragraph (b)(1)(1) of this section shall be reported separately for households with elderly members and households with members that have a disability.
(3) At a minimum, the information required by paragraphs (b)(1)(i), (iv), (vi), (viii), (x), (xi), (xiii), (xiv), (xv), and (xvi) of this section shall be disaggregated to provide sub-state information. FNS will require the State to disaggregate all the information in paragraph (b)(2) if FNS determines that such data are necessary to evaluate the impact of the change. FNS will consult with States on a case-by-case basis to determine if this information shall be reported by: Local offices, call centers, county, project areas, or by other administrative structures within the State. FNS' determination will be based upon the type of major change and the State's SNAP organization.
(4) In addition the information required in paragraphs (b)(1), (2) and (3) of this section, FNS may require additional information to be included in a State's quarterly report. FNS reserves the right to require the information it needs to determine the impact of a major change on integrity and access in SNAP. FNS will work with States to determine what additional information is practicable and require only the data that is necessary and not otherwise available from ongoing reporting mechanisms. While the data elements outlined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section will generally be required to be reported on a statewide basis and at a sub-state level, major changes that are limited to localized areas, such as a county or project area, may only require localized reporting. Depending upon the nature of the major change, States will be required to report more specific or timely information concerning the impact of the major change within the following areas:
(i)
Payment accuracy.
FNS will use Quality Control (QC) data when possible, but may require data from case reviews focused on households with specific characteristics, to obtain greater local reliability, or to provide more timely data.
(ii)
Negative error rates.
FNS will use QC data when possible, but may require data from case reviews focused on households with specific characteristics, to obtain greater local reliability or to provide more timely data on the causes of incorrect denials.
(iii)
Impact on households with specific characteristics.
In addition to the information required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a major change that could disproportionately impact the households identified at paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(E) of this section may require additional information on the impact of the change on the participation of these households. The nature of the change and its potential impact would dictate how this information would need to be reported.
(iv)
Impact of certain major changes on customer service.
Some major changes may require specific information that is not typically available from a States automated SNAP system. For example, if a State implements a major change that allowed (or required) households to report changes in their individual circumstances through a change center or allows applicants to apply or reapply for SNAP through the use of call center, the following data may be required:
(A) The total number of calls made to the center;
(B) The average time a caller has to wait to talk to a SNAP worker (includes hold time for transfers);
(C) Based upon the call centers standards and negotiation with FNS, the percentage of calls with excessive wait times;
(D) The percentage of calls abandoned by callers prior to and after being answered by the call center;
(E) The total number of calls dropped by the call center system and the number of callers that received a busy signal; and
(F) Customer satisfaction (based upon survey results).
(5) States shall submit reports containing monthly data on a quarterly basis. As practicable, and based upon consultation with the State, FNS may require any additional information under paragraph (b)(4) of this section regarding the State's operation to be reported for the quarter just prior to implementation of the major change.
(6) States shall submit reports for one year after the major change is fully in place. FNS may extend this timeframe as it deems necessary.
(7) If FNS becomes aware that a State appeared to be implementing a major change that had not been formally reported, FNS would work with the State to determine if it is a major change, and if so proceed as required by this section.
(8) If the data a State submits regarding its major change or other information FNS obtains indicates an adverse impact on SNAP access or integrity, FNS would work with the State to correct the cause of the problem and provide relevant technical assistance, and will require the State to provide additional information as it deems appropriate. Depending upon the severity of the problem, FNS may also require a formal corrective action plan as identified in § 275.16 and § 275.17 of this chapter. States agencies that fail to comply with reporting requirements may be subject to the suspension or disallowance of Federal Financial Participation administrative funds per § 276.4 of this chapter.
[81 FR 2739, Jan. 19, 2016]
§ 272.16
National Directory of New Hires.
(a)
General.
Each State agency shall establish a system to verify applicant employment data for the determination of SNAP eligibility and correct benefit amount.
(b)
Data source.
States shall use the U.S. Department of Health and Human Service (HHS) National Directory of New Hires (NDNH) and enter into a computer matching agreement with HHS pursuant to the authority in 42 U.S.C. 653(j)(10).
(c)
Use of match data.
In accordance with the procedural requirements and privacy protections required for computer data matching at 5 U.S.C. 552a(p), States shall provide a system for:
(1) Comparing identifiable information about each adult household member against data from the NDNH. States must, at minimum, match household members against new hire data available in the database. States
shall make the comparison of matched data at the time of application and recertification.
(2) The reporting of instances where there is a match;
(3) The independent verification of match hits to determine their accuracy;
(4) Notice to the household of match results;
(5) An opportunity for the household to respond to the match prior to an adverseaction to deny, reduce, or terminate benefits; and
(6) The establishment and collection of claims as appropriate.
[81 FR 4163, Jan. 26, 2016]
§ 272.17
Substantial lottery or gambling winnings.
(a)
General.
Each State agency, to the maximum extent practicable, shall establish cooperative agreements with gaming entities within their State to identify members of certified households who have won substantial lottery or gambling winnings as defined in § 273.11(r).
(b)
Cooperative Agreements.
State agencies, to the maximum extent practicable, shall enter into cooperative agreements with the gaming entities responsible for the regulation or sponsorship of gaming in the State. Cooperative agreements should specify the type of information to be shared by the gaming entity, the procedures used to share information, the frequency of sharing information, and the job titles of individuals who will have access to the data. Cooperative agreements shall also include safeguards to prevent release or disclosure of personally identifiable information of SNAP recipients who are the subject of data matches in accordance with 272.1(c).
(c)
Use of information on winnings.
States shall provide a system for:
(1) Comparing information obtained from gaming entities about individuals with substantial winnings with databases of currently certified households within the State;
(2) The reporting of instances where there is a match;
(3) The verification of matches to determine their accuracy in accordance with § 273.2(f);
(4) If during a household's certification period, as defined in § 273.11(r), prior to any action to terminate the household's benefits, the State agency shall provide the household notice in accordance with the provisions on notices of adverse action appearing in § 273.13. If the information received is unclear, the State agency shall follow procedures at § 273.12(c)(3). For households that are found to have received substantial winnings at the time of the household's recertification, the State agency shall notify such households, in accordance with the provisions on notices of denial appearing in § 273.10(g)(2); and
(5) The establishment and collection of claims as appropriate.
(d)
Frequency of data matches.
The State agency shall perform data matches as frequently as is feasibly possible to identify SNAP recipients with substantial winnings, as defined in § 273.11(r); however, at a minimum the State agency shall conduct data matches when a household files a periodic report and at the time of the household's recertification.
(e)
State Plan of Operation.
The State agency shall include as an attachment to the annual State Plan of Operation, as required in accordance with § 272.2, the names of gaming entities with which the State agency has entered into cooperative agreements, the frequency of data matches with such entities.
[84 FR 15093, June 14, 2019]
§ 272.18
National Accuracy Clearinghouse.
(a)
General.
(1) FNS shall establish an interstate data system, known as the National Accuracy Clearinghouse (NAC) to prevent individuals from receiving SNAP benefits in more than one State in a given month and shall institute processes and procedures for interacting with the system to prevent duplicate participation and assist households with disenrollment.
(2) Each State agency that administers SNAP shall participate in the NAC data matching system. State agencies shall take action on matches from the NAC to ensure participants are only receiving benefits in the State in which they reside and are otherwise
eligible to receive them. State agencies are encouraged to integrate and automate NAC processes into SNAP eligibility systems and existing workflows to the fullest extent possible.
(3) Each participating State agency shall enter into a written computer matching agreement with FNS consistent with the requirements for matching programs in the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended by the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 and the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Amendments of 1990 (5 U.S.C. 552a(o)), prior to participating in the NAC.
(b)
States' reporting requirements.
(1) State agencies shall provide information for each active SNAP participant to the NAC according to procedures and formats established by FNS. For the purposes of the NAC, an active SNAP participant is defined as an individual who is approved to receive benefits for the benefit month in which the State agency is uploading the data. State agencies shall establish procedures to ensure the information provided is accurate and only includes active participants.
(2) Information provided to the NAC will be used for matching by other State agencies also matching with the NAC. Each State agency shall provide, once per working day in accordance with FNS procedures, the NAC data matching elements and other information as noted in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section for each active SNAP household member.
(3) For each individual, State agencies must report the following identifying information, referred to as NAC data matching elements, to the NAC: name, Social Security number, and date of birth. State agencies must transmit the NAC data matching elements to the system per the process specified by FNS. The NAC data matching elements are used by the NAC to determine the existence of positive matches.
(4) State agencies shall also report the following information: participant ID and, when applicable, a vulnerable individual flag. All information shall be reported in accordance with procedures provided by FNS. State agencies must comply with 7 CFR 273.6 in instances where a Social Security number is not available.
(i) A vulnerable individual flag is used to identify when precautions must be taken to protect the individual's information in the event of a match. A vulnerable individual can self-identify during the application or recertification process. State agencies also have the discretion to determine whether an individual meets the vulnerable individual definition in paragraph (a)(9) of this section if the individual does not self-identify.
(ii) A participant ID is the State agency's unique identifier for a participant or applicant.
(5) State agencies shall maintain the security, privacy, and accuracy of information submitted to the NAC, including ensuring that information provided to the NAC follows the standards and procedures provided by FNS and only includes active SNAP participants.
(c)
Use of match data.
(1) NAC queries are conducted by the State agency by submitting the NAC data matching elements described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section for an individual, per the process specified by FNS. The system will compare the query against the daily upload of active SNAP participants provided to the NAC by the State agencies to determine if an individual is currently receiving SNAP benefits in another State. The NAC will indicate a positive match when the NAC data matching elements submitted for comparison are the same as those in one or more records in the NAC.
(2) Prior to conducting a NAC query at application, recertification, or the addition of a household member, the State agency shall follow verification procedures described in 7 CFR 273.2(f)(1)(v) for Social Security numbers, (f)(1)(vi) for residency, and (f)(1)(vii) for identity. After following these verification procedures, State agencies shall conduct a NAC query on the individual applying, recertifying, or being added to a household.
(3) When a State agency receives a positive match from a NAC query at application, recertification, or when adding a household member:
(i) The State agency shall have 10 days from the date the match is received to initiate action to resolve the match as described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section and notify the other State agency of the initiated action.
(ii) The State agency must resolve the match to determine the appropriate actions to take on the case. To resolve a match, State agencies may use information known to the State agency, must verify any questionable information in accordance with 7 CFR 273.2(f)(2), and must notify the individual of the match. States may not take any action to deny, terminate, suspend, or reduce SNAP benefits based on information received from the NAC until the information has been verified by the State agency and the individual has been provided notice of the match and an opportunity to respond to the notice, in accordance with § 272.12(c)(1).
(iii) Any communication or notice resulting from a NAC match must not include the location of the individual(s) identified in the match to protect vulnerable individuals.
(A) If the State agency needs more information to resolve the match or if the information it has could lead to a denial of benefits or other adverse action on the case, the State agency shall provide a written notice of match results that clearly explains what information is needed from the household and the consequences of failing to respond within the timeline provided in the notice. The notice must comply with this paragraph (c)(3)(iii) and § 272.4(b) bilingual requirements and must afford at least 10 days from the date the notice is mailed for a response.
(B) If the State agency is able to resolve the match and there is no potential for adverse action, a written notice of match results is not required. However, the State agency must provide a verbal notification of a match, which must be documented in the case file.
(iv) After the State agency has determined the appropriate disposition of the case, it shall promptly share the resolution information with the other State agency.
(v) The State agency must follow timeliness standards set forth in 7 CFR 273.2(g) and 273.14(d) for normal processing, and 7 CFR 273.2(i) for expedited service, as applicable. A lack of timely action or communication required by paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section between the State agencies must not delay the determination of benefits for an individual.
(4) The NAC shall automatically conduct bulk matches on a monthly basis (“monthly bulk matches”) of the NAC data matching elements provided by all participating State agencies from the daily upload of active SNAP participants to discover existing duplicate participation and shall provide notifications to State agencies when matches are found for participants in their State.
(5) If a State agency receives information related to a NAC data match during the certification period for an individual currently participating in SNAP in the State, it must pursue clarification and verification by following the unclear information procedures provided in 7 CFR 273.12(c)(3)(iv) to provide notice and an opportunity to contest the information received before taking any adverse action. Information related to a NAC data match that may be received during the certification period includes:
(i) Notification of data matches directly from the NAC indicating that an active SNAP participant is receiving benefits in another State; and
(ii) Communication from another State agency based on a NAC data match indicating that an active SNAP participant is part of an applicant household or was added to an active household in another State.
(6) State agencies shall report and document instances in the household's case file where there is a match and the actions taken to resolve it per existing State operations.
(7) State agencies shall provide for the establishment and collection of claims as appropriate. The State agency that fails to meet the requirements in paragraph (c)(3) of this section or requirements at 7 CFR 273.12(c)(3)(iv) will be considered responsible for any duplicate participation that occurs. That State agency shall be responsible for the establishment and collection of the
claim in accordance with regulations at 7 CFR 273.18.
(8) Information obtained from the NAC is subject to the disclosure provisions in § 272.1(c)(4). State agencies shall not use information obtained from the NAC for any purpose other than to prevent duplicate participation.
(9) State agencies shall establish a process to prevent the disclosure of any location information received from the NAC about any SNAP applicant or participant who is considered a vulnerable individual. A vulnerable individual, for the purpose of the NAC, includes but is not limited to, those who would be endangered by the dissemination of their information, regardless of their age or gender, such as a resident of a shelter for battered women and children as described in 7 CFR 271.2, a resident of a domestic violence shelter, or a person who self-identifies as fleeing domestic violence at any point during application, recertification, certification, or addition of a new household member. State agencies shall take steps to ensure that any information resulting from a NAC match, including identity and location, is protected during verification or resolution when a vulnerable individual is indicated in a positive match. The change in the household composition resulting from the move of the vulnerable individual must be communicated to the former household via a notice of adverse action per 7 CFR 273.11(g).
[87 FR 59650, Oct. 3, 2022]
Pt. 273

# PART 273—CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLE HOUSEHOLDS

# Subpart A—General Rules
Sec.
273.1
Household concept.
273.2
Office operations and application processing.

# Subpart B—Residency and Citizenship
273.3
Residency.
273.4
Citizenship and alien status.

# Subpart C—Education and Employment
273.5
Students.
273.6
Social security numbers.
273.7
Work provisions.

# Subpart D—Eligibility and Benefit Levels
273.8
Resource eligibility standards.
273.9
Income and deductions.
273.10
Determining household eligibility and benefit levels.
273.11
Action on households with special circumstances.

# Subpart E—Continuing Participation
273.12
Reporting requirements.
273.13
Notice of adverse action.
273.14
Recertification.

# Subpart F—Disqualification and Claims
273.15
Fair hearings.
273.16
Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
273.17
Restoration of lost benefits.
273.18
Claims against households.
273.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Program Alternatives
273.20
SSI cash-out.
273.21
Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting (MRRB).
273.22
[Reserved]
273.23
Simplified application and standardized benefit projects.
273.24
Time limit for able-bodied adults.
273.25
Simplified SNAP.

# Subpart H—The Transitional Benefits Alternative
273.26
General eligibility guidelines.
273.27
General administrative guidelines.
273.28
Application for SNAP recertification.
273.29
Transitional notice requirements.
273.30
Transitional benefit alternative change reporting requirements.
273.31
Closing the transitional period.
273.32
Households that return to TANF, MOE, or SFCA program during the transitional period.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2011-2036.

# Editorial Notes:
1. OMB control numbers relating to this part 273 are contained in § 271.8.
2. Nomenclature changes to part 273 appear at 84 FR 15093, Apr. 15, 2019.

# Subpart A—General Rules
§ 273.1
Household concept.
(a)
General household definition.
A household is composed of one of the following individuals or groups of individuals, unless otherwise specified in paragraph (b) of this section:
(1) An individual living alone;
(2) An individual living with others, but customarily purchasing food and preparing meals for home consumption separate and apart from others; or
(3) A group of individuals who live together and customarily purchase food and prepare meals together for home consumption.
(b)
Special household requirements
—(1)
Required household combinations.
The following individuals who live with others must be considered as customarily purchasing food and preparing meals with the others, even if they do not do so, and thus must be included in the same household, unless otherwise specified.
(i) Spouses;
(ii) A person under 22 years of age who is living with his or her natural or adoptive parent(s) or step-parent(s); and
(iii) A child (other than a foster child) under 18 years of age who lives with and is under the parental control of a household member other than his or her parent. A child must be considered to be under parental control for purposes of this provision if he or she is financially or otherwise dependent on a member of the household, unless State law defines such a person as an adult.
(2)
Elderly and disabled persons.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, an otherwise eligible member of a household who is 60 years of age or older and is unable to purchase and prepare meals because he or she suffers from a disability considered permanent under the Social Security Act or a non disease-related, severe, permanent disability may be considered, together with his or her spouse (if living there), a separate household from the others with whom the individual lives. Separate household status under this provision must not be granted when the income of the others with whom the elderly disabled individual resides (excluding the income of the elderly and disabled individual and his or her spouse) exceeds 165 percent of the poverty line.
(3)
Boarders.
(i) Residents of a commercial boarding house, regardless of the number of residents, are not eligible to participate in the Program. A commercial boarding house is an establishment licensed to offer meals and lodging for compensation. It does not include any of the entities listed in paragraph (b)(7)(vii) of this section. In project areas without licensing requirements, a commercial boarding house is a commercial establishment that offers meals and lodging for compensation with the intent of making a profit.
(ii) All other individuals or groups of individuals paying a reasonable amount for meals or meals and lodging must be considered boarders and are not eligible to participate in the Program independently of the household providing the board. Such individuals or groups of individuals may participate, along with a spouse or children living with them, as members of the household providing the boarder services, only at the request of the household providing the boarder services. An individual paying less than a reasonable amount for board must not be considered a boarder but must be considered, along with a spouse or children living with him or her, as a member of the household providing the board.
(A) For individuals whose board arrangement is for more than two meals per day, “reasonable compensation” must be an amount that equals or exceeds the maximum SNAP allotment for the appropriate size of the boarder household.
(B) For individuals whose board arrangement is for two meals or less per day, “reasonable compensation” must be an amount that equals or exceeds two-thirds of the maximum SNAP allotment for the appropriate size of the boarder household.
(iii) Boarders must not be considered to be residents of an institution as outlined in paragraph (b)(7)(vii) of this section.
(4)
Foster care individuals.
Individuals placed in the home of relatives or other individuals or families by a Federal, State, or local governmental foster care program must be considered to be boarders. They cannot participate in the Program independently of the household providing the foster care services. Such foster care individuals may participate, along with a spouse or children living with them, as members of the household providing the foster care services, only at the request of the household providing the foster care.
(5)
Roomers.
Individuals to whom a household furnishes lodging for compensation, but not meals, may participate as separate households. Persons described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must not be considered roomers.
(6)
Live-in attendants.
A live-in attendant may participate as a separate household. Persons described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section must not be considered live-in attendants.
(7) Ineligible household members. The following persons are not eligible to participate as separate households or as a member of any household:
(i) Ineligible aliens and students as specified in §§ 273.4 and 273.5, respectively;
(ii) SSI recipients in “cash-out” States as specified in § 273.20;
(iii) Individuals disqualified for noncompliance with the work requirements of § 273.7;
(iv) Individuals disqualified for failure to provide an SSN as specified in § 273.6;
(v) Individuals disqualified for an intentional Program violation as specified in § 273.16; and
(vi) Residents of an institution, with some exceptions. Individuals must be considered residents of an institution when the institution provides them with the majority of their meals (over 50 percent of three meals daily) as part of the institution's normal services. Exceptions to this requirement include only the individuals listed in paragraphs (b)(7)(vii)(A) through (b)(7)(vii)(E) of this section. The individuals listed in paragraphs (b)(7)(vii)(A) through (b)(7)(vii)(E) can participate in the Program and must be treated as separate households from the others with whom they reside, subject to the mandatory household combination requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, unless otherwise stated:
(A) Individuals who are residents of federally subsidized housing for the elderly;
(B) Individuals who are narcotic addicts or alcoholics and reside at a facility or treatment center for the purpose of regular participation in a drug or alcohol treatment and rehabilitation program. This includes the children but not the spouses of such persons who live with them at the treatment center or facility;
(C) Individuals who are disabled or blind and are residents of group living arrangements;
(D) Individual women or women with their children who are temporarily residing in a shelter for battered women and children; and
(E) Individuals who are residents of public or private nonprofit shelters for homeless persons.
(vii) Individuals who are ineligible under § 273.11(m) because of a drug-related felony conviction.
(viii) At State agency option, individuals who are disqualified in another assistance program in accordance with § 273.11(k).
(ix) Individuals who are fleeing to avoid prosecution or custody for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, or who are violating a condition of probation or parole who are ineligible under § 273.11(n).
(x) Individuals disqualified for failure to cooperate with child support enforcement agencies in accordance with § 273.11(o) or (p), or for being delinquent in any court-ordered child support obligation in accordance with § 273.11(q).
(xi) Persons ineligible under § 273.24, the time limit for able-bodied adults.
(xii) Individuals convicted of certain crimes and who are out of compliance with the terms of their sentence and ineligible under § 273.11(s).
(c)
Unregulated situations.
For situations that are not clearly addressed by the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the State agency may apply its own policy for determining when an individual is a separate household or a member of another household if the policy is applied fairly, equitably and consistently throughout the State.
(d)
Head of household.
(1) A State agency shall not use the head of household designation to impose special requirements on the household, such as requiring that the head of household, rather than another responsible member of the household, appear at the certification office to make application for benefits. When designating the head of household, the State agency shall allow the household to select an adult parent of children (of any age) living in
the household, or an adult who has parental control over children (under 18 years of age) living in the household, as the head of household provided that all adult household members agree to the selection. The State agency shall permit such households to select their head at each certification action or whenever there is a change in household composition. The State agency shall provide written notice to all households at the time of application and as otherwise appropriate that specifies the household's right to select its head of household in accordance with this paragraph. The written notice shall identify which households have the option to select their head of household, the circumstances under which a household may change its designation of head of household, and how such changes must be reported to the State agency. If all adult household members do not agree to the selection or decline to select an adult parent as the head of household, the State agency may designate the head of household or permit the household to make another selection. In no event shall the household's failure to select an adult parent of children or an adult who has parental control over children as the head of household delay the certification or result in the denial of benefits of an otherwise eligible household. For households that do not consist of adult parents and children or adults who have parental control of children living in the household, the State agency shall designate the head of household or permit the household to do so.
(2) For purposes of failure to comply with the work requirements of § 273.7, the head of household shall be the principal wage earner unless the household has selected an adult parent of children as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The principal wage earner shall be the household member (including excluded members) who is the greatest source of earned income in the two months prior to the month of the violation. This provision applies only if the employment involves 20 hours or more per week or provides weekly earnings at least equivalent to the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 20 hours. No person of any age living with a parent or person fulfilling the role of a parent who is registered for work or exempt from work registration requirements because such parent or person fulfilling the role of a parent is subject to and participating in any work requirement under title IV of the Social Security Act, or in receipt of unemployment compensation (or has registered for work as part of the application for or receipt of unemployment compensation), or is employed or self-employed and working a minimum of 30 hours weekly or receiving weekly earnings equal to the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 30 hours shall be considered the head of household unless the person is an adult parent of children as specified in § 273.1(d)(1) and the household elects to designate the adult parent as its head of household. If there is no principal source of earned income in the household, the household member, documented in the casefile as the head of the household at the time of the violation, shall be considered the head of household. The designation of head of household through the circumstances of this paragraph shall take precedence over a previous designation of head of household at least until the period of ineligibility is ended.
(e)
Strikers.
Households with a striking member are not eligible to participate in the Program, unless the household was eligible for benefits the day before the strike and is otherwise eligible at the time of application. A striker must be anyone involved in a strike or concerted stoppage of work by employees (including a stoppage by reason of the expiration of a collective-bargaining agreement) and any concerted slowdown or other concerted interruption of operations by employees. Any employee affected by a lockout, however, must not be deemed to be a striker. Further, an individual who goes on strike but is exempt from work registration under § 273.7(b) the day before the strike, other than those exempt solely on the grounds that they are employed, must not be deemed to be a striker. Also, persons such as truck drivers who cannot do their jobs because the strike has left them with nothing to deliver, and employees who are not part of the bargaining unit and do not want to cross the picket line for
fear of personal injury or death, must not be deemed to be strikers.
(1) Pre-strike eligibility must be determined by considering the day prior to the strike as the day of application and assuming the strike did not occur.
(2) Eligibility at the time of application must be determined by comparing the striking member's income before the strike to the striker's current income and adding the higher of the two to the current income of non-striking members during the month of application. If the household is eligible, the higher income figure must also be used in determining the household's benefits.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.1, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 273.2
Office operations and application processing.
(a)
Operation of SNAP offices and processing of applications
—(1)
Office operations.
State agencies must establish procedures governing the operation of SNAP offices that the State agency determines best serve households in the State, including households with special needs, such as, but not limited to, households with elderly or disabled members, households in rural areas with low-income members, homeless individuals, households residing on reservations, households with adult members who are not proficient in English, and households with earned income (working households). The State agency must provide timely, accurate, and fair service to applicants for, and participants in, SNAP. The State agency cannot, as a condition of eligibility, impose additional application or application processing requirements, including in the implementation of a photo EBT card policy. The State agency's photo EBT card policy must not affect the certification process for purposes of determining eligibility regardless of whether an individual has his/her photo placed on the EBT card. The State agency must have a procedure for informing persons who wish to apply for SNAP benefits about the application process and their rights and responsibilities. The State agency must base SNAP eligibility solely on the criteria contained in the Act and this part.
(2)
Application processing.
The application process includes filing and completing an application form, being interviewed, and having certain information verified. The State agency must act promptly on all applications and provide SNAP benefits retroactive to the month of application to those households that have completed the application process and have been determined eligible. States must meet application processing timelines, regardless of whether a State agency implements a photo EBT card policy. The State agency must make expedited service available to households in immediate need. Specific responsibilities of households and State agencies in the application process are detailed below.
(b)
SNAP application form
—(1) A State agency may consider an application form to be a paper document, on-line document or a recorded conversation. Each application form shall contain:
(i) In prominent and boldface lettering and understandable terms a statement that the information provided by the applicant in connection with the application for SNAP benefits will be subject to verification by Federal, State and local officials to determine if such information is factual; that if any information is incorrect, SNAP benefits may be denied to the applicant; and that the applicant may be subject to criminal prosecution for knowingly providing incorrect information;
(ii) In prominent and boldface lettering and understandable terms a description of the civil and criminal provisions and penalties for violations of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008;
(iii) A statement to be signed by one adult household member which certifies, under penalty of perjury, the truth of the information contained in the application, including the information concerning citizenship and alien status of the members applying for benefits;
(iv) A place on the front page of the application where the applicant can write his/her name, address, and signature.
(v) In plain and prominent language on or near the front page of the application, notification of the household's right to immediately file the application as long as it contains the applicant's name and address and the signature of a responsible household member or the household's authorized representative. Regardless of the type of system the State agency uses (paper or electronic), it must provide a means for households to immediately begin the application process with name, address and signature;
(vi) In plain and prominent language on or near the front page of the application, a description of the expedited service provisions described in paragraph (i) of this section;
(vii) In plain and prominent language on or near the front page of the application, notification that benefits are provided from the date of application; and
(viii) The following nondiscrimination statement on the application itself even if the State agency uses a joint application form: “In accordance with Federal law and U.S. Department of Agriculture policy, this institution is prohibited from discriminating on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, age, religion, political beliefs, or disability. “To file a complaint of discrimination, write USDA, Director, Office of Civil Rights, Room 326-W, Whitten Building, 1400 Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250-9410 or call (202) 720-5964 (voice and TDD). USDA is an equal opportunity provider and employer.”; and
(ix) For multi-program applications, contain language which clearly affords applicants the option of answering only those questions relevant to the program or programs for which they are applying.
(2)
Income and eligibility verification system (IEVS).
In using IEVS in accordance with paragraph (f)(9) of this section, a State agency must notify all applicants for SNAP benefits at the time of application and at each recertification through a written statement on, or provided with, the application form that information available through IEVS will be requested, used, and may be verified through collateral contact when discrepancies are found by the State agency, and that such information may affect the household's eligibility and level of benefits. The regulations at § 273.2(f)(4)(ii) govern the use of collateral contacts. The State agency must also notify all applicants on the application form that the alien status of applicant household members may be subject to verification by USCIS through the submission of information from the application to USCIS, and that the submitted information received from USCIS may affect the household's eligibility and level of benefits.
(3)
Jointly processed cases.
If a State agency has a procedure that allows applicants to apply for SNAP and another program at the same time, the State agency shall notify applicants that they may file a joint application for more than one program or they may file a separate application for SNAP benefits independent of their application for benefits from any other program. All SNAP applications, regardless of whether they are joint applications or separate applications, must be processed for SNAP purposes in accordance with SNAP procedural, timeliness, notice, and fair hearing requirements. No household shall have its SNAP benefits denied solely on the basis that its application to participate in another program has been denied or its benefits under another program have been terminated without a separate determination by the State agency that the household failed to satisfy a SNAP eligibility requirement. Households that file a joint application for SNAP benefits and another program and are denied benefits for the other program shall not be required to resubmit the joint application or to file another application for SNAP benefits but shall have its SNAP eligibility determined based on the joint application in accordance with the SNAP processing time frames from the date the joint application was initially accepted by the State agency.
(4)
Privacy Act statement.
As a State agency, you must notify all households applying and being recertified for SNAP benefits of the following:
(i) The collection of this information, including the social security number
(SSN) of each household member, is authorized under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 2011-2036. The information will be used to determine whether your household is eligible or continues to be eligible to participate in SNAP. We will verify this information through computer matching programs. This information will also be used to monitor compliance with program regulations and for program management.
(ii) This information may be disclosed to other Federal and State agencies for official examination, and to law enforcement officials for the purpose of apprehending persons fleeing to avoid the law.
(iii) If a SNAP claim arises against your household, the information on this application, including all SSNs, may be referred to Federal and State agencies, as well as private claims collection agencies, for claims collection action.
(iv) Providing the requested information, including the SSN of each household member, is voluntary. However, failure to provide an SSN will result in the denial of SNAP benefits to each individual failing to provide an SSN. Any SSNs provided will be used and disclosed in the same manner as SSNs of eligible household members.
(c)
Filing an application
—(1)
Household's right to file
—(i)
Where to file.
Households must file SNAP applications by submitting the forms to the SNAP office either in person, through an authorized representative, by mail, by completing an on-line electronic application, or, if available, by fax, telephone, or other electronic transmission.
(ii)
Right to file in writing.
All households have the right to apply or to re-apply for SNAP in writing. The State agency shall neither deny nor interfere with a household's right to apply or to re-apply in writing.
(iii)
Right to same-day filing.
Each household has the right to file an application form on the same day it contacts the SNAP office during office hours. The household shall be advised that it does not have to be interviewed before filing the application and may file an incomplete application form as long as the form contains the applicant's name and address, and is signed by a responsible member of the household or the household's authorized representative. Regardless of the type of application system used, the State agency must provide a means for all applicants applying through any mechanism to immediately begin the application process by filing an application with only the name, address and signature.
(iv)
Recording the filing date.
The date of application is the date the application is received by the State agency. State agencies must document the application date on the application. If the application is received outside normal business hours the State agency will consider the date of application the next business day. For online applications, the date of application is the date the application is submitted, or the next business day if it is submitted after business hours. For telephonic applications, the date of application is the date on which the household member provides verbal assent.
(v)
Application copies.
When a household member completes an application, the State agency must offer to provide a copy of the completed application. For purposes of this subsection, a copy of the completed application is a copy of the information provided by the client that the State agency has used or will use to determine a household's eligibility and benefit allotment. At the option of the household, the State may provide the copy in an electronic format.
(vi)
Residents of institutions.
The following special provisions apply to residents of institutions.
(A)
Filing date.
When a resident of an institution is jointly applying for SSI and SNAP benefits prior to leaving the institution, the filing date of the application that the State agency must record is the date of release of the applicant from the institution.
(B)
Processing deadline.
The length of time a State agency has to deliver benefits is calculated from the date the application is filed in the SNAP office designated by the State agency to accept the household's application, except when a resident of a public institution is jointly applying for SSI and SNAP benefits prior to his/her release
from an institution in accordance with § 273.11(i).
(C)
Certification procedures.
Residents of public institutions who apply for SNAP prior to their release from the institution shall be certified in accordance with § 273.2 paragraph (g)(1) or § 273.2(i)(3)(i) of this section, as appropriate.
(2)
Contacting the SNAP office.
(i) State agencies shall encourage households to file an application form the same day the household or its representative contacts the SNAP office in person or by telephone and expresses interest in obtaining SNAP assistance or expresses concerns which indicate food insecurity. If the State agency attempts to discourage households from applying for cash assistance, it shall make clear that the disadvantages and requirements of applying for cash assistance do not apply to SNAP benefits. In addition, it shall encourage applicants to continue with their application for SNAP benefits. The State agency shall inform households that receiving SNAP benefits will have no bearing on any other program's time limits that may apply to the household. If a household contacting the SNAP office by telephone does not wish to come to the appropriate office to file the application that same day and instead prefers receiving an application through the mail, the State agency shall mail an application form to the household on the same day the telephone request is received. An application shall also be mailed on the same day a written request for food assistance is received.
(ii) Where a project area has designated certification offices to serve specific geographic areas, households may contact an office other than the one designated to service the area in which they reside. When a household contacts the wrong certification office within a project area in person or by telephone, the certification office shall, in addition to meeting other requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, give the household the address and telephone number of the appropriate office. The certification office shall also offer to forward the household's application to the appropriate office that same day if the household has completed enough information on the application to file or forward it the next day by any means that ensures the application arrives at the application office the day it is forwarded. The household shall be informed that its application will not be considered filed and the processing standards shall not begin until the application is received by the appropriate office. If the household has mailed its application to the wrong office within a project area, the certification office shall mail the application to the appropriate office on the same day, or forward it the next day by any means that ensures the application arrives at the application office the day it is forwarded.
(iii) In State agencies that elect to have Statewide residency, as provided in § 273.3, the application processing timeframes begin when the application is filed in any SNAP office in the State.
(3)
Availability of the application form.
(i)
General availability.
The State agency shall make application forms readily accessible to potentially eligible households. The State agency shall also provide an application form to anyone who requests the form. Regardless of the type of system the State agency uses, the State agency must provide a means for applicants to immediately file an application that includes only name, address and signature. If the State agency maintains a Web page, it must make the application available on the Web page in each language in which the State agency makes a printed application available. The State agency must provide on the Web page the addresses and phone numbers of all State SNAP offices and a statement that the household should return the application form to its nearest local office. The applications must be accessible to persons with disabilities in accordance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Public Law 93-112, as amended by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1974, Public Law 93-516, 29 U.S.C. 794, and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 12101.
(ii)
Paper forms.
The State agency must make paper application forms readily accessible and available even if
the State agency also accepts application forms through other means.
(4)
Notice of right to file.
The State agency shall post signs in the certification office which explain the application processing standards and the right to file an application on the day of initial contact. The State agency shall include similar information about same day filing on the application form.
(5)
Notice of Required Verification.
The State agency shall provide each household at the time of application for certification and recertification with a notice that informs the household of the verification requirements the household must meet as part of the application process. The notice shall also inform the household of the State agency's responsibility to assist the household in obtaining required verification provided the household is cooperating with the State agency as specified in (d)(1) of this section. The notice shall be written in clear and simple language and shall meet the bilingual requirements designated in § 272.4(b) of this chapter. At a minimum, the notice shall contain examples of the types of documents the household should provide and explain the period of time the documents should cover.
(6)
Withdrawing application.
The household may voluntarily withdraw its application at any time prior to the determination of eligibility. The State agency shall document in the case file the reason for withdrawal, if any was stated by the household, and that contact was made with the household to confirm the withdrawal. The household shall be advised of its right to reapply at any time subsequent to a withdrawal.
(7)
Signing an application or reapplication form.
In this paragraph, the word “form” refers to applications and reapplications.
(i)
Requirement for a signature.
A form must be signed to establish a filing date and to determine the State agency's deadline for acting on the form. The State agency shall not certify a household without a signed form.
(ii)
Right to provide written signature.
All households have the right to sign a SNAP form in writing.
(iii)
Unwritten signatures.
The State agency shall decide whether unwritten signatures are generally acceptable. The State agency may decide to accept unwritten signatures. A State agency that does not select this option must accept unwritten signatures when necessary to comply with civil rights laws.
(A) These may include electronic signature techniques, recorded telephonic signatures, or recorded gestured signatures.
(B) A State agency is not required to obtain a written signature in addition to an unwritten signature.
(iv)
Who may sign the form.
(A) An adult member of the household.
(B) An authorized representative, as described in paragraph (n)(1) of this section.
(v)
Application copies.
When a household member completes an application, the State agency must offer to provide a copy of the completed application. For purposes of this subsection, a copy of the completed application is a copy of the information provided by the client that the State agency has used or will use to determine a household's eligibility and benefit allotment. At the option of the household, the State may provide the copy in an electronic format.
(vi)
Handwritten signatures.
These provisions apply specifically to handwritten signatures, including handwritten signatures that the household transmits by facsimile or other electronic transmission.
(A) If the signatory cannot sign with a name, an X is a valid signature.
(B) The State agency may require a witness to attest to an X signature.
(C) An employee of the State agency may serve as a witness.
(vii)
Electronic signatures.
These provisions apply specifically to electronic signatures.
(A) The State agency may accept an electronic signature but is not required to do so.
(B) Some examples of electronic signature are the use of a Personal Identification Number (PIN), a computer password, clicking on an “I accept these conditions” button on a screen, or clicking on a “Submit” button on a screen.
(viii)
Telephonic signatures.
These provisions apply specifically to telephonic signatures.
(A) A State agency that chooses to accept telephonic signatures under this paragraph (c)(7)(viii) must specify in its State plan of operation that it has selected this option.
(B) To constitute a valid telephonic signature, the State agency's telephonic signature system must make an audio recording of the household's verbal assent and a summary of the information to which the household assents. An example of a telephonic signature is a recording of “Yes” or “No”, “I agree” or “I do not agree”, or otherwise clearly indicating agreement or disagreement during an interview over the telephone. An example of a summary of the information to which the household assents is a recording of a reiteration of the household's details agreed to during the telephone conversation.
(C) A telephonic signature system must provide for linkage from the audio file of the recorded verbal assent to the application so that the State agency has ready access to the household's entire case file.
(D) The State agency shall promptly provide to the household member a written copy of the completed application, with instructions for a simple procedure for correcting any errors or omissions.
(ix)
Gestured signatures.
These provisions apply specifically to gestured signatures.
(A) A State agency that chooses to accept gestured signatures under this paragraph (c)(7)(ix) must specify in its State plan of operation that it has selected this option.
(B) Gestured signatures include the use of signs and expressions to communicate “Yes” or “I agree” in American Sign Language (ASL), Manually Coded English (MCE) or another similar language or method during an interview, in person or over a video link.
(C) The State agency shall promptly provide to the household member a written copy of the completed application, with instructions for a simple procedure for correcting any errors or omissions.
(d)
Household cooperation.
(1) To determine eligibility, the application form must be completed and signed, the household or its authorized representative must be interviewed, and certain information on the application must be verified. If the household refuses to cooperate with the State agency in completing this process, the application shall be denied at the time of refusal. For a determination of refusal to be made, the household must be able to cooperate, but clearly demonstrate that it will not take actions that it can take and that are required to complete the application process. For example, to be denied for refusal to cooperate, a household must refuse to be interviewed not merely failing to appear for the interview. If there is any question as to whether the household has merely failed to cooperate, as opposed to refused to cooperate, the household shall not be denied, and the agency shall provide assistance required by paragraph (c)(5) of this section. The household shall also be determined ineligible if it refuses to cooperate in any subsequent review of its eligibility, including reviews generated by reported changes and applications for recertification. Once denied or terminated for refusal to cooperate, the household may reapply but shall not be determined eligible until it cooperates with the State agency. The State agency shall not determine the household to be ineligible when a person outside of the household fails to cooperate with a request for verification. The State agency shall not consider individuals identified as nonhousehold members under § 273.1(b)(2) as individuals outside the household.
(2)
Cooperation with QC Reviewer.
In addition, the household shall be determined ineligible if it refuses to cooperate in any subsequent review of its eligibility as a part of a quality control review. If a household is terminated for refusal to cooperate with a quality control reviewer, in accordance with §§ 275.3(c)(5) and 275.12(g)(1)(ii) of this chapter, the household may reapply, but shall not be determined eligible until it cooperates with the quality control reviewer. If a household terminated for refusal to cooperate with a
State quality control reviewer reapplies after 125 days from the end of the annual review period, the household shall not be determined ineligible for its refusal to cooperate with a State quality control reviewer during the completed review period, but must provide verification in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ix) of this section. If a household terminated for refusal to cooperate with a Federal quality control reviewer reapplies after nine months from the end of the annual review period, the household shall not be determined ineligible for its refusal to cooperate with a Federal quality control reviewer during the completed review period, but must provide verification in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ix) of this section. In the event that one or more household members no longer resides with a household terminated for refusal to cooperate, the penalty for refusal to cooperate will attach to household of the person(s) who refused to cooperate. If the State agency is unable to determine which household member(s) refused to cooperate, the State agency shall determine the household to which the penalty shall apply.
(e)
Interviews.
(1) Except for households certified for longer than 12 months, and except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, households must have a face-to-face interview with an eligibility worker at initial certification and at least once every 12 months thereafter. State agencies may not require households to report for an in-office interview during their certification period, though they may request households to do so. For example, State agencies may not require households to report en masse for an in-office interview during their certification periods simply to review their case files, or for any other reason. State agencies may not require an in person interview solely to take a photo. Interviews may be conducted at the SNAP office or other mutually acceptable location, including a household's residence. If the interview will be conducted at the household's residence, it must be scheduled in advance with the household. If a household in which all adult members are elderly or disabled is certified for 24 months in accordance with § 273.10(f)(1), or a household residing on a reservation is required to submit monthly reports and is certified for 24 months in accordance with § 273.10(f)(2), a face-to-face interview is not required during the certification period. The individual interviewed may be the head of household, spouse, any other responsible member of the household, or an authorized representative. The applicant may bring any person he or she chooses to the interview. The interviewer must not simply review the information that appears on the application, but must explore and resolve with the household unclear and incomplete information. The interviewer must advise households of their rights and responsibilities during the interview, including the appropriate application processing standard and the households' responsibility to report changes. The interviewer must advise households that are also applying for or receiving PA benefits that time limits and other requirements that apply to the receipt of PA benefits do not apply to the receipt of SNAP benefits, and that households which cease receiving PA benefits because they have reached a time limit, have begun working, or for other reasons, may still qualify for SNAP benefits. The interviewer must conduct the interview as an official and confidential discussion of household circumstances. The State agency must protect the applicant's right to privacy during the interview. Facilities must be adequate to preserve the privacy and confidentiality of the interview.
(2) The State agency may use a telephone interview instead of the face-to-face interview required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section for all applicant households, for specified categories of households, or on a case-by-case basis because of household hardship situations as determined by the State agency. The hardship conditions must include, but are not limited to, illness, transportation difficulties, care of a household member, hardships due to residency in a rural area, prolonged severe weather, or work or training hours that prevent the household from participating in an in-office interview. If a State agency has not already provided that a telephone interview will be used for a household, and that household
meets the State agency's hardship criteria and requests to not have an in-office interview, the State agency must offer to the household to conduct the interview by telephone. The State agency may provide a home-based interview only if a household meets the hardship criteria and requests one. A State agency that chooses to routinely interview households by telephone in lieu of the face-to-face interview must specify this choice in its State plan of operation and describe the types of households that will be routinely offered a telephone interview in lieu of a face-to-face interview. The State agency must grant a face-to-face interview to any household that requests one.
(i) State agencies must inform each applicant of the opportunity for a face-to-face interview at the time of application and recertification and grant a face-to-face interview to any household that requests one at any time, even if the State agency has elected the option to routinely provide telephone interviews.
(ii) Like households participating in face-to-face interviews, households interviewed by any means other than the face-to-face interview are not exempt from verification requirements. However, the State agency may use special procedures to permit the household to provide verification and thus obtain its benefits in a timely manner, such as substituting a collateral contact in cases where documentary verification would normally be provided.
(iii) The use of non-face-to-face interviews may not affect the length of a household's certification period.
(iv) State agencies must provide Limited English Proficient (LEP) households with bilingual personnel during the interview as required under § 272.4(b) of this chapter.
(3) The State agency must schedule an interview for all applicant households who are not interviewed on the day they submit their applications. To the extent practicable, the State agency must schedule the interview to accommodate the needs of groups with special circumstances, including working households. The State agency must schedule all interviews as promptly as possible to insure eligible households receive an opportunity to participate within 30 days after the application is filed. The State agency must notify each household that misses its interview appointment that it missed the scheduled interview and that the household is responsible for rescheduling a missed interview. If the household contacts the State agency within the 30 day application processing period, the State agency must schedule a second interview. The State agency may not deny a household's application prior to the 30th day after application if the household fails to appear for the first scheduled interview. If the household requests a second interview during the 30-day application processing period and is determined eligible, the State agency must issue prorated benefits from the date of application.
(f)
Verification.
Verification is the use of documentation or a contact with a third party to confirm the accuracy of statements or information. The State agency must give households at least 10 days to provide required verification. Paragraph (i)(4) of this section contains verification procedures for expedited service cases.
(1)
Mandatory verification.
State agencies shall verify the following information prior to certification for households initially applying:
(i)
Gross nonexempt income.
Gross nonexempt income shall be verified for all households prior to certification. However, where all attempts to verify the income have been unsuccessful because the person or organization providing the income has failed to cooperate with the household and the State agency, and all other sources of verification are unavailable, the eligibility worker shall determine an amount to be used for certification purposes based on the best available information.
(ii)
Alien eligibility.
(A) The State agency shall verify the eligible status of all aliens applying for SNAP benefits by using an immigration status verification system established under section 1137 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-7). FNS may require State agencies to provide written confirmation from USCIS that the system used by the State is an immigration status verification system established
under section 1137 of the Social Security Act. If an alien does not wish the State agency to contact USCIS to verify his or her immigration status, the State agency must give the household the option of withdrawing its application or participating without that member. The Department of Justice (DOJ) Interim Guidance On Verification of Citizenship, Qualified Alien Status and Eligibility Under Title IV of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (Interim Guidance) (62 FR 61344, November 17, 1997) contains information on acceptable documents and USCIS codes. State agencies should use the Interim Guidance until DOJ publishes a final rule on this issue. Thereafter, State agencies should consult both the Interim Guidance and the DOJ final rule. Where the Interim Guidance and the DOJ final rule conflict, the latter should control the verification of alien eligibility. As provided in § 273.4, the following information may also be relevant to the eligibility of some aliens: date of admission or date status was granted; military connection; battered status; if the alien was lawfully residing in the United States on August 22, 1996; membership in certain Indian tribes; if the person was age 65 or older on August 22, 1996; if a lawful permanent resident can be credited with 40 qualifying quarters of covered work and if any Federal means-tested public benefits were received in any quarter after December 31, 1996; or if the alien was a member of certain Hmong or Highland Laotian tribes during a certain period of time or is the spouse or unmarried dependent of such a person. The State agency must also verify these factors, if applicable to the alien's eligibility. The SSA Quarters of Coverage History System (QCHS) is available for purposes of verifying whether a lawful permanent resident has earned or can receive credit for a total of 40 qualifying quarters. However, the QCHS may not show all qualifying quarters. For instance, SSA records do not show current year earnings and in some cases the last year's earnings, depending on the time of request. Also, in some cases, an applicant may have work from uncovered employment that is not documented by SSA, but is countable toward the 40 quarters test. In both these cases, the individual, rather than SSA, would need to provide the evidence needed to verify the quarters.
(B) An alien is ineligible until acceptable documentation is provided unless:
(
1
) The State agency has submitted a copy of a document provided by the household to USCIS for verification. Pending such verification, the State agency cannot delay, deny, reduce or terminate the individual's eligibility for benefits on the basis of the individual's immigration status; or
(
2
) The applicant or the State agency has submitted a request to SSA for information regarding the number of quarters of work that can be credited to the individual, SSA has responded that the individual has fewer than 40 quarters, and the individual provides documentation from SSA that SSA is conducting an investigation to determine if more quarters can be credited. If SSA indicates that the number of qualifying quarters that can be credited is under investigation, the State agency must certify the individual pending the results of the investigation for up to 6 months from the date of the original determination of insufficient quarters; or
(
3
) The applicant or the State agency has submitted a request to a Federal agency for verification of information which bears on the individual's eligible alien status. The State agency must certify the individual pending the results of the investigation for up to 6 months from the date of the original request for verification.
(C) The State agency must provide alien applicants with a reasonable opportunity to submit acceptable documentation of their eligible alien status as of the 30th day following the date of application. A reasonable opportunity must be at least 10 days from the date of the State agency's request for an acceptable document. When the State agency fails to provide an alien applicant with a reasonable opportunity as of the 30th day following the date of application, the State agency must provide the household with benefits no later than 30 days following the date of
application, provided the household is otherwise eligible.
(iii)
Utility expenses.
The State agency shall verify a household's utility expenses if the household wishes to claim expenses in excess of the State agency's utility standard and the expense would actually result in a deduction. If the household's actual utility expenses cannot be verified before the 30 days allowed to process the application expire, the State agency shall use the standard utility allowance, provided the household is entitled to use the standard as specified in § 273.9(d). If the household wishes to claim expenses for an unoccupied home, the State agency shall verify the household's actual utility expenses for the unoccupied home in every case and shall not use the standard utility allowance.
(iv)
Medical expenses.
The amount of any medical expenses (including the amount of reimbursements) deductible under § 273.9(d)(3) shall be verified prior to initial certification. Verification of other factors, such as the allowability of services provided or the eligibility of the person incurring the cost, shall be required if questionable.
(v)
Social security numbers.
The State agency shall verify the social security number(s) (SSN) reported by the household by submitting them to the Social Security Administration (SSA) for verification according to procedures established by SSA. The State agency shall not delay the certification for or issuance of benefits to an otherwise eligible household solely to verify the SSN of a household member. Once an SSN has been verified, the State agency shall make a permanent annotation to its file to prevent the unnecessary reverification of the SSN in the future. The State agency shall accept as verified an SSN which has been verified by another program participating in the IEVS described in § 272.8. If an individual is unable to provide an SSN or does not have an SSN, the State agency shall require the individual to submit Form SS-5, Application for a Social Security Number, to the SSA in accordance with procedures in § 273.6. A completed SSA Form 2853 shall be considered proof of application for an SSN for a newborn infant.
(vi)
Residency.
The residency requirements of § 273.3 shall be verified except in unusual cases (such as homeless households, some migrant farmworker households, or households newly arrived in a project area) where verification of residency cannot reasonably be accomplished. Verification of residency should be accomplished to the extent possible in conjunction with the verification of other information such as, but not limited to, rent and mortgage payments, utility expenses, and identity. If verification cannot be accomplished in conjunction with the verification of other information, then the State agency shall use a collateral contact or other readily available documentary evidence. Documents used to verify other factors of eligibility should normally suffice to verify residency as well. Any documents or collateral contact which reasonably establish the applicant's residency must be accepted and no requirement for a specific type of verification may be imposed. No durational residency requirement shall be established.
(vii)
Identity.
The identity of the person making application shall be verified. Where an authorized representative applies on behalf of a household, the identity of both the authorized representative and the head of household shall be verified. Identity may be verified through readily available documentary evidence, or if this is unavailable, through a collateral contact. Examples of acceptable documentary evidence which the applicant may provide include, but are not limited to, a driver's license, a work or school ID, an ID for health benefits or for another assistance or social services program, a voter registration card, wage stubs, or a birth certificate. Any documents which reasonably establish the applicant's identity must be accepted, and no requirement for a specific type of document, such as a birth certificate, may be imposed.
(viii)
Disability.
(A) The State agency shall verify disability as defined in § 271.2 as follows:
(
1
) For individuals to be considered disabled under paragraphs (2), (3) and (4) of the definition, the household
shall provide proof that the disabled individual is receiving benefits under titles I, II, X, XIV or XVI of the Social Security Act.
(
2
) For individuals to be considered disabled under paragraph (6) of the definition, the household must present a statement from the Veterans Administration (VA) which clearly indicates that the disabled individual is receiving VA disability benefits for a service-connected or non-service-connected disability and that the disability is rated as total or paid at the total rate by VA.
(
3
) For individuals to be considered disabled under paragraphs (7) and (8) of the definition, proof by the household that the disabled individual is receiving VA disability benefits is sufficient verification of disability.
(
4
) For individuals to be considered disabled under paragraphs (5) and (9) of the definition, the State agency shall use the Social Security Administration's (SSA) most current list of disabilities considered permanent under the Social Security Act for verifying disability. If it is obvious to the caseworker that the individual has one of the listed disabilities, the household shall be considered to have verified disability. If disability is not obvious to the caseworker, the household shall provide a statement from a physician or licensed or certified psychologist certifying that the individual has one of the nonobvious disabilities listed as the means for verifying disability under paragraphs (5) and (9) of the definition.
(
5
) For individuals to be considered disabled under paragraph (10) of the definition, the household shall provide proof that the individual receives a Railroad Retirement disability annuity from the Railroad Retirement Board
and
has been determined to qualify for Medicare.
(
6
) For individuals to be considered disabled under paragraph (11) of the definition, the household shall provide proof that the individual receives interim assistance benefits pending the receipt of Supplemental Security Income; or disability-related medical assistance under title XIX of the SSA; or disability-based State general assistance benefits. The State agency shall verify that the eligibility to receive these benefits is based upon disability or blindness criteria which are at least as stringent as those used under title XVI of the Social Security Act.
(B) For disability determinations which must be made relevant to the provisions of § 273.1(a)(2)(ii), the State agency shall use the SSA's most current list of disabilities as the initial step for verifying if an individual has a disability considered permanent under the Social Security Act. However, only those individuals who suffer from one of the disabilities mentioned in the SSA list who are unable to purchase and prepare meals because of such disability shall be considered disabled for the purpose of this provision. If it is obvious to the caseworker that the individual is unable to purchase and prepare meals because he/she suffers from a severe physical or mental disability, the individual shall be considered disabled for the purpose of the provision even if the disability is not specifically mentioned on the SSA list. If the disability is not obvious to the caseworker, he/she shall verify the disability by requiring a statement from a physician or licensed or certified psychologist certifying that the individual (in the physician's/psychologist's opinion) is unable to purchase and prepare meals because he/she suffers from one of the nonobvious disabilities mentioned in the SSA list or is unable to purchase meals because he/she suffers from some other severe, permanent physical or mental disease or nondisease-related disability. The elderly and disabled individual (or his/her authorized representative) shall be responsible for obtaining the cooperation of the individuals with whom he/she resides in providing the necessary income information about the others to the State agency for purposes of this provision.
(ix) State agencies shall verify all factors of eligibility for households who have been terminated for refusal to cooperate with a State quality control reviewer, and reapply after 95 days from the end of the annual review period. State agencies shall verify all factors of eligibility for households who have been terminated for refusal to cooperate with a Federal quality control
reviewer and reapply after seven months from the end of the annual review period.
(x)
