Household composition.
State agencies shall verify factors affecting the composition of a household, if questionable. Individuals who claim to be a separate household from those with whom they reside shall be responsible for proving that they are a separate household to the satisfaction of the State agency. Individuals who claim to be a separate household from those with whom they reside based on the various age and disability factors for determining separateness shall be responsible for proving a claim of separateness (at the State agency's request) in accordance with the provisions of § 273.2(f)(1)(viii).
(xi)
Students.
If a person claims to be physically or mentally unfit for purposes of the student exemption contained in § 273.5(b)(2) and the unfitness is not evident to the State agency, verification may be required. Appropriate verification may consist of receipt of temporary or permanent disability benefits issued by governmental or private sources, or of a statement from a physician or licensed or certified psychologist.
(xii)
Legal obligation and actual child support payments.
The State agency shall obtain verification of the household's legal obligation to pay child support, the amount of the obligation, and the monthly amount of child support the household actually pays. Documents that are accepted as verification of the household's legal obligation to pay child support shall not be accepted as verification of the household's actual monthly child support payments. State agencies may and are strongly encouraged to obtain information regarding a household member's child support obligation and payments from Child Support Enforcement (CSE) automated data files. For households that pay their child support exclusively through their State CSE agency, the State agency may use information provided by that agency in determining a household's legal obligation to pay child support, the amount of its obligation and amount the household has actually paid. A household would not have to provide additional verification unless it disagrees with the data presented by the State CSE agency. Before the State agency may use the CSE agency's information, the household must sign a statement authorizing release of the household's child support payment records to the State agency. State agencies that choose to rely on information provided by their State CSE agency in accordance with this paragraph (f)(1)(xii) must specify in their State plan of operation that they have selected this option. The State agency shall give the household an opportunity to resolve any discrepancy between household verification and CSE records in accordance with paragraph (f)(9) of this section.
(xiii) [Reserved]
(xiv)
Additional verification for able-bodied adults subject to the time limit
—(A)
Hours worked.
For individuals subject to the SNAP time limit of § 273.24 who are satisfying the work requirement by working, by combining work and participation in a work program, or by participating in a work or workfare program that is not operated or supervised by the State agency, the individuals' work hours shall be verified.
(B)
Countable months in another state.
For individuals subject to the SNAP time limit of § 273.24, the State agency must verify the number of countable months (as defined in § 273.24(b)(1)) an individual has used in another State if there is an indication that the individual participated in that State. The normal processing standards of 7 CFR 273.2(g) apply. The State agency may accept another State agency's assertion as to the number of countable months an individual has used in another State.
(2)
Verification of questionable information.
(i) The State agency shall verify, prior to certification of the household, all other factors of eligibility which the State agency determines are questionable and affect the household's eligibility and benefit level. The State agency shall establish guidelines to be followed in determining what shall be considered questionable information. These guidelines shall not prescribe verification based on race, religion, ethnic background, or national origin. These guidelines shall not target
groups such as migrant farmworkers or American Indians for more intensive verification under this provision.
(ii) If a member's citizenship or status as a non-citizen national is questionable, the State agency must verify the member's citizenship or non-citizen national status in accordance with attachment 4 of the DOJ Interim Guidance. After DOJ issues final rules, State agencies should consult both the Interim Guidance and the final rule. Where the Interim Guidance and the DOJ final rule conflict, the latter should control the eligibility determination. The State agency must accept participation in another program as acceptable verification if verification of citizenship or non-citizen national status was obtained for that program. If the household cannot obtain the forms of verification suggested in attachment 4 of the DOJ Interim Guidance and the household can provide a reasonable explanation as to why verification is not available, the State agency must accept a signed statement, under penalty of perjury, from a third party indicating a reasonable basis for personal knowledge that the member in question is a U.S. citizen or non-citizen national. The signed statement must contain a warning of the penalties for helping someone commit fraud. Absent verification or third party attestation of U.S. citizenship or non-citizen national status, the member whose citizenship or non-citizen national status is in question is ineligible to participate until the issue is resolved. The member whose citizenship or non-citizen national status is in question will have his or her income and resources considered available to any remaining household members as set forth in § 273.11(c).
(3)
State agency options.
In addition to the verification required in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section, the State agency may elect to mandate verification of any other factor which affects household eligibility or allotment level, including household size where not questionable. Such verification may be required Statewide or throughout a project area, but shall not be imposed on a selective, case-by-case basis on particular households.
(i) The State agency may establish its own standards for the use of verification, provided that, at a minimum, all questionable factors are verified in accordance with paragraph (f)(2) of this section and that such standards do not allow for inadvertent discrimination. For example, no standard may be applied which prescribes variances in verification based on race, religion, ethnic background or national origin, nor may a State standard target groups such as migrant farmworkers or American Indians for more intensive verification than other households. The options specified in this paragraph, shall not apply in those offices of the Social Security Administration (SSA) which, in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section, provide for the SNAP certification of households containing recipients of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and social security benefits. The State agency, however, may negotiate with those SSA offices with regard to mandating verification of these options.
(ii) If a State agency opts to verify a deductible expense and obtaining the verification may delay the household's certification, the State agency shall advise the household that its eligibility and benefit level may be determined without providing a deduction for the claimed but unverified expense. This provision also applies to the allowance of medical expenses as specified in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section. Shelter costs would be computed without including the unverified components. The standard utility allowance shall be used if the household is entitled to claim it and has not verified higher actual costs. If the expense cannot be verified within 30 days of the date of application, the State agency shall determine the household's eligibility and benefit level without providing a deduction of the unverified expense. If the household subsequently provides the missing verification, the State agency shall redetermine the household's benefits, and provide increased benefits, if any, in accordance with the timeliness standards in § 273.12 on reported changes. If the expense could not be verified within the 30-day processing standard because the State agency failed to allow the household
sufficient time, as defined in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, to verify the expense, the household shall be entitled to the restoration of benefits retroactive to the month of application, provided that the missing verification is supplied in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section. If the household would be ineligible unless the expense is allowed, the household's application shall be handled as provided in paragraph (h) of this section.
(4)
Sources of verification
—(i)
Documentary evidence.
State agencies shall use documentary evidence as the primary source of verification for all items except residency and household size. These items may be verified either through readily available documentary evidence or through a collateral contact, without a requirement being imposed that documentary evidence must be the primary source of verification. Documentary evidence consists of a written confirmation of a household's circumstances. Examples of documentary evidence include wage stubs, rent receipts, and utility bills. Although documentary evidence shall be the primary source of verification, acceptable verification shall not be limited to any single type of document and may be obtained through the household or other source. Whenever documentary evidence cannot be obtained or is insufficient to make a firm determination of eligibility or benefit level, the eligibility worker may require collateral contacts or home visits. For example, documentary evidence may be considered insufficient when the household presents pay stubs which do not represent an accurate picture of the household's income (such as out-dated pay stubs) or identification papers that appear to be falsified.
(ii)
Collateral contacts.
A collateral contact is an oral confirmation of a household's circumstances by a person outside of the household. The collateral contact may be made either in person or over the telephone. The State agency may select a collateral contact if the household fails to designate one or designates one which is unacceptable to the State agency. Examples of acceptable collateral contacts may include employers, landlords, social service agencies, migrant service agencies, and neighbors of the household who can be expected to provide accurate third-party verification. When talking with collateral contacts, State agencies should disclose only the information that is absolutely necessary to get the information being sought. State agencies should avoid disclosing that the household has applied for SNAP benefits, nor should they disclose any information supplied by the household, especially information that is protected by § 273.1(c), or suggest that the household is suspected of any wrong doing.
(iii)
Home visits.
Home visits may be used as verification only when documentary evidence is insufficient to make a firm determination of eligibility or benefit level, or cannot be obtained, and the home visit is scheduled in advance with the household. Home visits are to be used on a case-by-case basis where the supplied documentation is insufficient. Simply because a household fits a profile of an error-prone household does not constitute lack of verification. State agencies shall assist households in obtaining sufficient verification in accordance with paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(iv)
Discrepancies.
Where unverified information from a source other than the household contradicts statements made by the household, the household shall be afforded a reasonable opportunity to resolve the discrepancy prior to a determination of eligibility or benefits. The State agency may, if it chooses, verify the information directly and contact the household only if such direct verification efforts are unsuccessful. If the unverified information is received through the IEVS, as specified in § 272.8, the State agency may obtain verification from a third party as specified in paragraph (f)(9)(v) of this section.
(v)
Homeless households.
Homeless households claiming actual shelter expenses or those with extremely low shelter costs may provide verification of their shelter expenses to qualify for the homeless shelter deduction if the State agency has such a deduction. If a homeless household has difficulty in obtaining traditional types of verification of shelter costs, the caseworker shall use prudent judgment in
determining if the verification obtained is adequate. For example, if a homeless individual claims to have incurred shelter costs for several nights and the costs are comparable to costs typically incurred by homeless people for shelter, the caseworker may decide to accept this information as adequate information and not require further verification.
(5)
Responsibility of obtaining verification.
(i) The household has primary responsibility for providing documentary evidence to support statements on the application and to resolve any questionable information. The State agency must assist the household in obtaining this verification provided the household is cooperating with the State agency as specified under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Households may supply documentary evidence in person, through the mail, by facsimile or other electronic device, or through an authorized representative. The State agency must not require the household to present verification in person at the SNAP office. The State agency must accept any reasonable documentary evidence provided by the household and must be primarily concerned with how adequately the verification proves the statements on the application. However, the State agency has primary responsibility for verifying fleeing felon and parole or probation violator status in accordance with § 273.11(n). If a SNAP applicant's attestation regarding disqualified felon status described in § 273.2(o) is questionable, the State agency shall verify the attestation. Each element of a questionable attestation—that the individual has been convicted of a crime listed at § 273.11(s), and that the individual is not in compliance with the terms of their sentence—shall be verified by the State agency. The State agency shall determine whether an attestation is questionable based on the standards established under § 273.2(f)(2)(i). In conducting verifications of questionable attestations under this paragraph, the State agency shall establish reasonable, consistent standards, evaluate each case separately, and document the case file accordingly.
(ii) Whenever documentary evidence is insufficient to make a firm determination of eligibility or benefit level, or cannot be obtained, the State agency may require a collateral contact or a home visit in accordance with paragraph (f)(4) of this section. The State agency, generally, shall rely on the household to provide the name of any collateral contact. The household may request assistance in designating a collateral contact. The State agency is not required to use a collateral contact designated by the household if the collateral contact cannot be expected to provide an accurate third-party verification. When the collateral contact designated by the household is unacceptable, the State agency shall either designate another collateral contact, ask the household to designate another collateral contact or to provide an alternative form of verification, or substitute a home visit. The State agency is responsible for obtaining verification from acceptable collateral contacts.
(6)
Documentation.
Case files must be documented to support eligibility, ineligibility, and benefit level determinations. Documentation shall be in sufficient detail to permit a reviewer to determine the reasonableness and accuracy of the determination.
(7)
State Data Exchange and Beneficiary Data Exchange.
The State agency may verify SSI benefits through the State Data Exchange (SDX), and Social Security benefit information through the Beneficiary Data Exchange (BENDEX), or through verification provided by the household. The State agency may use SDX and BENDEX data to verify other SNAP eligibility criteria. The State agency may access SDX and BENDEX data without release statements from households, provided the State agency makes the appropriate data request to SSA and executes the necessary data exchange agreements with SSA. The household shall be given an opportunity to verify the information from another source if the SDX or BENDEX information is contradictory to the information provided by the household or is unavailable. Determination of the household's eligibility and benefit level shall not be delayed past the application processing
time standards of paragraph (g) of this section if SDX or BENDEX data is unavailable.
(8)
Verification subsequent to initial certification
—(i)
Recertification
(A) At recertification the State agency shall verify a change in income if the source has changed or the amount has changed by more than $50. Previously unreported medical expenses, actual utility expenses and total recurring medical expenses which have changed by more than $25 shall also be verified at recertification. The State agency shall not verify income if the source has not changed and if the amount is unchanged or has changed by $50 or less, unless the information is incomplete, inaccurate, inconsistent or outdated. The State agency shall also not verify total medical expenses, or actual utility expenses claimed by households which are unchanged or have changed by $25 or less, unless the information is incomplete, inaccurate, inconsistent or outdated. For households eligible for the child support deduction or exclusion, the State agency may use information provided by the State CSE agency in determining the household's legal obligation to pay child support, the amount of its obligation and amounts the household has actually paid if the household pays its child support exclusively through its State CSE agency and has signed a statement authorizing release of its child support payment records to the State agency. A household would not have to provide any additional verification unless they disagreed with the information provided by the State CSE agency. State agencies that choose to use information provided by their State CSE agency in accordance with this paragraph (f)(8)(i)(A) must specify in their State plan of operation that they have selected this option. For all other households eligible for the child support deduction or exclusion, the State agency shall require the household to verify any changes in the legal obligation to pay child support, the obligated amount, and the amount of legally obligated child support a household member pays to a nonhousehold member. The State agency shall verify reportedly unchanged child support information only if the information is incomplete, inaccurate, inconsistent or outdated.
(B) Newly obtained social security numbers shall be verified at recertification in accordance with verification procedures outlined in § 273.2(f)(1)(v).
(C) For individuals subject to the SNAP time limit of § 273.24 who are satisfying the work requirement by working, by combining work and participation in a work program, or by participating in a work program that is not operated or supervised by the State agency, the individuals' work hours shall be verified.
(D) Other information which has changed may be verified at recertification. Unchanged information shall not be verified unless the information is incomplete, inaccurate, inconsistent or outdated. Verification under this paragraph shall be subject to the same verification procedures as apply during initial verification.
(ii)
Changes.
Changes reported during the certification period shall be subject to the same verification procedures as apply at initial certification, except that the State agency shall not verify changes in income if the source has not changed and if the amount has changed by $50 or less, unless the information is incomplete, inaccurate, inconsistent or outdated. The State agency shall also not verify total medical expenses or actual utility expenses which are unchanged or have changed by $25 or less, unless the information is incomplete, inaccurate, inconsistent or outdated.
(9)
Mandatory use of IEVS.
(i) The State agency must obtain information through IEVS in accordance with procedures specified in § 272.8 of this chapter and use it to verify the eligibility and benefit levels of applicants and participating households.
(ii) The State agency must access data through the IEVS in accordance with the disclosure safeguards and data exchange agreements required by part 272.
(9)
Mandatory use of IEVS.
(i) The State agency must obtain information through IEVS in accordance with procedures specified in § 272.8 of this chapter and use it to verify the eligibility and benefit levels of applicants and participating households.
(ii) The State agency must access data through the IEVS in accordance with the disclosure safeguards and data exchange agreements required by part 272.
(iii) The State agency shall take action, including proper notices to households, to terminate, deny, or reduce benefits based on information obtain through the IEVS which is considered verified upon receipt. This information is social security and SSI benefit information obtained from SSA, and TANF benefit information and UIB information obtained from the agencies administering those programs. If the State agency has information that the IEVS-obtained information about a particular household is questionable, this information shall be considered unverified upon receipt and the State agency shall take action as specified in paragraph (f)(9)(iv) of this section.
(iv) Except as noted in this paragraph, prior to taking action to terminate, deny, or reduce benefits based on information obtained through the IEVS which is considered unverified upon receipt, State agencies shall independently verify the information. Such unverified information is unearned income information from IRS, wage information from SSA and SWICAs, and questionable IEVS information discussed in paragraph (f)(9)(iii) of this section. Independent verification shall include verification of the amount of the asset or income involved, whether the household actually has or had access to such asset or income such that it would be countable income or resources for SNAP purposes, and the period during which such access occurred. Except with respect to unearned income information from IRS, if a State agency has information which indicates that independent verification is not needed, such verification is not required.
(v) The State agency shall obtain independent verification of unverified information obtained from IEVS by means of contacting the household and/or the appropriate income, resource or benefit source. If the State agency chooses to contact the household, it must do so in writing, informing the household of the information which it has received, and requesting that the household respond within 10 days. If the household fails to respond in a timely manner, the State agency shall send it a notice of adverse action as specified in § 273.13. The State agency may contact the appropriate source by the means best suited to the situation. When the household or appropriate source provides the independent verification, the State agency shall properly notify the household of the action it intends to take and provide the household with an opportunity to request a fair hearing prior to any adverse action.
(10)
Mandatory use of SAVE.
Households are required to submit documentation for each alien applying for SNAP benefits in order for the State agency to verify their immigration statuses. State agencies shall verify the validity of such documents through an immigration status verification system established under section 1137 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-7) in accordance with § 272.11 of this chapter. USCIS maintains the SAVE system to conduct this verification. When using SAVE to verify immigration status, State agencies shall use the following procedures:
(i) The State agency shall provide an applicant alien with a reasonable opportunity to submit acceptable documentation of their eligible alien status prior to the 30th day following the date of application. A reasonable opportunity shall be at least 10 days from the date of the State agency's request for an acceptable document. An alien who has been given a reasonable opportunity to submit acceptable documentation and has not done so as of the 30th day following the date of application shall not be certified for benefits until acceptable documentation has been submitted. However, if the 10-day reasonable opportunity period provided by the State agency does not lapse before the 30th day following the date of application, the State agency shall provide the household with benefits no later than 30 days following the date of application
Provided
the household is otherwise eligible.
(ii) The written consent of the alien applicant shall not be required as a
condition for the State agency to contact USCIS to verify the validity of documentation.
(iii) State agencies which access the ASVI database through an automated access shall also submit USCIS Form G-845, with an attached photocopy of the alien's document, to USCIS whenever the initial automated access does not confirm the validity of the alien's documentation or a significant discrepancy exists between the data provided by the ASVI and the information provided by the applicant. Pending such responses from either the ASVI or USCIS Form G-845, the State agency shall not delay, deny, reduce, or terminate the alien's eligibility for benefits on the basis of the individual's alien status.
(iv) If the State agency determines, after complying with the requirements of this section, that the alien is not in an eligible alien status, the State agency shall take action, including proper notices to the household, to terminate, deny or reduce benefits. The State agency shall provide households the opportunity to request a fair hearing under § 273.15 prior to any adverse action.
(v) The use of SAVE shall be documented in the casefile or other agency records. When the State agency is waiting for a response from SAVE, agency records shall contain either a notation showing the date of the State agency's transmission or a copy of the USCIS Form G-845 sent to USCIS. Once the SAVE response is received, agency records shall show documentation of the ASVI Query Verification Number or contain a copy of the USCIS-annotated Form G-845. Whenever the response from automated access to the ASVI directs the eligibility worker to initiate secondary verification, agency records shall show documentation of the ASVI Query Verification Number and contain a copy of the USCIS Form G-845.
(vi) State agencies may use information contained in SAVE search results to confirm whether an alien has a sponsor who has signed a legally binding affidavit of support when evaluating the alien's application for SNAP benefits in accordance with the deeming requirements described in § 273.4(c)(2).
(11)
Use of disqualification data.
(i) Pursuant to § 273.16(i), information in the disqualified recipient database will be available for use by any State agency that executes a computer matching agreement with FNS. The State agency shall use the disqualified recipient database for the following purposes:
(A) Ascertain the appropriate penalty to impose based on past disqualifications in a case under consideration;
(B) Conduct matches as specified in § 273.16 on:
(
1
) Program application information prior to certification and for a newly added household member whenever that might occur; and
(
2
) The current recipient caseload at the time of recertification for a period of 1 year after the implementation date of this match. State agencies do not need to include minors, as that term is defined by each State.
(
3
) States having the ability to conduct a one-time match of their entire active caseload against active cases from the disqualified recipient database may do so and be exempted from the 1-year requirement to conduct matches at recertification.
(ii) State agencies shall not take any adverse action to terminate, deny, suspend, or reduce benefits to an applicant, or SNAP recipient, based on disqualified recipient match results unless the match information has been independently verified. The State agency shall provide to an applicant, or recipient, an opportunity to contest any adverse disqualified recipient match result pursuant to the provisions of § 273.13.
(iii) Independent verification shall take place separate from and prior to issuing a notice of adverse action—a two-step process. Independent verification for disqualification purposes means contacting the applicant or recipient household and/or the State agency that originated the disqualification record immediately to obtain corroborating information or documentation to support the reported disqualification information in the intentional Program violation database.
(A) Documentation may be in any form deemed appropriate and legally
sufficient by the State agency considering the adverse action. Such documentation may include, but shall not be limited to, electronic or hard copies of court decisions, administrative disqualification hearing determinations, signed disqualification consent agreements or administrative disqualification hearing waivers.
(B) A State may accept a verbal or written statement from another State agency attesting to the existence of the documentation listed in paragraph (f)(11)(iii)(A) of this section.
(C) A State may accept a verbal or written statement from the household affirming the accuracy of the disqualification information if such a statement is properly documented and included in the case record.
(D) If a State agency is not able to provide independent verification because of a lack of supporting documentation, the State agency shall so advise the requesting State agency or FNS, as appropriate, and shall take immediate action to remove the unsupported record from the disqualified recipient database in accordance with § 273.16(i)(6).
(iv) Once independent verification has been received, the requesting State agency shall review and immediately enter the information into the case record and send the appropriate notice(s) to the record subject and any remaining members of the record subject's SNAP household.
(v) Information from the disqualified recipient database is subject to the disclosure provisions in § 272.1(c) of this chapter and the routine uses described in the most recent “Notice of Revision of Privacy Act System of Records” published in the
Federal Register.
(g)
Normal processing standard
—(1)
Thirty-day processing.
The State agency shall provide eligible households that complete the initial application process an opportunity to participate (as defined in § 274.2(b)) as soon as possible, but no later than 30 calendar days following the date the application was filed, except for residents of public institutions who apply jointly for SSI and SNAP benefits prior to release from the institution in accordance with § 273.11(i). An application is filed the day the appropriate SNAP office receives an application containing the applicant's name and address, which is signed by either a responsible member of the household or the household's authorized representative. Households entitled to expedited processing are specified in paragraph (i) of this section. For residents of public institutions who apply for SNAP benefits prior to their release from the institution in accordance with § 273.11(i), the State agency shall provide an opportunity to participate as soon as possible, but not later than 30 calendar days from the date of release of the applicant from the institution.
(2)
Combined allotments.
Households which apply for initial month benefits (as described in § 273.10(a)) after the 15th of the month, are processed under normal processing timeframes, have completed the application process within 30 days of the date of application, and have been determined eligible to receive benefits for the initial month of application and the next subsequent month, may be issued a combined allotment at State agency option which includes prorated benefits for the month of application and benefits for the first full month of participation. The benefits shall be issued in accordance with § 274.2(c) of this chapter.
(3)
Denying the application.
Households that are found to be ineligible shall be sent a notice of denial as soon as possible but not later than 30 days following the date the application was filed. If the household has failed to appear for a scheduled interviewand has made no subsequent contact with the State agency to express interest in pursuing the application, the State agency shall send the household a notice of denial on the 30th day following the date of application. The household must file a new application if it wishes to participate in the program. In cases where the State agency was able to conduct an interview and request all of the necessary verification on the same day the application was filed, and no subsequent requests for verification have been made, the State agency may also deny the application on the 30th day if the State agency provided assistance to the household in obtaining verification as specified in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, but the household
failed to provide the requested verification.
(h)
Delays in processing.
If the State agency does not determine a household's eligibility and provide an opportunity to participate within 30 days following the date the application was filed, the State agency shall take the following action:
(1)
Determining cause.
The State agency shall first determine the cause of the delay using the following criteria:
(i) A delay shall be considered the fault of the household if the household has failed to complete the application process even though the State agency has taken all the action it is required to take to assist the household. The State agency must have taken the following actions before a delay can be considered the fault of the household:
(A) For households that have failed to complete the application form, the State agency must have offered, or attempted to offer, assistance in its completion.
(B) If one or more members of the household have failed to register for work, as required in § 273.7, the State agency must have informed the household of the need to register for work, determined if the household members are exempt from work registration, and given the household at least 10 days from the date of notification to register these members.
(C) In cases where verification is incomplete, the State agency must have provided the household with a statement of required verification and offered to assist the household in obtaining required verification and allowed the household sufficient time to provide the missing verification. Sufficient time shall be at least 10 days from the date of the State agency's initial request for the particular verification that was missing.
(D) For households that have failed to appear for an interview, the State agency must notify the household that it missed the scheduled interview and that the household is responsible for rescheduling a missed interview. If the household contacts the State agency within the 30 day processing period, the State agency must schedule a second interview. If the household fails to schedule a second interview, or the subsequent interview is postponed at the household's request or cannot otherwise be rescheduled until after the 20th day but before the 30th day following the date the application was filed, the household must appear for the interview, bring verification, and register members for work by the 30th day; otherwise, the delay shall be the fault of the household. If the household has failed to appear for the first interview, fails to schedule a second interview, and/or the subsequent interview is postponed at the household's request until after the 30th day following the date the application was filed, the delay shall be the fault of the household. If the household has missed both scheduled interviews and requests another interview, any delay shall be the fault of the household.
(ii) Delays that are the fault of the State agency include, but are not limited to, those cases where the State agency failed to take the actions described in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) (A) through (D) of this section.
(2)
Delays caused by the household.
(i) If by the 30th day the State agency cannot take any further action on the application due to the fault of the household, the household shall lose its entitlement to benefits for the month of application. However, the State agency shall give the household an additional 30 days to take the required action, except that, if verification is lacking, the State agency has the option of holding the application pending for only 30 days following the date of the initial request for the particular verification that was missing.
(A) The State agency has the option of sending the household either a notice of denial or a notice of pending status on the 30th day. The option chosen may vary from one project area to another, provided the same procedures apply to all households within a project area. However, if a notice of denial is sent and the household takes the required action within 60 days following the date the application was filed, the State agency shall reopen the case without requiring a new application. No further action by the State agency is required after the notice of denial or pending status is sent if the household failed to take the required
action within 60 days following the date the application was filed, or if the State agency chooses the option of holding the application pending for only 30 days following the date of the initial request for the particular verification that was missing, and the household fails to provide the necessary verification by this 30th day.
(B) State agencies may include in the notice a request that the household report all changes in circumstances since it filed its application. The information that must be contained on the notice of denial or pending status is explained in § 273.10(g)(1) (ii) and (iii).
(ii) If the household was at fault for the delay in the first 30-day period, but is found to be eligible during the second 30-day period, the State agency shall provide benefits only from the month following the month of application. The household is not entitled to benefits for the month of application when the delay was the fault of the household.
(3)
Delays caused by the State agency.
(i) Whenever a delay in the initial 30-day period is the fault of the State agency, the State agency shall take immediate corrective action. Except as specified in §§ 273.2(f)(1)(ii)(F) and 273.2(f)(10)(i), the State agency shall not deny the application if it caused the delay, but shall instead notify the household by the 30th day following the date the application was filed that its application is being held pending. The State agency shall also notify the household of any action it must take to complete the application process. If verification is lacking the State agency has the option of holding the application pending for only 30 days following the date of the initial request for the particular verification that was missing.
(ii) If the household is found to be eligible during the second 30-day period, the household shall be entitled to benefits retroactive to the month of application. If, however, the household is found to be ineligible, the State agency shall deny the application.
(4)
Delays beyond 60 days.
(i) If the State agency is at fault for not completing the application process by the end of the second 30-day period, and the case file is otherwise complete, the State agency shall continue to process the original application until an eligibility determination is reached. If the household is determined eligible, and the State agency was at fault for the delay in the initial 30 days, the household shall receive benefits retroactive to the month of application. However, if the initial delay was the household's fault, the household shall receive benefits retroactive only to the month following the month of application. The State agency may use the original application to determine the household's eligibility in the months following the 60-day period, or it may require the household to file a new application.
(ii) If the State agency is at fault for not completing the application process by the end of the second 30-day period, but the case file is not complete enough to reach an eligibility determination, the State agency may continue to process the original application, or deny the case and notify the household to file a new application. If the case is denied, the household shall also be advised of its possible entitlement to benefits lost as a result of State agency caused delays in accordance with § 273.17. If the State agency was also at fault for the delay in the initial 30 days, the amount of benefits lost would be calculated from the month of application. If, however, the household was at fault for the initial delay, the amount of benefits lost would be calculated from the month following the month of application.
(iii) If the household is at fault for not completing the application process by the end of the second 30-day period, the State agency shall deny the application and require the household to file a new application if it wishes to participate. If however, the State agency has chosen the option of holding the application pending only until 30 days following the date of the initial request for the particular verification that was missing, and verification is not received by that 30th day, the State agency may immediately close the application. A notice of denial need not be sent if the notice of pending status informed the household that it would have to file a new application if verification was not received within 30
days of the initial request. The household shall not be entitled to any lost benefits, even if the delay in the initial 30 days was the fault of the State agency.
(i)
Expedited service
—(1)
Entitlement to expedited service.
The following households are entitled to expedited service:
(i) Households with less than $150 in monthly gross income, as computed in § 273.10 provided their liquid resources (i.e., cash on hand, checking or savings accounts, savings certificates, and lump sum payments as specified in § 273.9(c)(8)) do not exceed $100;
(ii) Migrant or seasonal farmworker households who are destitute as defined in § 273.10(e)(3) provided their liquid resources (i.e., cash on hand, checking or savings accounts, savings certificates, and lump sum payments as specified in § 273.9(c)(8)) do not exceed $100;
(iii) Households whose combined monthly gross income and liquid resources are less than the household's monthly rent or mortgage, and utilities (including entitlement to a SUA, as appropriate, in accordance with § 273.9(d)).
(2)
Identifying households needing expedited service.
The State agency's application procedures shall be designed to identify households eligible for expedited service at the time the household requests assistance. For example, a receptionist, volunteer, or other employee shall be responsible for screening applications as they are filed or as individuals come in to apply.
(3)
Processing standards.
All households receiving expedited service, except those receiving it during months in which allotments are suspended or cancelled, shall have their cases processed in accordance with the following provisions. Those households receiving expedited service during suspensions or cancellations shall have their cases processed in accordance with the provisions of § 271.7(e)(2).
(i)
General.
For households entitled to expedited service, the State agency shall post benefits to the household's EBT card and make them available to the household not later than the seventh calendar day following the date an application was filed. For a resident of a public institution who applies for benefits prior to his/her release from the institution in accordance with § 273.11(i) and who is entitled to expedited service, the date of filing of his/her SNAP application is the date of release of the applicant from the institution. Whatever systems a State agency uses to ensure meeting this delivery standard shall be designed to provide the household with an EBT card and PIN no later than the seventh calendar day following the day the application was filed.
(ii)
Drug addicts and alcoholics, group living arrangement facilities.
For residents of drug addiction or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation centers and residents of group living arrangements who are entitled to expedited service, the State agency shall make benefits available to the recipient not later than the 7 calendar days following the date an application was filed.
(iii)
Out-of-office interviews.
If a household is entitled to expedited service and is also entitled to a waiver of the office interview, the State agency shall conduct the interview (unless the household cannot be reached) and complete the application process within the expedited service standards. The first day of this count is the calendar day following application filing. If the State agency conducts a telephone interview and must mail the application to the household for signature, the mailing time involved will not be calculated in the expedited service standards. Mailing time shall only include the days the application is in the mail to and from the household and the days the application is in the household's possession pending signature and mailing.
(iv)
Late determinations.
If the prescreening required in paragraph (i)(2) of this section fails to identify a household as being entitled to expedited service and the State agency subsequently discovers that the household is entitled to expedited service, the State agency shall provide expedited service to households within the processing standards described in paragraphs (i)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section, except that the processing standard shall be calculated from the date the State agency discovers the household is entitled to expedited service.
(v)
Residents of shelters for battered women and children.
Residents of shelters for battered women and children who are otherwise entitled to expedited service shall be handled in accordance with the time limits in paragraph (i)(3)(i) of this section.
(4)
Special procedures for expediting service.
The State agency shall use the following procedures when expediting certification and issuance:
(i) In order to expedite the certification process, the State agency shall use the following procedures:
(A) In all cases, the applicant's identity (i.e., the identity of the person making the application) shall be verified through a collateral contact or readily available documentary evidence as specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
(B) All reasonable efforts shall be made to verify within the expedited processing standards, the household's residency in accordance with § 273.2(f)(1)(vi), income statement (including a statement that the household has no income), liquid resources and all other factors required by § 273.2(f), through collateral contacts or readily available documentary evidence. However, benefits shall not be delayed beyond the delivery standards prescribed in paragraph (i)(3) of this section, solely because these eligibility factors have not been verified.
State agencies also may verify factors other than identity, residency, and income provided that verification can be accomplished within expedited processing standards. State agencies should attempt to obtain as much additional verification as possible during the interview, but should not delay the certification of households entitled to expedited service for the full timeframes specified in paragraph (i)(3) of this section when the State agency has determined it is unlikely that other verification can be obtained within these timeframes. Households entitled to expedited service will be asked to furnish a social security number for each person applying for benefts or apply for one for each person applying for benefits before the second full month of participation. Those household members unable to provide the required SSN's or who do not have one prior to the second full month of participation shall be allowed to continue to participate only if they satisfy the good cause requirements with respect to SSN's specified in § 273.6(d), except that households with a newborn may have up to 6 months following the month the baby was born to supply an SSN or proof of an application for an SSN for the newborn in accordance with § 273.6(b)(4). The State agency may attempt to register other household members but shall postpone the registration of other household members if it cannot be accomplished within the expedited service timeframes. With regard to the work registration requirements specified in § 273.7, the State agency shall, at a minimum, require the applicant to register (unless exempt or unless the household has designated an authorized representative to apply on its behalf in accordance with § 273.1(f)). The State agency may attempt registration of other household members by requesting that the applicant complete the work registration forms for other household members to the best of his or her ability. The State agency may also attempt to accomplish work registration for other household members in a timely manner through other means, such as calling the household. The State agency may attempt to verify questionable work registration exemptions, but such verification shall be postponed if the expedited service timeframes cannot be met.
(ii) Once an acceptable collateral contact has been designated, the State agency shall promptly contact the collateral contact, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(4)(ii) of this section. Although the household has the primary responsibility for providing other types of verification, the State agency shall assist the household in promptly obtaining the necessary verification.
(iii) Households that are certified on an expedited basis and have provided all necessary verification required in paragraph (f) of this section prior to certification shall be assigned normal certification periods. If verification was postponed, the State agency may certify these households for the month
of application (the month of application and the subsequent month for those households applying after the 15th of the month) or, at the State agency's option, may assign normal certification periods to those households whose circumstances would otherwise warrant longer certification periods. State agencies, at their option, may request any household eligible for expedited service which applies after the 15th of the month and is certified for the month of application and the subsequent month only to submit a second application (at the time of the initial certification) if the household's verification is postponed.
(A) For households applying on or before the 15th of the month, the State agency may assign a one-month certification period or assign a normal certification period. Satisfaction of the verification requirements may be postponed until the second month of participation. If a one-month certification period is assigned, the notice of eligibility may be combined with the notice of expiration or a separate notice may be sent. The notice of eligibility must explain that the household has to satisfy all verification requirements that were postponed. For subsequent months, the household must reapply and satisfy all verification requirements which were postponed or be certified under normal processing standards. If the household does not satisfy the postponed verification requirements and does not appear for the interview, the State agency does not need to contact the household again.
(B) For households applying after the 15th of the month, the State agency may assign a 2-month certification period or a normal certification period of no more than 12 months. Verification may be postponed until the third month of participation, if necessary, to meet the expedited timeframe. If a two-month certification period is assigned, the notice of eligibility may be combined with the notice of expiration or a separate notice may be sent. The notice of eligibility must explain that the household is obligated to satisfy the verification requirements that were postponed. For subsequent months, the household must reapply and satisfy the verification requirements which were postponed or be certified under normal processing standards. If the household does not satisfy the postponed verification requirements and does not attend the interview, the State agency does not need to contact the household again. When a certification period of longer than 2 months is assigned and verification is postponed, households must be sent a notice of eligibility advising that no benefits for the third month will be issued until the postponed verification requirements are satisfied. The notice must also advise the household that if the verification process results in changes in the household's eligibility or level of benefits, the State agency will act on those changes without advance notice of adverse action.
(C) Households which apply for initial benefits (as described in § 273.10(a)) after the 15th of the month, are entitled to expedited service, have completed the application process, and have been determined eligible to receive benefits for the initial month and the next subsequent month, shall receive a combined allotment consisting of prorated benefits for the initial month of application and benefits for the first full month of participation within the expedited service timeframe. If necessary, verification shall be postponed to meet the expedited timeframe. The benefits shall be issued in accordance with § 274.2(c) of this chapter.
(D) The provisions of paragraph (i)(4)(iii)(C) of this section do not apply to households which have been determined ineligible to receive benefits for the month of application or the following month, or to households which have not satisfied the postponed verification requirements. However, households eligible for expedited service may receive benefits for the initial month and next subsequent month under the verification standards of paragraph (i)(4) of this section.
(E) If the State agency chooses to exercise the option to require a second application in accordance with paragraph (i)(4)(iii) of this section and receives the application before the third month, it shall not deny the application but hold it pending until the third month. The State agency will issue the
third month's benefits within 5 working days from receipt of the necessary verification information but not before the first day of the month. If the postponed verification requirements are not completed before the end of the third month, the State agency shall terminate the household's participation and shall issue no further benefits.
(iv) There is no limit to the number of times a household can be certified under expedited procedures, as long as prior to each expedited certification, the household either completes the verification requirements that were postponed at the last expedited certification or was certified under normal processing standards since the last expedited certification. The provisions of this section shall not apply at recertification if a household reapplies before the end of its current certification period.
(v) Households requesting, but not entitled to, expedited service shall have their applications processed according to normal standards.
(j)
PA, GA and categorically eligible households.
The State agency must notify households applying for public assistance (PA) of their right to apply for SNAP benefits at the same time and must allow them to apply for SNAP benefits at the same time they apply for PA benefits. The State agency must also notify such households that time limits or other requirements that apply to the receipt of PA benefits do not apply to the receipt of SNAP benefits, and that households which cease receiving PA benefits because they have reached a time limit, have begun working, or for other reasons, may still qualify for SNAP benefits. If the State agency attempts to discourage households from applying for cash assistance, it shall make clear that the disadvantages and requirements of applying for cash assistance do not apply to SNAP benefits. In addition, it shall encourage applicants to continue with their application for SNAP benefits. The State agency shall inform households that receiving SNAP benefits will have no bearing on any other program's time limits that may apply to the household. The State agency may process the applications of such households in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j)(1) of this section, and the State agency must base their eligibility solely on SNAP eligibility criteria unless the household is categorically eligible, as provided in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. If a State has a single Statewide GA application form, households in which all members are included in a State or local GA grant may have their application for SNAP benefits included in the GA application form. State agencies may use the joint application processing procedures described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for GA recipients in accordance with paragraph (j)(3) of this section. The State agency must base eligibility of jointly processed GA households solely on SNAP eligibility criteria unless the household is categorically eligible as provided in paragraph (j)(4) of this section. The State agency must base the benefit levels of all households solely on SNAP criteria. The State agency must certify jointly processed and categorically eligible households in accordance with SNAP procedural, timeliness, and notice requirements, including the 7-day expedited service provisions of paragraph (i) of this section and normal 30-day application processing standards of paragraph (g) of this section. Individuals authorized to receive PA, SSI, or GA benefits but who have not yet received payment are considered recipients of benefits from those programs. In addition, individuals are considered recipients of PA, SSI, or GA if their PA, SSI, or GA benefits are suspended or recouped. Individuals entitled to PA, SSI, or GA benefits but who are not paid such benefits because the grant is less than a minimum benefit are also considered recipients. The State agency may not consider as recipients those individuals not receiving GA, PA, or SSI benefits who are entitled to Medicaid only.
(1)
Applicant PA households.
(i) If a joint PA/SNAP application is used, the application may contain all the information necessary to determine a household's SNAP eligibility and level of benefits. Information relevant only to SNAP eligibility must be contained in the PA form or must be an attachment to it. The joint PA/SNAP application must clearly indicate that the
household is providing information for both programs, is subject to the criminal penalties of both programs for making false statements, and waives the notice of adverse action as specified in paragraph (j)(1)(iv) of this section.
(ii) The State agency may conduct a single interview at initial application for both public assistance and SNAP purposes. A household's eligibility for SNAP out-of-office interview provisions in paragraph (e)(2) of this section does not relieve the household of any responsibility for a face-to-face interview to be certified for PA.
(iii) For households applying for both PA and SNAP benefits, the State agency must follow the verification procedures described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section for those factors of eligibility which are needed solely for purposes of determining the household's eligibility for SNAP benefits. For those factors of eligibility which are needed to determine both PA eligibility and SNAP eligibility, the State agency may use the PA verification rules. However, if the household has provided the State agency sufficient verification to meet the verification requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section, but has failed to provide sufficient verification to meet the PA verification rules, the State agency may not use such failure as a basis for denying the household's SNAP application or failing to comply with processing requirements of paragraph (g) of this section. Under these circumstances, the State agency must process the household's SNAP application and determine eligibility based on its compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(8) of this section.
(iv) In order to determine if a household will be eligible due to its status as a recipient PA/SSI household, the State agency may temporarily postpone, within the 30-day processing standard, the SNAP eligibility determination if the household is not entitled to expedited service and appears to be categorically eligible. However, the State agency shall postpone denying a potentially categorically eligible household until the 30th day in case the household is determined eligible to receive PA benefits. Once the PA application is approved, the household is to be considered categorically eligible if it meets all the criteria concerning categorical eligibility in § 273.2(j)(2). If the State agency can anticipate the amount and the date of receipt of the initial PA payment, but the payment will not be received until a subsequent month, the State agency shall vary the household's SNAP benefit level according to the anticipated receipt of the payment and notify the household. Portions of initial PA payments intended to retroactively cover a previous month shall be disregarded as lump sum payments under § 273.9(c)(8). If the amount or date of receipt of the initial PA payment cannot be reasonably anticipated at the time of the SNAP eligibility determination, the PA payments shall be handled as a change in circumstances. However, the State agency is not required to send a notice of adverse action if the receipt of the PA grant reduces, suspends or terminates the household's SNAP benefits, provided the household is notified in advance that its benefits may be reduced, suspended, or terminated when the grant is received. The case may be terminated if the household is not categorically eligible in accordance with § 273.12(c). The State agency shall ensure that the denied application of a potentially categorically eligible household is easily retrievable. For a household filing a joint application for SNAP benefits and PA benefits or a household that has a PA application pending and is denied SNAP benefits but is later determined eligible to receive PA benefits and is otherwise categorically eligible, the State agency shall provide benefits using the original application and any other pertinent information occurring subsequent to that application. Except for residents of public institutions who apply jointly for SSI and SNAP benefits prior to their release from a public institution in accordance with § 273.11(i), benefits shall be paid from the beginning of the period for which PA or SSI benefits are paid, the original SNAP application date, or December 23, 1985 whichever is later. Residents of public institutions who apply jointly for SSI and SNAP
benefits prior to their release from the institution shall be paid benefits from the date of their release from the institution. In situations where the State agency must update and reevaluate the original application of a denied case, the State agency shall not reinterview the household, but shall use any available information to update the application. The State agency shall then contact the household by phone or mail to explain and confirm changes made by the State agency and to determine if other changes in household circumstances have occurred. If any information obtained from the household differs from that which the State agency obtained from available information or the household provided additional changes in information, the State agency shall arrange for the household or it authorized representative to initial
all
changes, re-sign and date the updated application and provide necessary verification. In no event can benefits be provided prior to the date of the original SNAP application filed on or after December 23, 1985. Any household that is determined to be eligible to receive PA benefits for a period of time within the 30-day SNAP processing time, shall be provided SNAP benefits back to the date of the SNAP application. However, in no event shall SNAP benefits be paid for a month for which such household is ineligible for receipt of any PA benefits for the month, unless the household is eligible for SNAP benefits and an NPA case. Benefits shall be prorated in accordance with § 273.10(a)(1)(ii) and (e)(2)(ii)(B). Household that file joint applications that are found categorically eligible after being denied NPA SNAP benefits shall have their benefits for the initial month prorated from the date from which the PA benefits are payable, or the date of the original SNAP application, whichever is later. The State agency shall act on reevaluating the original application either at the household's request or when it becomes otherwise aware of the household's PA and/or SSI eligibility. The household shall be informed on the notice of denial required by § 273.10(g)(1)(ii) to notify the State agency if its PA or SSI benefits are approved.
(v) The State agency may not require households which file a joint PA/SNAP application and whose PA applications are denied to file new SNAP applications. Rather, the State agency must determine or continue their SNAP eligibility on the basis of the original applications filed jointly for PA and SNAP purposes. In addition, the State agency must use any other documented information obtained subsequent to the application which may have been used in the PA determination and which is relevant to SNAP eligibility or level of benefits.
(2)
Categorically eligible PA and SSI households.
(i) The following households are categorically eligible for SNAP benefits unless the entire household is institutionalized as defined in § 273.1(e) or disqualified for any reason from receiving SNAP benefits.
(A) Any household (except those listed in paragraph (j)(2)(vii) of this section) in which all members receive or are authorized to receive cash through a PA program funded in full or in part with Federal money under Title IV-A or with State money counted for maintenance of effort (MOE) purposes under Title IV-A;
(B) Any household (except those listed in paragraph (j)(2)(vii) of this section) in which all members receive or are authorized to receive non-cash or in-kind benefits or services from a program that is more than 50 percent funded with State money counted for MOE purposes under Title IV-A or Federal money under Title IV-A and that is designed to forward purposes one and two of the TANF block grant, as set forth in Section 401 of P.L. 104-193.
(C) Any household (except those listed in paragraph (j)(2)(vii) of this section) in which all members receive or are authorized to receive non-cash or in-kind benefits or services from a program that is more than 50 percent funded with State money counted for MOE purposes under Title IV-A or Federal money under Title IV-A and that is designed to further purposes three and four of the TANF block grant, as set forth in Section 401 of P.L. 104-193, and requires participants to have a gross monthly income at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty level.
(D) Any household in which all members receive or are authorized to receive SSI benefits, except that residents of public institutions who apply jointly for SSI and SNAP benefits prior to their release from the institution in accordance with § 273.11(i), are not categorically eligible upon a finding by SSA of potential SSI eligibility prior to such release. The State agency must consider the individuals categorically eligible at such time as SSA makes a final SSI eligibility and the institution has released the individual.
(E) Any household in which all members receive or are authorized to receive PA and/or SSI benefits in accordance with paragraphs (j)(2)(i)(A) through (j)(2)(i)(D) of this section.
(ii) The State agency, at its option, may extend categorical eligibility to the following households only if doing so will further the purposes of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008:
(A) Any household (except those listed in paragraph (j)(2)(vii) of this section) in which all members receive or are authorized to receive non-cash or in-kind services from a program that is less than 50 percent funded with State money counted for MOE purposes under Title IV-A or Federal money under Title IV-A and that is designed to further purposes one and two of the TANF block grant, as set forth in Section 401 of P.L. 104-193. States must inform FNS of the TANF services under this paragraph that they are determining to confer categorical eligibility.
(B) Subject to FNS approval, any household (except those listed in paragraph (j)(2)(vii) of this section) in which all members receive or are authorized to receive non-cash or in-kind services from a program that is less than 50 percent funded with State money counted for MOE purposes under Title IV-A or Federal money under Title IV-A and that is designed to further purposes three and four of the TANF block grant, as set forth in Section 401 of P.L 104-193, and requires participants to have a gross monthly income at or below 200 percent of the Federal poverty level.
(iii) Any household in which one member receives or is authorized to receive benefits according to paragraphs (j)(2)(i)(B), (j)(2)(i)(C), (j)(2)(ii)(A) and (j)(2)(ii)(B), of this section and the State agency determines that the whole household benefits.
(iv) For purposes of paragraphs (j)(2)(i), (j)(2)(ii),and (j)(2)(iii) of this section, “authorized to receive” means that an individual has been determined eligible for benefits and has been notified of this determination, even if the benefits have been authorized but not received, authorized but not accessed, suspended or recouped, or not paid because they are less than a minimum amount.
(v) The eligibility factors which are deemed for SNAP eligibility without the verification required in paragraph (f) of this section because of PA/SSI status are the resource, gross and net income limits; social security number information, sponsored alien information, and residency. However, the State agency must collect and verify factors relating to benefit determination that are not collected and verified by the other program if these factors are required to be verified under paragraph (f) of this section. If any of the following factors are questionable, the State agency must verify, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that the household which is considered categorically eligible:
(A) Contains only members that are PA or SSI recipients as defined in the introductory paragraph (j) of this section;
(B) Meets the household definition in § 273.1(a);
(C) Includes all persons who purchase and prepare food together in one SNAP household regardless of whether or not they are separate units for PA or SSI purposes; and
(D) Includes no persons who have been disqualified as provided for in paragraph (j)(2)(vi) of this section.
(vi) Households subject to retrospective budgeting that have been suspended for PA purposes as provided for in Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) regulations, or that receive zero benefits shall continue to be considered as authorized to receive benefits from the appropriate agency. Categorical eligibility shall be assumed at recertification in the absence of a
timely PA redetermination. If a recertified household is subsequently terminated from PA benefits, the procedures in § 273.12(f)(3), (4), and (5) shall be followed, as appropriate.
(vii) Under no circumstances shall any household be considered categorically eligible if:
(A) Any member of that household is disqualified for an intentional Program violation in accordance with § 273.16 or for failure to comply with monthly reporting requirements in accordance with § 273.21;
(B) The entire household is disqualified because one or more of its members failed to comply with workfare in accordance with § 273.22; or
(C) The head of the household is disqualified for failure to comply with the work requirements in accordance with § 273.7.
(D) Any member of that household is ineligible under § 273.11(m) by virtue of a conviction for a drug-related felony, under § 273.11(n) for being a fleeing felon or a probation or parole violator, or under § 273.11(s) for having a conviction of certain crimes and not being in compliance with the sentence.
(viii) These households are subject to all SNAP eligibility and benefits provisions (including the provisions of § 273.11(c)) and cannot be reinstated in the Program on the basis of categorical eligibility provisions.
(ix) No person shall be included as a member in any household which is otherwise categorically eligible if that person is:
(A) An ineligible alien as defined in § 273.4;
(B) Ineligible under the student provisions in § 273.5;
(C) An SSI recipient in a cash-out State as defined in § 273.20; or
(D) Institutionalized in a nonexempt facility as defined in § 273.1(e).
(E) Ineligible because of failure to comply with a work requirement of § 273.7.
(x) For the purposes of work registration, the exemptions in § 273.7(b) shall be applied to individuals in categorically eligible households. Any such individual who is not exempt from work registration is subject to the other work requirements in § 273.7.
(xi) When determining eligibility for a categorically eligible household all provisions of this subchapter except for those listed below shall apply:
(A) Section 273.8 except for the last sentence of paragraph (a).
(B) Section 273.9(a) except for the fourth sentence in the introductory paragraph.
(C) Section 273.10(a)(1)(i).
(D) Section 273.10(b).
(E) Section 273.10(c) for the purposes of eligibility.
(3)
Applicant GA households.
(i) State agencies may use the joint application processing procedures in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for GA households, except for the effective date of categorical eligibility, when the criteria in paragraphs (j)(3)(i) (A) and (B) of this section are met. Benefits for GA households that are categorically eligible, as provided in paragraph (j)(4) of this section, shall be provided from the date of the original SNAP application, the beginning of the period for which GA benefits are authorized, or the effective date of State GA categorical eligibility (February 1, 1991) or local GA categorical eligibility (August 1, 1992), whichever is later:
(A) The State agency administers a GA program which uses formalized application procedures and eligibility criteria that test levels of income and resources; and,
(B) Administration of the GA program is integrated with the administration of the PA or SNAP programs, in that the same eligibility workers process applications for GA benefits and PA or SNAP benefits.
(ii) State agencies in which different eligibility workers process applications for GA benefits and PA or SNAP benefits, but procedures otherwise meet the criteria in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section may, with FNS approval, jointly process GA and SNAP applications. If approved, State agencies shall adhere to the joint application processing procedures in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, except for the effective date of categorical eligibility for GA households. Benefits shall be provided GA households that are categorically eligible, as provided in paragraph (j)(4) of this section, from the date of the original SNAP application, the beginning of
the period for which GA benefits are authorized, or the effective date of State GA categorical eligibility (February 1, 1992) or local GA categorical eligibility (August 1, 1992), whichever is later.
(4)
Categorically eligible GA households.
Households in which each member receives benefits from a State or local GA program which meets the criteria for conferring categorical eligibility in paragraph (j)(4)(i) of this section shall be categorically eligible for SNAP benefits unless the individual or household is ineligible as specified in paragraph (j)(4)(iv) and (j)(4)(v) of this section.
(i)
Certification of qualifying programs.
Recipients of benefits from programs that meet the criteria in paragraphs (j)(4)(i)(A) through (j)(4(i)(C) of this section shall be considered categorically eligible to receive benefits from SNAP. If a program does not meet all of these criteria, the State agency may submit a program description to the appropriate FNS regional office for a determination. The description should contain, at a minimum, the type of assistance provided, the income eligibility standard, and the period for which the assistance is provided.
(A) The program must have income standards which do not exceed the gross income eligibility standard in § 273.9(a)(1). The rules of the GA program apply in determining countable income.
(B) The program must provide GA benefits as defined in § 271.2 of this part.
(C) The program must provide benefits which are not limited to one-time emergency assistance.
(ii)
Verification requirements.
In determining whether a household is categorically eligible, the State agency shall verify that each member receives PA benefits, SSI, or GA from a program that meets the criteria in paragraph (j)(4)(i) section or that has been certified by FNS as an appropriate program and that it includes no individuals who have been disqualified as provided in paragraph (j)(4)(iv) or (j)(2)(v) of this section. The State agency shall also verify household composition if it is questionable, in accordance with § 273.2(f), in order to determine that the household meets the definition of a household in § 273.1(a).
(iii)
Deemed eligibility factors.
When determining eligibility for a categorically eligible household, all SNAP requirements apply except the following:
(A)
Resources.
None of the provisions of § 273.8 apply to categorically eligible households except the second sentence of § 273.8(a) pertaining to categorical eligibility and § 273.8(i) concerning transfer of resources. The provision in § 273.10(b) regarding resources available the time of the interview does not apply to categorically eligible households.
(B)
Gross and net income limits.
None of the provisions in § 273.9(a) relating to income eligibility standards apply to categorically eligible households, except the fourth sentence pertaining to categorical eligibility. The provisions in §§ 273.10(a)(1)(i) and 273.10(c) relating to the income eligibility determination also do not apply to categorically eligible households.
(C)
Zero benefit households.
All eligible households of one or two persons must be provided the minimum benefit, as required by § 273.10(e)(2)(ii)(C).
(D) Residency.
(E) Sponsored alien information.
(iv)
Ineligible household members.
No person shall be included as a member of an otherwise categorically eligible household if that person is:
(A) An ineligible alien, as defined in § 273.4;
(B) An ineligible student, as defined in § 273.5;
(C) Disqualified for failure to provide or apply for an SSN, as required by § 273.6;
(D) A household member, not the head of household, disqualified for failure to comply with a work requirement of § 273.7;
(E) Disqualified for intentional program violation, as required by § 273.16;
(F) An SSI recipient in a cash-out State, as defined in § 273.20; or
(G) An individual who is institutionalized in a nonexempt facility, as defined in § 273.1(e).
(v)
Ineligible households.
A household shall not be considered categorically eligible if:
(A) It refuses to cooperate in providing information to the State agency
that is necessary for making a determination of its eligibility or for completing any subsequent review of its eligibility, as described in §§ 273.2(d) and 273.21(m)(1)(ii);
(B) The household is disqualified because the head of household fails to comply with a work requirement of § 273.7;
(C) The household is ineligible under the striker provisions of § 273.1(g); or
(D) The household is ineligible because it knowingly transferred resources for the purpose of qualifying or attempting to qualify for the Program, as provided in § 273.8(i).
(vi)
Combination households.
Households consisting entirely of recipients of PA, SSI and/or GA from a program that meets the requirements of § 273.2(j)(4)(i) shall be categorically eligible in accordance with the provisions for paragraphs (j)(2)(iii) and (j)(2)(v) of this section for members receiving PA and SSI or provisions of paragraphs (j)(4) (iv) and (v) of this section for members receiving GA.
(5)
Households with some PA or GA recipients.
State agencies that use the joint application processing procedures in paragraphs (j)(1) and (j)(3) of this section may apply these procedures to a SNAP applicant household in which some, but not all, members are in the PA/GA filing unit, except for procedures concerning categorical eligibility. If the State agency decides not to use the joint application procedures for these households, the households shall file separate applications for PA/GA and SNAP benefits. This decision shall not be made on a case-by-case basis, but shall be applied uniformly to all households of this type in a project area.
(k)
SSI households.
For purposes of this paragraph, SSI is defined as Federal SSI payments made under title XVI of the Social Security Act, federally administered optional supplementary payments under section 1616 of that Act, or federally administered mandatory supplementary payments made under section 212(a) of Pub. L. 93-66. Except in cashout States (§ 273.20), households which have not applied for SNAP benefits in the thirty preceding days, and which do not have applications pending, may apply and be certified for SNAP benefits in accordance with the procedures described in § 273.2(k)(1)(i) or § 273.2(k)(1)(ii) and with the notice, procedural and timeliness requirements of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and its implementing regulations. Households applying simultaneously for SSI and SNAP benefits shall be subject to SNAP eligibility criteria, and benefit levels shall be based solely on SNAP eligibility criteria until the household is considered categorically eligible. However, households in which all members are either PA or SSI recipients or authorized to receive PA or SSI benefits (as discussed in § 273.2(j)) shall be SNAP eligible based on their PA/SSI status as provided for in § 273.2(j)(1)(iv) and (j)(2). Households denied NPA SNAP benefits that have an SSI application pending shall be informed on the notice of denial of the possibility of categorical eligibility if they become SSI recipients. The State agency shall make an eligibility determination based on information provided by SSA or by the household.
(1)
Initial application and eligibility determination.
At each SSA office, the State agency shall either arrange for SSA to complete and forward SNAP applications, or the State agency shall outstation State SNAP eligibility workers at the SSA Offices with SSA's concurrence, based upon an agreement negotiated between the State agency and the SSA.
(i) If the State agency arranges with the SSA to complete and forward SNAP applications the following actions shall be taken:
(A) Whenever a member of a household consisting only of SSI applicants or recipients transacts business at an SSA office, the SSA shall inform the household of:
(
1
) Its right to apply for SNAP benefits at the SSA office without going to the SNAP office; and
(
2
) Its right to apply at a SNAP office if it chooses to do so.
(B) The SSA will accept and complete SNAP applications received at the SSA Office from SSI households and forward them, within one working day after receipt of a signed application, to a designated office of the State agency. SSA shall also forward to the
State agency a transmittal form which will be approved by SSA and FNS. The SSA will use the national SNAP application form for joint processing. State agencies may substitute a State SNAP application, provided that prior approval is received from both FNS and SSA. SSA shall approve, deny, or comment upon FNS-approved State SNAP applications within thirty days of their submission to SSA.
(C) SSA will accept and complete SNAP applications from SSI households received by SSA staff in contact stations. SSA will forward all SNAP applications from SSI households to the designated SNAP office.
(D) The SSA staff shall complete joint SSI and SNAP applications for residents of public institutions in accordance with § 273.11(i).
(E) The State agency shall designate an address for the SSA to forward SNAP applications and accompanying information to the State agency for eligibility determination. Applications and accompanying information must be forwarded to the agreed upon address in accordance with the time standards contained in § 273.2(k)(1)(i)(B).
(F) Except for applications taken in accordance with paragraph (k)(1)(i)(D) of this section, the State agency shall make an eligibility determination and issue SNAP benefits to eligible SSI households within 30 days following the date the application was received by the SSA. Applications shall be considered filed for normal processing purposes when the signed application is received by SSA. The expedited processing time standards shall begin on the date the State agency receives a SNAP application. The State agency shall make an eligibility determination and issue SNAP benefits to a resident of a public institution who applies jointly for SSI and SNAP benefits within 30 days following the date of the applicant's release from the institution. Expedited processing time standards for an applicant who has applied for SNAP benefits and SSI prior to release shall also begin on the date of the applicant's release from the institution in accordance with § 273.2 (i)(3)(i). SSA shall notify the State agency of the date of release of the applicant from the institution. If, for any reason, the State agency is not notified on a timely basis of the applicant's release date, the State agency shall restore benefits in accordance with § 273.17 to such applicant back to the date of release. SNAP applications and supporting documentation sent to an incorrect SNAP office shall be sent to the correct office, by the State agency, within one working day of their receipt in accordance with § 273.2(c)(2)(ii).
(G) Households in which all members are applying for or participating in SSI will not be required to see a State eligibility worker, or otherwise be subjected to an additional State interview. The SNAP application will be processed by the State agency. The State agency shall not contact the household further in order to obtain information for certification for SNAP benefits unless: the application is improperly completed; mandatory verification required by § 273.2(f)(1) is missing; or, the State agency determines that certain information on the application is questionable. In no event would the applicant be required to appear at the SNAP office to finalize the eligibility determination. Further contact made in accordance with this paragraph shall not constitute a second SNAP certification interview.
(H) SSA shall refer non-SSI households to the correct SNAP office. The State agencies shall process those applications in accordance with the procedures noted in § 273.2. Applications from such households shall be considered filed on the date the signed application is taken at the correct State agency office, and the normal and expedited processing time standards shall begin on that date.
(I) The SSA shall prescreen all applications for entitlement to expedited services on the day the application is received at the SSA office and shall mark “Expedited Processing” on the first page of all households' applications that appear to be entitled to such processing. The SSA will inform households which appear to meet the criteria for expedited service that benefits may be issued a few days sooner if the household applies directly at the SNAP office. The household may take the application from SSA to the SNAP office
for screening, an interview, and processing of the application. This provision does not apply to applications described in paragraph (k)(1)(i)(D) of this section.
(J) The State agency shall prescreen all applications received from the SSA for entitlement to expedited service on the day the application is received at the correct SNAP office. All SSI households entitled to expedited service shall be certified in accordance with § 273.2(i) except that the expedited processing time standard shall begin on the date the application is received at the correct State agency office, unless the applicant is a resident of a public institution as described in § 273.11(i).
(K) The State agency shall develop and implement a method to determine if members of SSI households whose applications are forwarded by the SSA are already participating in SNAP directly through the State agency.
(L) If SSA takes an SSI application or redetermination on the telephone from a member of a pure SSI household, a SNAP application shall also be completed during the telephone interview. In these cases, the SNAP application shall be mailed to the claimant for signature for return to the SSA office or to the State agency. SSA shall then forward any SNAP applications it receives to the State agency. The State agency may not require the household to be interviewed again in the SNAP office. The State agency shall not contact the household further in order to obtain information for certification for SNAP benefits except in accordance with § 273.2(k)(1)(i)(F).
(M) To SSI recipients redetermined for SSI by mail, the SSA shall send a stuffer informing them of their right to file a SNAP application at the SSA office (if they are members of a pure SSI household) or at their local SNAP office, and their right to an out-of-office SNAP interview to be performed by the State agency if the household is unable to appoint an authorized representative.
(N) Section 272.4 bilingual requirements shall not apply to the Social Security Administration.
(O) State agencies shall provide and SSA shall distribute an information sheet or brochure to all households processed under this paragraph. This material shall inform the household of the following: The address and telephone number of the household's correct SNAP office, the remaining actions to be taken in the application process, and a statement that a household should be notified of the SNAP determinations within thirty days and can contact the SNAP office if it receives no notification within thirty days, or has other questions or problems. It shall also include the client's rights and responsibilities (including fair hearings, authorized representatives, out-of-office interviews, reporting changes and timely reapplication), information on how and where to obtain an EBT card and PIN and how to use an EBT card and PIN (including the commodities clients may purchase with SNAP benefits.
(P) As part of the SSA-State agency joint SNAP processing agreement, States may negotiate, on behalf of project areas, to have SSA provide initial eligibility and payment data where the local area is unable to access accurate and timely data through the State's SDX. However, in negotiating such agreements, SSA may challenge a State's determination that it does not have the computer capability to use SDX data. If SSA, FNS, and the State are unable to resolve this matter, and SSA determines that a State does have the capability to provide accurate and timely SDX data to the SNAP project area, SSA is not required to provide alternate means of transmitting initial SSI eligibility and payment data.
(ii) If the State agency chooses to outstation eligibility workers at SSA offices, with SSA's concurrence, the following actions shall be completed.
(A) SSA will provide adequate space for State SNAP eligibility workers in SSA offices.
(B) The State agency shall have at least one outstationed worker on duty at all time periods during which households will be referred for SNAP application processing. In most cases this would require the availability of an outstationed worker throughout normal SSA business hours.
(C) The following households shall be entitled to file SNAP applications
with, and be interviewed by an outstationed eligibility worker:
(
1
) Households containing an applicant for or recipient of SSI;
(
2
) Households which do not have an applicant for or recipient of SSI, but which contain an applicant for or recipient of benefits under title II of the Social Security Act, if the State agency and SSA have an agreement to allow the processing of such households at SSA offices.
(D) Households shall be interviewed for SNAP benefits on the day of application unless there is insufficient time to conduct an interview. The State agency shall arrange for the outstationed worker to interview applicants as soon as possible.
(E) The State agency shall not refuse to provide service to persons served by the SSA office because they do not reside in the county or project area in which the SSA office is located, provided, however, that they reside within the jurisdictions served by the SSA office and the State agency. The State agency is not required to process the applications of persons who are not residing within the SSA office jurisdiction but who do reside within the State agency's jurisdiction, other than to forward the forms to the correct SNAP offices.
(F) The State agency may permit the eligibility worker outstationed at the SSA to determine the eligibility of households, or may require that completed applications be forwarded elsewhere for the eligibility determination.
(G) Applications from households entitled to joint processing through an outstationed eligibility worker shall be considered filed on the date they are submitted to that worker. Both the normal and expedited service time standards shall begin on that date.
(H) Households not entitled to joint processing shall be entitled to obtain and submit applications at the SSA office. The outstationed eligibility worker need not process these applications except to forward them to the correct SNAP office where they shall be considered filed upon receipt (any activities beyond acceptance and referral of the application would require SSA concurrence). Both the normal and expedited service time standards shall begin on that date.
(iii) Regardless of whether the State agency or SSA conducts the SNAP interview, the following actions shall be taken:
(A)
Verification.
(
1
) The State agency shall ensure that information required by § 273.2(f) is verified prior to certification for households initially applying. Households entitled to expedited certification services shall be processed in accordance with § 273.2(i).
(
2
) The State agency has the option of verifying SSI benefit payments through the State Data Exchange (SDX), the Beneficiary Data Exchange (BENDEX) and/or through verification provided by the household.
(
3
) State agencies may verify other information through SDX and BENDEX but only to the extent permitted by data exchange agreements with SSA. Information verified through SDX or BENDEX shall not be reverified unless it is questionable. Households shall be given the opportunity to provide verification from another source if all necessary information is not available on the SDX or the BENDEX, or if the SDX/BENDEX information is contradictory to other household information.
(B)
Certification period.
(
1
) State agencies shall certify households under these procedures for up to twelve months, according to the standards in § 273.10(f), except for State agencies which must assign the initial certification period to coincide with adjustments to the SSI benefit amount as designated in § 273.10(f)(3)(iii).
(
2
) In cases jointly processed in which the SSI determination results in denial, and the State agency believes that SNAP eligibility or benefit levels may be affected, the State agency shall send the household a notice of expiration advising that the certification period will expire the end of the month following the month in which the notice is sent and that it must reapply if it wishes to continue to participate. The notice shall also explain that its certification period is expiring because of changes in circumstances which may
affect SNAP eligibility or benefit levels and that the household may be entitled to an out-of-office interview, in accordance with § 273.2(e)(2).
(C)
Changes in circumstances.
(
1
) Households shall report changes in accordance with the requirements in § 273.12. The State agency shall process changes in accordance with § 273.12.
(
2
) Within ten days of learning of the determination of the application for SSI through SDX, the household, advisement from SSA where SSA agrees to do so for households processed under § 273.2(k)(1)(i), or from any other source, the State agency shall take required action in accordance with § 273.12. State agencies are encouraged to monitor the results of the SSI determination through SDX and BENDEX to the extent practical.
(
3
) The State agency shall process adjustments to SSI cases resulting from mass changes, in accordance with provisions of § 273.12(e).
(D)
SSI households applying at the SNAP office.
The State agency shall allow SSI households to submit SNAP applications to local SNAP offices rather than through the SSA if the household chooses. In such cases all verification, including that pertaining to SSI program benefits, shall be provided by the household, by SDX or BENDEX, or obtained by the State agency rather than being provided by the SSA.
(E)
Restoration of lost benefits.
The State agency shall restore to the household benefits which were lost whenever the loss was caused by an error by the State agency or by the Social Security Administration through joint processing. Such an error shall include, but not be limited to, the loss of an applicant's SNAP application after it has been filed with SSA or with a State agency's outstationed worker. Lost benefits shall be restored in accordance with § 273.17.
(2)
Recertification.
(i) The State agency shall complete the application process and approve or deny timely applications for recertification in accordance with § 273.14 of the SNAP regulations. A face-to-face interview shall be waived if requested by a household consisting entirely of SSI participants unable to appoint an authorized representative. The State agency shall provide SSI households with a notice of expiration in accordance with § 273.14(b), except that such notification shall inform households consisting entirely of SSI recipients that they are entitled to a waiver of a face-to-face interview if the household is unable to appoint an authorized representative.
(ii) Households shall be entitled to make a timely application (in accordance with § 273.14(b)(3)) for SNAP recertification at an SSA office under the following conditions.
(A) In SSA offices where § 273.2(k)(1)(i) is in effect, SSA shall accept the application of a pure SSI household and forward the completed application, transmittal form and any available verification to the designated SNAP office. Where SSA accepts and refers the application in such situations, the household shall not be required to appear at a second office interview, although the State agency may conduct an out-of-office interview, if necessary.
(B) In SSA offices where § 273.2(k)(1)(ii) is in effect, the outstationed worker shall accept the application and interview the recipient and the State agency shall process the application according to § 273.14.
(l)
Households applying for or receiving social security benefits.
An applicant for or recipient of social security benefits under title II of the Social Security Act shall be informed at the SSA office of the availability of benefits under SNAP and the availability of a SNAP application at the SSA office. The SSA office is not required to accept applications and conduct interviews for title II applicants/recipients in the manner prescribed in § 273.2(k) for SSI applicants/recipients unless the State agency has chosen to outstation eligibility workers at the SSA office and has an agreement with SSA to allow the processing of such households at SSA offices. In these cases, processing shall be in accordance with § 273.2(k)(1)(ii).
(m)
Households where not all members are applying for or receiving SSI.
An applicant for or recipient of SSI shall be informed at the SSA office of the availability of benefits under SNAP and the availability of a SNAP application at the SSA office. The SSA office is not
required to accept applications or to conduct interviews for SSI applicants or recipients who are not members of households in which all are SSI applicants or recipients unless the State agency has chosen to outstation eligibility workers at the SSA office. In this case, processing shall be in accordance with § 273.2(k)(1)(ii).
(n)
Authorized representatives.
Representatives may be authorized to act on behalf of a household in the application process, in obtaining SNAP benefits, and in using SNAP benefits.
(1)
Application processing and reporting.
The State agency shall inform applicants and prospective applicants that indicate that they may have difficulty completing the application process, that a nonhousehold member may be designated as the authorized representative for application processing purposes. The household member or the authorized representative may complete work registration forms for those household members required to register for work. The authorized representative designated for application processing purposes may also carry out household responsibilities during the certification period, such as reporting changes in the household's income or other household circumstances in accordance with §§ 273.12(a) and 273.21. Except for those situations in which a drug and alcohol treatment center or other group living arrangement acts as the authorized representative, the State agency must inform the household that the household will be held liable for any overissuance that results from erroneous information given by the authorized representative.
(i) A nonhousehold member may be designated as an authorized representative for the application process provided that the person is an adult who is sufficiently aware of relevant household circumstances and the authorized representative designation has been made in writing by the head of the household, the spouse, or another responsible member of the household. Paragraph (n)(4) of this section contains further restrictions on who can be designated an authorized representative.
(ii) Residents of drug or alcohol treatment centers must apply and be certified through the use of authorized representatives in accordance with § 273.11(e). Residents of group living arrangements have the option to apply and be certified through the use of authorized representatives in accordance with § 273.11(f).
(2)
Obtaining SNAP benefits.
An authorized representative may be designated to obtain benefits. Even if the household is able to obtain benefits, it should be encouraged to name an authorized representative for obtaining benefits in case of illness or other circumstances which might result in an inability to obtain benefits. The name of the authorized representative must be recorded in the household's case record. The authorized representative for obtaining benefits may or may not be the same individual designated as an authorized representative for the application process or for meeting reporting requirements during the certification period.
(3)
Using benefits.
A household may allow any household member or nonmember to use its EBT card to purchase food or meals, if authorized, for the household. Drug or alcohol treatment centers and group living arrangements which act as authorized representatives for residents of the facilities must use SNAP benefits for food prepared and served to those residents participating in SNAP (except when residents leave the facility as provided in § 273.11(e) and (f)).
(4)
Restrictions on designations of authorized representatives.
(i) The State agency must restrict the use of authorized representatives for purposes of application processing and obtaining SNAP benefits as follows:
(A) State agency employees who are involved in the certification or issuance processes and retailers who are authorized to accept SNAP benefits may not act as authorized representatives without the specific written approval of a designated State agency official and only if that official determines that no one else is available to serve as an authorized representative.
(B) An individual disqualified for an intentional Program violation cannot act as an authorized representative
during the disqualification period, unless the State agency has determined that no one else is available to serve as an authorized representative. The State agency must separately determine whether the individual is needed to apply on behalf of the household, or to obtain benefits on behalf of the household.
(C) If a State agency has determined that an authorized representative has knowingly provided false information about household circumstances or has made improper use of benefits, it may disqualify that person from being an authorized representative for up to one year. The State agency must send written notification to the affected household(s) and the authorized representative 30 days prior to the date of disqualification. The notification must specify the reason for the proposed action and the household's right to request a fair hearing. This provision is not applicable in the case of drug and alcoholic treatment centers and those group homes which act as authorized representatives for their residents. However, drug and alcohol treatment centers and the heads of group living arrangements that act as authorized representatives for their residents, and which intentionally misrepresent households circumstances, may be prosecuted under applicable Federal and State statutes for their acts.
(D) Homeless meal providers, as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter, may not act as authorized representatives for homeless SNAP recipients.
(ii) In order to prevent abuse of the program, the State agency may set a limit on the number of households an authorized representative may represent.
(iii) In the event employers, such as those that employ migrant or seasonal farmworkers, are designated as authorized representatives or that a single authorized representative has access to a large number of EBT accounts, the State agency should exercise caution to assure that each household has freely requested the assistance of the authorized representative, the household's circumstances are correctly represented, the household is receiving the correct amount of benefits and that the authorized representative is properly using the benefits.
(o) Each State agency shall require the individual applying for SNAP benefits to attest to whether the individual or any other member of the household has been convicted of a crime as an adult as described in § 273.11(s) and whether the convicted member is complying with the terms of the sentence.
(1) The State agency shall update its application process, including certification and recertification procedures, to include the attestation requirement. Attestations may be done in writing, verbally, or both, provided that the attestation requirement shall be explained to the applicant household during the interview and the attestation is legally binding in the law of the State. Whatever procedure a State chooses to implement must be reasonable and consistent for all households applying for SNAP benefits. However, no individual shall be required to come to the SNAP office solely for an attestation.
(2) The State agency shall document this attestation in the case file.
(3) The State agency shall establish standards for verification of only those attestations that are questionable, as described in § 273.2(f)(2). When verifying an attestation, the State agency must verify any conviction for a crime described in § 273.11(s) and that the individual is not in compliance with the terms of the sentence.
(4) Application processing shall not be delayed beyond required processing timeframes solely because the State agency has not obtained verification of an attestation. The State agency shall continue to process the application while awaiting verification. If the State agency is required to act on the case without being able to verify an attestation in order to meet the time standards in § 273.2(g) or § 273.2(i)(3), the State agency shall process the application without consideration of the individual's felony and compliance status.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.2, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart B—Residency and Citizenship
§ 273.3
Residency.
(a) A household shall live in the State in which it files an application for participation. The State agency may also require a household to file an application for participation in a specified project area (as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter) or office within the State. No individual may participate as a member of more than one household or in more than one project area, in any month, unless an individual is a resident of a shelter for battered women and children as defined in § 271.2 and was a member of a household containing the person who had abused him or her. Residents of shelters for battered women and children shall be handled in accordance with § 273.11(g). The State agency shall not impose any durational residency requirements. The State agency shall not require an otherwise eligible household to reside in a permanent dwelling or have a fixed mailing address as a condition of eligibility. Nor shall residency require an intent to reside permanently in the State or project area. Persons in a project area solely for vacation purposes shall not be considered residents.
(b) When a household moves within the State, the State agency may require the household to reapply in the new project area or it may transfer the household's casefile to the new project area and continue the household's certification without reapplication. If the State agency chooses to transfer the case, it shall act on changes in household circumstances resulting from the move in accordance with § 273.12(c) or § 273.21. It shall also ensure that duplicate participation does not occur in accordance with § 272.4(f) of this chapter, and that the transfer of a household's case shall not adversely affect the household.
[46 FR 60166, Dec. 8, 1981, as amended by Amdt. 211, 47 FR 53317, Nov. 26, 1982; Amdt. 269, 51 FR 10785, Mar. 28, 1986; Amdt. 274, 51 FR 18750, May 21, 1986; Amdt. 364, 61 FR 54317, Oct. 17, 1996]
§ 273.4
Citizenship and alien status.
(a)
Household members meeting citizenship or alien status requirements.
No person is eligible to participate in the Program unless that person is:
(1) A U.S. citizen
1
;
1
For guidance, see the DOJ Interim Guidance published November 17, 1997 (62 FR 61344).
(2) A U.S. non-citizen national
1
(3) An individual who is:
(i) An American Indian born in Canada who possesses at least 50 per centum of blood of the American Indian race to whom the provisions of section 289 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) (8 U.S.C. 1359) apply; or
(ii) A member of an Indian tribe as defined in section 4(e) of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b(e)) which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the U.S. to Indians because of their status as Indians;
(4) An individual who is:
(i) Lawfully residing in the U.S. and was a member of a Hmong or Highland Laotian tribe at the time that the tribe rendered assistance to U.S. personnel by taking part in a military or rescue operation during the Vietnam era beginning August 5, 1964, and ending May 7, 1975;
(ii) The spouse, or surviving spouse of such Hmong or Highland Laotian who is deceased, or
(iii) An unmarried dependent child of such Hmong or Highland Laotian who is under the age of 18 or if a full-time student under the age of 22; an unmarried child under the age of 18 or if a full time student under the age of 22 of such a deceased Hmong or Highland Laotian provided the child was dependent upon him or her at the time of his or her death; or an unmarried disabled child age 18 or older if the child was disabled and dependent on the person prior to the child's 18th birthday. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(4)(iii), child means the legally adopted or biological child of the person described in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, or
(5) An individual who is:
(i) An alien who has been subjected to a severe form of trafficking in persons and who is certified by the Department of Health and Human Services, to the same extent as an alien who is admitted to the United States
as a refugee under Section 207 of the INA; or
(ii) An alien who has been subjected to a severe form of trafficking in persons and who is under the age of 18, to the same extent as an alien who is admitted to the United States as a refugee under Section 207 of the INA;
(iii) The spouse, child, parent or unmarried minor sibling of a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons under 21 years of age, and who has received a derivative T visa, to the same extent as an alien who is admitted to the United States as a refugee under Section 207 of the INA; or
(iv) The spouse or child of a victim of a severe form of trafficking in persons 21 years of age or older, and who has received a derivative T visa, to the same extent as an alien who is admitted to the United States as a refugee under Section 207 of the INA; or
(6) An individual who is both a qualified alien as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section and an eligible alien as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) or (a)(6)(iii) of this section.
(i) A qualified alien is:
(A) An alien who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the INA;
(B) An alien who is granted asylum under section 208 of the INA;
(C) A refugee who is admitted to the United States under section 207 of the INA;
(D) An alien who is paroled into the U.S. under section 212(d)(5) of the INA for a period of at least 1 year;
(E) An alien whose deportation is being withheld under section 243(h) of the INA as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, or whose removal is withheld under section 241(b)(3) of the INA;
(F) An alien who is granted conditional entry pursuant to section 203(a)(7) of the INA as in effect prior to April 1, 1980;
(G) An alien who has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty in the U.S. by a spouse or a parent or by a member of the spouse or parent's family residing in the same household as the alien at the time of the abuse, an alien whose child has been battered or subjected to battery or cruelty, or an alien child whose parent has been battered;
2
or
2
For guidance, see Exhibit B to Attachment 5 of the DOJ Interim Guidance published at 62 FR 61344 on November 17, 1997.
(H) An alien who is a Cuban or Haitian entrant, as defined in section 501(e) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980.
(ii) A qualified alien, as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, is eligible to receive SNAP benefits and is not subject to the requirement to be in qualified status for 5 years as set forth in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section, if such individual meets at least one of the criteria of this paragraph (a)(6)(ii):
(A) An alien age 18 or older lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the INA who has 40 qualifying quarters as determined under Title II of the SSA, including qualifying quarters of work not covered by Title II of the SSA, based on the sum of: quarters the alien worked; quarters credited from the work of a parent of the alien before the alien became 18 (including quarters worked before the alien was born or adopted); and quarters credited from the work of a spouse of the alien during their marriage if they are still married or the spouse is deceased.
(
1
) A spouse may not get credit for quarters of a spouse when the couple divorces prior to a determination of SNAP eligibility. However, if the State agency determines eligibility of an alien based on the quarters of coverage of the spouse, and then the couple divorces, the alien's eligibility continues until the next recertification. At that time, the State agency must determine the alien's eligibility without crediting the alien with the former spouse's quarters of coverage.
(
2
) After December 31, 1996, a quarter in which the alien actually received any Federal means-tested public benefit, as defined by the agency providing the benefit, or actually received SNAP benefits is not creditable toward the 40-quarter total. Likewise, a parent's or spouse's quarter is not creditable if the parent or spouse actually received any Federal means-tested public benefit or actually received SNAP benefits in that quarter. The State agency must
evaluate quarters of coverage and receipt of Federal means-tested public benefits on a calendar year basis. The State agency must first determine the number of quarters creditable in a calendar year, then identify those quarters in which the alien (or the parent(s) or spouse of the alien) received Federal means-tested public benefits and then remove those quarters from the number of quarters of coverage earned or credited to the alien in that calendar year. However, if the alien earns the 40th quarter of coverage prior to applying for SNAP benefits or any other Federal means-tested public benefit in that same quarter, the State agency must allow that quarter toward the 40 qualifying quarters total;
(B) An alien admitted as a refugee under section 207 of the INA;
(C) An alien granted asylum under section 208 of the INA;
(D) An alien whose deportation is withheld under section 243(h) of the INA as in effect prior to April 1, 1997, or whose removal is withheld under section 241(b)(3) or the INA;
(E) An alien granted status as a Cuban or Haitian entrant (as defined in section 501(e) of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980);
(F) An Amerasian admitted pursuant to section 584 of Public Law 100-202, as amended by Public Law 100-461;
(G) An alien with one of the following military connections:
(
1
) A veteran who was honorably discharged for reasons other than alien status, who fulfills the minimum active-duty service requirements of 38 U.S.C. 5303A(d), including an individual who died in active military, naval or air service. The definition of veteran includes an individual who served before July 1, 1946, in the organized military forces of the Government of the Commonwealth of the Philippines while such forces were in the service of the Armed Forces of the U.S. or in the Philippine Scouts, as described in 38 U.S.C. 107;
(
2
) An individual on active duty in the Armed Forces of the U.S. (other than for training); or
(
3
) The spouse and unmarried dependent children of a person described in paragraphs (a)(6)(ii)(G)(
1
) or (a)(6)(ii)(G)(
2
) of this section, including the spouse of a deceased veteran, provided the marriage fulfilled the requirements of 38 U.S.C. 1304, and the spouse has not remarried. An unmarried dependent child for purposes of this paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(G)(
3
) is: a child who is under the age of 18 or, if a full-time student, under the age of 22; such unmarried dependent child of a deceased veteran provided such child was dependent upon the veteran at the time of the veteran's death; or an unmarried disabled child age 18 or older if the child was disabled and dependent on the veteran prior to the child's 18th birthday. For purposes of this paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(G)(
3
), child means the legally adopted or biological child of the person described in paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(G)(
1
) or (a)(6)(ii)(G)(
2
) of this section.
(H) An individual who is receiving benefits or assistance for blindness or disability (as specified in § 271.2 of this chapter).
(I) An individual who on August 22, 1996, was lawfully residing in the U.S., and was born on or before August 22, 1931; or
(J) An individual who is under 18 years of age.
(iii) The following qualified aliens, as defined in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, must be in a qualified status for 5 years before being eligible to receive SNAP benefits. The 5 years in qualified status may be either consecutive or nonconsecutive. Temporary absences of less than 6 months from the United States with no intention of abandoning U.S. residency do not terminate or interrupt the individual's period of U.S. residency. If the resident is absent for more than 6 months, the agency shall presume that U.S. residency was interrupted unless the alien presents evidence of his or her intent to resume U.S. residency. In determining whether an alien with an interrupted period of U.S. residency has resided in the United States for 5 years, the agency shall consider all months of residency in the United States, including any months of residency before the interruption:
(A) An alien age 18 or older lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the INA.
(B) An alien who is paroled into the U.S. under section 212(d)(5) of the INA for a period of at least 1 year;
(C) An alien who has been battered or subjected to extreme cruelty in the U.S. by a spouse or a parent or by a member of the spouse or parent's family residing in the same household as the alien at the time of the abuse, an alien whose child has been battered or subjected to battery or cruelty, or an alien child whose parent has been battered;
(D) An alien who is granted conditional entry pursuant to section 203(a)(7) of the INA as in effect prior to April 1, 1980.
(iv) Each category of eligible alien status stands alone for purposes of determining eligibility. Subsequent adjustment to a more limited status does not override eligibility based on an earlier less rigorous status. Likewise, if eligibility expires under one eligible status, the State agency must determine if eligibility exists under another status.
(7) For purposes of determining eligible alien status in accordance with paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(6)(ii)(I) of this section “lawfully residing in the U.S.” means that the alien is lawfully present as defined at 8 CFR 103.12(a).
(b)
Reporting illegal aliens.
(1) The State agency must inform the local USCIS office immediately whenever personnel responsible for the certification or recertification of households determine that any member of a household is ineligible to receive SNAP benefits because the member is present in the U.S. in violation of the INA. The State agency may meet this requirement by conforming with the Interagency Notice providing guidance for compliance with PRWORA section 404 published on September 28, 2000 (65 FR 58301).
(2) When a household indicates inability or unwillingness to provide documentation of alien status for any household member, the State agency must classify that member as an ineligible alien. When a person indicates inability or unwillingness to provide documentation of alien status, the State agency must classify that person as an ineligible alien. In such cases the State agency must not continue efforts to obtain that documentation.
(c)
Households containing sponsored alien members
—(1)
Definition.
A sponsored alien is an alien for whom a person (the sponsor) has executed an affidavit of support (USCIS Form I-864 or I-864A) on behalf of the alien pursuant to section 213A of the INA.
(2)
Deeming of sponsor's income and resources.
For purposes of this paragraph (c)(2), only in the event a sponsored alien is an eligible alien in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section will the State agency consider available to the household the income and resources of the sponsor and spouse. For purposes of determining the eligibility and benefit level of a household of which an eligible sponsored alien is a member, the State agency must deem the income and resources of sponsor and the sponsor's spouse, if he or she has executed USCIS Form I-864 or I-864A, as the unearned income and resources of the sponsored alien. The State agency must deem the sponsor's income and resources until the alien gains U. S. citizenship, has worked or can receive credit for 40 qualifying quarters of work as described in paragraph (a)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, or the sponsor dies.
(i) The monthly income of the sponsor and sponsor's spouse (if he or she has executed USCIS Form I-864 or I-864A) deemed as that of the eligible sponsored alien must be the total monthly earned and unearned income, as defined in § 273.9(b) with the exclusions provided in § 273.9(c) of the sponsor and sponsor's spouse at the time the household containing the sponsored alien member applies or is recertified for participation, reduced by:
(A) A 20 percent earned income amount for that portion of the income determined as earned income of the sponsor and the sponsor's spouse; and
(B) An amount equal to the Program's monthly gross income eligibility limit for a household equal in size to the sponsor, the sponsor's spouse, and any other person who is claimed or could be claimed by the sponsor or the sponsor's spouse as a dependent for Federal income tax purposes.
(ii) If the alien has already reported gross income information on his or her sponsor in compliance with the sponsored alien rules of another State agency administered assistance program, the State agency may use that income amount for SNAP deeming purposes. However, the State agency must limit allowable reductions to the total gross income of the sponsor and the sponsor's spouse prior to attributing an income amount to the alien to amounts specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i)(A) and (c)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
(iii) The State agency must consider as income to the alien any money the sponsor or the sponsor's spouse pays to the eligible sponsored alien, but only to the extent that the money exceeds the amount deemed to the eligible sponsored alien in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.
(iv) The State agency must deem as available to the eligible sponsored alien the total amount of the resources of the sponsor and sponsor's spouse as determined in accordance with § 273.8, reduced by $1,500.
(v) If a sponsored alien can demonstrate to the State agency's satisfaction that his or her sponsor is the sponsor of other aliens, the State agency must divide the income and resources deemed under the provisions of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section by the number of such sponsored aliens. The State agency must use the same procedure to determine the amount of deemed income and resources to exclude in the case of a sponsored alien or a citizen child of a sponsored alien who is exempt from deeming in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3)(vi) or (c)(3)(vii) of this section.
(3)
Exempt aliens.
The provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section do not apply to:
(i) An alien who is a member of his or her sponsor's SNAP household;
(ii) An alien who is sponsored by an organization or group as opposed to an individual;
(iii) An alien who is not required to have a sponsor under the Immigration and Nationality Act, such as a refugee, a parolee, an asylee, or a Cuban or Haitian entrant;
(iv) An indigent alien that the State agency has determined is unable to obtain food and shelter taking into account the alien's own income plus any cash, food, housing, or other assistance provided by other individuals, including the sponsor(s). Prior to determining whether an alien is indigent, the State agency must explain the purpose of the determination to the alien and/or household representative and provide the alien and/or household representative the opportunity to refuse the determination. If the household refuses the determination, the State agency will not complete the determination and will deem the sponsor's income and resources to the alien's household in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The State agency must inform the sponsored alien of the consequences of refusing this determination. For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3)(iv), the phrase “is unable to obtain food and shelter” means that the sum of the eligible sponsored alien's household's own income, the cash contributions of the sponsor and others, and the value of any in-kind assistance the sponsor and others provide, does not exceed 130 percent of the poverty income guideline for the household's size. The State agency must determine the amount of income and other assistance provided in the month of application. If the alien is indigent, the only amount that the State agency must deem to such an alien will be the amount actually provided for a period beginning on the date of such determination and ending 12 months after such date. Each indigence determination is renewable for additional 12-month periods. The State agency must notify the Attorney General of each such determination, including the names of the sponsor and the sponsored alien involved. State agencies may develop an administrative process under which information about the sponsored alien is not shared with the Attorney General or the sponsor without the sponsored alien's consent. The State agency must inform the sponsored alien of the consequences of failure to provide such consent. If the sponsored alien fails to provide consent, he or she shall be ineligible pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section, and the State agency shall determine the eligibility and benefit level of
the remaining household members in accordance with § 273.11(c).
(v) A battered alien spouse, alien parent of a battered child, or child of a battered alien, for 12 months after the State agency determines that the battering is substantially connected to the need for benefits, and the battered individual does not live with the batterer.
3
After 12 months, the State agency must not deem the batterer's income and resources if the battery is recognized by a court or the USCIS and has a substantial connection to the need for benefits, and the alien does not live with the batterer.
3
For guidance, see Exhibit B to Attachment 5 of the DOJ Interim Guidance published November 17, 1997 (62 FR 61344).
(vi) A sponsored alien child under 18 years of age of a sponsored alien.
(vii) A citizen child under age 18 of a sponsored alien.
(4)
Eligible sponsored alien's responsibilities.
During the period the alien is subject to deeming, the eligible sponsored alien is responsible for obtaining the cooperation of the sponsor and for providing the State agency at the time of application and at the time of recertification with the information and documentation necessary to calculate deemed income and resources in accordance with paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(v) of this section. The eligible sponsored alien is responsible for providing the names and other identifying factors of other aliens for whom the alien's sponsor has signed an affidavit of support. The State agency must attribute the entire amount of income and resources to the applicant eligible sponsored alien until he or she provides the information specified under this paragraph (c)(4). The eligible sponsored alien is also responsible for reporting the required information about the sponsor and sponsor's spouse should the alien obtain a different sponsor during the certification period and for reporting a change in income should the sponsor or the sponsor's spouse change or lose employment or die during the certification period. The State agency must handle such changes in accordance with the timeliness standards described in § 273.12 or § 273.21, as appropriate.
(5)
Awaiting verification.
Until the alien provides information or verification necessary to carry out the provisions of paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the sponsored alien is ineligible. The State agency must determine the eligibility of any remaining household members. The State agency must consider available to the remaining household members the income and resources of the ineligible alien (excluding the deemed income and resources of the alien's sponsor and sponsor's spouse) in determining the eligibility and benefit level of the remaining household members in accordance with § 273.11(c). If the sponsored alien refuses to cooperate in providing information or verification, other adult members of the alien's household are responsible for providing the information or verification required in accordance with the provisions of § 273.2(d). If the State agency subsequently receives information or verification, it must act on the information as a reported change in household membership in accordance with the timeliness standards in § 273.12 or § 273.21, as appropriate. If the same sponsor is responsible for the entire household, the entire household is ineligible until such time as the household provides the needed sponsor information or verification. The State agency must assist aliens in obtaining verification in accordance with the provisions of § 273.2(f)(5).
(6)
Demands for restitution.
The State agency must exclude any sponsor who is participating in the Program from any demand made under 8 CFR 213a.4(a) for the value of SNAP benefits issued to an eligible sponsored alien he or she sponsors.
[Amdt. 388, 65 FR 70200, Nov. 21, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 4947, Jan. 29, 2010]

# Subpart C—Education and Employment
§ 273.5
Students.
(a)
Applicability.
An individual who is enrolled at least half-time in an institution of higher education shall be ineligible to participate in SNAP unless the individual qualifies for one of the exemptions contained in paragraph (b)
of this section. An individual is considered to be enrolled in an institution of higher education if the individual is enrolled in a business, technical, trade, or vocational school that normally requires a high school diploma or equivalency certificate for enrollment in the curriculum or if the individual is enrolled in a regular curriculum at a college or university that offers degree programs regardless of whether a high school diploma is required.
(b)
Student Exemptions.
To be eligible for the program, a student as defined in paragraph (a) of the section must meet at least one of the following criteria.
(1) Be age 17 or younger or age 50 or older;
(2) Be physically or mentally unfit;
(3) Be receiving Temporary Assistance for Needy Families under Title IV of the Social Security Act;
(4) Be enrolled as a result of participation in the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills program under Title IV of the Social Security Act or its successor program;
(5) Be employed for a minimum of 20 hours per week and be paid for such employment or, if self-employed, be employed for a minimum of 20 hours per week and receiving weekly earnings at least equal to the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 20 hours. The State agency may choose to determine compliance with this requirement by calculating whether the student worked an average of 20 hours per week over the period of a month, quarter, trimester or semester. State agencies may choose to exclude hours accrued during academic breaks that do not exceed one month. A State agency that chooses to average student work hours must specify this choice and specify the time period over which the work hours will be averaged in its State plan of operation;
(6) Be participating in a State or federally financed work study program during the regular school year.
(i) To qualify under this provision, the student must be approved for work study at the time of application for SNAP benefits, the work study must be approved for the school term, and the student must anticipate actually working during that time. The exemption shall begin with the month in which the school term begins or the month work study is approved, whichever is later. Once begun, the exemption shall continue until the end of the month in which the school term ends, or it becomes known that the student has refused an assignment.
(ii) The exemption shall not continue between terms when there is a break of a full month or longer unless the student is participating in work study during the break.
(7) Be participating in an on-the-job training program. A person is considered to be participating in an on-the-job training program only during the period of time the person is being trained by the employer;
(8) Be responsible for the care of a dependent household member under the age of 6;
(9) Be responsible for the care of a dependent household member who has reached the age of 6 but is under age 12 when the State agency has determined that adequate child care is not available to enable the student to attend class and comply with the work requirements of paragraph (b)(5) or (b)(6) of this section;
(10) Be a single parent enrolled in an institution of higher education on a full-time basis (as determined by the institution) and be responsible for the care of a dependent child under age 12.
(i) This provision applies in those situations where only one natural, adoptive or stepparent (regardless of marital status) is in the same SNAP household as the child.
(ii) If no natural, adoptive or stepparent is in the same SNAP household as the child, another full-time student in the same SNAP household as the child may qualify for eligible student status under this provision if he or she has parental control over the child and is not living with his or her spouse.
(11) Be assigned to or placed in an institution of higher education through or in compliance with the requirements of one of the programs identified in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) through (b)(11)(iv) of this section. Self-initiated placements during the period of time the person is enrolled in one of these employment and training programs shall be considered to be in compliance with the requirements of the employment
and training program in which the person is enrolled provided that the program has a component for enrollment in an institution of higher education and that program accepts the placement. Persons who voluntarily participate in one of these employment and training programs and are placed in an institution of higher education through or in compliance with the requirements of the program shall also qualify for the exemption. The programs are:
(i) A program under the Job Training Partnership Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1501,
et seq.
);
(ii) An employment and training program under § 273.7, subject to the condition that the course or program of study, as determined by the State agency:
(A) Is part of a program of career and technical education as defined in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302) designed to be completed in not more than 4 years at an institution of higher education as defined in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2296); or
(B) is limited to remedial courses, basic adult education, literacy, or English as a second language.
(iii) A program under section 236 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2296); or
(iv) An employment and training program for low-income households that is operated by a State or local government where one or more of the components of such program is at least equivalent to an acceptable SNAP employment and training program component as specified in § 273.7(e)(1). Using the criteria in § 273.7(e)(1), State agencies shall make the determinations as to whether or not the programs qualify.
(c) The enrollment status of a student shall begin on the first day of the school term of the institution of higher education. Such enrollment shall be deemed to continue through normal periods of class attendance, vacation and recess, unless the student graduates, is suspended or expelled, drops out, or does not intend to register for the next normal school term (excluding summer school).
(d) The income and resources of an ineligible student shall be handled as outlined in § 273.11(d).
[46 FR 43025, Aug. 25, 1981, as amended by Amdt. 235, 47 FR 55908, Dec. 14, 1982; Amdt. 269, 51 FR 10785, Mar. 28, 1986; Amdt. 274, 51 FR 18750, May 21, 1986; Amdt. 277, 51 FR 30048, Aug. 22, 1986; Amdt. 370, 60 FR 48869, Sept. 21, 1995; 67 FR 41603, June 19, 2002; 82 FR 2308, Jan. 6, 2017; 84 FR 15094, Apr. 15, 2019]
§ 273.6
Social security numbers.
(a)
Requirements for participation.
The State agency shall require that a household participating or applying for participation in SNAP provide the State agency with the social security number (SSN) of each household member or apply for one before certification. If individuals have more than one number, all numbers shall be required. The State agency shall explain to applicants and participants that refusal or failure without good cause to provide an SSN will result in disqualification of the individual for whom an SSN is not obtained.
(b)
Obtaining SSNs for SNAP household members.
(1) For those individuals who provide SSNs prior to certification, recertification or at any office contact, the State agency shall record the SSN and verify it in accordance with § 273.2(f)(1)(v).
(2) For those individuals who do not have an SSN, the State agency shall:
(i) If an enumeration agreement with SSA exists, complete the application for an SSN, Form SS-5. To complete Form SS-5, the State agency must document the verification of identity, age, and citizenship or alien status as required by SSA and forward the SS-5 to SSA.
(ii) If no enumeration agreement exists, an individual must apply at the SSA, and the State agency shall arrange with SSA to be notified directly of the SSN when it is issued. The State agency shall inform the household where to apply and what information will be needed, including any which may be needed for SSA to notify the State agency of the SSN. The State agency shall advise the household member that proof of application from SSA will be required prior to certification. SSA normally uses the Receipt of Application for a Social Security
Number, Form SSA-5028, as evidence that an individual has applied for an SSN. State agencies may also use their own documents for this purpose.
(3) The State agency shall follow the procedures described in paragraphs (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section for individuals who do not know if they have an SSN, or are unable to find their SSN.
(4) If the household is unable to provide proof of application for an SSN for a newborn, the household must provide the SSN or proof of application at its next recertification or within 6 months following the month the baby is born, whichever is later. If the household is unable to provide an SSN or proof of application for an SSN at its next recertification within 6 months following the baby's birth, the State agency shall determine if the good cause provisions of paragraph (d) of this section are applicable.
(c)
Failure to comply.
If the State agency determines that a household member has refused or failed without good cause to provide or apply for an SSN, then that individual shall be ineligible to participate in SNAP. The disqualification applies to the individual for whom the SSN is not provided and not to the entire household. The earned or unearned income and resources of an individual disqualified from the household for failure to comply with this requirement shall be counted as household income and resources to the extent specified in § 273.11(c) of these regulations.
(d)
Determining good cause.
In determining if good cause exists for failure to comply with the requirement to apply for or provide the State agency with an SSN, the State agency shall consider information from the household member, SSA and the State agency (especially if the State agency was designated to send the SS-5 to SSA and either did not process the SS-5 or did not process it in a timely manner). Documentary evidence or collateral information that the household member has applied for an SSN or made every effort to supply SSA with the necessary information to complete an application for an SSN shall be considered good cause for not complying timely with this requirement. Good cause does not include delays due to illness, lack of transportation or temporary absences, because SSA makes provisions for mail-in applications in lieu of applying in person. If the household member can show good cause why an application for a SSN has not been completed in a timely manner, that person shall be allowed to participate for one month in addition to the month of application. If the household member applying for an SSN has been unable to obtain the documents required by SSN, the State agency caseworker should make every effort to assist the individual in obtaining these documents. Good cause for failure to apply must be shown monthly in order for such a household member to continue to participate. Once an application has been filed, the State agency shall permit the member to continue to participate pending notification of the State agency of the household member's SSN.
(e)
Ending disqualification.
The household member(s) disqualified may become eligible upon providing the State agency with an SSN.
(f)
Use of SSNs.
The State agency is authorized to use SSNs in the administration of SNAP. To the extent determined necessary by the Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services, State agencies shall have access to information regarding individual SNAP applicants and participants who receive benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act to determine such a household's eligibility to receive assistance and the amount of assistance, or to verify information related to the benefit of these households. State agencies shall use the State Data Exchange (SDX) to the maximum extent possible. The State agency should also use the SSNs to prevent duplicate participation, to facilitate mass changes in Federal benefits as described in § 273.12(e)(3) and to determine the accuracy and/or reliability of information given by households. In particular, SSNs shall be used by the State agency to request and exchange information on individuals through the IEVS as specified in § 272.8.
(g)
Entry of SSNs into automated data bases.
State agencies with automated SNAP data bases containing household
information shall enter all SSNs obtained in accordance with § 273.6(a) into these files.
[Amdt. 264, 51 FR 7206, Feb. 28, 1986; Amdt. 364, 61 FR 54317, Oct. 17, 1996]
§ 273.7
Work provisions.
(a)
Work requirements.
(1) As a condition of eligibility for SNAP benefits, each household member not exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must comply with the following SNAP work requirements:
(i) Register for work or be registered by the State agency at the time of application and every 12 months after initial registration. The member required to register need not complete the registration form.
(ii) Participate in a Food Stamp Employment and Training (E
T) program if assigned by the State agency, to the extent required by the State agency;
(iii) Participate in a workfare program if assigned by the State agency;
(iv) Provide the State agency or its designee with sufficient information regarding employment status or availability for work;
(v) Report to an employer to whom referred by the State agency or its designee if the potential employment meets the suitability requirements described in paragraph (h) of this section;
(vi) Accept a bona fide offer of suitable employment, as defined in paragraph (h) of this section, at a site or plant not subject to a strike or lockout, at a wage equal to the higher of the Federal or State minimum wage or 80 percent of the wage that would have governed had the minimum hourly rate under section 6(a)(1) of the Fair Labor Standards Act been applicable to the offer of employment.
(vii) Do not voluntarily and without good cause quit a job of 30 or more hours a week or reduce work effort to less than 30 hours a week, in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.
(2) The Food and Nutrition Service (FNS) has defined the meaning of “good cause,” and “voluntary quit,” and “reduction of work effort” as used in paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section. See paragraph (i) of this section for a discussion of good cause; see paragraph (j) of this section for a discussion of voluntary quit and reduction of work effort.
(3) Each State agency will determine the meaning of any other terms used in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; the procedures for establishing compliance with SNAP work requirements; and whether an individual is complying with SNAP work requirements. A State agency must not use a meaning, procedure, or determination that is less restrictive on SNAP recipients than is a comparable meaning, procedure, or determination under the State agency's program funded under title IV-A of the Social Security Act.
(4) Strikers whose households are eligible under the criteria in § 273.1(e) are subject to SNAP work requirements unless they are exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section at the time of application.
(5) State agencies may request approval from FNS to substitute State or local procedures for work registration for PA households not subject to the work requirements under title IV of the Social Security Act or for GA households. However, the failure of a household member to comply with State or local work requirements that exceed the requirements listed in this section must not be considered grounds for disqualification. Work requirements imposed on refugees participating in refugee resettlement programs may also be substituted, with FNS approval.
(6) Household members who are applying for SSI and for SNAP benefits under § 273.2(k)(1)(i) will have SNAP work requirements waived until they are determined eligible for SSI and become exempt from SNAP work requirements, or until they are determined ineligible for SSI, at which time their exemptions from SNAP work requirements will be reevaluated.
(b)
Exemptions from work requirements.
(1) The following persons are exempt from SNAP work requirements:
(i) A person younger than 16 years of age or a person 60 years of age or older. A person age 16 or 17 who is not the head of a household or who is attending school, or is enrolled in an employment training program, on at least a half-time basis, is also exempt. If the person
turns 16 (or 18 under the preceding sentence) during a certification period, the State agency must register the person as part of the next scheduled recertification process, unless the person qualifies for another exemption.
(ii) A person physically or mentally unfit for employment. For the purposes of this paragraph (b), a State agency will define physical and mental fitness; establish procedures for verifying; and will verify claimed physical or mental unfitness when necessary. However, the State agency must not use a definition, procedure for verification, or verification that is less restrictive on SNAP recipients than a comparable meaning, procedure, or determination under the State agency's program funded under title IV-A of the Social Security Act.
(iii) A person subject to and complying with any work requirement under title IV of the Social Security Act. If the exemption claimed is questionable, the State agency is responsible for verifying the exemption.
(iv) A parent or other household member responsible for the care of a dependent child under 6 or an incapacitated person. If the child has his or her 6th birthday during a certification period, the State agency must work register the individual responsible for the care of the child as part of the next scheduled recertification process, unless the individual qualifies for another exemption.
(v) A person receiving unemployment compensation. A person who has applied for, but is not yet receiving, unemployment compensation is also exempt if that person is complying with work requirements that are part of the Federal-State unemployment compensation application process. If the exemption claimed is questionable, the State agency is responsible for verifying the exemption with the appropriate office of the State employment services agency.
(vi) A regular participant in a drug addiction or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation program.
(vii) An employed or self-employed person working a minimum of 30 hours weekly or earning weekly wages at least equal to the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 30 hours. This includes migrant and seasonal farm workers under contract or similar agreement with an employer or crew chief to begin employment within 30 days (although this will not prevent individuals from seeking additional services from the State employment services agency). For work registration purposes, a person residing in areas of Alaska designated in § 274.10(a)(4)(iv) of this chapter, who subsistence hunts and/or fishes a minimum of 30 hours weekly (averaged over the certification period) is considered exempt as self-employed. An employed or self-employed person who voluntarily and without good cause reduces his or her work effort and, after the reduction, is working less than 30 hours per week, is ineligible to participate in SNAP under paragraph (j) of this section.
(viii) A student enrolled at least half-time in any recognized school, training program, or institution of higher education. Students enrolled at least half-time in an institution of higher education must meet the student eligibility requirements listed in § 273.5. A student will remain exempt during normal periods of class attendance, vacation, and recess. If the student graduates, enrolls less than half-time, is suspended or expelled, drops out, or does not intend to register for the next normal school term (excluding summer), the State agency must work register the individual, unless the individual qualifies for another exemption.
(2)(i) Persons losing exemption status due to any changes in circumstances that are subject to the reporting requirements of § 273.12 must register for employment when the change is reported. If the State agency does not use a work registration form, it must annotate the change to the member's exemption status. If a work registration form is used, the State agency is responsible for providing the participant with a work registration form when the change is reported. Participants are responsible for returning the completed form to the State agency within 10 calendar days from the date the form was handed to the household member reporting the change in person, or the date the State agency mailed the form. If the participant fails to return the completed form, the
State agency must issue a notice of adverse action stating that the participant is being terminated and why, but that the termination can be avoided by returning the form.
(ii) Those persons who lose their exemption due to a change in circumstances that is not subject to the reporting requirements of § 273.12 must register for employment at their household's next recertification.
(c)
State agency responsibilities.
(1)(i) The State agency must register for work each household member not exempted by the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The State agency must permit the applicant to complete a record or form for each household member required to register for employment in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. Household members are considered to have registered when an identifiable work registration form is submitted to the State agency or when the registration is otherwise annotated or recorded by the State agency.
(ii) During the certification process, the State agency must provide a written notice and oral explanation to the household of all applicable work requirements for all members of the household, and identify which household member is subject to which work requirement. These work requirements include the general work requirement in paragraph (a) of this section, mandatory E
T in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, and the ABAWD work requirement at § 273.24. The written notice and oral explanation must be provided in accordance with (c)(1)(iii) of this section. This written notice and oral explanation must also be provided to the household when a previously exempt household member or new household member becomes subject to these work requirements, and at recertification.
(iii) The consolidated written notice must include all pertinent information related to each of the applicable work requirements, including: An explanation of each applicable work requirement; which individuals are subject to which work requirement; exemptions from each applicable work requirement; an explanation of the process to request an exemption (including contact information to request an exemption); the rights and responsibilities of each applicable work requirement; what is required to maintain eligibility under each applicable work requirement; pertinent dates by which an individual must take any actions to remain in compliance with each applicable work requirement; the consequences for failure to comply with each applicable work requirement; an explanation of the process for requesting good cause (including examples of good cause circumstances and contact information to initiate a good cause request); and any other information the State agency believes would assist the household members with compliance. If an individual is subject to mandatory E
T, the written notice must also explain the individual's right to receive participant reimbursements for allowable expenses related to participation in E
T, up to any applicable State cap, and the responsibility of the State agency to exempt the individual from the requirement to participate in E
T if the individual's allowable expenses exceed what the State agency will reimburse, as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. In addition, as stated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section and § 273.24(b)(8), the State agency must provide a comprehensive oral explanation to the household of each applicable work requirement pertaining to individuals in the household.
(2) The State agency is responsible for screening each work registrant to determine whether or not it is appropriate, based on the State agency's criteria, to refer the individual to an E
T program. If the State agency determines the individual is required to participate in an E
T program, as defined in paragraph (e) of this section and § 271.2, the State agency must provide the participant with the written notice and the comprehensive oral explanation described in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. The State agency must refer participants to E
T, this referral may vary from participant to participant, but in all cases E
T participants must receive both case management services and at least one E
T component while participating in E
T. The State agency must determine the order in which the participant will receive the elements of an E
T program (
e.g.,
case management followed by a component, case management embedded within a component, etc.). The State agency must explain to the participant next steps for accessing the E
T program. If there is not an appropriate and available opening in an E
T program, the State agency must determine the participant has good cause for failure to comply with the mandatory E
T requirement in accordance with paragraph (i)(4) of this section. The State agency may, with FNS approval, use intake and sanction systems that are compatible with its title IV-A work program. Such systems must be proposed and explained in the State agency's E
T State Plan.
(3) After learning of an individual's non-compliance with SNAP work requirements, the State agency must issue a notice of adverse action to the individual, or to the household if appropriate, within 10 days of establishing that the noncompliance was without good cause. The notice of adverse action must meet the timeliness and adequacy requirements of § 273.13. If the individual complies before the end of the advance notice period, the State agency will cancel the adverse action. If the State agency offers a conciliation process as part of its E
T program, it must issue the notice of adverse action no later than the end of the conciliation period. Mandatory E
T participants who have received a provider determination in accordance with paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section shall not be subject to disqualification for refusal without good cause to participate in a mandatory E
T program until after the State has taken one of the four actions in paragraph (c)(18)(i)(B) of this section, and the individual subsequently refuses to participate without good cause.
(4) The State agency must design and operate an E
T program that consists of case management services in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section and at least one or more, or a combination of, employment and/or training components as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The State agency must ensure that it is notified by the agency or agencies operating its E
T components within 10 days if an E
T mandatory participant fails to comply with E
T requirements.
(5) The State agency must design its E
T program in consultation with the State workforce development board, or with private employers or employer organizations if the State agency determines the latter approach is more effective and efficient. Each component of the State agency's E
T program must be delivered through its statewide workforce development system, unless the component is not available locally through such a system.
(6) In accordance with § 272.2(d) and (e) of this chapter, the State agency must prepare and submit an E
T Plan to its appropriate FNS Regional Office. The E
T Plan must be available for public inspection at the State agency headquarters. In its E
T Plan, the State agency will detail the following:
(i) The nature of the E
T components the State agency plans to offer and the reasons for such components, including cost information. The methodology for State agency reimbursement for education components must be specifically addressed. If a State agency plans to offer supervised job search in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section, the State agency must also include in the E
T plan a summary of the State guidelines implementing supervised job search. This summary of the State guidelines, at a minimum, must describe: The criteria used by the State agency to approve locations for supervised job search, an explanation of why those criteria were chosen, and how the supervised job search component meets the requirements to directly supervise the activities of participants and track the timing and activities of participants;
(ii) A description of the case management services and models, how participants will be referred to case management, how the participant's case will be managed, who will provide case management services, and how the service providers will coordinate with E
T providers, the State agency, and other community resources, as appropriate. The State plan should also discuss how the State agency will ensure E
T participants are provided with targeted case management services
through an efficient administrative process;
(iii) An operating budget for the Federal fiscal year with an estimate of the cost of operation for one full year. Any State agency that requests 50 percent Federal reimbursement for State agency E
T administrative costs, other than for participant reimbursements, must include in its plan, or amendments to its plan, an itemized list of all activities and costs for which those Federal funds will be claimed, including the costs for case management and casework to facilitate the transition from economic dependency to self-sufficiency through work. Costs in excess of the Federal grant will be allowed only with the prior approval of FNS and must be adequately documented to assure that they are necessary, reasonable and properly allocated;
(iv) The categories and types of individuals the State agency intends to exempt from E
T participation, the estimated percentage of work registrants the State agency plans to exempt, and the frequency with which the State agency plans to reevaluate the validity of its exemptions;
(v) The characteristics of the population the State agency intends to place in E
T;
(vi) The estimated number of volunteers the State agency expects to place in E
T;
(vii) The geographic areas covered and not covered by the E
T Plan and why, and the type and location of services to be offered;
(viii) The method the State agency uses to count all work registrants as of the first day of the new fiscal year;
(ix) The method the State agency uses to report work registrant information on the quarterly Form FNS-583;
(x) The method the State agency uses to prevent work registrants from being counted twice within a Federal fiscal year. If the State agency universally work registers all SNAP applicants, this method must specify how the State agency excludes those exempt from work registration under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If the State agency work registers nonexempt participants whenever a new application is submitted, this method must also specify how the State agency excludes those participants who may have already been registered within the past 12 months as specified under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section;
(xi) The organizational relationship between the units responsible for certification and the units operating the E
T program, including units of the statewide workforce development system, if available. FNS is specifically concerned that the lines of communication be efficient and that noncompliance be reported to the certification unit within 10 working days after the noncompliance occurs;
(xii) The relationship between the State agency and other organizations it plans to coordinate with for the provision of services, including organizations in the statewide workforce development system, if available. Copies of contracts must be available for inspection. The State agency must document how it consulted with the State workforce development board. If the State agency consulted with private employers or employer organizations in lieu of the State workforce development board, it must document this consultation and explain the determination that doing so was more effective or efficient. The State agency must include in its E
T State plan a description of any outcomes from the consultation with the State workforce development board or private employers or employer organizations. The State agency must also address in the E
T State plan the extent to which E
T activities will be carried out in coordination with the activities under title I of WIOA;
(xiii) The availability, if appropriate, of E
T programs for Indians living on reservations;
(xiv) If a conciliation process is planned, the procedures that will be used when an individual fails to comply with an E
T program requirement. Include the length of the conciliation period;
(xv) The payment rates for child care established in accordance with the Child Care and Development Block Grant provisions of 45 CFR 98.43, and based on local market rate surveys;
(xvi) The combined (Federal/State) State agency reimbursement rate for
transportation costs and other expenses reasonably necessary and directly related to participation incurred by E
T participants. If the State agency proposes to provide different reimbursement amounts to account for varying levels of expenses, for instance for greater or lesser costs of transportation in different areas of the State, it must include them here;
(xvii) Information about expenses the State agency proposes to reimburse. FNS must be afforded the opportunity to review and comment on the proposed reimbursements before they are implemented;
(xviii) For each component that is expected to include 100 or more participants, reporting measures that the State will collect and include in the annual report in paragraph (c)(17) of this section. Such measures may include:
(A) The percentage and number of program participants who received E
T services and are in unsubsidized employment subsequent to the receipt of those services;
(B) The percentage and number of participants who obtain a recognized credential, a registered apprenticeship, or a regular secondary school diploma (or its recognized equivalent), while participating in, or within 1 year after receiving E
T services;
(C) The percentage and number of participants who are in an education or training program that is intended to lead to a recognized credential, a registered apprenticeship an on-the-job training program, a regular secondary school diploma (or its recognized equivalent), or unsubsidized employment;
(D) Measures developed to assess the skills acquisition of E
T program participants that reflect the goals of the specific components including the percentage and number of participants who are meeting program requirements or are gaining skills likely to lead to employment; and
(E) Other indicators approved by FNS in the E
T State plan; and
(xix) Any State agency that will be requesting Federal funds that may become available for reallocation in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(A), (B), or (D) of this section should include this request in the E
T State plan for the year the State agency would plan to use the reallocated funds. The request must include a separate budget and narrative explaining how the State agency intends to use the reallocated funds. FNS will review all State agency requests for reallocated funds and notify State agencies of the approval of any reallocated funds in accordance with regulations at (d)(1)(iii)(E) of this section. FNS' approval or denial of requests for reallocated funds will occur separately from the approval or denial of the rest of the E
T State plan.
(7) A State agency interested in receiving additional funding for serving able-bodied adults without dependents (ABAWDs) subject to the 3-month time limit, in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section, must include in its annual E
T plan:
(i) Its pledge to offer a qualifying activity to all at-risk ABAWD applicants and recipients;
(ii) Estimated costs of fulfilling its pledge;
(iii) A description of management controls in place to meet pledge requirements;
(iv) A discussion of its capacity and ability to serve at-risk ABAWDs;
(v) Information about the size and special needs of its ABAWD population; and
(vi) Information about the education, training, and workfare components it will offer to meet the ABAWD work requirement.
(8) The State agency will submit its E
T Plan annually, at least 45 days before the start of the Federal fiscal year. The State agency must submit plan revisions to the appropriate FNS regional office for approval if it plans to alter the nature or location of its components or the number or characteristics of persons served. The proposed changes must be submitted for approval at least 30 days prior to planned implementation.
(9) The State agency will submit an E
T Program Activity Report to FNS no later than 45 days after the end of each Federal fiscal quarter. The report will contain monthly figures for:
(i) Participants newly work registered;
(ii) Number of ABAWD applicants and recipients participating in qualifying components;
(iii) Number of all other applicants and recipients (including ABAWDs involved in non-qualifying activities) participating in components; and
(iv) ABAWDs subject to the 3-month time limit imposed in accordance with § 273.24(b) who are exempt under the State agency's discretionary exemptions under § 273.24(g).
(10) The State agency will submit annually, on its first quarterly report, the number of work registrants in the State on October 1 of the new fiscal year.
(11) The State agency will submit annually, on its final quarterly report:
(i) A list of E
T components it offered during the fiscal year and the number of ABAWDs and non-ABAWDs who participated in each;
(ii) The number of ABAWDs and non-ABAWDs who participated in the E
T Program during the fiscal year. Each individual must be counted only once;
(iii) Number of SNAP applicants and participants required to participate in E
T by the State agency and of those the number who begin participation in an E
T program and the number who begin participation in an E
T component. An E
T participant begins to participate in an E
T program when the participant commences at least one part of an E
T program including an orientation, assessment, case management, or a component. An E
T participant begins to participate in an E
T component when the participant commences the first activity in the E
T component; and
(iv) Number of mandatory E
T participants who were determined ineligible for failure to comply with E
T requirements.
(12) Additional information may be required of the State agency, on an as needed basis, regarding the type of components offered and the characteristics of persons served, depending on the contents of its E
T Plan.
(13) The State agency must ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that E
T programs are provided for Indians living on reservations.
(14) If a benefit overissuance is discovered for a month or months in which a mandatory E
T participant has already fulfilled a work component requirement, the State agency must follow the procedure specified in paragraph (m)(6)(v) of this section for a workfare overissuance.
(15) If a State agency fails to efficiently and effectively administer its E
T program, the provisions of § 276.1(a)(4) of this chapter will apply.
(16) FNS may require a State agency to make modifications to its SNAP E
T plan to improve outcomes if FNS determines that the E
T outcomes are inadequate.
(17) The State agency shall submit an annual E
T report by January 1 each year that contains the following information for the Federal fiscal year ending the preceding September 30.
(i) The number and percentage of E
T participants and former participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after completion of participation in E
T.
(ii) The number and percentage of E
T participants and former participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after completion of participation in E
T.
(iii) Median average quarterly earnings of the E
T participants and former participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after completion of participation in E
T.
(iv) The total number and percentage of participants that completed an educational, training work experience or an on-the-job training component.
(v) The number and percentage of E
T participants who:
(A) Are voluntary vs. mandatory participants;
(B) Have received a high school degree (or GED) prior to being provided with E
T services;
(C) Are ABAWDs;
(D) Speak English as a second language;
(E) Are male vs. female; and
(F) Are within each of the following age ranges: 16-17, 18-35, 36-49, 50-59, 60 or older.
(vi) Of the number and percentage of E
T participants reported in paragraphs (c)(17)(i) through (iv) of this section, a disaggregation of the number and percentage of those participants
and former participants by the characteristics listed in paragraphs (c)(17)(v)(A), (B), and (C) of this section.
(vii) Reports for the measures identified in a State's E
T plan related to components that are designed to serve at least 100 participants a year; and
(viii) States that have committed to offering all at-risk ABAWDs participation in a qualifying activity and have received an additional allocation of funds as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall include:
(A) The monthly average number of individuals in the State who meet the conditions in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section;
(B) The monthly average number of individuals to whom the State offers a position in a program described in § 273.24(a)(3) and (4);
(C) The monthly average number of individuals who participate in such programs; and
(D) A description of the types of employment and training programs the State agency offered to at risk ABAWDs and the availability of those programs throughout the State.
(ix) States may be required to submit the annual report in a standardized format based upon guidance issued by FNS.
(x) State agencies certifying workforce partnerships for operation in their State in accordance with paragraph (n) of this section may report relevant data to demonstrate the number of program participants served by the workforce partnership, and of those how many were mandatory E
T participants.
(18)(i) The State agency must ensure E
T providers are informed of their authority and responsibility to determine if an individual is ill-suited for a particular E
T component. Such determinations shall be referred to as provider determinations. For purposes of this paragraph, an E
T provider is the provider of an E
T component. The E
T provider must notify the State agency of a provider determination within 10 days of the date the determination is made and inform the State agency of the reason for the provider determination. The E
T provider may also provide input on the most appropriate next step, as outlined in paragraph (c)(18)(i)(B) of this section, for the individual with a provider determination. If the State agency is unable to obtain the reason for the provider determination from the E
T provider, the State agency must continue to act on the provider determination in accordance with this section. If an E
T provider finds an individual is ill-suited for one component, but the E
T provider determines the individual may be suitable for another component offered by the E
T provider, at State agency option, the E
T provider may switch the individual to the other component and inform the State agency of the new component without the need for the State agency to act further on the provider determination. The E
T provider has the authority to determine if an individual is ill-suited for the E
T component from the time an individual is referred to an E
T component until completion of the component. When a State agency receives notification that an individual has received a provider determination, and the individual is not exempt from the work requirement as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the State agency must:
(A) Notify the mandatory or voluntary E
T participant, within 10 days of receiving notification from the E
T provider, of the provider determination including the following information, as applicable. The State agency must explain what a provider determination is, the next steps the State agency will take as a result of the provider determination, and contact information for the State agency. In the case of either a mandatory or voluntary E
T participant with a provider determination, the State agency must also notify the individual that they are not being sanctioned as a result of the provider determination. In the case of an ABAWD who has received a provider determination, the State agency must also notify the ABAWD that the ABAWD will accrue countable months toward their three-month participation time limit the next full benefit month after the month during which the State agency notifies the ABAWD of the provider determination, unless the ABAWD fulfills the work requirements
in accordance with § 273.24, or the ABAWD has good cause, lives in a waived area, or is otherwise exempt. The State agency may make such notification either verbally or in writing, but must, at a minimum, document when the notification occurs in the participant's case file; and
(B) Take the most suitable action from among the following options no later than the date of the individual's recertification. If an individual with a provider determination requests that the State agency take one of the following actions sooner than the next recertification, the State agency must take the most suitable action as soon as possible:
(
1
) Refer the individual to an appropriate E
T program component in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Before making this referral, the State agency must screen the individual for participation in the E
T program in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and determine that it is appropriate to refer the individual to an E
T component, considering the suitability of the individual for any available E
T components. In accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, all E
T participants must receive case management services along with at least one E
T component;
(
2
) Refer the individual to an appropriate workforce partnership as defined in paragraph (n) of this section, if available. Before making this referral, the State agency must provide information about workforce partnerships to assist the individual in making an informed decision about whether to voluntarily participate in the workforce partnership, in accordance with paragraph (n)(10) of this section;
(
3
) Reassess the physical and mental fitness of the individual. If the individual is not found to be physically or mentally fit, the individual is exempt from the work requirement in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. If the individual is found to be physically or mentally fit, and the State agency determines the individual is not otherwise exempt from the general work requirements the State agency must consider if one of the other available actions in paragraph (c)(18)(i)(B) of this section would be appropriate for the individual. If the State agency determines the individual should not be required to participate in E
T, the State agency must exempt the individual from mandatory E
T; or
(
4
) Coordinate, to the maximum extent practicable, with other Federal, State, or local workforce or assistance programs to identify work opportunities or assistance for the individual. If the State agency chooses this option, the State agency must not require the individual to participate in E
T.
(ii) From the time an E
T provider determines an individual is ill-suited for an E
T component until after the State agency takes one of the actions in paragraph (c)(18)(i)(B) of this section, the individual shall not be found to have refused without good cause to participate in mandatory E
T. In the case of an ABAWD who has received a provider determination, the ABAWD will accrue countable months toward their three-month participation time limit the next full benefit month after the month during which the State agency notifies the ABAWD of the provider determination, unless the ABAWD fulfills the work requirements in accordance with § 273.24, or the ABAWD has good cause, lives in a waived area, or is otherwise exempt.
(d)
Federal financial participation
—(1)
Employment and training grants
—(i)
Allocation of grants.
Each State agency will receive a 100 percent Federal grant each fiscal year to operate an E
T program in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. The grant requires no State matching.
(A) In determining each State agency's 100 percent Federal E
T grant, FNS will apply the percentage determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section to the total amount of 100 percent Federal funds authorized under section 16(h)(1)(A) of the Act for each fiscal year.
(B) FNS will allocate the funding available each fiscal year for E
T grants using a formula designed to ensure that each State agency receives its appropriate share.
(
1
) Ninety percent of the annual 100 percent Federal E
T grant will be allocated based on the number of work registrants in each State as a percentage of work registrants nationwide. FNS
will use work registrant data reported by each State agency on the FNS-583, Employment and Training Program Activity Report, from the most recent Federal fiscal year.
(
2
) Ten percent of the annual 100 percent Federal E
T grant will be allocated based on the number of ABAWDs in each State, as determined by SNAP QC data for the most recently available completed fiscal year, which provide a breakdown of each State's population of adults age 18 through 49 who are not disabled and who do not live with children.
(C) No State agency will receive less than $100,000 in Federal E
T funds. To ensure this, FNS will, if necessary, reduce the grant of each State agency allocated more than $100,000. In order to guarantee an equitable reduction, FNS will calculate grants as follows. First, disregarding those State agencies scheduled to receive less than $100,000, FNS will calculate each remaining State agency's percentage share of the fiscal year's E
T grant. Next, FNS will multiply the grant—less $100,000 for every State agency under the minimum—by each remaining State agency's same percentage share to arrive at the revised amount. The difference between the original and the revised amounts will represent each State agency's contribution. FNS will distribute the funds from the reduction to State agencies initially allocated less than $100,000.
(ii)
Use of funds.
(A) A State agency must use E
T program grants to fund the administrative costs of planning, implementing and operating its SNAP E
T program in accordance with its approved State E
T plan. E
T grants must not be used for the process of determining whether an individual must be work registered, the work registration process, or any further screening performed during the certification process, nor for sanction activity that takes place after the operator of an E
T program reports noncompliance without good cause. For purposes of this paragraph (d), the certification process is considered ended when an individual is referred to an E
T program for assessment or participation. E
T grants may be used to subsidize wages in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(2) of this section, and may not be used to reimburse participants under paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
(B) A State agency's receipt of its 100 percent Federal E
T grant is contingent on FNS's approval of the State agency's E
T plan. If an adequate plan is not submitted, FNS may reallocate a State agency's grant among other State agencies with approved plans. Non-receipt of an E
T grant does not release a State agency from its responsibility under paragraph (c)(4) of this section to operate an E
T program.
(C) Federal funds made available to a State agency to operate an educational component under paragraph (e)(2)(vi) of this section must not be used to supplant nonfederal funds for existing educational services and activities that promote the purposes of this component. Education expenses are approvable to the extent that E
T component costs exceed the normal cost of services provided to persons not participating in an E
T program.
(D) In accordance with section 6(d)(4)(K) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, and notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph (d), the amount of Federal E
T funds, including participant and dependent care reimbursements, a State agency uses to serve participants who are receiving cash assistance under a State program funded under title IV-A of the Social Security Act must not exceed the amount of Federal E
T funds the State agency used in FY 1995 to serve participants who were receiving cash assistance under a State program funded under title IV-A of the Social Security Act.
(
1
) Based on information provided by each State agency, FNS established claimed Federal E
T expenditures on this category of recipients in fiscal year 1995 for the State agencies of Colorado ($318,613), Utah ($10,200), Vermont ($1,484,913), and Wisconsin ($10,999,773). These State agencies may spend up to a like amount each fiscal year to serve SNAP recipients who also receive title IV assistance.
(
2
) All other State agencies are prohibited from expending any Federal E
T funds on title IV cash assistance recipients.
(iii) If a State agency will not obligate or expend all of the funds allocated to it for a fiscal year under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, FNS will reallocate the unobligated, unexpended funds to other State agencies during the fiscal year or subsequent fiscal year. FNS will allocate carryover funding to meet some or all of the State agencies' requests, as it considers appropriate and equitable in accordance with the following process:
(A) Not less than 50 percent shall be reallocated to State agencies requesting funding to conduct employment and training programs and activities for which the State agency had previously received funding under the pilots authorized by the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-79) that FNS determines have the most demonstrable impact on the ability of participants to find and retain employment that leads to increased household income and reduced reliance on public assistance.
(B) Not less than 30 percent shall be reallocated to State agencies requesting funding for E
T programs and activities under paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section that FNS determines have the most demonstrable impact on the ability of participants to find and retain employment that leads to increased household income and reduced reliance on public assistance, including activities targeted to:
(
1
) Individuals 50 years of age or older;
(
2
) Formerly incarcerated individuals;
(
3
) Individuals participating in a substance abuse treatment program;
(
4
) Homeless individuals;
(
5
) People with disabilities seeking to enter the workforce;
(
6
) Other individuals with substantial barriers to employment, including disabled veterans; or
(
7
) Households facing multi-generational poverty, to support employment and workforce participation through an integrated and family-focused approach in providing supportive services.
(C) State agencies who receive reallocated funds under paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(A) of this section may also be considered to receive reallocated funds under paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.
(D) Any remaining funds not accounted for with the reallocations specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section shall be reallocated to State agencies requesting such funds for E
T programs and activities under paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section that FNS determines have the most demonstrable impact on the ability of participants to find and retain employment that leads to increased household income and reduced reliance on public assistance.
(E) State agencies requesting the reallocated funds specified in paragraph (d)(1)(iii)(A), (B), or (D) of this section, shall make their request for those funds in their E
T State plans submitted for the upcoming fiscal year. FNS will determine the amount of reallocated funds each requesting State agency shall receive and provide the reallocated funds to those State agencies within a timeframe that allows each State agency to which funds are reallocated at least 270 days to expend the reallocated funds. When making the reallocations, FNS will also consider the size of the request relative to the level of the State agency's E
T spending in prior years, the specificity of the State agency's plan for spending carryover funds, and the quality of program and scope of impact for the State's E
T program.
(F) Unobligated, unexpended funds not reallocated in the process specified in paragraph (E) of this section, shall be reallocated to State agencies upon request for E
T programs and activities under paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section that FNS determines have the most demonstrable impact on the ability of participants to find and retain employment that leads to increased household income and reduced reliance on public assistance. In making these reallocations FNS will also consider the size of the request relative to the level of the State agency's E
T spending in prior years, the specificity of the State agency's plan for spending carryover funds, and the quality of program and scope of impact for the State's E
T program.
(2)
Additional administrative costs.
Fifty percent of all other administrative costs incurred by State agencies in operating E
T programs, above the costs referenced in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, will be funded by the Federal Government.
(3)
Additional allocations.
In addition to the E
T program grants discussed in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, FNS will allocate $20 million in Federal funds each fiscal year to State agencies that ensure availability of education, training, or workfare opportunities that permit ABAWDs to remain eligible beyond the 3-month time limit.
(i) To be eligible, a State agency must make and comply with a commitment, or “pledge,” to use these additional funds to defray the cost of offering a position in an education, training, or workfare component that fulfills the ABAWD work requirement, as defined in § 273.24(a), to each applicant and recipient who is:
(A) In the last month of the 3-month time limit described in § 273.24(b);
(B) Not eligible for an exception to the 3-month time limit under § 273.24(c);
(C) Not a resident of an area of the State granted a waiver of the 3-month time limit under § 273.24(f); and
(D) Not included in each State agency's 15 percent ABAWD exemption allotment under § 273.24(g).
(ii) While a participating pledge State may use a portion of the additional funding to provide E
T services to ABAWDs who do not meet the criteria discussed in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, it must guarantee that the ABAWDs who do meet the criteria are provided the opportunity to remain eligible.
(iii) State agencies will have one opportunity each fiscal year to take the pledge described in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. An interested State agency, in its E
T Plan for the upcoming fiscal year, must include the following:
(A) A request to be considered as a pledge State, along with its commitment to comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section;
(B) The estimated costs of complying with its pledge;
(C) A description of management controls it has established to meet the requirements of the pledge;
(D) A discussion of its capacity and ability to serve vulnerable ABAWDs;
(E) Information about the size and special needs of the State's ABAWD population; and
(F) Information about the education, training, and workfare components that it will offer to allow ABAWDs to remain eligible.
(iv) If the information provided in accordance with paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section clearly indicates that the State agency will be unable to fulfill its commitment, FNS may require the State agency to address its deficiencies before it is allowed to participate as a pledge State.
(v) If the State agency does not address its deficiencies by the beginning of the new fiscal year on October 1, it will not be allowed to participate as a pledge State.
(vi) No pledges will be accepted after the beginning of the fiscal year.
(vii)(A) Once FNS determines how many State agencies will participate as pledge States in the upcoming fiscal year, it will, as early in the fiscal year as possible, allocate among them the $20 million based on the number of ABAWDs in each participating State, as a percentage of ABAWDs in all the participating States. FNS will determine the number of ABAWDs in each participating State using SNAP QC data for the most recently available completed fiscal year, which provide a breakdown of each State's population of adults age 18 through 49 who are not disabled and who do not live with children.
(B) Each participating State agency's share of the $20 million will be disbursed in accordance with paragraph (d)(6) of this section.
(C) Each participating State agency must meet the fiscal recordkeeping and reporting requirements of paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
(viii) If a participating State agency notifies FNS that it will not obligate or expend its entire share of the additional funding allocated to it for a fiscal year, FNS will reallocate the unobligated, unexpended funds to other participating State agencies during the
fiscal year, as it considers appropriate and equitable, on a first come-first served basis. FNS will notify other pledge States of the availability of additional funding. To qualify, a pledge State must have already obligated its entire annual 100 percent Federal E
T grant, excluding an amount that is proportionate to the number of months remaining in the fiscal year, and it must guarantee in writing that it intends to obligate its entire grant by the end of the fiscal year. A State's annual 100 percent Federal E
T grant is its share of the regular 100 percent Federal E
T allocation plus its share of the additional $20 million (if applicable). Interested pledge States must submit their requests for additional funding to FNS. FNS will review the requests and, if they are determined reasonable and necessary, will reallocate some or all of the unobligated, unspent ABAWD funds.
(ix) Unlike the funds allocated in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the additional pledge funding will not remain available until obligated or expended. Unobligated funds from this grant must be returned to the U.S. Treasury at the end of each fiscal year.
(x) The cost of serving at-risk ABAWDs is not an acceptable reason to fail to live up to the pledge. A slot must be made available and the ABAWD must be served even if the State agency exhausts all of its 100 percent Federal E
T funds and must use State funds to guarantee an opportunity for all at-risk ABAWDs to remain eligible beyond the 3-month time limit. State funds expended in accordance with the approved State E
T Plan are eligible for 50 percent Federal match. If a participating State agency fails, without good cause, to meet its commitment, it may be disqualified from participating in the subsequent fiscal year or years.
(4)
Participant reimbursements.
The State agency must provide payments to participants in its E
T program, including applicants and volunteers, for expenses that are reasonably necessary and directly related to participation in the E
T program. The Federal Government will fund 50 percent of State agency payments for allowable expenses, except that Federal matching for dependent care expenses is limited to the maximum amount specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section. These payments may be provided as a reimbursement for expenses incurred or in advance as payment for anticipated expenses in the coming month. The State agency must inform each E
T participant that allowable expenses up to the amounts specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section will be reimbursed by the State agency upon presentation of appropriate documentation. Reimbursable costs may include, but are not limited to, dependent care costs, transportation, and other work, training or education related expenses such as uniforms, personal safety items or other necessary equipment, and books or training manuals. These costs must not include the cost of meals away from home. If applicable, any allowable costs incurred by a noncompliant E
T participant after the expiration of the noncompliant participant's minimum mandatory disqualification period, as established by the State agency, that are reasonably necessary and directly related to reestablishing eligibility, as defined by the State agency, are reimbursable under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. The State agency may reimburse participants for expenses beyond the amounts specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section; however, only costs that are up to but not in excess of those amounts are subject to Federal cost sharing. Reimbursement must not be provided from E
T grants allocated under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section. Any expense covered by a reimbursement under this section is not deductible under § 273.10(d)(1)(i).
(i) The State agency will reimburse the cost of dependent care it determines to be necessary for the participation of a household member in the E
T program up to the actual cost of dependent care, or the applicable payment rate for child care, whichever is lowest. The payment rates for child care are established in accordance with the Child Care and Development Block Grant provisions of 45 CFR 98.43, and are based on local market rate surveys.
The State agency will provide a dependent care reimbursement to an E
T participant for all dependents requiring care unless otherwise prohibited by this section. The State agency will not provide a reimbursement for a dependent age 13 or older unless the dependent is physically and/or mentally incapable of caring for himself or herself or is under court supervision. The State agency must provide a reimbursement for all dependents who are physically and/or mentally incapable of caring for themselves or who are under court supervision, regardless of age, if dependent care is necessary for the participation of a household member in the E
T program. The State agency will obtain verification of the physical and/or mental incapacity for dependents age 13 or older if the physical and/or mental incapacity is questionable. Also, the State agency will verify a court-imposed requirement for the supervision of a dependent age 13 or older if the need for dependent care is questionable. If more than one household member is required to participate in an E
T program, the State agency will reimburse the actual cost of dependent care or the applicable payment rate for child care, whichever is lowest, for each dependent in the household, regardless of the number of household members participating in the E
T program. An individual who is the caretaker relative of a dependent in a family receiving cash assistance under title IV-A of the Social Security Act in a local area where an employment, training, or education program under title IV-A is in operation is not eligible for such reimbursement. An E
T participant is not entitled to the dependent care reimbursement if a member of the E
T participant's SNAP household provides the dependent care services. The State agency must verify the participant's need for dependent care and the cost of the dependent care prior to the issuance of the reimbursement. The verification must include the name and address of the dependent care provider, the cost and the hours of service (
e.g.,
five hours per day, five days per week for two weeks). A participant may not be reimbursed for dependent care services beyond that which is required for participation in the E
T program. In lieu of providing reimbursements for dependent care expenses, a State agency may arrange for dependent care through providers by the use of purchase of service contracts, by providing vouchers to the household or by other means. A State agency may require that dependent care provided or arranged by the State agency meet all applicable standards of State and local law, including requirements designed to ensure basic health and safety protections (
e.g.,
fire safety). An E
T participant may refuse available appropriate dependent care as provided or arranged by the State agency, if the participant can arrange other dependent care or can show that such refusal will not prevent or interfere with participation in the E
T program as required by the State agency.
(ii) The State agency will reimburse the actual costs of transportation and other costs (excluding dependent care costs) it determines to be necessary and directly related to participation in the E
T program up the maximum level of reimbursement established by the State agency. Such costs are the actual costs of participation unless the State agency has a method approved in its E
T Plan for providing allowances to participants to reflect approximate costs of participation. If a State agency has an approved method to provide allowances rather than reimbursements, it must provide participants an opportunity to claim actual expenses up to the maximum level of reimbursements established by the State agency.
(iii) No participant cost that has been reimbursed under a workfare program under paragraph (m)(7)(i) of this section, title IV of the Social Security Act or other work program will be reimbursed under this section.
(iv) Any portion of dependent care costs that are reimbursed under this section may not be claimed as an expense and used in calculating the dependent care deduction under § 273.9(d)(4) for determining benefits.
(v) The State agency must inform all mandatory E
T participants that they may be exempted from E
T participation if their monthly expenses that are reasonably necessary and directly related to participation in the E
T program, including participation in case
management services and E
T components, exceed the allowable reimbursement amount. Persons for whom allowable monthly expenses in an E
T component exceed the amounts specified under paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section are not required to participate in that component. These individuals will be placed, if possible, in another suitable component in which the individual's monthly E
T expenses would not exceed the allowable reimbursable amount paid by the State agency. If a suitable component is not available, these individuals will be exempt from E
T participation until a suitable component is available or the individual's circumstances change and his/her monthly expenses do not exceed the allowable reimbursable amount paid by the State agency. Dependent care expenses incurred that are otherwise allowable but not reimbursed because they exceed the reimbursable amount specified under paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section will be considered in determining a dependent care deduction under § 273.9(d)(4).
(5)
Workfare cost sharing.
Enhanced cost-sharing due to placement of workfare participants in paid employment is available only for workfare programs funded under paragraph (m)(7)(iv) of this section at the 50 percent reimbursement level and reported as such.
(6)
Funding mechanism.
E
T program funding will be disbursed through States' Letters of Credit in accordance with § 277.5 of this chapter. The State agency must ensure that records are maintained that support the financial claims being made to FNS.
(7)
Fiscal recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
Total E
T expenditures are reported on the Financial Status Report (SF-425 using FNS-778/FNS-778A worksheet) in the column containing “other” expenses. E
T expenditures are also separately identified in an attachment to the SF-425 using FNS-778/FNS-778A worksheet to show, as provided in instructions, total State and Federal E
T expenditures; expenditures funded with the unmatched Federal grants; State and Federal expenditures for participant reimbursements; State and Federal expenditures for E
T costs at the 50 percent reimbursement level; and State and Federal expenditures for optional workfare program costs, operated under section 20 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and paragraph (m)(7) of this section. Claims for enhanced funding for placements of participants in employment after their initial participation in the optional workfare program will be submitted in accordance with paragraph (m)(7)(iv) of this section.
(e)
Employment and training programs.
Work registrants not otherwise exempted by the State agency are subject to the E
T program participation requirements imposed by the State agency. Such individuals are referred to in this section as E
T mandatory participants or mandatory E
T participants. Requirements may vary among participants. Failure to comply without good cause with the requirements imposed by the State agency will result in disqualification as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Mandatory E
T participants who receive an E
T provider determination in accordance with paragraph (c)(18)(i) of this section shall not be subject to disqualification for refusal without good cause to participate in mandatory E
T during the time specified in (c)(18)(ii) of this section.
(1)
Case management.
The State E
T program must provide case management services such as comprehensive intake assessments, individualized service plans, progress monitoring, or coordination with service providers which are provided to all E
T participants. The purpose of case management services shall be to guide the participant towards appropriate E
T components and activities based on the participant's needs and interests, support the participant in the E
T program, and to provide activities and resources that help the participant achieve program goals. Case management services and activities must directly support an individual's participation in the E
T program. Case management may include referrals to activities and supports outside of the E
T program, but State agencies can only use E
T funds for allowable components, activities, and participant reimbursements. The provision of case management services must not be an
impediment to the participant's successful participation in E
T. In addition, if the case manager determines a mandatory E
T participant may meet an exemption from the requirement to participate in an E
T program, may have good cause for non-compliance with a work requirement, or both, the case manager must inform the appropriate State agency staff. Also, if the case manager is unable to identify an appropriate and available opening in an E
T component for a mandatory E
T participant, the case manager must inform the appropriate State agency staff.
(2)
Components.
To be considered acceptable by FNS, any component offered by a State agency must entail a certain level of effort by the participants. The level of effort should be comparable to spending approximately 12 hours a month for two months making job contacts (less in workfare or work experience components if the household's benefit divided by the minimum wage is less than this amount). However, FNS may approve components that do not meet this guideline if it determines that such components will advance program goals. An initial screening by an eligibility worker to determine whom to place in an E
T program does not constitute a component. The State agency may require SNAP applicants to participate in any component it offers in its E
T program at the time of application. The State agency must screen applicants to determine if it is appropriate to participate in E
T in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, provide the applicant with participant reimbursements in accordance with (d)(4) of this section, and inform the applicant of E
T participation requirements including how to access the component and consequences for failing to participate. The State agency must not impose requirements that would delay the determination of an individual's eligibility for benefits or in issuing benefits to any household that is otherwise eligible. In accordance with section 6(o)(1)(C) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and § 273.24, supervised job search and job search training, when offered as components of an E
T program, are not qualifying activities relating to the participation requirements necessary to fulfill the ABAWD work requirement under § 273.24. However, job search, including supervised job search, or job search training activities, when offered as part of other E
T program components, are acceptable as long as those activities comprise less than half the total required time spent in the components. An E
T program offered by a State agency must include one or more of the following components:
(i) A supervised job search program. Supervised job search programs are those that occur at State-approved locations at which the activities of participants shall be directly supervised and the timing and activities of participants tracked in accordance with guidelines issued by the State agency and summarized in their E
T State plan in accordance with paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section. State-approved locations include any location deemed suitable by the State agency where the participant has access to the tools and materials they need to perform supervised job search. Tools used in the supervised job search program may include virtual tools, including, but not limited to, websites, portals, or web applications to access supervised job search services. State agencies are encouraged to offer a variety of locations and formats to best meet participant needs, and to the extent practicable, allow participants to choose their preferred location. Supervision can occur asynchronously with respect to the participant's job search activities, but must be provided by skilled staff, either remotely or in-person, who provide meaningful guidance and support with at least monthly check-ins, and must be provided in such a way so as to best support the participant. State agencies have discretion to develop tracking methods that best meet the needs of the participant. Supervised job search activities must have a direct link to increasing the employment opportunities of individuals engaged in the activity. Job search that does not meet the definition of supervised job search is allowed as a subsidiary activity of another E
T component, so long as the job search activity comprises less than half of the total time spent in
the component. The State agency may require an individual to participate in supervised job search from the time an application is filed for an initial period established by the State agency, so long as the criteria for serving applicants in this paragraph (e)(2) are satisfied. Following this initial period (which may extend beyond the date when eligibility is determined) the State agency may require an additional supervised job search period in any period of 12 consecutive months. The first such period of 12 consecutive months will begin at any time following the close of the initial period. The State agency may establish a supervised job search period that, in its estimation, will provide participants a reasonable opportunity to find suitable employment. The State agency should not, however, establish a continuous, year-round supervised job search requirement. If a reasonable period of supervised job search does not result in employment, placing the individual in a training or education component to improve job skills will likely be more productive. In accordance with section 6(o)(1)(C) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and § 273.24, a supervised job search program is not a qualifying E
T activity relating to the participation requirements necessary to maintain SNAP eligibility for ABAWDs. However, a job search program, supervised or otherwise, when operated under title I of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA), under section 236 of the Trade Act, or a program of employment and training for veterans operated by the Department of Labor or the Department of Veterans Affairs, is considered a qualifying activity relating to the participation requirements necessary to maintain SNAP eligibility for ABAWDs.
(ii) A job search training program that includes reasonable job search training and support activities. Such a program may consist of employability assessments, training in techniques to increase employability, job placement services, or other direct training or support activities, including educational programs determined by the State agency to expand the job search abilities or employability of those subject to the program. Job search training activities are approvable if they directly enhance the employability of the participants. A direct link between the job search training activities and job-readiness must be established for a component to be approved. In accordance with section 6(o)(1)(C) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and § 273.24, a job search training program is not a qualifying activity relating to the participation requirements necessary to maintain SNAP eligibility for ABAWDs. However, such a program, when operated under title I of WIOA, under section 236 of the Trade Act, or a program of employment and training for veterans operated by the Department of Labor or the Department of Veterans Affairs, is considered a qualifying activity relating to the participation requirements necessary to maintain SNAP eligibility for ABAWDs.
(iii) A workfare program as described in paragraph (m) of this section.
(A) The participation requirements of section 20(b) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and paragraphs (m)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section for individuals exempt from SNAP work requirements under paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (v) of this section, are not applicable to E
T workfare components.
(B) In accordance with section 20(e) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and paragraph (m)(6)(ii) of this section, the State agency may establish a job search period of up to 30 days following certification prior to making a workfare assignment. This job search activity is part of the workfare assignment, and not a job search “program.” Participants are considered to be participating in and complying with the requirements of workfare, thereby meeting the participation requirement for ABAWDs.
(C) The sharing of workfare savings authorized under section 20(g) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and paragraph (m)(7)(iv) of this section are not available for E
T workfare components.
(iv) A work experience program designed to improve the employability of household members through actual work experience or training, or both, and to enable individuals employed or trained under such programs to move promptly into regular public or private
employment. Work experience is a planned, structured learning experience that takes place in a workplace for a limited period of time. Work experience may be paid or unpaid, as appropriate, and consistent with other laws such as the Fair Labor Standards Act. Work experience may be arranged within the private for-profit sector, the non-profit sector, or the public sector. Labor standards apply in any work experience setting where an employee/employer relationship, as defined by the Fair Labor Standards Act, exists.
(A) A work experience program may include:
(
1
) A work activity performed in exchange for SNAP benefits that provides an individual with an opportunity to acquire the general skills, knowledge, and work habits necessary to obtain employment. The purpose of work activity is to improve the employability of those who cannot find unsubsidized full-time employment.
(
2
) A work-based learning program, which, for the purposes of SNAP E
T, are sustained interactions with industry or community professionals in real world settings to the extent practicable, or simulated environments at an educational institution that foster in-depth, firsthand engagement with the tasks required in a given career field, that are aligned to curriculum and instruction. Work-based learning emphasizes employer engagement, includes specific training objectives, and leads to regular employment. Work-based learning can include internships, pre-apprenticeships, apprenticeships, customized training, transitional jobs, incumbent worker training, and on-the-job training as defined under WIOA. Work-based learning can include both subsidized and unsubsidized employment models.
(B) A work experience program must:
(
1
) Not provide any work that has the effect of replacing the employment of an individual not participating in the employment or training experience program; and
(
2
) Provide the same benefits and working conditions that are provided at the job site to employees performing comparable work for comparable hours.
(v) A project, program or experiment such as a supported work program aimed at accomplishing the purpose of the E
T program.
(vi) Educational programs or activities to improve basic skills, build work readiness, or otherwise improve employability including educational programs determined by the State agency to expand the job search abilities or employability of those subject to the program.
(A) Allowable educational programs or activities may include, but are not limited to, courses or programs of study that are part of a program of career and technical education (as defined in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Act of 2006), high school or equivalent educational programs, remedial education programs to achieve a basic literacy level, and instructional programs in English as a second language.
(B) Only educational components that directly enhance the employability of the participants are allowable. A direct link between the education and job-readiness must be established for a component to be approved.
(vii) A program designed to improve the self-sufficiency of recipients through self-employment. Included are programs that provide instruction for self-employment ventures.
(viii) Job retention services that are designed to help achieve satisfactory performance, retain employment and to increase earnings over time. The State agency may offer job retention services, such as case management, job coaching, dependent care assistance and transportation assistance, for up to 90 days to an individual who has secured employment. State agencies must make a good faith effort to provide job retention services for at least 30 days. The State agency may determine the start date for job retention services provided that the individual is participating in SNAP in the month of or the month prior to beginning job retention services. The State agency may provide job retention services to households leaving SNAP up to the 90-day limit unless the individual is leaving SNAP due to a disqualification in accordance with § 273.7(f) or § 273.16. The participant must have secured employment after or while receiving other employment/training services under the E
T program offered by the State
agency. There is no limit to the number of times an individual may receive job retention services as long as the individual has re-engaged with E
T prior to obtaining new employment. An otherwise eligible individual who refuses or fails to accept or comply with job retention services offered by the State agency may not be disqualified as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.
(ix) Programs and activities conducted under the pilots authorized by the Agricultural Act of 2014 (Pub. L. 113-79) that the Secretary determines, based on the results from the independent evaluations conducted for those pilots, have the most demonstrable impact on the ability of participants to find and retain employment that leads to increased household income and reduced reliance on public assistance.
(3)
Exemptions.
Each State agency may, at its discretion, exempt individual work registrants and categories of work registrants from E
T participation. Each State agency must periodically reevaluate its individual and categorical exemptions to determine whether they remain valid. Each State agency will establish the frequency of its periodic evaluation.
(4)
Time spent in an employment and training program.
(i) Each State agency will determine the length of time a participant spends in case management or any E
T component it offers. The State agency may also determine the number of successive components in which a participant may be placed.
(ii) The time spent by the members of a household collectively each month in an E
T work program (including, but not limited to, those carried out under paragraphs (e)(2)(iii) and (iv) of this section) combined with any hours worked that month in a workfare program under paragraph (m) of this section must not exceed the number of hours equal to the household's allotment for that month divided by the higher of the applicable Federal or State minimum wage. The total hours of participation in an E
T program for any household member individually in any month, together with any hours worked in a workfare program under paragraph (m) of this section and any hours worked for compensation (in cash or in kind), must not exceed 120.
(5)
Voluntary participation.
(i) A State agency may operate an E
T program in which individuals elect to participate.
(ii) A State agency must not disqualify voluntary participants in an E
T program for failure to comply with E
T requirements.
(iii) Voluntary participants are not subject to the restrictions in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, as long as the voluntary participants are paid a wage at least equal to the higher of the applicable Federal or State minimum wage for all hours spent in an E
T work program or workfare.
(f)
Failure to comply
—(1)
Ineligibility for failure to comply.
A nonexempt individual who refuses or fails without good cause, as defined in paragraphs (i)(2), (3), and (4) of this section, to comply with SNAP work requirements listed under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is ineligible to participate in SNAP, and will be considered an ineligible household member, pursuant to § 273.1(b)(7).
(i) As soon as the State agency learns of the individual's noncompliance it must determine whether good cause for the noncompliance exists, as discussed in paragraph (i) of this section. Within 10 days of establishing that the noncompliance was without good cause, the State agency must provide the individual with a notice of adverse action, as specified in § 273.13. If the State agency offers a conciliation process as part of its E
T program, it must issue the notice of adverse action no later than the end of the conciliation period.
(ii) The notice of adverse action must contain the particular act of noncompliance committed and the proposed period of disqualification. The notice must also specify that the individual may, if appropriate, reapply at the end of the disqualification period. Information must be included on or with the notice describing the action that can be taken to avoid the disqualification before the disqualification period begins. The disqualification period must begin with the first month following the expiration of the 10-day adverse notice period, unless a fair hearing is requested.
(iii) An E
T disqualification may be imposed after the end of a certification period. Thus, a notice of adverse action must be sent whenever the State agency becomes aware of an individual's noncompliance with SNAP work requirements, even if the disqualification begins after the certification period expires and the household has not been recertified.
(2)
Disqualification periods.
The following disqualification periods will be imposed:
(i) For the first occurrence of noncompliance, the individual will be disqualified until the later of:
(A) The date the individual complies, as determined by the State agency;
(B) One month; or
(C) Up to three months, at State agency option.
(ii) For the second occurrence, until the later of:
(A) The date the individual complies, as determined by the State agency;
(B) Three months; or
(C) Up to six months, at State agency option.
(iii) For the third or subsequent occurrence, until the later of:
(A) The date the individual complies, as determined by the State agency;
(B) Six months;
(C) A date determined by the State agency; or
(D) At the option of the State agency, permanently.
(3)
Record retention.
In accordance with § 272.1(f) of this chapter, State agencies are required to retain records concerning the frequency of noncompliance with FSP work requirements and the resulting disqualification actions imposed. These records must be available for inspection and audit at any reasonable time to ensure conformance with the minimum mandatory disqualification periods instituted.
(4)
Disqualification plan.
In accordance with § 272.2(d)(1)(xiii) of this chapter, each State agency must prepare and submit a plan detailing its disqualification policies. The plan must include the length of disqualification to be enforced for each occurrence of noncompliance, how compliance is determined by the State agency, and the State agency's household disqualification policy.
(5)
Household ineligibility.
(i) If the individual who becomes ineligible to participate under paragraph (f)(1) of this section is the head of a household, the State agency, at its option, may disqualify the entire household from SNAP participation.
(ii) The State agency may disqualify the household for a period that does not exceed the lesser of:
(A) The duration of the ineligibility of the noncompliant individual under paragraph (f)(2) of this section; or
(B) 180 days.
(iii) A household disqualified under this provision may reestablish eligibility if:
(A) The head of the household leaves the household;
(B) A new and eligible person joins the household as the head of the household, as defined in § 273.1(d)(2); or
(C) The head of the household becomes exempt from work requirements during the disqualification period.
(iv) If the head of the household joins another household as its head, that household will be disqualified from participating in SNAP for the remaining period of ineligibility.
(6)
Fair hearings.
Each individual or household has the right to request a fair hearing, in accordance with § 273.15, to appeal a denial, reduction, or termination of benefits due to a determination of nonexempt status, or a State agency determination of failure to comply with SNAP work requirements. Individuals or households may appeal State agency actions such as exemption status, the type of requirement imposed, or State agency refusal to make a finding of good cause if the individual or household believes that a finding of failure to comply has resulted from improper decisions on these matters. The State agency or its designee operating the relevant component or service of the E
T program must receive sufficient advance notice to either permit the attendance of a representative or ensure that a representative will be available for questioning over the phone during the hearing. A representative of the appropriate agency must be available
through one of these means. A household must be allowed to examine its E
T program casefile at a reasonable time before the date of the fair hearing, except for confidential information (that may include test results) that the agency determines should be protected from release. Confidential information not released to a household may not be used by either party at the hearing. The results of the fair hearing are binding on the State agency.
(7)
Failure to comply with a work requirement under title IV of the Social Security Act, or an unemployment compensation work requirement.
An individual exempt from SNAP work requirements by paragraph (b)(1)(iii) or (v) of this section because he or she is subject to work requirements under title IV-A or unemployment compensation who fails to comply with a title IV-A or unemployment compensation work requirement will be treated as though he or she failed to comply with SNAP work requirement.
(i) When a SNAP household reports the loss or denial of title IV-A or unemployment compensation benefits, or if the State agency otherwise learns of a loss or denial, the State agency must determine whether the loss or denial resulted when a household member refused or failed without good cause to comply with a title IV-A or unemployment compensation work requirement.
(ii) If the State agency determines that the loss or denial of benefits resulted from an individual's refusal or failure without good cause to comply with a title IV or unemployment compensation requirement, the individual (or household if applicable under paragraph (f)(5) of this section) must be disqualified in accordance with the applicable provisions of this paragraph (f). However, if the noncomplying individual meets one of the work registration exemptions provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (other than the exemptions provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) or (v) of this section) the individual (or household if applicable under paragraph (f)(5) of this section) will not be disqualified.
(iii) If the State agency determination of noncompliance with a title IV-A or unemployment compensation work requirement leads to a denial or termination of the individual's or household's SNAP benefits, the individual or household has a right to appeal the decision in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f)(6) of this section.
(iv) In cases where the individual is disqualified from the title IV-A program for refusal or failure to comply with a title IV-A work requirement, but the individual meets one of the work registration exemptions provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, other than the exemption in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the State agency may, at its option, apply the identical title IV-A disqualification on the individual under SNAP. The State agency must impose such optional disqualifications in accordance with section 6(i) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and with the provisions of § 273.11(1).
(g)
Ending disqualification.
Except in cases of permanent disqualification, at the end of the applicable mandatory disqualification period for noncompliance with SNAP work requirements, participation may resume if the disqualified individual applies again and is determined by the State agency to be in compliance with work requirements. A disqualified individual may be permitted to resume participation during the disqualification period (if otherwise eligible) by becoming exempt from work requirements.
(h)
Suitable employment.
(1) Employment will be considered suitable unless:
(i) The wage offered is less than the highest of the applicable Federal minimum wage, the applicable State minimum wage, or eighty percent (80%) of the Federal minimum wage if neither the Federal nor State minimum wage is applicable.
(ii) The employment offered is on a piece-rate basis and the average hourly yield the employee can reasonably be expected to earn is less than the applicable hourly wages specified under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section.
(iii) The household member, as a condition of employment or continuing employment, is required to join, resign from, or refrain from joining any legitimate labor organization.
(iv) The work offered is at a site subject to a strike or lockout at the time of the offer unless the strike has been enjoined under section 208 of the Labor-Management Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 78) (commonly known as the Taft-Hartley Act), or unless an injunction has been issued under section 10 of the Railway Labor Act (45 U.S.C. 160).
(v) It fails to meet additional suitability criteria established by State agencies.
(2) In addition, employment will be considered suitable unless the household member involved can demonstrate or the State agency otherwise becomes aware that:
(i) The degree of risk to health and safety is unreasonable.
(ii) The member is physically or mentally unfit to perform the employment, as documented by medical evidence or by reliable information from other sources.
(iii) The employment offered within the first 30 days of registration is not in the member's major field of experience.
(iv) The distance from the member's home to the place of employment is unreasonable considering the expected wage and the time and cost of commuting. Employment will not be considered suitable if daily commuting time exceeds 2 hours per day, not including the transporting of a child to and from a child care facility. Nor will employment be considered suitable if the distance to the place of employment prohibits walking and neither public nor private transportation is available to transport the member to the jobsite.
(v) The working hours or nature of the employment interferes with the member's religious observances, convictions, or beliefs.
(i)
Good cause.
(1) The State agency is responsible for determining good cause when a SNAP recipient fails or refuses to comply with SNAP work requirements. Since it is not possible for the Department to enumerate each individual situation that should or should not be considered good cause, the State agency must take into account the facts and circumstances, including information submitted by the employer and by the household member involved, in determining whether or not good cause exists.
(2) Good cause includes circumstances beyond the member's control, such as, but not limited to, illness, illness of another household member requiring the presence of the member, a household emergency, the unavailability of transportation, or the lack of adequate child care for children who have reached age six but are under age 12.
(3) Good cause for leaving employment includes the good cause provisions found in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, and resigning from a job that is unsuitable, as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section. Good cause for leaving employment also includes:
(i) Discrimination by an employer based on age, race, sex, color, handicap, religious beliefs, national origin or political beliefs;
(ii) Work demands or conditions that render continued employment unreasonable, such as working without being paid on schedule;
(iii) Acceptance of employment by the individual, or enrollment by the individual in any recognized school, training program or institution of higher education on at least a half time basis, that requires the individual to leave employment;
(iv) Acceptance by any other household member of employment or enrollment at least half-time in any recognized school, training program or institution of higher education in another county or similar political subdivision that requires the household to move and thereby requires the individual to leave employment;
(v) Resignations by persons under the age of 60 which are recognized by the employer as retirement;
(vi) Employment that becomes unsuitable, as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section, after the acceptance of such employment;
(vii) Acceptance of a bona fide offer of employment of more than 30 hours a week or in which the weekly earnings are equivalent to the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 30 hours that, because of circumstances beyond the individual's control, subsequently either
does not materialize or results in employment of less than 30 hours a week or weekly earnings of less than the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 30 hours; and
(viii) Leaving a job in connection with patterns of employment in which workers frequently move from one employer to another such as migrant farm labor or construction work. There may be some circumstances where households will apply for SNAP benefits between jobs particularly in cases where work may not yet be available at the new job site. Even though employment at the new site has not actually begun, the quitting of the previous employment must be considered as with good cause if it is part of the pattern of that type of employment.
(4) Good cause includes circumstances where the State agency determines that there is not an appropriate and available opening within the E
T program to accommodate the mandatory participant. Good cause for circumstances where there is not an appropriate or available opening within the E
T program shall extend until the State agency identifies an appropriate and available E
T opening, and the State agency informs the SNAP participant. In addition, good cause for circumstances where there is not an appropriate and available opening within the E
T program shall only apply to the requirement to participate in E
T and shall not provide good cause to ABAWDs who fail to fulfill the ABAWD work requirement in accordance with § 273.24.
(5)
Verification.
To the extent that the information given by the household is questionable, as defined in § 273.2(f)(2), State agencies must request verification of the household's statements. The primary responsibility for providing verification, as provided in § 273.2(f)(5), rests with the household.
(j)
Voluntary quit and reduction of work effort
—(1)
Period for establishing voluntary quit and reduction of work effort.
For the purpose of establishing that a voluntary quit without good cause or reduction in work effort without good cause occurred prior to applying for SNAP benefits, a State agency may, at its option, choose a period between 30 and 60 days before application in which to determine voluntary quit or reduction in work effort.
(2)
Individual ineligibility.
An individual is ineligible to participate in SNAP if, in a period established by the State agency between 30 and 60 day before applying for SNAP benefits or at any time thereafter, the individual:
(i) Voluntarily and without good cause quits a job of 30 hours a week or more; or
(ii) Reduces his or her work effort voluntarily and without good cause and, after the reduction, is working less than 30 hours per week.
(3)
Determining whether a voluntary quit or reduction of work effort occurred and application processing.
(i) When a household files an application for participation, or when a participating household reports the loss of a source of income or a reduction in household earnings, the State agency must determine whether any household member voluntarily quit his or her job or reduced his or her work effort. Benefits must not be delayed beyond the normal processing times specified in § 273.2 pending the outcome of this determination.
(ii) The voluntary quit provision applies if the employment involved 30 hours or more per week or provided weekly earnings at least equivalent to the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 30 hours; the quit occurred within a period established by the State agency between 30 to 60 days prior to the date of application or anytime thereafter; and the quit was without good cause. Changes in employment status that result from terminating a self-employment enterprise or resigning from a job at the demand of the employer will not be considered a voluntary quit for purposes of this paragraph (j). An employee of the Federal Government, or of a State or local government who participates in a strike against such government, and is dismissed from his or her job because of participation in the strike, will be considered to have voluntarily quit his or her job without good cause. If an individual quits a job, secures new employment at comparable wages or hours and is then laid off or, through no fault of his own, loses the new job, the individual must not be disqualified for the earlier quit.
(iii) The reduction of work effort provision applies if, before the reduction, the individual was employed 30 hours or more per week; the reduction occurred within a period established by the State agency between 30 and 60 days prior to the date of application or anytime thereafter; and the reduction was voluntary and without good cause. If the individual reduces his or her work hours to less than 30 a week, but continues to earn weekly wages that exceed the Federal minimum wage multiplied by 30 hours, the individual remains exempt from Program work requirements, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(vii) of this section, and the reduction in work effort provision does not apply. Minor variations in the number of hours worked or in the weekly minimum wage equivalent wages are inevitable and must be taken into consideration when assessing a recipient's compliance with Program work rules.
(iv) In the case of an applicant household, the State agency must determine if any household member subject to SNAP work requirements voluntarily quit his or her job or reduced his or her work effort within a period established by the State agency between 30 and 60 days prior to date of application. If the State agency learns that a household has lost a source of income or experienced a reduction in income after the date of application but before the household is certified, the State agency must determine whether a voluntary quit or reduction in work effort occurred.
(v) Upon determining that an individual voluntarily quit employment or reduced work effort, the State agency must determine if the voluntary quit or reduction of work effort was with good cause as defined in paragraph (i) of this section.
(vi) In the case of an individual who is a member of an applicant household, if the voluntary quit or reduction in work effort was without good cause, the individual will be determined ineligible to participate and will be disqualified according to the State agency's established minimum mandatory sanction schedule. The ineligible individual must be considered an ineligible household member, pursuant to § 273.1(b)(7). The disqualification is effective upon the determination of eligibility for the remaining household members. If the individual who becomes ineligible is the head of the household, as defined in § 273.1(d)(2), the State agency may choose to disqualify the entire household, in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section. If the State agency chooses to disqualify the household, the State agency must provide the applicant household with a notice of denial in accordance with § 273.2(g)(3). The notice must inform the household of the proposed period of disqualification; its right to reapply at the end of the disqualification period; and of its right to a fair hearing. The household's disqualification is effective upon the issuance of the notice of denial.
(vii) In the case of an individual who is a member of a participating household, if the State agency determines that the individual voluntarily quit his or her job or reduced his or her work effort without good cause while participating in the program or discovers that the individual voluntarily quit his or her job or reduced his or her work effort without good cause during a period established by the State agency between 30 and 60 days prior to the date of application for benefits or between application and certification, the State agency must provide the individual with a notice of adverse action as specified in § 273.13 within 10 days after the determination of a quit or reduction in work effort. The notification must contain the particular act of noncompliance committed, the proposed period of ineligibility, the actions that may be taken to avoid the disqualification, and it must specify that the individual, if otherwise eligible, may resume participation at the end of the disqualification period if the State agency determines the individual to be in compliance with Program work requirements. The individual will be disqualified according to the State agency's established minimum mandatory sanction schedule. The ineligible individual must be considered an ineligible household member, pursuant to § 273.1(b)(7). The disqualification period will begin
the first month following the expiration of the 10-day adverse notice period, unless the individual requests a fair hearing. If a voluntary quit or reduction in work effort occurs in the last month of a certification period, or is determined in the last 30 days of the certification period, the individual must be denied recertification for a period equal to the appropriate mandatory disqualification period, beginning with the day after the last certification period ends and continuing for the length of the disqualification, regardless of whether the individual reapplies for SNAP benefits. Each individual has a right to a fair hearing to appeal a denial or termination of benefits due to a determination that the individual voluntarily quit his or her job or reduced his or her work effort without good cause. If the participating individual's benefits are continued pending a fair hearing and the State agency determination is upheld, the disqualification period must begin the first of the month after the hearing decision is rendered.
(viii) If the individual who voluntarily quit his or her job, or who reduced his or her work effort without good cause is the head of a household, as defined in § 273.1(d), the State agency, at its option, may disqualify the entire household from SNAP participation in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section.
(4)
Ending a voluntary quit or a reduction in work disqualification.
Except in cases of permanent disqualification, following the end of the mandatory disqualification period for voluntarily quitting a job or reducing work effort without good cause, an individual may begin participation in the program if he or she reapplies and is determined eligible by the State agency. Eligibility may be reestablished during a disqualification and the individual, if otherwise eligible, may be permitted to resume participation if the individual becomes exempt from Program work requirements under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(5)
Application in the final month of disqualification.
Except in cases of permanent disqualification, if an application for participation in the Program is filed in the final month of the mandatory disqualification period, the State agency must, in accordance with § 273.10(a)(3), use the same application for the denial of benefits in the remaining month of disqualification and certification for any subsequent month(s) if all other eligibility criteria are met.
(k)
Employment initiatives program
—(1)
General.
In accordance with section 17(d)(1)(B) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, qualified State agencies may elect to operate an employment initiatives program, in which an eligible household can receive the cash equivalent of its SNAP benefit allotment.
(2)
State agency qualification.
A State agency qualifies to operate an employment initiatives program if, during the summer of 1993, at least half of its SNAP households also received cash benefits from a State program funded under title IV-A of the Social Security Act.
(3)
Qualified State agencies.
The State agencies of Alaska, California, Connecticut, the District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Michigan, Minnesota, New Jersey, West Virginia, and Wisconsin meet the qualification. These 10 State agencies may operate an employment initiatives program.
(4)
Eligible households.
A SNAP household in one of the 10 qualified State agencies may receive cash benefits in lieu of a SNAP benefit allotment if it meets the following requirements:
(i) The SNAP household elects to participate in an employment initiatives program;
(ii) An adult member of the household:
(A) Has worked in unsubsidized employment for the last 90 days, earning a minimum of $350 per month;
(B) Is receiving cash benefits under a State program funded under title IV-A of the Social Security Act; or
(C) Was receiving cash benefits under the State program but, while participating in the employment initiatives program, became ineligible because of earnings and continues to earn at least $350 a month from unsubsidized employment.
(5)
Program Provisions.
(i) Cash benefits provided in an employment initiatives program will be considered an allotment, as defined at § 271.2 of this chapter.
(ii) An eligible household receiving cash benefits in an employment initiatives program will not receive any other SNAP benefit during the period for which cash assistance is provided.
(iii) A qualified State agency operating an employment initiatives program must increase the cash benefit to participating households to compensate for any State or local sales tax on food purchases, unless FNS determines that an increase is unnecessary because of the limited nature of items subject to the State or local sales tax.
(iv) Any increase in cash assistance to account for a State or local sales tax on food purchases must be paid by the State agency.
(6)
Evaluation.
After two years of operating an employment initiatives program, a State agency must evaluate the impact of providing cash assistance in lieu of a SNAP benefit allotment to participating households. The State agency must provide FNS with a written report of its evaluation findings. The State agency, with the concurrence of FNS, will determine the content of the evaluation.
(l)
Work supplementation program.
In accordance with section 16(b) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, States may operate work supplementation (or support) programs that allow the cash value of SNAP benefits and public assistance, such as cash assistance authorized under title IV-A of the Social Security Act or cash assistance under a program established by a State, to be provided to employers as a wage subsidy to be used for hiring and employing public assistance recipients. The goal of these programs is to promote self-sufficiency by providing public assistance recipients with work experience to help them move into unsubsidized jobs. In accordance with § 272.2(d)(1)(xiv) of this chapter, State agencies that wish to exercise their option to implement work supplementation programs must submit to FNS for approval a plan that complies with the provisions of this paragraph (l). Work supplementation programs may not be implemented without prior approval from FNS.
(1)
Plan
—(i)
Assurances.
The plan must contain the following assurances:
(A) The individual participating in a work supplementation program must not be employed by the employer at the time the individual enters the program;
(B) The wage subsidy received under the work supplementation program must be excluded from household income and resources during the term the individual is participating in work supplementation;
(C) The household must not receive a separate SNAP allotment while participating in the work supplementation program;
(D) An individual participating in a work supplementation program is excused from meeting any other work requirements;
(E) The work supplementation program must not displace any persons currently employed who are not supplemented or supported;
(F) The wage subsidy must not be considered income or resources under any Federal, State or local laws, including but not limited to, laws relating to taxation, welfare, or public assistance programs, and the household's SNAP allotment must not be decreased due to taxation or any other reason because of its use as a wage subsidy;
(G) The earned income deduction does not apply to the subsidized portion of wages received in a work supplementation program; and
(H) All work supplemented or supported employees must receive the same benefits (sick and personal leave, health coverage, workmen's compensation, etc.) as similarly situated coworkers who are not participating in work supplementation and wages paid under a wage supplementation or support program must meet the requirements of the Fair Labor Standards Act and other applicable employment laws.
(ii)
Description.
The plan must also describe:
(A) The procedures the State agency will use to ensure that the cash value of SNAP benefits for participating households are not subject to State or local sales taxes on food purchases. The
costs of increasing household SNAP allotments to compensate for such sales taxes must be paid from State funds;
(B) State agency, employer and recipient obligations and responsibilities;
(C) The procedures the State agency will use to provide wage subsidies to employers and to ensure accountability;
(D) How public assistance recipients in the proposed work supplementation program will, within a specified period of time, be moved from supplemented or supported employment to employment that is not supplemented or supported;
(E) Whether the SNAP allotment and public assistance grant will be frozen at the time a recipient begins a subsidized job; and
(F) The procedures the State agency will use to ensure that work supplementation program participants do not incur any Federal, State, or local tax liabilities on the cash value of their SNAP benefits.
(2)
Budget.
In addition to the plan described in paragraph (l)(1) of this section, an operating budget for the proposed work supplementation program must be submitted to FNS.
(3)
Approval.
FNS will review the initial plan and any subsequent amendments. Upon approval by FNS, the State agency must incorporate the approved work supplementation program plan or subsequent amendment into its State Plan of Operation and its operating budget must be included in the State agency budget. No plan or amendment may be implemented without approval from FNS.
(4)
Reporting.
State agencies operating work supplementation and support programs are required to comply with all FNS reporting requirements, including reporting the amount of benefits contributed to employers as a wage subsidy on the FNS-388, State Issuance and Participation Estimates; FNS-388A, Participation and Issuance by Project Area; FNS-46, Issuance Reconciliation Report; and SF-425, using FNS-778 worksheet, Addendum Financial Status Report. State agencies are also required to report administrative costs associated with work supplementation programs on the FNS-366A, Budget Projection and SF-425 using FNS-778/FNS-778A worksheet, Financial Status Report. Special codes for work supplementation programs will be assigned for reporting purposes.
(5)
Funding.
FNS will pay the cash value of a participating household's SNAP benefits to a State agency with an approved work supplementation program to pay to an employer as a wage subsidy, and will also reimburse the State agency for related administrative costs, in accordance with Section 16 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.
(6)
Quality control.
Cases in which a household member is participating in a work supplementation program will be coded as not subject to review.
(m)
Optional workfare program
—(1)
General.
This paragraph (m) contains the rules to be followed in operating a SNAP workfare program. In workfare, nonexempt SNAP recipients may be required to perform work in a public service capacity as a condition of eligibility to receive the benefit allotment to which their household is normally entitled. The primary goal of workfare is to improve employability and enable individuals to move into regular employment.
(2)
Program administration.
(i) A SNAP workfare program may be operated as a component of a State agency's E
T program, or it may be operated independently. If the workfare program is part of an E
T program it must be included as a component in the State agency's E
T plan in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If it is operated independent of the E
T program, the State agency must submit a workfare plan to FNS for its approval. For the purpose of this paragraph (m), a political subdivision is any local government, including, but not limited to, any county, city, town or parish. A State agency may implement a workfare program statewide or in only some areas of the State. The areas of operation must be identified in the State agency's workfare or E
T plan.
(ii) Political subdivisions are encouraged, but not required, to submit their plans to FNS through their respective State agencies. At a minimum, however, plans must be submitted to the State agencies concurrent with their
submission to FNS. Workfare plans and subsequent amendments must not be implemented prior to their approval by FNS.
(iii) When a State agency chooses to sponsor a workfare program by submitting a plan to FNS, it must incorporate the approved plan into its State Plan of Operations. When a political subdivision chooses to sponsor a workfare program by submitting a plan to FNS, the State agency is responsible as a facilitator in the administration of the program by disbursing Federal funding and meeting the requirements identified in paragraph (m)(4) of this section. When it is notified that FNS has approved a workfare plan submitted by a political subdivision in its State, the State agency must append that political subdivision's workfare plan to its own State Plan of Operations.
(iv) The operating agency is the administrative organization identified in the workfare plan as being responsible for establishing job sites, assigning eligible recipients to the job sites, and meeting the requirements of this paragraph (m). The operating agency may be any public or private, nonprofit organization. The State agency or political subdivision that submitted the workfare plan is responsible for monitoring the operating agency's compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (m) or of the workfare plan. The Department may suspend or terminate some or all workfare program funding, or withdraw approval of the workfare program from the State agency or political subdivision that submitted the workfare plan upon finding that that State agency or political subdivision, or their respective operating agencies, have failed to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (m) or of the workfare plan.
(v) State agencies or other political subdivisions must describe in detail in the plan how the political subdivision, working with the State agency and any other cooperating agencies that may be involved in the program, will fulfill the provisions of this paragraph (m). The plan will be a one-time submittal, with amendments submitted as needed to cover any changes in the workfare program as they occur.
(vi) State agencies or political subdivisions submitting a workfare plan must submit with the plan an operating budget covering the period from the initiation of the workfare program's implementation schedule to the close of the Federal fiscal year. In addition, an estimate of the cost for one full year of operation must be submitted together with the workfare plan. For subsequent fiscal years, the workfare program budget must be included in the State agency's budget.
(vii) If workfare plans are submitted by more than one political subdivision, each representing the same population (such as a city within a county), the Department will determine which political subdivision will have its plan approved. Under no circumstances will a SNAP recipient be subject to more than one SNAP workfare program. If a political subdivision chooses to operate a workfare program and represents a population which is already, at least in part, subject to a SNAP workfare program administered by another political subdivision, it must establish in its workfare plan how SNAP recipients will not be subject to more than one SNAP workfare program.
(3)
Operating agency responsibilities.
(i)
General.
The operating agency, as designated by the State agency or other political subdivision that submits a plan, is responsible for establishing and monitoring job sites, interviewing and assessing eligible recipients, assigning eligible recipients to appropriate job sites, monitoring participant compliance, making initial determinations of good cause for household noncompliance, and otherwise meeting the requirements of this paragraph (m).
(ii)
Establishment of job sites.
Workfare job slots may only be located in public or private nonprofit agencies. Contractual agreements must be established between the operating agency and organizations providing jobs that include, but are not limited to, designation of the slots available and designation of responsibility for provision of benefits, if any are required, to the workfare participant.
(iii)
Notifying State agency of noncompliance.
The operating agency must notify the State agency of noncompliance by an individual with a workfare
obligation when it determines that the individual did not have good cause for the noncompliance. This notification must occur within five days of such a determination so that the State agency can make a final determination as provided in paragraph (m)(4)(iv) of this section.
(iv)
Notifications.
(A) State agencies must establish and use notices to notify the operating agency of workfare-eligible households. The notice must include the case name, case number, names of workfare-eligible household members, address of the household, certification period, and indication of any part-time work. If the State agency is calculating the hours of obligation, it must also include this in the notice. If the operating agency is computing the hours to be worked, include the monthly allotment amount.
(B) Operating agencies must establish and use notices to notify the workfare participant of where and when the participant is to report, to whom the participant is to report, a brief description of duties for the particular placement, and the number of hours to be worked.
(C) Operating agencies must establish and use notices to notify the State agency of failure by a household to meet its workfare obligation.
(v)
Recordkeeping requirements.
(A) Files that record activity by workfare participants must be maintained. At a minimum, these records must contain job sites, hours assigned, and hours completed.
(B) Program records must be maintained, for audit and review purposes, for a period of 3 years from the month of origin of each record. Fiscal records and accountable documents must be retained for 3 years from the date of fiscal or administrative closure of the workfare program. Fiscal closure, as used in this paragraph (m), means that workfare program obligations for or against the Federal government have been liquidated. Administrative closure, as used in this paragraph (m), means that the operating agency or Federal government has determined and documented that no further action to liquidate the workfare program obligation is appropriate. Fiscal records and accountable records must be kept in a manner that will permit verification of direct monthly reimbursements to recipients, in accordance with paragraph (m)(7)(iii) of this section.
(vi)
Reporting requirements.
The operating agency is responsible for providing information needed by the State agency to fulfill the reporting requirements contained in paragraph (m)(4)(v) of this section.
(vii)
Disclosure.
The provisions of § 272.1(c) of this chapter restricting the use and disclosure of information obtained from SNAP households is applicable to the administration of the workfare program.
(4)
State agency responsibilities.
(i) If a political subdivision chooses to operate a workfare program, the State agency must cooperate with the political subdivision in developing a plan.
(ii) The State agency must determine at certification or recertification which household members are eligible for the workfare program and inform the household representative of the nature of the program and of the penalties for noncompliance. If the State agency is not the operating agency, each member of a household who is subject to workfare under paragraph (m)(5)(i) of this section must be referred to the organization which is the operating agency. The information identified in paragraph (m)(3)(iv)(A) of this section must be forwarded to the operating agency within 5 days after the date of household certification. Computation of hours to be worked may be delegated to the operating agency.
(iii) The State agency must inform the household and the operating agency of the effect of any changes in a household's circumstances on the household's workfare obligation. This includes changes in benefit levels or workfare eligibility.
(iv) Upon notification by the operating agency that a participant has failed to comply with the workfare requirement without good cause, the State agency must make a final determination as to whether or not the failure occurred and whether there was good cause for the failure. If the State agency determines that the participant
did not have good cause for noncompliance, a sanction must be processed as provided in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(ii) of this section. The State agency must immediately inform the operating agency of the months during which the sanction will apply.
(v) The State agency must submit quarterly reports to FNS within 45 days of the end of each quarter identifying for that quarter for that State:
(A) The number of households with workfare-eligible recipients referred to the operating agency. A household will be counted each time it is referred to the operating agency;
(B) The number of households assigned to jobs each month by the operating agency;
(C) The number of individuals assigned to jobs each month by the operating agency;
(D) The total number of hours worked by participants; and
(E) The number of individuals against which sanctions were applied. An individual being sanctioned over two quarters should only be reported as sanctioned for the earlier quarter.
(vi) The State agency may, at its option, assume responsibility for monitoring all workfare programs in its State to assure that there is compliance with this section and with the plan submitted and approved by FNS. Should the State agency assume this responsibility, it would act as agent for FNS, which is ultimately responsible for ensuring such compliance. Should the State agency determine that noncompliance exists, it may withhold funding until compliance is achieved or FNS directs otherwise.
(5)
Household responsibilities.
(i)
Participation requirement.
Participation in workfare, if assigned by the State agency, is a SNAP work requirement for all nonexempt household members, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section. In addition:
(A) Those recipients exempt from SNAP work requirements because they are subject to and complying with any work requirement under title IV of the Social Security Act are subject to workfare if they are currently involved less than 20 hours a week in title IV work activities. Those recipients involved 20 hours a week or more may be subject to workfare at the option of the political subdivision; and
(B) Those recipients exempt from SNAP work requirements because they have applied for or are receiving unemployment compensation are subject to workfare.
(ii)
Household obligation.
The maximum total number of hours of work required of a household each month is determined by dividing the household's benefit allotment by the Federal or State minimum wage, whichever is higher. Fractions of hours of obligation may be rounded down. The household's hours of obligation for any given month may not be carried over into another month.
(6)
Other program requirements.
(i)
Conditions of employment.
(A) A participant may be required to work a maximum of 30 hours per week. This maximum must take into account hours worked in any other compensated capacity (including hours of participation in a title IV work program) by the participant on a regular or predictable part-time basis. With the participant's consent, the hours to be worked may be scheduled in such a manner that more than 30 hours are worked in one week, as long as the total for that month does not exceed the weekly average of 30 hours.
(B) No participant will be required to work more than eight hours on any given day without his or her consent.
(C) No participant will be required to accept an offer of workfare employment if it fails to meet the criteria established in paragraphs (h)(1)(iii), (h)(1)(iv), (h)(2)(i), (h)(2)(ii), (h)(2)(iv), and (h)(2)(v) of this section.
(D) If the workfare participant is unable to report for job scheduling, to appear for scheduled workfare employment, or to complete the entire workfare obligation due to compliance with Unemployment Insurance requirements; other SNAP work requirements established in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; or the job search requirements established in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, that inability must not be considered a refusal to accept workfare employment. If the workfare participant informs the operating agency of the time conflict, the operating agency must, if possible, reschedule the missed
activity. If the rescheduling cannot be completed before the end of the month, that must not be considered as cause for disqualification.
(E) The operating agency must assure that all persons employed in workfare jobs receive job-related benefits at the same levels and to the same extent as similar non-workfare employees. These are benefits related to the actual work being performed, such as workers' compensation, and not to the employment by a particular agency, such as health benefits. Of those benefits required to be offered, any elective benefit that requires a cash contribution by the participant will be optional at the discretion of the participant.
(F) The operating agency must assure that all workfare participants experience the same working conditions that are provided to non-workfare employees similarly employed.
(G) The provisions of section 2(a)(3) of the Service Contract Act of 1965 (Public Law 89-286), relating to health and safety conditions, apply to the workfare program.
(H) Operating agencies must not place a workfare participant in a work position that has the effect of replacing or preventing the employment of an individual not participating in the workfare program. Vacancies due to hiring freezes, terminations, or lay-offs must not be filled by workfare participants unless it can be demonstrated that the vacancies are a result of insufficient funds to sustain former staff levels.
(I) Workfare jobs must not, in any way, infringe upon the promotional opportunities that would otherwise be available to regular employees.
(J) Workfare jobs must not be related in any way to political or partisan activities.
(K) The cost of workers' compensation or comparable protection provided to workfare participants by the State agency, political subdivision, or operating agency is a matchable cost under paragraph (m)(7) of this section. However, whether or not this coverage is provided, in no case is the Federal government the employer in these workfare programs (unless a Federal agency is the job site). The Department does not assume liability for any injury to or death of a workfare participant while on the job.
(L) The nondiscrimination requirement provided in § 272.6(a) of this chapter applies to all agencies involved in the workfare program.
(ii)
Job search period.
The operating agency may establish a job search period of up to 30 days following certification prior to making a workfare assignment during which the potential participant is expected to look for a job. This period may only be established at household certification, not at recertification. The potential participant would not be subject to any job search requirements beyond those required under this section during this time.
(iii)
Participant reimbursement.
The operating agency must reimburse participants for transportation and other costs that are reasonably necessary and directly related to participation in the program. These other costs may include the cost of child care, or the cost of personal safety items or equipment required for performance of work if these items are also purchased by regular employees. These other costs may not include the cost of meals away from home. No participant cost reimbursed under a workfare program operated under Title IV of the Social Security Act or any other workfare program may be reimbursed under the SNAP workfare program. Only reimbursement of participant costs up to but not in excess of $25 per month for any participant will be subject to Federal cost sharing as provided in paragraph (m)(7) of this section. Reimbursed child care costs may not be claimed as expenses and used in calculating the child care deduction for determining household benefits. In accordance with paragraph (m)(4)(i) of this section, a State agency may decide what its reimbursement policy shall be.
(iv)
Failure to comply.
When a workfare participant is determined by the State agency to have failed or refused without good cause to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (m), the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section will apply.
(v)
Benefit overissuances.
If a benefit overissuance is discovered for a month or months in which a participant has already performed a workfare or work component requirement, the State agency must apply the claim recovery procedures as follows:
(A) If the person who performed the work is still subject to a work obligation, the State must determine how may extra hours were worked because of the improper benefit. The participant should be credited those extra hours toward future work obligations; and
(B) If a workfare or work component requirement does not continue, the State agency must determine whether the overissuance was the result of an intentional program violation, an inadvertent household error, or a State agency error. For an intentional program violation a claim should be established for the entire amount of the overissuance. If the overissuance was caused by an inadvertent household error or State agency error, the State agency must determine whether the number of hours worked in workfare are more than the number which could have been assigned had the proper benefit level been used in calculating the number of hours to work. A claim must be established for the amount of the overissuance not “worked off,” if any. If the hours worked equal the amount of hours calculated by dividing the overissuance by the minimum wage, no claim will be established. No credit for future work requirements will be given.
(7)
Federal financial participation
—(i)
Administrative costs.
Fifty percent of all administrative costs incurred by State agencies or political subdivisions in operating a workfare program will be funded by the Federal government. Such costs include those related to recipient participation in workfare, up to $25 per month for any participant, as indicated in paragraph (m)(6)(iii) of this section. Such costs do not include the costs of equipment, capital expenditures, tools or materials used in connection with the work performed by workfare participants, the costs of supervising workfare participants, the costs of reimbursing participants for meals away from home, or reimbursed expenses in excess of $25 per month for any participant. State agencies must not use any portion of their annual 100 percent Federal E
T allocations to fund the administration of optional workfare programs under section 20 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and this paragraph (m).
(ii)
Funding mechanism.
The State agencies have responsibility for disbursing Federal funds used for the workfare program through the State agencies' Letters of Credit. The State agency must also assure that records are being maintained which support the financial claims being made to FNS. This will be for all programs, regardless of who submits the plan. Mechanisms for funding local political subdivisions which have submitted plans must be established by the State agencies.
(iii)
Fiscal recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
Workfare-related costs must be identified by the State agency on the Financial Status Report (Form SF-269) as a separate column. All financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, negotiated contracts, and all other records pertinent to workfare program funds must be maintained in accordance with § 277.12 of this chapter.
(iv)
Sharing workfare savings
—(A)
Entitlement.
A political subdivision is entitled to share in the benefit reductions that occur when a workfare participant begins employment while participating in workfare for the first time, or within thirty days of ending the first participation in workfare.
(
1
) To begin employment means to appear at the place of employment and to begin working.
(
2
) First participation in workfare means performing work for the first time in a particular workfare program. The only break in participation that does not end the first participation will be due to the participant's taking a job which does not affect the household's allotment by an entire month's wages and which is followed by a return to workfare.
(B)
Calculating the benefit reductions.
The political subdivision will calculate benefit reductions from each workfare participant's employment as follows.
(
1
) Unless the political subdivision knows otherwise, it will presume that the benefit reduction equals the difference between the last allotment issued before the participant began the new employment and the first allotment that reflects a full month's wages, earned income deduction, and dependent care deduction attributable to the new job.
(
2
) If the political subdivision knows of other changes besides the new job that affect the household's allotment after the new job began, the political subdivision will obtain the first allotment affected by an entire month's wages from the new job. The political subdivision will then recalculate the allotment to account for the wages, earned income deduction, and dependent care deduction attributable to the new job. In recalculating the allotment the political subdivision will also replace any benefits from a State program funded under title IV-A of the Social Security Act received after the new job with benefits received in the last month before the new job began. The difference between the first allotment that accounts for the new job and the recalculated allotment will be the benefit reduction.
(
3
) The political subdivision's share of the benefit reduction is three times this difference, divided by two.
(
4
) If, during these procedures, an error is discovered in the last allotment issued before the new employment began, that allotment must be corrected before the savings are calculated.
(C)
Accounting.
The reimbursement from workfare will be reported and paid as follows:
(
1
) The political subdivision will report its enhanced reimbursement to the State agency in accordance with paragraph (m)(7)(iii) of this section.
(
2
) The Food and Nutrition Service will reimburse the political subdivision in accordance with paragraph (m)(7)(ii) of this section.
(
3
) The political subdivision will, upon request, make available for review sufficient documentation to justify the amount of the enhanced reimbursement.
(
4
) The Food and Nutrition Service will reimburse only the political subdivision's reimbursed administrative costs in the fiscal year in which the workfare participant began new employment and which are acceptable according to paragraph (m)(7)(i) of this section.
(8)
Voluntary workfare program.
State agencies and political subdivisions may operate workfare programs whereby participation by SNAP recipients is voluntary. In such a program, the penalties for failure to comply, as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, will not apply for noncompliance. The amount of hours to be worked will be negotiated between the household and the operating agency, though not to exceed the limits provided under paragraph (m)(5)(ii) of this section. In addition, all protections provided under paragraph (m)(6)(i) of this section shall continue to apply. Those State agencies and political subdivisions choosing to operate such a program shall indicate in their workfare plan how their staffing will adapt to anticipated and unanticipated levels of participation. The Department will not approve plans which do not show that the benefits of the workfare program, in terms of hours worked by participants and reduced SNAP allotments due to successful job attainment, are expected to exceed the costs of such a program. In addition, if the Department finds that an approved voluntary program does not meet this criterion, the Department reserves the right to withdraw approval.
(9)
Comparable workfare programs.
In accordance with section 6(o)(2)(C) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, State agencies and political subdivisions may establish programs comparable to workfare under this paragraph (m) for the purpose of providing ABAWDs subject to the time limits specified at § 273.24 a means of fulfilling the work requirements in order to remain eligible for SNAP benefits. While comparable to workfare in that they require the participant to work for his or her household's SNAP allotment, these programs may or may not conform to other workfare requirements. State agencies or political subdivisions desiring to operate a comparable workfare program must meet the following conditions:
(i) The maximum number of hours worked weekly in a comparable workfare activity, combined with any other hours worked during the week by a participant for compensation (in cash or in kind) in any other capacity, must not exceed 30;
(ii) Participants must not receive a fourth month of SNAP benefits (the first month for which they would not be eligible under the time limit) without having secured a workfare position or without having met their workfare obligation. Participation must be verified timely to prevent issuance of a month's benefits for which the required work obligation is not met;
(iii) The State agency or political subdivision must maintain records to support the issuance of benefits to comparable workfare participants beyond the third month of eligibility; and
(iv) The State agency or political subdivision must provide a description of its program, including a methodology for ensuring compliance with (m)(9)(ii) of this section. The description should be submitted to the appropriate Regional office, with copies forwarded to SNAP National office.
(n)
Workforce partnerships.
Workforce partnerships must meet the following requirements.
(1) Workforce partnerships are programs operated by:
(i) A private employer, an organization representing private employers, or a nonprofit organization providing services relating to workforce development; or
(ii) An entity identified as an eligible provider of training services under section 122(d) of WIOA (29 U.S.C. 3152(d)).
(2) Workforce partnerships may include multi-State programs.
(3) Workforce partnerships must be in compliance with the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (29 U.S.C. 201 et seq), as applicable.
(4)
Certification of workforce partnerships.
All workforce partnerships must be certified by the Secretary or by the State agency to the Secretary to indicate all of the following. The workforce partnership must:
(i) Assist SNAP households in gaining high-quality, work-relevant skills, training, work, or experience that will increase the ability of the participants to obtain regular employment;
(ii) Provide participants with not less than 20 hours per week, averaged monthly of training, work, or experience; for the purposes of this provision, 20 hours a week averaged monthly means 80 hours a month;
(iii) Not use any funds authorized to be appropriated under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008;
(iv) Provide sufficient information to the State agency, on request, to determine whether members of SNAP households who are subject to the work requirement in 7 CFR 273.7(a), the ABAWD work requirements in 7 CFR 273.24, or both are fulfilling the work requirement through the workforce partnership;
(v) Be willing to serve as a reference for participants who are members of SNAP households for future employment or work-related programs.
(5) In certifying that a workforce partnership meets the criteria in paragraphs (n)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section to be certified as a workforce partnership, the Secretary or the State agency shall require that the program submit to the Secretary or the State agency sufficient information that describes both:
(i) The services and activities of the program that would provide participants with not less than 20 hours per week of training, work, or experience; and
(ii) How the workforce partnership would provide services and activities described in paragraph (n)(5)(i) of this section that would directly enhance the employability or job readiness of the participant.
(6)
Application to employment and training.
(i) Workforce partnerships may not use any funds authorized to be appropriated by the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.
(ii) If a member of a SNAP household is required to participate in an employment and training program in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the State shall consider an individual participating in a workforce partnership certified in accordance with paragraph (n)(4) of this section to be in compliance with the employment and training requirements. The State
agency cannot disqualify an individual for no longer participating in a workforce partnership. When a State agency learns that an individual is no longer participating in a workforce partnership, and the individual had been subject to mandatory E
T in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the State agency must re-screen the individual to determine if the individual qualifies for an exemption from the work requirements in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, and re-screen the individual to determine if the individual meets State criteria for referral to an E
T program or component in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section. After this re-screening, if it is appropriate to require the individual to participate in an E
T program, the State agency may refer the individual to an E
T program or workforce partnership, as applicable.
(7)
Supplement, Not Supplant.
A state agency may use a workforce partnership to supplement, not to supplant, the employment and training program of the State agency.
(8)
Application to work programs.
Workforce partnerships certified in accordance with paragraph (n)(4) of this section are included in the definition of a work program under 7 CFR 273.24(a)(3) for the purposes of fulfilling the ABAWD work requirement.
(9) The State agency shall not require any member of a household participating in SNAP to participate in a workforce partnership.
(10)
List of workforce partnerships.
A State agency shall maintain a list of workforce partnerships certified in accordance with paragraph (n)(4) of this section. A State agency must also inform any SNAP participant whom the State agency has determined is likely to benefit from participation in a workforce partnership of the availability of the workforce partnership, and provide the participant with all available pertinent information regarding the workforce partnership to enable the participant to make an informed choice about participation. The information must include, if available: contact information for the workforce partnership; the types of activities the participant would be engaged in through the workforce partnership, screening criteria used by the workforce partnership to select individuals, the location of the workforce partnership, the work schedule or schedules, any special skills required to participate, and wage and benefit information, if applicable.
(11) Participation in a workforce partnership shall not replace the employment or training of an individual not participating in a workforce partnership.
(12) A workforce partnership may select individuals for participation in the workforce partnership who may or may not meet the criteria for the general work requirement at 7 CFR 273.7(a), including participation in E
T, or the ABAWD work requirement at 7 CFR 273.24(a)(1).
(13)
Reporting.
Workforce partnership reporting requirements to the State agency are limited to the following:
(i) On notification that an individual participating in the workforce partnership is receiving SNAP benefits, notifying the State agency that the individual is participating in a workforce partnership;
(ii) Identifying participants who have completed or are no longer participating in the workforce partnership;
(iii) Identifying changes to the workforce partnership that result in the workforce partnership no longer meeting the certification requirements in accordance with paragraph (n)(4) of this section; and
(iv) Providing sufficient information, on request by the State agency, for the State agency to verify that a participant is fulfilling the applicable work requirements in paragraph (a) of this section or 7 CFR 273.24.
[67 FR 41603, June 19, 2002, as amended at 71 FR 33382, June 9, 2006; 81 FR 15622, Mar. 24, 2016; 81 FR 66497, Sept. 28, 2016; 82 FR 2038, Jan. 6, 2017; 84 FR 15094, Apr. 15, 2019; 86 FR 398, Jan. 5, 2021]
§ 273.7, Nt.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 89 FR 102362, Dec. 17, 2024, § 273.7 was amended by adding paragraph (b)(3), effective Jan. 16, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 273.7
Work provisions.
(b) * * *
(3) State agencies must screen individuals for all exemptions listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section at certification and recertification. The State agency must apply the exemption that will be in effect the longest when an individual qualifies for more than one exemption.
2. At 89 FR 90568, Nov. 18, 2024, and corrected at 89 FR 96517, Dec. 5, 2024, § 273.7 was further amended by revising paragraphs (c)(6)(xviii) and (c)(16) and (17), effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added and revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 273.7
Work provisions.
(c) * * *
(6) * * *
(xviii) For each component that is expected to include 100 or more participants, reporting measures that the State will collect and include in the annual report in paragraph (c)(17) of this section. Such measures may include:
(A) The percentage and number of program participants who received E
T services and are in unsubsidized employment subsequent to the receipt of those services;
(B) The percentage and number of participants who obtain a recognized credential, a registered apprenticeship, or a regular secondary school diploma (or its recognized equivalent), while participating in, or within 1 year after receiving E
T services;
(C) The percentage and number of participants who are in an education or training program that is intended to lead to a recognized credential, a registered apprenticeship an on-the-job training program, a regular secondary school diploma (or its recognized equivalent), or unsubsidized employment;
(D) Measures developed to assess the skills acquisition of E
T program participants that reflect the goals of the specific components including the percentage and number of participants who are meeting program requirements or are gaining skills likely to lead to employment; and
(E) Other indicators approved by FNS in the E
T State Plan; and
(16) FNS will assess the effectiveness of E
T programs in preparing E
T participants for employment, including obtaining of necessary skills and increasing the number of E
T participants who obtain and retain employment upon completion of participation in E
T. FNS will also assess that program activities are appropriate to meet the needs of individuals referred by the State agency to an E
T program. FNS may use all available information, including but not limited to, E
T State Plans, E
T Program Activity Reports, Annual Reports, and Management Evaluations. Based on this information, FNS will assess an E
T program's effectiveness across various categories including, but not limited to, intentional program design, integrated eligibility, deliberate program operations and meaningful outcomes.
(i) FNS may require a State agency to make modifications to its SNAP E
T plan to improve outcomes if FNS determines that the E
T outcomes are inadequate. FNS will consider these modifications in determining whether to approve a State's E
T plan.
(ii) [Reserved]
(17) The State agency shall submit an annual E
T report by April 15 each year that contains the following:
(i) Employment and Earnings Reporting Measures: State agencies shall report four consecutive quarters of data from the two previous Federal fiscal years ending the preceding September 30 for the following measures:
(A) The number and percentage of E
T participants and former participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after completion of participation in E
T.
(B) Median quarterly earnings of the E
T participants and former participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the second quarter after completion of participation in E
T.
(C) The number and percentage of E
T participants and former participants who are in unsubsidized employment during the fourth quarter after completion of participation in E
T.
(ii) Educational Reporting Measures: State agencies shall report data for the Federal fiscal year ending the preceding September 30 for the following measures:
(A)
Attainment of a credential or certificate.
The number and percentage of E
T participants enrolled in an education or training program, excluding those in on-the-job training, customized training or transitional jobs, who attain a recognized postsecondary credential, certificate or a secondary school diploma, or its recognized equivalent, during participation in or upon completion of participation in E
T.
(B)
Measurable skill gains.
The number and percentage of E
T participants who, during the preceding Federal fiscal year, are in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment and who are achieving measurable skill gains, defined as documented academic, technical, occupational, or other forms of progress, towards such a credential or employment.
(iii) State agencies shall report the employment and earnings measures specified in
paragraphs (c)(17)(i)(A) through (C) and educational measures specified in paragraphs (c)(17)(ii)(A) and (B) for each of following participant characteristics:
(A) By Race and/or Ethnicity;
(B) Voluntary E
T Participants;
(C) Mandatory E
T Participants;
(D) Mandatory E
T Participants deemed ineligible due to failure to comply with mandatory E
T;
(E) E
T participants who obtained high school diploma or equivalency prior to referral to E
T services; and
(F) ABAWDs.
(iv) State agencies that serve mandatory E
T participants shall report for the Federal fiscal year ending the preceding September 30 the following:
(A) the unduplicated number of SNAP participants who were required to participate in E
T;
(B) of those required to participate the unduplicated number and percentage referred to E
T; and
(C) the unduplicated number and percentage of SNAP participants that were determined ineligible for failure to comply with E
T requirements.
(v) The number and percentage of E
T participants for the Federal fiscal year ending the preceding September 30 who:
(A) Are voluntary E
T participants;
(B) Are mandatory E
T participants;
(C) E
T participants who obtained high school diploma or equivalency prior to referral to E
T services;
(D) Are ABAWDs;
(E) Are English language learners;
(F) By Gender identity;
(G) Are within each of the following age ranges: 16-17, 18-35, 36-49, 50-59, 60 or older; and
(H) By Race and/or Ethnicity
(vi) Reports for the measures identified in a State's E
T plan related to components that are designed to serve at least 100 participants a year; and
(vii) States that have committed to offering all at-risk ABAWDs participation in a qualifying activity and have received an additional allocation of funds as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section shall include:
(A) The monthly average number of individuals in the State who meet the conditions in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section;
(B) The monthly average number of individuals to whom the State offers a position in a program described in § 273.24(a)(3) and (4);
(C) The monthly average number of individuals who participate in such programs; and
(D) A description of the types of employment and training programs the State agency offered to at risk ABAWDs and the availability of those programs throughout the State.
(viii) States may be required to submit the annual report in a standardized format based upon guidance issued by FNS.

# Subpart D—Eligibility and Benefit Levels
§ 273.8
Resource eligibility standards.
(a)
Uniform standards.
The State agency shall apply the uniform national resource standards of eligibility to all applicant households, including those households in which members are recipients of federally aided public assistance, general assistance, or supplemental security income. Households which are categorically eligible as defined in § 273.2(j)(2) or 273.2(j)(4) do not have to meet the resource limits or definitions in this section.
(b)
Maximum allowable financial resources.
The maximum allowable liquid and non-liquid financial resources of all members of a household without members who are elderly or have a disability shall not exceed $2,000, as adjusted for inflation in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. For households including one or more member who is elderly or has a disability, such financial resources shall not exceed $3,000, as adjusted for inflation in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(1) Beginning October 1, 2008, and each October 1 thereafter, the maximum allowable financial resources shall be adjusted and rounded down to the nearest $250 to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index for the All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor (for the 12-month period ending the preceding June).
(2) Each adjustment shall be based on the unrounded amount for the prior 12-month period.
(c)
Definition of resources.
In determining the resources of a household, the following shall be included and documented by the State agency in sufficient detail to permit verification:
(1) Liquid resources, such as cash on hand, money in checking and savings accounts, saving certificates, stocks or bonds, and lump sum payments as specified in § 273.9(c)(8); and
(2) Nonliquid resources, personal property, licensed and unlicensed vehicles, buildings, land, recreational properties, and any other property, provided that these resources are not specifically excluded under paragraph (e) of this section. The value of nonexempt resources, except for licensed vehicles as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, shall be its equity value. The equity value is the fair market value less encumbrances.
(3) For a household containing a sponsored alien, the State agency must deem the resources of the sponsor and the sponsor's spouse in accordance with § 273.4(c)(2).
(d)
Jointly owned resources.
Resources owned jointly by separate households shall be considered available in their entirety to each household, unless it can be demonstrated by the applicant household that such resources are inaccessible to that household. If the household can demonstrate that it has access to only a portion of the resource, the value of that portion of the resource shall be counted toward the household's resource level. The resource shall be considered totally inaccessible to the household if the resource cannot practically be subdivided and the household's access to the value of the resource is dependent on the agreement of a joint owner who refuses to comply. For the purpose of this provision, ineligible aliens or disqualified individuals residing with the household shall be considered household members. Resources shall be considered inaccessible to persons residing in shelters for battered women and children, as defined in § 271.2, if
(1) The resources are jointly owned by such persons and by members of their former household; and
(2) The shelter resident's access to the value of the resources is dependent on the agreement of a joint owner who still resides in the former household.
(e)
Exclusions from resources.
In determining the resources of a household, only the following shall be excluded:
(1) The home and surrounding property which is not separated from the home by intervening property owned by others. Public rights of way, such as roads which run through the surrounding property and separate it from the home, will not affect the exemption of the property. The home and surrounding property shall remain exempt when temporarily unoccupied for reasons of employment, training for future employment, illness, or uninhabitability caused by casualty or natural disaster, if the household intends to return. Households that currently do not own a home, but own or are purchasing a lot on which they intend to build or are building a permanent home, shall receive an exclusion for the value of the lot and, if it is partially completed, for the home.
(2) Household goods, personal effects, the cash value of life insurance policies, one burial plot per household member, and the value of one funeral agreement per household member. The cash value of pension plans or funds shall be excluded. The following retirement accounts shall be excluded:
(i) Funds in a plan, contract, or account that meets the requirements that is described in one of the following sections of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986:
(A) Section 401(a), which includes funds commonly known as “tax qualified retirement plans,” including “401(k) plans”;
(B) Section 403(a), which includes funds that are similar to 401(a) plans but are funded through annuity contracts;
(C) Section 403(b), which includes tax-sheltered annuities, custodial accounts, and retirement income accounts retirement plans for some employees of public schools and tax exempt organizations;
(D) Section 408, which includes traditional Individual Retirement Accounts and traditional Individual Retirement Annuities (IRAs);
(E) Section 408A, which includes plans commonly known as “Roth IRAs” (including the “myRA”);
(F) Section 457(b), which includes plans commonly known as “eligible deferred compensation plans” for employees of state or local government or tax-exempt entities; or
(G) Section 501(c)(18), which includes plans funded by employee contributions.
(ii) Funds in a Section 529A, which includes funds in a qualified ABLE program.
(iii) Funds in the Federal Thrift Savings Fund within the meaning of that term as used in section 7701(j) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. as defined by 5 U.S.C. 8439.
(iv) Any other retirement plan or arrangement that is designated as tax-exempt under a successor or similar provision of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
(iv) Any other retirement account determined by FNS to be appropriate for exclusion.
(3)(i) Licensed vehicles that meet the following conditions:
(A) Used for income-producing purposes such as, but not limited to, a taxi, truck, or fishing boat, or a vehicle used for deliveries, to call on clients or customers, or required by the terms of employment. Licensed vehicles that have previously been used by a self-employed household member engaged in farming but are no longer used in farming because the household member has terminated his/her self-employment from farming must continue to be excluded as a resource for one year from the date the household member terminated his/her self-employment farming;
(B) Annually producing income consistent with its fair market value, even if used only on a seasonal basis;
(C) Necessary for long-distance travel, other than daily commuting, that is essential to the employment of a household member (or ineligible alien or disqualified person whose resources are being considered available to the household)—for example, the vehicle of a traveling sales person or a migrant farm worker following the work stream;
(D) Used as the household's home and, therefore, excluded under paragraph (e)(1) of this section;
(E) Necessary to transport a physically disabled household member (or physically disabled ineligible alien or physically disabled disqualified person whose resources are being considered available to the household) regardless of the purpose of such transportation (limited to one vehicle per physically disabled household member). The vehicle need not have special equipment or be used primarily by or for the transportation of the physically disabled household member; or
(F) Necessary to carry fuel for heating or water for home use when the transported fuel or water is anticipated to be the primary source of fuel or water for the household during the certification period. Households must receive this resource exclusion without having to meet any additional tests concerning the nature, capabilities, or other uses of the vehicle. Households must not be required to furnish documentation, as mandated by § 273.2(f)(4), unless the exclusion of the vehicle is questionable. If the basis for exclusion of the vehicle is questionable, the State agency may require documentation from the household, in accordance with § 273.2(f)(4).
(G) The value of the vehicle is inaccessible, in accordance with paragraph (e)(18) of this section, because its sale would produce an estimated return of not more than $1,500.
(ii) On those Indian reservations that do not require vehicles driven by tribal members to be licensed, such vehicles must be treated as licensed vehicles for the purpose of this exclusion.
(iii) The exclusions in paragraphs (e)(3)(i)(A) through (e)(3)(i)(C) of this section will apply when the vehicle is not in use because of temporary unemployment, such as when a taxi driver is ill and cannot work, or when a fishing boat is frozen in and cannot be used.
(4) Property which annually produces income consistent with its fair market value, even if only used on a seasonal basis. Such property shall include rental homes and vacation homes.
(5) Property, such as farm land or work related equipment, such as the tools of a tradesman or the machinery of a farmer, which is essential to the employment or self-employment of a household member. Property essential to the self-employment of a household member engaged in farming shall continue to be excluded for one year from the date the household member terminates his/her self-employment from farming.
(6) Installment contracts for the sale of land or buildings if the contract or agreement is producing income consistent with its fair market value. The
exclusion shall also apply to the value of the property sold under the installment contract, or held as security in exchange for a purchase price consistent with the fair market value of that property.
(7) Any governmental payments which are designated for the restoration of a home damaged in a disaster, if the household is subject to a legal sanction if the funds are not used as intended; for example, payments made by the Department of Housing and Urban Development through the individual and family grant program or disaster loans or grants made by the Small Business Administration.
(8) Resources having a cash value which is not accessible to the household, such as but not limited to, irrevocable trust funds, security deposits on rental property or utilities, property in probate, and real property which the household is making a good faith effort to sell at a reasonable price and which has not been sold. The State agency may verify that the property is for sale and that the household has not declined a reasonable offer. Verification may be obtained through a collateral contact or documentation, such as an advertisement for public sale in a newspaper of general circulation or a listing with a real estate broker. Any funds in a trust or transferred to a trust, and the income produced by that trust to the extent it is not available to the household, shall be considered inaccessible to the household if:
(i) The trust arrangement is not likely to cease during the certification period and no household member has the power to revoke the trust arrangement or change the name of the beneficiary during the certification period;
(ii) The trustee administering the funds is either:
(A) A court, or an institution, corporation, or organization which is not under the direction or ownership of any household member, or (B) an individual appointed by the court who has court imposed limitations placed on his/her use of the funds which meet the requirements of this paragraph;
(iii) Trust investments made on behalf of the trust do not directly involve or assist any business or corporation under the control, direction, or influence of a household member; and
(iv) The funds held in irrevocable trust are either:
(A) Established from the household's own funds, if the trustee uses the funds solely to make investments on behalf of the trust or to pay the educational or medical expenses of any person named by the household creating the trust, or (B) established from non-household funds by a nonhousehold member.
(9) Resources, such as those of students or self-employed persons, which have been prorated as income. The treatment of student income is explained in § 273.10(c) and the treatment of self-employment income is explained in § 273.11(a).
(10) Indian lands held jointly with the Tribe, or land that can be sold only with the approval of the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Indian Affairs; and
(11) Resources which are excluded for SNAP purposes by express provision of Federal statute.
(12) Earned income tax credits shall be excluded as follows:
(i) A Federal earned income tax credit received either as a lump sum or as payments under section 3507 of the Internal Revenue Code for the month of receipt and the following month for the individual and that individual's spouse.
(ii) Any Federal, State or local earned income tax credit received by any household member shall be excluded for 12 months, provided the household was participating in SNAP at the time of receipt of the earned income tax credit and provided the household participates continuously during that 12-month period. Breaks in participation of one month or less due to administrative reasons, such as delayed recertification or missing or late monthly reports, shall not be considered as nonparticipation in determining the 12-month exclusion.
(13) Where an exclusion applies because of use of a resource by or for a household member, the exclusion shall also apply when the resource is being used by or for an ineligible alien or disqualified person whose resources are
being counted as part of the household's resources. For example, work related equipment essential to the employment of an ineligible alien or disqualified person shall be excluded (in accordance with paragraph (e)(5) of this section), as shall one burial plot per ineligible alien or disqualified household member (in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section).
(14) Energy assistance payments or allowances excluded as income under § 273.9(c)(11).
(15) Non-liquid asset(s) against which a lien has been placed as a result of taking out a business loan and the household is prohibited by the security or lien agreement with the lien holder (creditor) from selling the asset(s).
(16) Property, real or personal, to the extent that it is directly related to the maintenance or use of a vehicle excluded under paragraphs (e)(3)(i)(A), (e)(3)(i)(B) or (e)(3)(i)(C) of this section. Only that portion of real property determined necessary for maintenance or use is excludable under this provision. For example, a household which owns a produce truck to earn its livelihood may be prohibited from parking the truck in a residential area. The household may own a 100-acre field and use a quarter-acre of the field to park and/or service the truck. Only the value of the quarter-acre would be excludable under this provision, not the entire 100-acre field.
(17) The resources of a household member who receives SSI or PA benefits. A household member is considered a recipient of these benefits if the benefits have been authorized but not received, if the benefits are suspended or recouped, or if the benefits are not paid because they are less than a minimum amount. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(17), if an individual receives non-cash or in-kind services from a program specified in §§ 273.2(j)(2)(i)(B), 273.2(j)(2)(i)(C), 273.2(j)(2)(ii)(A), or 273.2(j)(2)(ii)(B), the State agency must determine whether the individual or the household benefits from the assistance provided, in accordance with § 273.2(j)(2)(iii). Individuals entitled to Medicaid benefits only are not considered recipients of SSI or PA.
(18) The State agency must develop clear and uniform standards for identifying kinds of resources that, as a practical matter, the household is unable to sell for any significant return because the household's interest is relatively slight or the costs of selling the household's interest would be relatively great. The State agency must so identify a resource if its sale or other disposition is unlikely to produce any significant amount of funds for the support of the household or the cost of selling the resource would be relatively great. This provision does not apply to financial instruments such as stocks, bonds, and negotiable financial instruments. The determination of whether any part of the value of a vehicle is included as a resource must be made in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (e)(3) and (f) of this section. The State agency may require verification of the value of a resource to be excluded if the information provided by the household is questionable. The State agencies must use the following definitions in developing these standards:
(i) “Significant return” means any return, after estimating costs of sale or disposition, and taking into account the ownership interest of the household, that the State agency determines are more than $1,500; and
(ii) “Any significant amount of funds” means funds amounting to more than $1,500.
(19) At State agency option, any resources that the State agency excludes when determining eligibility or benefits for TANF cash assistance, as defined by 45 CFR 260.31 (a)(1) and (a)(2), or medical assistance under Section 1931 of the SSA. Resource exclusions under TANF and Section 1931 programs that do not evaluate the financial circumstances of adults in the household and programs grandfathered under Section 404(a)(2) of the SSA shall not be excluded under this paragraph (e)(19). Additionally, licensed vehicles not excluded under Section 5(g)(2)(C) or (D) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2014(g)(2)(C) or (D)), cash on hand, amounts in any account in a financial institution that are readily available to the household including money in checking or savings accounts, savings certificates, stocks, or bonds shall also not be excluded. The
term “readily available” applies to resources that the owner can simply withdraw from a financial institution. State agencies may exclude deposits in individual development accounts (IDAs). A State agency that chooses to exclude resources under this paragraph (e)(19) must specify in its State plan of operation that it has selected this option and provide a description of the resources that are being excluded.
(20) The following education accounts are excluded from allowable financial resources:
(i) Funds in a qualified tuition program, as defined by section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; (ii) Funds in a Coverdell education savings account, as defined by section 530 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and
(iii) Funds in any other education savings account determined by FNS to be appropriate for exclusion.
(f)
Determining the value of non-excluded vehicles.
(1) The State agency must:
(i) Individually evaluate the fair market value of each licensed vehicle that is not excluded under paragraph (e)(3) of this section;
(ii) Count in full toward the household's resource level, regardless of any encumbrances on the vehicle, that portion of the fair market value that exceeds $4,650 beginning October 1, 1996;
(iii) Evaluate such licensed vehicles as well as all unlicensed vehicles for their equity value (fair market value less encumbrances), unless specifically exempt from the equity value test; and
(iv) Count as a resource only the greater of the two amounts if the vehicle has a countable fair market value of more than $4,650 after October 1, 1996, and also has a countable equity value.
(2) Only the following vehicles are exempt from the equity value test outlined in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section:
(i) Vehicles excluded under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section;
(ii) One licensed vehicle per adult household member (or an ineligible alien or disqualified household member whose resources are being considered available to household), regardless of the use of the vehicle; and
(iii) Any other vehicle a household member under age 18 (or an ineligible alien or disqualified household member under age 18 whose resources are being considered available to household) drives to commute to and from employment, or to and from training or education which is preparatory to employment, or to seek employment. This equity exclusion applies during temporary periods of unemployment to a vehicle which a household member under age 18 customarily drives to commute to and from employment.
(3) State agencies will be responsible for establishing methodologies for determining the fair market value of vehicles. In establishing such methodologies, the State agency must not increase the basic value of a vehicle by adding the value of low mileage or other factors such as optional equipment or special apparatus for the handicapped. Any household that claims that the State agency's determination of the value of its vehicle(s) is not accurate must be given the opportunity to acquire verification of the true value of the vehicle from a reliable source.
(4) A State agency may substitute for the vehicle evaluation provisions in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section the vehicle evaluation provisions of a program in that State that uses TANF or State or local funds to meet TANF maintenance of effort requirements and provides benefits that meet the definition of “assistance” according to TANF regulations at 45 CFR 260.31, where doing so results in a lower attribution of resources to the household. States electing this option must:
(i) Apply the substituted TANF vehicle rules to all SNAP households in the State, whether or not they receive or are eligible to receive TANF assistance of any kind;
(ii) Exclude from household resources any vehicles excluded by either the substituted TANF vehicle rules or the SNAP vehicle rules at paragraphs (e)(3), (e)(5), (e)(11) and (f) of this section;
(iii) Apply either the substituted TANF rules or the SNAP vehicle rules to each of a household's vehicles in
turn, using whichever set of rules produces the lower attribution of resources to the household;
(iv) Apply any vehicle exclusions allowed by their TANF vehicle rules to the vehicles with the highest values; and
(v) Exclude any vehicle owned by any household in the State if it selects TANF vehicle rules that exclude all vehicles completely or contain no resource provisions at all.
(g)
Handling of excluded funds.
Excluded funds that are kept in a separate account, and that are not commingled in an account with nonexcluded funds, shall retain their resource exclusion for an unlimited period of time. The resources of students and self-employment households which are excluded as provided in paragraph (e)(9) of this section and are commingled in an account with nonexcluded funds shall retain their exclusion for the period of time over which they have been prorated as income. All other excluded moneys which are commingled in an account with nonexcluded funds shall retain their exemption for six months from the date they are commingled. After six months from the date of commingling, all funds in the commingled account shall be counted as a resource.
(h)
Transfer of resources.
(1) At the time of application, households shall be asked to provide information regarding any resources which any household member (or ineligible alien or disqualified person whose resources are being considered available to the household) had transferred within the 3-month period immediately preceding the date of application. Households which have transferred resources knowingly for the purpose of qualifying or attempting to qualify for SNAP benefits shall be disqualified from participation in the program for up to 1 year from the date of the discovery of the transfer. This disqualification period shall be applied if the resources are transferred knowingly in the 3-month period prior to application or if they are transferred knowingly after the household is determined eligible for benefits. An example of the latter would be assets which the household acquires after being certified and which are then transferred to prevent the household from exceeding the maximum resource limit.
(2) Eligibility for the program will not be affected by the following transfers:
(i) Resources which would not otherwise affect eligibility, for example, resources consisting of excluded personal property such as furniture or of money that, when added to other nonexempt household resources, totaled less at the time of the transfer than the allowable resource limits;
(ii) Resources which are sold or traded at, or near, fair market value;
(iii) Resources which are transferred between members of the same household (including ineligible aliens or disqualified persons whose resources are being considered available to the household); and
(iv) Resources which are transferred for reasons other than qualifying or attempting to qualify for SNAP benefits, for example, a parent placing funds into an educational trust fund described in paragraph (e)(9) of this section.
(3) In the event the State agency establishes that an applicant household knowingly transferred resources for the purpose of qualifying or attempting to qualify for SNAP benefits, the household shall be sent a notice of denial explaining the reason for and length of the disqualification. The period of disqualification shall begin in the month of application. If the household is participating at the time of the discovery of the transfer, a notice of adverse action explaining the reason for and length of the disqualification shall be sent. The period of disqualification shall be made effective with the first allotment to be issued after the notice of adverse action period has expired, unless the household has requested a fair hearing and continued benefits.
(4) The length of the disqualification period shall be based on the amount by which nonexempt transferred resources, when added to other countable resources, exceeds the allowable resource limits. The following chart will be used to determine the period of disqualification.
Amount in excess of the resource limit
Period of disqualification (months)
$0 to 249.99
1
250 to 999.99
3
1,000 to 2999.99
6
3,000 to 4,999.99
9
5,000 or more
12
(i)
Resources of non-household members.
(1) The resources of non-household members, as defined in § 273.1(b)(7)(i) and (ii), must be handled as outlined in § 273.11(d).
(2) The resources of non-household members, as defined in § 273.1(b)(7)(iii) through (vi), must be handled as outlined in § 273.11(c) and (d), as appropriate.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.8, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 273.9
Income and deductions.
(a)
Income eligibility standards.
Participation in the Program shall be limited to those households whose incomes are determined to be a substantial limiting factor in permitting them to obtain a more nutritious diet. Households which contain an elderly or disabled member shall meet the net income eligibility standards for SNAP. Households which do not contain an elderly or disabled member shall meet both the net income eligibility standards and the gross income eligibility standards for SNAP. Households which are categorically eligible as defined in § 273.2(j)(2) or 273.2(j)(4) do not have to meet either the gross or net income eligibility standards. The net and gross income eligibility standards shall be based on the Federal income poverty levels established as provided in section 673(2) of the Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9902(2)).
(1) The gross income eligibility standards for SNAP shall be as follows:
(i) The income eligibility standards for the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia, Guam and the Virgin Islands shall be 130 percent of the Federal income poverty levels for the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia.
(ii) The income eligibility standards for Alaska shall be 130 percent of the Federal income poverty levels for Alaska.
(iii) The income eligibility standards for Hawaii shall be 130 percent of the Federal income poverty levels for Hawaii.
(2) The net income eligibility standards for SNAP shall be as follows:
(i) The income eligibility standards for the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia, Guam and the Virgin Islands shall be the Federal income poverty levels for the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia.
(ii) The income eligibility standards for Alaska shall be the Federal income poverty levels for Alaska.
(iii) The income eligibility standard for Hawaii shall be the Federal income poverty levels for Hawaii.
(3) The income eligibility limits, as described in this paragraph, are revised each October 1 to reflect the annual adjustment to the Federal income poverty guidelines for the 48 States and the District of Columbia, for Alaska, and for Hawaii.
(i) 130 percent of the annual income poverty guidelines shall be divided by 12 to determine the monthly gross income standards, rounding the results upwards as necessary. For households greater than eight persons, the increment in the Federal income poverty guidelines is multiplied by 130 percent, divided by 12, and the results rounded upward if necessary.
(ii) The annual income poverty guidelines shall be divided by 12 to determine the monthly net income eligibility standards, rounding the results upward as necessary. For households greater than eight persons, the increment in the Federal income poverty guidelines is divided by 12, and the results rounded upward if necessary.
(4) The monthly gross and net income eligibility standards for all areas will be prescribed in tables posted on the FNS web site, at
www.fns.usda.gov/snap
(b)
Definition of income.
Household income shall mean all income from whatever source excluding only items specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1) Earned income shall include: (i) All wages and salaries of an employee.
(ii) The gross income from a self-employment enterprise, including the total gain from the sale of any capital goods or equipment related to the business, excluding the costs of doing business as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. Ownership of rental property shall be considered a self-employment enterprise; however, income derived from the rental property shall be considered earned income only if a member of the household is actively engaged in the management of the property at least an average of 20 hours a week. Payments from a roomer or boarder, except foster care boarders, shall also be considered self-employment income.
(iii) Training allowances from vocational and rehabilitative programs recognized by Federal, State, or local governments, such as the work incentive program, to the extent they are not a reimbursement. Training allowances under Workforce Investment Act of 1998, other than earnings as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section, are excluded from consideration as income.
(iv) Payments under Title I (VISTA, University Year for Action, etc.) of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-113 Stat., as amended) shall be considered earned income and subject to the earned income deduction prescribed in § 273.10(e)(1)(i)(B), excluding payments made to those households specified in paragraph (c)(10)(iii) of this section.
(v) Earnings to individuals who are participating in on-the-job training programs under Title 1 of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998. This provision does not apply to household members under 19 years of age who are under the parental control of another adult member, regardless of school attendance and/or enrollment as discussed in paragraph (c)(7) of this section. For the purpose of this provision, earnings include monies paid under the Workforce Investment Act and monies paid by the employer.
(vi) Educational assistance which has a work requirement (such as work study, an assistantship or fellowship with a work requirement) in excess of the amount excluded under § 273.9(c)(3). Earned income from work study programs that are funded under section 20 U.S.C. 1087uu of the Higher Education Act is excluded.
(2) Unearned income shall include, but not be limited to:
(i) Assistance payments from Federal or federally aided public assistance programs, such as supplemental security income (SSI) or Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF); general assistance (GA) programs (as defined in § 271.2); or other assistance programs based on need. Such assistance is considered to be unearned income even if provided in the form of a vendor payment (provided to a third party on behalf of the household), unless the vendor payment is specifically exempt from consideration as countable income under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Assistance payments from programs which require, as a condition of eligibility, the actual performance of work without compensation other than the assistance payments themselves, shall be considered unearned income.
(ii) Annuities; pensions; retirement, veteran's, or disability benefits; worker's or unemployment compensation including any amounts deducted to repay claims for intentional program violations as provided in § 272.12; old-age, survivors, or social security benefits; strike benefits; foster care payments for children or adults who are considered members of the household; gross income minus the cost of doing business derived from rental property in which a household member is not actively engaged in the management of the property at least 20 hours a week.
(iii) Support or alimony payments made directly to the household from nonhousehold members.
(iv) Scholarships, educational grants, deferred payment loans for education, veteran's educational benefits and the like, other than educational assistance with a work requirement, in excess of amounts excluded under § 273.9(c).
(v) Payments from Government-sponsored programs, dividends, interest, royalties, and all other direct money payments from any source which can be construed to be a gain or benefit.
(vi) Monies which are withdrawn or dividends which are or could be received by a household from trust funds considered to be excludable resources
under § 273.8(e)(8). Such trust withdrawals shall be considered income in the month received, unless otherwise exempt under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. Dividends which the household has the option of either receiving as income or reinvesting in the trust are to be considered as income in the month they become available to the household unless otherwise exempt under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
(3) The earned or unearned income of an individual disqualified from the household for intentional Program violation, in accordance with § 273.16, or as a result of a sanction imposed while he/she was participating in a household disqualified for failure to comply with workfare requirements, in accordance with § 273.22, shall continue to be attributed in their entirety to the remaining household members. However, the earned or unearned income of individuals disqualified from households for failing to comply with the requirement to provide an SSN, in accordance with § 273.6, or for being an ineligible alien, in accordance with § 273.4, shall continue to be counted as income, less a pro rata share for the individual. Procedures for calculating this pro rata share are described in § 273.11(c).
(4) For a household containing a sponsored alien, the income of the sponsor and the sponsor's spouse must be deemed in accordance with § 273.4(c)(2).
(5) Income shall not include the following:
(i) Moneys withheld from an assistance payment, earned income, or other income source, or moneys received from any income source which are voluntarily or involuntarily returned, to repay a prior overpayment received from that income source, provided that the overpayment was not excludable under paragraph (c) of this section. However, moneys withheld from assistance from another program, as specified in § 273.11(k), shall be included as income.
(ii) Child support payments received by TANF recipients which must be transferred to the agency administering title IV-D of the Social Security Act, as amended, to maintain TANF eligibility.
(c)
Income exclusions.
Only the following items shall be excluded from household income and no other income shall be excluded:
(1) Any gain or benefit which is not in the form of money payable directly to the household, including in-kind benefits and certain vendor payments. In-kind benefits are those for which no monetary payment is made on behalf of the household and include meals, clothing, housing, or produce from a garden. A vendor payment is a money payment made on behalf of a household by a person or organization outside of the household directly to either the household's creditors or to a person or organization providing a service to the household. Payments made to a third party on behalf of the household are included or excluded as income as follows:
(i)
Public assistance (PA) vendor payments.
PA vendor payments are counted as income unless they are made for:
(A) Medical assistance;
(B) Child care assistance;
(C) Energy assistance as defined in paragraph (c)(11) of this section;
(D) Emergency assistance (including, but not limited to housing and transportation payments) for migrant or seasonal farmworker households while they are in the job stream;
(E) Housing assistance payments made through a State or local housing authority;
(F)
Emergency and special assistance.
PA provided to a third party on behalf of a household which is not specifically excluded from consideration as income under the provisions of paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) through (c)(1)(i)(E) of this section shall be considered for exclusion under this provision. To be considered emergency or special assistance and excluded under this provision, the assistance must be provided over and above the normal PA grant or payment, or cannot normally be provided as part of such grant or payment. If the PA program is composed of various standards or components, the assistance would be considered over and above the normal grant or not part of the grant if the assistance is not included as a regular component of the PA grant or benefit or the amount of assistance exceeds the maximum rate
of payment for the relevant component. If the PA program is not composed of various standards or components but is designed to provide a basic monthly grant or payment for all eligible households and provides a larger basic grant amount for all households in a particular category, e.g., all households with infants, the larger amount is still part of the normal grant or benefit for such households and not an “extra” payment excluded under this provision. On the other hand, if a fire destroyed a household item and a PA program provides an emergency amount paid directly to a store to purchase a replacement, such a payment is excluded under this provision. If the PA program is not composed of various standards, allowances, or components but is simply designed to provide assistance on an as-needed basis rather than to provide routine, regular monthly benefits to a client, no exclusion would be granted under this provision because the assistance is not provided over and above the normal grant, it is the normal grant. If it is not clear whether a certain type of PA vendor payment is covered under this provision, the State agency shall apply to the appropriate FNS Regional Office for a determination of whether the PA vendor payments should be excluded. The application for this exclusion determination must explain the emergency or special nature of the vendor payment, the exact type of assistance it is intended to provide, who is eligible for the assistance, how the assistance is paid, and how the vendor payment fits into the overall PA benefit standard. A copy of the rules, ordinances, or statutes which create and authorize the program shall accompany the application request.
(ii)
General assistance (GA) vendor payments.
Vendor payments made under a State or local GA program or a comparable basic assistance program are excluded from income except for some vendor payments for housing. A housing vendor payment is counted as income unless the payment is for:
(A) Energy assistance (as defined in paragraph (c)(11) of this section);
(B) Housing assistance from a State or local housing authority;
(C) Emergency assistance for migrant or seasonal farmworker households while they are in the job stream;
(D) Emergency or special payments (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(F) of this section; or
(E) Assistance provided under a program in a State in which no GA payments may be made directly to the household in the form of cash.
(iii)
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) vendor payments.
Rent or mortgage payments made to landlords or mortgagees by HUD are excluded.
(iv)
Educational assistance vendor payments.
Educational assistance provided to a third party on behalf of the household for living expenses shall be treated the same as educational assistance payable directly to the household.
(v)
Vendor payments that are reimbursements.
Reimbursements made in the form of vendor payments are excluded on the same basis as reimbursements paid directly to the household in accordance with paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
(vi)
Demonstration project vendor payments.
In-kind or vendor payments which would normally be excluded as income but are converted in whole or in part to a direct cash payment under a federally authorized demonstration project or waiver of provisions of Federal law shall be excluded from income.
(vii)
Other third-party payments.
Other third-party payments shall be handled as follows: moneys legally obligated and otherwise payable to the household which are diverted by the provider of the payment to a third party for a household expense shall be counted as income and not excluded. If a person or organization makes a payment to a third party on behalf of a household using funds that are not owed to the household, the payment shall be excluded from income. This distinction is illustrated by the following examples:
(A) A friend or relative uses his or her own money to pay the household's rent directly to the landlord. This vendor payment shall be excluded.
(B) A household member earns wages. However, the wages are garnished or diverted by the employer and paid to a third party for a household expense, such as rent. This vendor payment is
counted as income. However, if the employer pays a household's rent directly to the landlord in addition to paying the household its regular wages, the rent payment shall be excluded from income. Similarly, if the employer provides housing to an employee in addition to wages, the value of the housing shall not be counted as income.
(C) A household receives court-ordered monthly support payments in the amount of $400. Later, $200 is diverted by the provider and paid directly to a creditor for a household expense. The payment is counted as income. Money deducted or diverted from a court-ordered support or alimony payment (or other binding written support or alimony agreement) to a third party for a household's expense shall be included as income because the payment is taken from money that is owed to the household. However, payments specified by a court order or other legally binding agreement to go directly to a third party rather than the household are excluded from income because they are not otherwise payable to the household. For example, a court awards support payments in the amount of $400 a month and in addition orders $200 to be paid directly to a bank for repayment of a loan. The $400 payment is counted as income and the $200 payment is excluded from income. Support payments not required by a court order or other legally binding agreement (including payments in excess of the amount specified in a court order or written agreement) which are paid to a third party on the household's behalf shall be excluded from income.
(2) Any income in the certification period which is received too infrequently or irregularly to be reasonably anticipated, but not in excess of $30 in a quarter.
(3)(i) Educational assistance, including grants, scholarships, fellowships, work study, educational loans on which payment is deferred, veterans' educational benefits and the like.
(ii) To be excluded, educational assistance referred to in paragraph (c)(3)(i) must be:
(A) Received under 20 CFR 1087uu. This exemption includes student assistance received under part E of subchapter IV of Chapter 28 of title 20 and part C of subchapter I of chapter 34 of title 42, or under Bureau of Indian Affairs student assistance programs.
(B) Awarded to a household member enrolled at a:
(
1
) Recognized institution of post-secondary education (meaning any public or private educational institution which normally requires a high school diploma or equivalency certificate for enrollment or admits persons who are beyond the age of compulsory school attendance in the State in which the institution is located, provided that the institution is legally authorized or recognized by the State to provide an educational program beyond secondary education in the State or provides a program of training to prepare students for gainful employment, including correspondence schools at that level),
(
2
) School for the handicapped,
(
3
) Vocational education program,
(
4
) Vocational or technical school,
(
5
) Program that provides for obtaining a secondary school diploma or the equivalent;
(C) Used for or identified (earmarked) by the institution, school, program, or other grantor for the following allowable expenses:
(
1
) Tuition,
(
2
) Mandatory school fees, including the rental or purchase of any equipment, material, and supplies related to the pursuit of the course of study involved,
(
3
) Books,
(
4
) Supplies,
(
5
) Transportation,
(
6
) Miscellaneous personal expenses, other than normal living expenses, of the student incidental to attending a school, institution or program,
(
7
) Dependent care,
(
8
) Origination fees and insurance premiums on educational loans,
(
9
) Normal living expenses which are room and board are not excludable.
(
10
) Amounts excluded for dependent care costs shall not also be excluded under the general exclusion provisions of paragraph § 273.9(c)(5)(i)(C). Dependent care costs which exceed the amount excludable from income shall be deducted from income in accordance with paragraph § 273.9(d)(4) and be subject to a cap.
(iii) Exclusions based on use pursuant to paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(C) must be incurred or anticipated for the period the educational income is intended to cover regardless of when the educational income is actually received. If a student uses other income sources to pay for allowable educational expenses in months before the educational income is received, the exclusions to cover the expenses shall be allowed when the educational income is received. When the amounts used for allowable expense are more than amounts earmarked by the institution, school, program or other grantor, an exclusion shall be allowed for amounts used over the earmarked amounts. Exclusions based on use shall be subtracted from unearned educational income to the extent possible. If the unearned educational income is not enough to cover the expense, the remainder of the allowable expense shall be excluded from earned educational income.
(iv) An individual's total educational income exclusions granted under the provisions of paragraph (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(iii) of this section cannot exceed that individual's total educational income which was subject to the provisions of paragraph (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(iii) of this section.
(v) At its option, the State agency may exclude any educational assistance that must be excluded under its State Medicaid rules that would not already be excluded under this section. A State agency that chooses to exclude educational assistance under this paragraph (c)(3)(v) must specify in its State plan of operation that it has selected this option and provide a description of the educational assistance that is being excluded. The provisions of paragraphs (c)(3)(ii), (c)(3)(iii) and (c)(3)(iv) of this section do not apply to income excluded under this paragraph (c)(3)(v).
(4) All loans, including loans from private individuals as well as commercial institutions, other than educational loans on which repayment is deferred. Educational loans on which repayment is deferred shall be excluded pursuant to the provisions of § 273.9(c)(3)(i). A loan on which repayment must begin within 60 days after receipt of the loan shall not be considered a deferred repayment loan.
(5) Reimbursements for past or future expenses, to the extent they do not exceed actual expenses, and do not represent a gain or benefit to the household. Reimbursements for normal household living expenses such as rent or mortgage, personal clothing, or food eaten at home are a gain or benefit and, therefore, are not excluded. To be excluded, these payments must be provided specifically for an identified expense, other than normal living expenses, and used for the purpose intended. When a reimbursement, including a flat allowance, covers multiple expenses, each expense does not have to be separately identified as long as none of the reimbursement covers normal living expenses. The amount by which a reimbursement exceeds the actual incurred expense shall be counted as income. However, reimbursements shall not be considered to exceed actual expenses, unless the provider or the household indicates the amount is excessive.
(i) Examples of excludable reimbursements which are not considered to be a gain or benefit to the household are:
(A) Reimbursements or flat allowances, including reimbursements made to the household under § 273.7(d)(3), for job- or training-related expenses such as travel, per diem, uniforms, and transportation to and from the job or training site. Reimbursements which are provided over and above the basic wages for these expenses are excluded; however, these expenses, if not reimbursed, are not otherwise deductible. Reimbursements for the travel expenses incurred by migrant workers are also excluded.
(B) Reimbursements for out-of-pocket expenses of volunteers incurred in the course of their work.
(C) Medical or dependent care reimbursements.
(D) Reimbursements received by households to pay for services provided by Title XX of the Social Security Act.
(E) Any allowance a State agency provides no more frequently than annually for children's clothes when the children enter or return to school or daycare, provided the State agency does not reduce the monthly TANF
payment for the month in which the school clothes allowance is provided. State agencies are not required to verify attendance at school or daycare.
(F) Reimbursements made to the household under § 273.7(d)(3) for expenses necessary for participation in an education component under the E
T program.
(ii) The following shall not be considered a reimbursement excludable under this provision:
(A) No portion of benefits provided under title IV-A of the Social Security Act, to the extent such benefits are attributed to an adjustment for work-related or child care expenses (except for payments or reimbursements for such expenses made under an employment, education or training program initiated under such title after September 19, 1988), shall be considered excludable under this provision.
(B) No portion of any educational assistance that is provided for normal living expenses (room and board) shall be considered a reimbursement excludable under this provision.
(6) Moneys received and used for the care and maintenance of a third-party beneficiary who is not a household member. If the intended beneficiaries of a single payment are both household and nonhousehold members, any identifiable portion of the payment intended and used for the care and maintenance of the nonhousehold member shall be excluded. If the nonhousehold member's portion cannot be readily identified, the payment shall be evenly prorated among intended beneficiaries and the exclusion applied to the nonhousehold member's pro rata share or the amount actually used for the nonhousehold member's care and maintenance, whichever is less.
(7) The earned income (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of any household member who is under age 18, who is an elementary or secondary school student, and who lives with a natural, adoptive, or stepparent or under the parental control of a household member other than a parent. For purposes of this provision, an elementary or secondary school student is someone who attends elementary or secondary school, or who attends classes to obtain a General Equivalency Diploma that are recognized, operated, or supervised by the student's state or local school district, or who attends elementary or secondary classes through a home-school program recognized or supervised by the student's state or local school district. The exclusion shall continue to apply during temporary interruptions in school attendance due to semester or vacation breaks, provided the child's enrollment will resume following the break. If the child's earnings or amount of work performed cannot be differentiated from that of other household members, the total earnings shall be prorated equally among the working members and the child's pro rata share excluded.
(8) Money received in the form of a nonrecurring lump-sum payment, including, but not limited to, income tax refunds, rebates, or credits; retroactive lump-sum social security, SSI, public assistance, railroad retirement benefits, or other payments; lump-sum insurance settlements; or refunds of security deposits on rental property or utilities. TANF payments made to divert a family from becoming dependent on welfare may be excluded as a nonrecurring lump-sum payment if the payment is not defined as assistance because of the exception for non-recurrent, short-term benefits in 45 CFR 261.31(b)(1). These payments shall be counted as resources in the month received, in accordance with § 273.8(c) unless specifically excluded from consideration as a resource by other Federal laws.
(9) The cost of producing self-employment income. The procedures for computing the cost of producing self-employment income are described in § 273.11.
(10) Any income that is specifically excluded by any other Federal statute from consideration as income for the purpose of determining eligibility for SNAP. The following laws provide such an exclusion:
(i) Reimbursements from the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policy Act of 1970 (Pub. L. 91-646, section 216).
(ii) Payments received under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (Pub. L. 92-203, section 21(a));
(iii) Any payment to volunteers under Title II (RSVP, Foster Grandparents and others) of the Domestic Volunteer Services Act of 1973 (Pub. L. 93-113) as amended. Payments under title I of that Act (including payments from such title I programs as VISTA, University Year for Action, and Urban Crime Prevention Program) to volunteers shall be excluded for those individuals receiving SNAP benefits or public assistance at the time they joined the title I program, except that households which were receiving an income exclusion for a Vista or other title I Subsistence allowance at the time of conversion to the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 shall continue to receive an income exclusion for VISTA for the length of their volunteer contract in effect at the time of conversion. Temporary interruptions in SNAP participation shall not alter the exclusion once an initial determination has been made. New applicants who were not receiving public assistance or SNAPs at the time they joined VISTA shall have these volunteer payments included as earned income. The FNS National Office shall keep FNS Regional Offices informed of any new programs created under title I and II or changes in programs mentioned above so that they may alert State agencies.
(iv) Income derived from certain submarginal land of the United States which is held in trust for certain Indian tribes (Pub. L. 94-114, section 6).
(v) Allowances, earnings, or payments (including reimbursements) to individuals participating in programs under the Workforce Investment Act of 1998, except as provided for under paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.
(vi) Income derived from the disposition of funds to the Grand River Band of Ottawa Indians (Pub. L. 94-540).
(vii) Earned income tax credits received as a result of Pub. L. 95-600, the Revenue Act of 1978 which are received before January 1, 1980.
(viii) Payments by the Indian Claims Commission to the Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation or the Apache Tribe of the Mescalero Reservation (Pub. L. 95-433).
(ix) Payments to the Passamaquoddy Tribe and the Penobscot Nation or any of their members received pursuant to the Maine Indian Claims Settlement Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-420, section 5).
(x) Payments of relocation assistance to members of the Navajo and Hopi Tribes under Pub. L. 93-531.
(11) Energy assistance as follows:
(i) Any payments or allowances made for the purpose of providing energy assistance under any Federal law other than part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
), including utility reimbursements made by the Department of Housing and Urban Development and the Rural Housing Service, or
(ii) A one-time payment or allowance applied for on an as-needed basis and made under a Federal or State law for the costs of weatherization or emergency repair or replacement of an unsafe or inoperative furnace or other heating or cooling device. A down-payment followed by a final payment upon completion of the work will be considered a one-time payment for purposes of this provision.
(12) Cash donations based on need received on or after February 1, 1988 from one or more private nonprofit charitable organizations, but not to exceed $300 in a Federal fiscal year quarter.
(13) Earned income tax credit payments received either as a lump sum or payments under section 3507 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (relating to advance payment of earned income tax credits received as part of the paycheck or as a reduction in taxes that otherwise would have been paid at the end of the year).
(14) Any payment made to an E
T participant under § 273.7(d)(3) for costs that are reasonably necessary and directly related to participation in the E
T program. These costs include, but are not limited to, dependent care costs, transportation, other expenses related to work, training or education, such as uniforms, personal safety items or other necessary equipment, and books or training manuals. These costs shall not include the cost of meals away from home. Also, the value of any dependent care services provided for or arranged under § 273.7(d)(3)(i) would be excluded.
(15) Governmental foster care payments received by households with foster care individuals who are considered
to be boarders in accordance with § 273.1(c).
(16) Income of an SSI recipient necessary for the fulfillment of a plan for achieving self-support (PASS) which has been approved under section 1612(b)(4)(A)(iii) or 1612(b)(4)(B)(iv) of the Social Security Act. This income may be spent in accordance with an approved PASS or deposited into a PASS savings account for future use.
(17) Legally obligated child support payments paid by a household member to or for a nonhousehold member, including payments made to a third party on behalf of the nonhousehold member (vendor payments) and amounts paid toward child support arrearages. However, at its option, the State agency may allow households a deduction for such child support payments in accordance with paragraph (d)(5) of this section rather than an income exclusion.
(18) At the State agency's option, any State complementary assistance program payments excluded for the purpose of determining eligibility under section 1931 of the SSA for a program funded under Title XIX of the SSA. A State agency that chooses to exclude complementary assistance program payments under this paragraph (c)(18) must specify in its State plan of operation that it has selected this option and provide a description of the types of payments that are being excluded.
(19) At the State agency's option, any types of income that the State agency excludes when determining eligibility or benefits for TANF cash assistance as defined by 45 CFR 260.31(a)(1) and (a)(2), or medical assistance under Section 1931 of the SSA, (but not for programs that do not evaluate the financial circumstances of adults in the household and programs grandfathered under Section 404(a)(2) of the SSA). The State agency must exclude for SNAP purposes the same amount of income it excludes for TANF or Medicaid purposes. A State agency that chooses to exclude income under this paragraph (c)(19) must specify in its State plan of operation that it has selected this option and provide a description of the resources that are being excluded. The State agency shall not exclude:
(i) Wages or salaries;
(ii) Gross income from a self-employment enterprise, including the types of income referenced in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. Determining monthly income from self-employment must be calculated in accordance with § 273.11(a)(2);
(iii) Benefits under Title I, II, IV, X, XIV or XVI of the SSA, including supplemental security income (SSI) benefits, TANF benefits, and foster care and adoption payments from a government source;.
(iv) Regular payments from a government source. Payments or allowances a household receives from an intermediary that are funded from a government source are considered payments from a government source;
(v) Worker's compensation;
(vi) Child support payments, support or alimony payments made to the household from a nonhousehold member;
(vii) Annuities, pensions, retirement benefits;
(viii) Disability benefits or old age or survivor benefits; and
(ix) Monies withdrawn or dividends received by a household from trust funds considered to be excludable resources under § 273.8(e)(8).
(20) Income received by a member of the United States Armed Forces under Chapter 5 of Title 37 of the United States Code that is:
(i) Received in addition to the service member's basic pay;
(ii) Received as a result of the service member's deployment to or service in an area designated as a combat zone as determined pursuant to Executive Order or Public Law; and
(iii) Not received by the service member prior to the service member's deployment to or service in a Federally-designated combat zone.
(d)
Income deductions.
Deductions shall be allowed only for the following household expenses:
(1)
Standard deduction
—(i)
48 States, District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, and the Virgin Islands.
Effective October 1, 2002, in the 48 States and the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, and the Virgin Islands, the standard deduction for household sizes one through six shall be equal to 8.31 percent of the monthly net income eligibility standard for
each household size established under paragraph (a)(2) of this section rounded up to the nearest whole dollar. For household sizes greater than six, the standard deduction shall be equal to the standard deduction for a six-person household.
(ii)
Guam.
Effective October 1, 2002, in Guam, the standard deduction for household sizes one through six shall be equal to 8.31 percent of double the monthly net income eligibility standard for each household size for the 48 States and the District of Columbia established under paragraph (a)(2) of this section rounded up to the nearest whole dollar. For household sizes greater than six, the standard deduction shall be equal to the standard deduction for a six-person household.
(iii)
Minimum deduction levels.
Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the standard deduction for FY 2009 for each household in the 48 States and the District of Columbia, Alaska, Hawaii, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands shall not be less than $144, $246, $203, $289, and $127, respectively. Beginning FY 2010 and each fiscal year thereafter, the amount of the minimum standard deduction is equal to the unrounded amount from the previous fiscal year adjusted to the nearest lower dollar increment to reflect changes for the 12-month period ending on the preceding June 30 in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor, for items other than food.
(2)
Earned income deduction.
Twenty percent of gross earned income as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Earnings excluded in paragraph (c) of this section shall not be included in gross earned income for purposes of computing the earned income deduction, except that the State agency must count any earnings used to pay child support that were excluded from the household's income in accordance with the child support exclusion in paragraph (c)(17) of this section.
(3)
Excess medical deduction.
That portion of medical expenses in excess of $35 per month, excluding special diets, incurred by any household member who is elderly or disabled as defined in § 271.2. Spouses or other persons receiving benefits as a dependent of the SSI or disability and blindness recipient are not eligible to receive this deduction but persons receiving emergency SSI benefits based on presumptive eligibility are eligible for this deduction. Allowable medical costs are:
(i) Medical and dental care including psychotherapy and rehabilitation services provided by a licensed practitioner authorized by State law or other qualified health professional.
(ii) Hospitalization or outpatient treatment, nursing care, and nursing home care including payments by the household for an individual who was a household member immediately prior to entering a hospital or nursing home provided by a facility recognized by the State.
(iii) Prescription drugs, when prescribed by a licensed practitioner authorized under State law, and other over-the-counter medication (including insulin), when approved by a licensed practitioner or other qualified health professional.
(A)
Medical supplies and equipment.
Costs of medical supplies, sick-room equipment (including rental) or other prescribed equipment are deductible;
(B)
Exclusions.
The cost of any Schedule I controlled substance under The Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 801
et seq.,
and any expenses associated with its use, are not deductible.
(iv) Health and hospitalization insurance policy premiums. The costs of health and accident policies such as those payable in lump sum settlements for death or dismemberment or income maintenance policies such as those that continue mortgage or loan payments while the beneficiary is disabled are not deductible;
(v) Medicare premiums related to coverage under Title XVIII of the Social Security Act; any cost-sharing or spend down expenses incurred by Medicaid recipients;
(vi) Dentures, hearing aids, and prosthetics;
(vii) Securing and maintaining a seeing eye or hearing dog including the cost of dog food and veterinarian bills;
(viii) Eye glasses prescribed by a physician skilled in eye disease or by an optometrist;
(ix) Reasonable cost of transportation and lodging to obtain medical treatment or services;
(x) Maintaining an attendant, homemaker, home health aide, or child care services, housekeeper, necessary due to age, infirmity, or illness. In addition, an amount equal to the one person benefit allotment shall be deducted if the household furnishes the majority of the attendant's meals. The allotment for this meal related deduction shall be that in effect at the time of initial certification. The State agency is only required to update the allotment amount at the next scheduled recertification; however, at their option, the State agency may do so earlier. If a household incurs attendant care costs that could qualify under both the medical deduction of § 273.9(d)(3)(x) and the dependent care deduction of § 273.9(d)(4), the costs may be deducted as a medical expense or a dependent care expense, but not both.
(4)
Dependent care.
Payments for dependent care when necessary for a household member to search for, accept or continue employment, comply with the employment and training requirements as specified under § 273.7(e), or attend training or pursue education that is preparatory to employment, except as provided in § 273.10(d)(1)(i). Costs that may be deducted are limited to the care of an individual for whom the household provides dependent care, including care of a child under the age of 18 or an incapacitated person of any age in need of care. The costs of care provided by a relative may be deducted so long as the relative providing care is not part of the same SNAP household as the child or dependent adult receiving care. Dependent care expenses must be separately identified, necessary to participate in the care arrangement, and not already paid by another source on behalf of the household. If a household incurs attendant care costs that could qualify under both the medical deduction of § 273.9(d)(3)(x) and dependent care deduction of § 273.9(d)(4), the costs may be deducted as a medical expense or a dependent care expense, but not both. Allowable dependent care costs include:
(i) The costs of care given by an individual care provider or care facility;
(ii) Transportation costs to and from the care facility; and
(iii) Activity or other fees associated with the care provided to the dependent that are necessary for the household to participate in the care.
(5)
Optional child support deduction.
At its option, the State agency may provide a deduction, rather than the income exclusion provided under paragraph (c)(17) of this section, for legally obligated child support payments paid by a household member to or for a nonhousehold member, including payments made to a third party on behalf of the nonhousehold member (vendor payments) and amounts paid toward child support arrearages. Alimony payments made to or for a nonhousehold member shall not be included in the child support deduction. A State agency that chooses to provide a child support deduction rather than an exclusion in accordance with this paragraph (d)(5) must specify in its State plan of operation that it has chosen to provide the deduction rather than the exclusion.
(6)
Shelter costs
—(i)
Homeless shelter deduction.
A State agency may provide a standard homeless shelter deduction of $143 a month to households in which all members are homeless individuals but are not receiving free shelter throughout the month. The deduction must be subtracted from net income in determining eligibility and allotments for the households. The State agency may make a household with extremely low shelter costs ineligible for the deduction. A household receiving the homeless shelter deduction cannot have its shelter expenses considered under paragraphs (d)(6)(ii) or (d)(6)(iii) of this section. However, a homeless household may choose to claim actual costs under paragraph (d)(6)(ii) of this section instead of the homeless shelter deduction if actual costs are higher and verified. A State agency that chooses to provide a homeless household shelter deduction must specify in its State plan of operation that it has selected this option.
(ii)
Excess shelter deduction.
Monthly shelter expenses in excess of 50 percent of the household's income after all other deductions in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section have been
allowed. If the household does not contain an elderly or disabled member, as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter, the shelter deduction cannot exceed the maximum shelter deduction limit established for the area. For fiscal year 2001, effective March 1, 2001, the maximum monthly excess shelter expense deduction limits are $340 for the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia, $543 for Alaska, $458 for Hawaii, $399 for Guam, and $268 for the Virgin Islands. FNS will set the maximum monthly excess shelter expense deduction limits for fiscal year 2002 and future years by adjusting the previous year's limits to reflect changes in the shelter component and the fuels and utilities component of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers for the 12 month period ending the previous November 30. FNS will notify State agencies of the amount of the limit. Only the following expenses are allowable shelter expenses:
(A) Continuing charges for the shelter occupied by the household, including rent, mortgage, condo and association fees, or other continuing charges leading to the ownership of the shelter such as loan repayments for the purchase of a mobile home, including interest on such payments.
(B) Property taxes, State and local assessments, and insurance on the structure itself, but not separate costs for insuring furniture or personal belongings.
(C) The cost of fuel for heating; cooling (i.e., the operation of air conditioning systems or room air conditioners); electricity or fuel used for purposes other than heating or cooling; water; sewerage; well installation and maintenance; septic tank system installation and maintenance; garbage and trash collection; all service fees required to provide service for one telephone, including, but not limited to, basic service fees, wire maintenance fees, subscriber line charges, relay center surcharges, 911 fees, and taxes; and fees charged by the utility provider for initial installation of the utility. One-time deposits cannot be included.
(D) The shelter costs for the home if temporarily not occupied by the household because of employment or training away from home, illness, or abandonment caused by a natural disaster or casualty loss. For costs of a home vacated by the household to be included in the household's shelter costs, the household must intend to return to the home; the current occupants of the home, if any, must not be claiming the shelter costs for SNAP purposes; and the home must not be leased or rented during the absence of the household.
(E) Charges for the repair of the home which was substantially damaged or destroyed due to a natural disaster such as a fire or flood. Shelter costs shall not include charges for repair of the home that have been or will be reimbursed by private or public relief agencies, insurance companies, or from any other source.
(iii)
Standard utility allowances.
(A) With FNS approval, a State agency may develop the following standard utility allowances (standards) to be used in place of actual costs in determining a household's excess shelter deduction: an individual standard for each type of utility expense; a standard utility allowance for all utilities that includes heating or cooling costs (HCSUA); and, a limited utility allowance (LUA) that includes electricity and fuel for purposes other than heating or cooling, water, sewerage, well and septic tank installation and maintenance, telephone, and garbage or trash collection. The LUA must include expenses for at least two utilities. However, at its option, the State agency may include the excess heating and cooling costs of public housing residents in the LUA if it wishes to offer the lower standard to such households. The State agency may use different types of standards but cannot allow households the use of two standards that include the same expense. In States in which the cooling expense is minimal, the State agency may include the cooling expense in the electricity component. The State agency may vary the allowance by factors such as household size, geographical area, or season. Only utility costs identified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section must be used in developing standards.
(B) The State agency must review the standards annually and make adjustments to reflect changes in costs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
State agencies must provide the amounts of standards to FNS when they are changed and submit methodologies used in developing and updating standards to FNS for approval when the methodologies are developed or changed.
(C) A standard with a heating or cooling component must be made available to households that incur heating or cooling expenses separately from their rent or mortgage and to households that receive direct or indirect assistance under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (LIHEAA). A heating or cooling standard is available to households in private rental housing who are billed by their landlords on the basis of individual usage or who are charged a flat rate separately from their rent. However, households in public housing units which have central utility meters and which charge households only for excess heating or cooling costs are not entitled to a standard that includes heating or cooling costs based only on the charge for excess usage unless the State agency mandates the use of standard utility allowances in accordance with paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(E) of this section. Households that receive direct or indirect energy assistance that is excluded from income consideration (other than that provided under the LIHEAA) are entitled to a standard that includes heating or cooling only if the amount of the expense exceeds the amount of the assistance. Households that receive direct or indirect energy assistance that is counted as income and incur a heating or cooling expense are entitled to use a standard that includes heating or cooling costs. A household that has both an occupied home and an unoccupied home is only entitled to one standard.
(D) At initial certification, recertification, and when a household moves, the household may choose between a standard or verified actual utility costs for any allowable expense identified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section (except the telephone standard), unless the State agency has opted, with FNS approval, to mandate use of a standard. The State agency may require use of the telephone standard for the cost of basic telephone service even if actual costs are higher. Households certified for 24 months may also choose to switch between a standard and actual costs at the time of the mandatory interim contact required by § 273.10(f)(1)(i), if the State agency has not mandated use of the standard.
(E) A State agency may mandate use of standard utility allowances for all households with qualifying expenses if the State has developed one or more standards that include the costs of heating and cooling and one or more standards that do not include the costs of heating and cooling, the standards will not result in increased program costs, and FNS approves the standard. The prohibition on increasing Program costs does not apply to necessary increases to standards resulting from utility cost increases. If the State agency chooses to mandate use of standard utility allowances, it must provide a standard utility allowance that includes heating or cooling costs to residents of public housing units which have central utility meters and which charge the households only for excess heating or cooling costs. The State agency also must not prorate a standard utility allowance that includes heating or cooling costs provided to a household that lives and shares heating or cooling expenses with others. In determining whether the standard utility allowances increase program costs, the State agency shall not consider any increase in costs that results from providing a standard utility allowance that includes heating or cooling costs to residents of public housing units which have central utility meters and which charge the households only for excess heating or cooling costs. The State agency shall also not consider any increase in costs that results from providing a full (
i.e.,
not prorated) standard utility allowance that includes heating or cooling costs to a household that lives and shares heating or cooling expenses with others. Under this option households entitled to the standard may not claim actual expenses, even if the expenses are higher than the standard. Households not entitled to the standard may claim actual allowable expenses. Requests to use an LUA should include the approximate number of SNAP households that
would be entitled to the nonheating and noncooling standard, the average utility costs prior to use of the mandatory standard, the proposed standards, and an explanation of how the standards were computed.
(F) If a household lives with and shares heating or cooling expenses with another individual, another household, or both, the State agency shall not prorate the standard for such households if the State agency mandates use of standard utility allowances in accordance with paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(E) of this section. The State agency may not prorate the SUA if all the individuals who share utility expenses but are not in the SNAP household are excluded from the household only because they are ineligible.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.9, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 273.9, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 91220, Nov. 18, 2024, § 273.9 was amended by revising paragraphs (d)(6)(ii)(C) and (d)(6)(iii), effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 273.9
Income and deductions.
(d) * * *
(6) * * *
(ii) * * *
(C) The cost of fuel for heating; cooling (
i.e.,
the operation of air conditioning systems or room air conditioners); electricity or fuel used for purposes other than heating or cooling; water; sewerage; well installation and maintenance; septic tank system installation and maintenance; garbage and trash collection; all service fees required to provide service for one telephone, including, but not limited to, basic service fees, wire maintenance fees, subscriber line charges, relay center surcharges, 911 fees, and taxes; service fees associated with basic internet connection, including, but not limited to, monthly subscriber fees (
i.e.,
the base rate paid by the household each month in order to receive service, which may include high-speed internet), taxes and fees charged to the household by the provider that recur on monthly bills, and the cost of one modem rental; and fees charged by the utility provider for initial installation of the utility. One-time deposits cannot be included.
(iii)
Standard utility allowances.
(A) A State agency may use standard utility allowances (standards) in place of actual costs in determining a household's excess shelter deduction. The State agency may use different types of standards but cannot allow households the use of two standards that include the same expense. The State agency may vary the standards by factors such as household size, geographical area, or season. Only utility costs identified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section may be used in developing standards described in paragraphs (d)(6)(iii)(A)(
1
) through (
3
) of this section. The following standards are allowable:
(
1
) An individual standard for each type of utility expense;
(
2
) A standard utility allowance for all utilities that includes heating or cooling costs (HCSUA); and
(
3
) A limited utility allowance (LUA) that includes electricity and fuel for purposes other than heating or cooling, water, sewerage, well and septic tank installation and maintenance, and garbage or trash collection. The LUA may also include telephone and/or internet costs. The LUA must include expenses for at least two utilities.
(B) The State agency must review the standards annually and make adjustments to reflect changes in costs, rounded to the nearest whole dollar. State agencies must provide the amounts of standards to FNS annually and submit methodologies to FNS for approval when the methodologies are developed or changed.
(C) The State agency must submit for FNS approval their methodologies at least every five years. Methodology submissions must incorporate any revisions necessary to demonstrate that the baseline expenditure data and underlying methodology reflect recent trends and changes. State agencies' methodologies must:
(
1
) Reflect the entire State or geographic area the SUA covers;
(
2
) Use data sourced from utility providers or similarly reliable source;
(
3
) Reflect expenses incurred by low-income households;
(
4
) Distinguish if the utility is for heating or cooling, if applicable; and
(
5
) Reflect residential utility expenses.
(D) A standard with a heating or cooling component must be made available to the following households:
(
1
) Households that incur heating or cooling expenses separately from their rent or mortgage;
(
2
) Households in rental housing who are billed by their landlords on the basis of individual usage or who are charged a flat rate
separately from their rent. However, households in public housing units which have central utility meters and which charge households only for excess heating or cooling costs are not entitled to a standard that includes heating or cooling costs based only on the charge for excess usage, unless the State agency mandates the use of standard utility allowances in accordance with paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(G) of this section; and
(
3
) Households that receive a payment or on behalf of which a payment was made under the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 (LIHEAA) or other similar energy assistance program, if in the current month or in the immediately preceding 12 months and such payment was greater than $20 annually.
(
i
) Other similar energy assistance programs are separate home energy assistance programs designed to provide heating or cooling assistance through a payment received by or made on behalf of low-income households. State agencies must establish clear and reasonable standards for evaluating whether a program constitutes a similar energy assistance program.
(
ii
) A payment received by a household or made on behalf of a household under LIHEAA or other similar energy assistance program must be quantifiable in order to confer eligibility for the heating and cooling standard utility allowance. A quantifiable payment is one that the State agency quantifies, in dollars. In-kind energy assistance, such as firewood or coal, may be considered an other similar energy assistance program payment if the State agency establishes reasonable procedures for quantifying the payment in a manner that is applied consistently across the caseload.
(
iii
) The State agency shall document the date and receipt of a payment made under LIHEAA or other similar energy assistance program to ensure the payment was received in the current month or the immediately preceding 12 months and exceeds $20 annually.
(
iv
) State agencies shall not consider anticipated receipt of a payment to be an actual payment received under the LIHEAA or other similar energy assistance program when determining a household's eligibility for the HCSUA. However, for purposes of this sub clause, a State agency may consider a payment under the LIHEAA or other similar energy assistance program to be received by the household, or on behalf of the household, if the household is scheduled to receive the payment in the current month.
(
v
) In a case where a payment is scheduled to be received in the current month and the payment is not actually made within that month, the State agency is responsible for determining whether an overissuance has occurred.
(
vi
) A State agency must grant the HCSUA to individuals who received a qualifying LIHEAP or other payment, regardless of changes in residence or address. Individuals who live in a household that received a qualifying LIHEAP or other payment who subsequently move into a separate household are entitled to receive the HCSUA in their new, separate households.
(
vii
) A household is eligible for the HCSUA if the household lives in a multi-unit dwelling or individual unit and receives a qualifying weatherization program payment. State agencies must develop workable, reasonable procedures to determine how multi-unit dwelling weatherization payments would be quantified for households and must apply those procedures consistently and fairly across the caseload.
(E) A household that has both an occupied home and an unoccupied home is only entitled to one standard.
(F) At initial certification, recertification, and when a household moves, the household may choose between a standard or verified actual utility costs for any allowable expense identified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section, unless the State agency has opted, with FNS approval, to mandate use of a standard. Households certified for 24 months may also choose to switch between a standard and actual costs at the time of the mandatory interim contact required by § 273.10(f)(1) if the State agency has not mandated use of the standard.
(G)(
1
) A State agency may mandate use of standard utility allowances for all households with qualifying expenses if the State uses one or more standards that include the costs of heating and cooling and one or more standards approved by FNS that do not include the costs of heating and cooling, and the standards will not result in increased program costs. The prohibition on increasing program costs does not apply to necessary increases to standards resulting from utility cost increases.
(
2
) If the State agency chooses to mandate use of standard utility allowances, it must use a standard utility allowance that includes heating or cooling costs for residents of public housing units which have central utility meters and which charge the households only for excess heating or cooling costs. The State agency also must not prorate a standard utility allowance that includes heating or cooling costs provided to a household that lives and shares heating or cooling expenses with others.
(
3
) In a State that chooses this option, households entitled to the standard may not claim actual expenses, even if the expenses are higher than the standard. Households not entitled to the standard may claim actual allowable expenses.
(H) If a household lives with and shares heating or cooling expenses with another individual, another household, or both, the State agency shall not prorate the standard for such households if the State agency mandates use of standard utility allowances in accordance with paragraph (d)(6)(iii)(G) of this section. The State agency may not prorate the SUA if all the individuals who share utility expenses but are not in the SNAP household are excluded from the household only because they are ineligible.
§ 273.10
Determining household eligibility and benefit levels.
(a)
Month of application
—(1)
Determination of eligibility and benefit levels.
(i) A household's eligibility shall be determined for the month of application by considering the household's circumstances for the entire month of application. Most households will have the eligibility determination based on circumstances for the entire calendar month in which the household filed its application. However, State agencies may, with the prior approval of FNS, use a fiscal month if the State agency determines that it is more efficient and satisfies FNS that the accounting procedures fully comply with certification and issuance requirements contained in these regulations. A State agency may elect to use either a standard fiscal month for all households, such as from the 15th of one calendar month to the 15th of the next calendar month, or a fiscal month that will vary for each household depending on the date an individual files an application for the Program. Applicant households consisting of residents of a public institution who apply jointly for SSI and SNAP benefits prior to release from the public institution in accordance with § 273.11(i) will have their eligibility determined for the month in which the applicant household was released from the institution.
(ii) A household's benefit level for the initial months of certification shall be based on the day of the month it applies for benefits and the household shall receive benefits from the date of application to the end of the month unless the applicant household consists of residents of a public institution. For households which apply for SSI prior to their release from a public institution in accordance with § 273.11(i), the benefit level for the initial month of certification shall be based on the date of the month the household is released from the institution and the household shall receive benefits from the date of the household's release from the institution to the end of the month. As used in this section, the term “initial month” means the first month for which the household is certified for participation in SNAP following any period during which the household was not certified for participation, except for migrant and seasonal farmworker households. In the case of migrant and seasonal farmworker households, the term “initial month” means the first month for which the household is certified for participation in SNAP following any period of more than 1 month during which the household was not certified for participation. Recertification shall be processed in accordance with § 273.10(a)(2). The State agency shall prorate a household's benefits according to one of the two following options:
(A) The State agency shall use a standard 30-day calendar or fiscal month. A household applying on the 31st of a month will be treated as though it applied on the 30th of the month.
(B) The State agency shall prorate benefits over the exact length of a particular calendar or fiscal month.
(iii) To determine the amount of the prorated allotment, the State agency shall use either the appropriate Food Stamp Allotment Proration Table provided by FNS or whichever of the following formulae is appropriate:
(A) For State agencies which use a standard 30-day calendar or fiscal month the formula is as follows, keeping in mind that the date of application for someone applying on the 31st of a month is the 30th:
ER07OC94.022
ER25SE06.014
(B) For State agencies which use the exact number of days in a month, the formula is:
ER07OC94.022
ER25SE06.015
(C) If after using the appropriate formula the result ends in 1 through 99 cents, the State agency shall round the product down to the nearest lower whole dollar. If the computation results in an allotment of less than $10, then no issuance shall be made for the initial month.
(2)
Application for recertification.
Eligibility for recertification shall be determined based on circumstances anticipated for the certification period starting the month following the expiration of the current certification period. The level of benefits for recertifications shall be based on the same anticipated circumstances, except for retrospectively budgeted households which shall be recertified in accordance with § 273.21(f)(2). If a household, other than a migrant or seasonal farmworker household, submits an application after the household's certification period has expired, that application shall be considered an initial application and benefits for that month shall be prorated in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. If a household's failure to timely apply for recertification was due to an error of the State agency and therefore there was a break in participation, the State agency shall follow the procedures in § 273.14(e). In addition, if the household submits an application for recertification prior to the end of its certification period but is found ineligible for the first month following the end of the certification period, then the first month of any subsequent participation shall be considered an initial month. Conversely, if the household submits an application for recertification prior to the end of its certification period and is found eligible for the first month following the end of the certification period, then that month shall not be an initial month.
(3)
Anticipated changes.
Because of anticipated changes, a household may be eligible for the month of application, but ineligible in the subsequent month. The household shall be entitled to benefits for the month of application even if the processing of its application results in the benefits being issued in the subsequent month. Similarly, a household may be ineligible for the month of application, but eligible in the subsequent month due to anticipated changes in circumstances. Even though denied for the month of application, the household does not have to reapply in the subsequent month. The same application shall be used for the denial for the month of application and the determination of eligibility for subsequent months, within the timeliness standards in § 273.2.
(4)
Changes in allotment levels.
As a result of anticipating changes, the household's allotment for the month of application may differ from its allotment in subsequent months. The State agency shall establish a certification period for the longest possible period over which changes in the household's circumstances can be reasonably anticipated. The household's allotment shall vary month to month within the certification period to reflect changes anticipated at the time of certification,
unless the household elects the averaging techniques in paragraphs (c)(3) and (d)(3) of this section.
(b)
Determining resources.
Available resources at the time the household is interviewed shall be used to determine the household's eligibility.
(c)
Determining income
—(1)
Anticipating income.
(i) For the purpose of determining the household's eligibility and level of benefits, the State agency shall take into account the income already received by the household during the certification period and any anticipated income the household and the State agency are reasonably certain will be received during the remainder of the certification period. If the amount of income that will be received, or when it will be received, is uncertain, that portion of the household's income that is uncertain shall not be counted by the State agency. For example, a household anticipating income from a new source, such as a new job or recently applied for public assistance benefits, may be uncertain as to the timing and amount of the initial payment. These moneys shall not be anticipated by the State agency unless there is reasonable certainty concerning the month in which the payment will be received and in what amount. If the exact amount of the income is not known, that portion of it which can be anticipated with reasonable certainty shall be considered as income. In cases where the receipt of income is reasonably certain but the monthly amount may fluctuate, the household may elect to income average. Households shall be advised to report all changes in gross monthly income as required by § 273.12.
(ii) Income received during the past 30 days shall be used as an indicator of the income that is and will be available to the household during the certification period. However, the State agency shall not use past income as an indicator of income anticipated for the certification period if changes in income have occurred or can be anticipated. If income fluctuates to the extent that a 30-day period alone cannot provide an accurate indication of anticipated income, the State agency and the household may use a longer period of past time if it will provide a more accurate indication of anticipated fluctuations in future income. Similarly, if the household's income fluctuates seasonally, it may be appropriate to use the most recent season comparable to the certification period, rather than the last 30 days, as one indicator of anticipated income. The State agency shall exercise particular caution in using income from a past season as an indicator of income for the certification period. In many cases of seasonally fluctuating income, the income also fluctuates from one season in one year to the same season in the next year. However, in no event shall the State agency automatically attribute to the household the amounts of any past income. The State agency shall not use past income as an indicator of anticipated income when changes in income have occurred or can be anticipated during the certification period.
(2)
Income only in month received.
(i) Income anticipated during the certification period shall be counted as income only in the month it is expected to be received, unless the income is averaged. Whenever a full month's income is anticipated but is received on a weekly or biweekly basis, the State agency shall convert the income to a monthly amount by multiplying weekly amounts by 4.3 and biweekly amounts by 2.15, use the State Agency's PA conversion standard, or use the exact monthly figure if it can be anticipated for each month of the certification period. Nonrecurring lump-sum payments shall be counted as a resource starting in the month received and shall not be counted as income.
(ii) Wages held at the request of the employee shall be considered income to the household in the month the wages would otherwise have been paid by the employer. However, wages held by the employer as a general practice, even if in violation of law, shall not be counted as income to the household, unless the household anticipates that it will ask for and receive an advance, or that it will receive income from wages that were previously held by the employer as a general practice and that were, therefore, not previously counted as income by the State agency. Advances on wages shall count as income in the
month received only if reasonably anticipated as defined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(iii) Households receiving income on a recurring monthly or semimonthly basis shall not have their monthly income varied merely because of changes in mailing cycles or pay dates or because weekends or holidays cause additional payments to be received in a month.
(3)
Income averaging.
(i) Income may be averaged in accordance with methods established by the State agency to be applied Statewide for categories of households. When averaging income, the State agency shall use the household's anticipation of monthly income fluctuations over the certification period. An average must be recalculated at recertification and in response to changes in income, in accordance with § 273.12(c), and the State agency shall inform the household of the amount of income used to calculate the allotment. Conversion of income received weekly or biweekly in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section does not constitute averaging.
(ii) Households which, by contract or self-employment, derive their annual income in a period of time shorter than 1 year shall have that income averaged over a 12-month period, provided the income from the contract is not received on an hourly or piecework basis. These households may include school employees, sharecroppers, farmers, and other self-employed households. However, these provisions do not apply to migrant or seasonal farmworkers. The procedures for averaging self-employed income are described in § 273.11. Contract income which is not the household's annual income and is not paid on an hourly or piecework basis shall be prorated over the period the income is intended to cover.
(iii) Earned and unearned educational income, after allowable exclusions, shall be averaged over the period which it is intended to cover. Income shall be counted either in the month it is received, or in the month the household anticipates receiving it or receiving the first installment payment, although it is still prorated over the period it is intended to cover.
(d)
Determining deductions.
Deductible expenses include only certain dependent care, shelter, medical and, at State agency option, child support costs as described in § 273.9.
(1)
Disallowed expenses.
(i) Any expense, in whole or part, covered by educational income which has been excluded pursuant to the provisions of § 273.9(c)(3) shall not be deductible. For example, the portion of rent covered by excluded vendor payments shall not be calculated as part of the household's shelter cost. In addition, an expense which is covered by an excluded vendor payment that has been converted to a direct cash payment under the approval of a federally authorized demonstration project as specified under § 273.9(c)(1) shall not be deductible. However, that portion of an allowable medical expense which is not reimbursable shall be included as part of the household's medical expenses. If the household reports an allowable medical expense at the time of certification but cannot provide verification at that time, and if the amount of the expense cannot be reasonably anticipated based upon available information about the recipient's medical condition and public or private medical insurance coverage, the household shall have the nonreimbursable portion of the medical expense considered at the time the amount of the expense or reimbursement is reported and verified. A dependent care expense which is reimbursed or paid for by the Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training (JOBS) program under title IV-F of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 681) or the Transitional Child Care (TCC) program shall not be deductible. A utility expense which is reimbursed or paid by an excluded payment, including HUD or FmHA utility reimbursements, shall not be deductible.
(ii) Expenses shall only be deductible if the service is provided by someone outside of the household and the household makes a money payment for the service. For example, a dependent care deduction shall not be allowed if another household member provides the care, or compensation for the care is provided in the form of an inkind benefit, such as food.
(2)
Billed expenses.
Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section a deduction shall be allowed only in the month the expense is billed or otherwise becomes due, regardless of when the household intends to pay the expense. For example, rent which is due each month shall be included in the household's shelter costs, even if the household has not yet paid the expense. Amounts carried forward from past billing periods are not deductible, even if included with the most recent billing and actually paid by the household. In any event, a particular expense may only be deducted once.
(3)
Averaging expenses.
Households may elect to have fluctuating expenses averaged. Households may also elect to have expenses which are billed less often than monthly averaged forward over the interval between scheduled billings, or, if there is no scheduled interval, averaged forward over the period the expense is intended to cover. For example, if a household receives a single bill in February which covers a 3-month supply of fuel oil, the bill may be averaged over February, March, and April. The household may elect to have one-time only expenses averaged over the entire certification period in which they are billed. Households reporting one-time only medical expenses during their certification period may elect to have a one-time deduction or to have the expense averaged over the remaining months of their certification period. Averaging would begin the month the change would become effective. For households certified for 24 months that have one-time medical expenses, the State agency must use the following procedure. In averaging any one-time medical expense incurred by a household during the first 12 months, the State agency must give the household the option of deducting the expense for one month, averaging the expense over the remainder of the first 12 months of the certification period, or averaging the expense over the remaining months in the certification period. One-time expenses reported after the 12th month of the certification period will be deducted in one month or averaged over the remaining months in the certification period, at the household's option.
(4)
Anticipating expenses.
The State agency shall calculate a household's expenses based on the expenses the household expects to be billed for during the certification period. Anticipation of the expense shall be based on the most recent month's bills, unless the household is reasonably certain a change will occur. When the household is not claiming the utility standard, the State agency may anticipate changes during the certification period based on last year's bills from the same period updated by overall price increases; or, if only the most recent bill is available, utility cost increases or decreases over the months of the certification period may be based on utility company estimates for the type of dwelling and utilities used by the household. The State agency shall not average past expenses, such as utility bills for the last several months, as a method of anticipating utility costs for the certification period. At certification and recertification, the household shall report and verify all medical expenses. The household's monthly medical deduction for the certification period shall be based on the information reported and verified by the household, and any anticipated changes in the household's medical expenses that can be reasonably expected to occur during the certification period based on available information about the recipient's medical condition, public or private insurance coverage, and current verified medical expenses. The household shall not be required to file reports about its medical expenses during the certification period. If the household voluntarily reports a change in its medical expenses, the State agency shall verify the change in accordance with § 273.2(f)(8)(ii) if the change would increase the household's allotment. The State agency has the option of either requiring verification prior to acting on the change, or requiring the verification prior to the second normal monthly allotment after the change is reported. In the case of a reported change that would decrease the household's allotment, or make the household ineligible, the State agency shall act on the change without requiring verification, though verification which
is required by § 273.2(f)(8) shall be obtained prior to the household's recertification. If a child in the household reaches his or her second birthday during the certification period, the $200 maximum dependent care deduction defined in § 273.9(d)(4) shall be adjusted in accordance with this section not later than the household's next regularly scheduled recertification.
(5)
Conversion of deductions.
The income conversion procedures in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall also apply to expenses billed on a weekly or biweekly basis.
(6)
Energy Assistance Payments.
Except for payments made under the Low Income Energy Assistance Act of 1981, the State agency shall prorate energy assistance payments as provided for in § 273.9(d) over the entire heating or cooling season the payment is intended to cover.
(7) Households which contain a member who is a disabled SSI recipient in accordance with paragraphs (2), (3), (4) or (5) of the definition of a disabled member in § 271.2 or households which contain a member who is a recipient of SSI benefits and the household is determined within the 30-day processing standard to be categorically eligible (as discussed in § 273.2(j)) or determined to be eligible as an NPA household and later becomes a categorically eligible household, shall be entitled to the excess medical deduction of § 273.9(d)(3) and the uncapped excess shelter expense deduction of § 273.9(d)(5) for the period for which the SSI recipient is authorized to receive SSI benefits or the date of the SNAP application, whichever is later, if the household incurs such expenses. Households, which contain an SSI recipient as discussed in this paragraph, which are determined ineligible as an NPA household and later become categorically eligible and entitled to restored benefits in accordance with § 273.2(j)(1)(iv), shall receive restored benefits using the medical and excess shelter expense deductions from the beginning of the period for which SSI benefits are paid, the original SNAP application date or December 23, 1985, whichever is later, if the household incurs such expenses.
(8)
Optional child support deduction.
If the State agency opts to provide households with an income deduction rather than an income exclusion for legally obligated child support payments in accordance with § 273.9(d)(5), the State agency may budget such payments in accordance with paragraphs (d)(2) through (d)(5) of this section, or retrospectively, in accordance with § 273.21(b) and § 273.21(f)(2), regardless of the budgeting system used for the household's other circumstances.
(e)
Calculating net income and benefit levels
—(1)
Net monthly income.
(i) To determine a household's net monthly income, the State agency shall:
(A) Add the gross monthly income earned by all household members and the total monthly unearned income of all household members, minus income exclusions, to determine the household's total gross income. Net losses from the self-employment income of a farmer shall be offset in accordance with § 273.11(a)(2)(iii).
(B) Multiply the total gross monthly earned income by 20 percent and subtract that amount from the total gross income; or multiply the total gross monthly earned income by 80 percent and add that to the total monthly unearned income, minus income exclusions. If the State agency has chosen to treat legally obligated child support payments as an income exclusion in accordance with § 273.9(c)(17), multiply the excluded earnings used to pay child support by 20 percent and subtract that amount from the total gross monthly income.
(C) Subtract the standard deduction.
(D) If the household is entitled to an excess medical deduction as provided in § 273.9(d)(3), determine if total medical expenses exceed $35. If so, subtract that portion which exceeds $35.
(E) Subtract allowable monthly dependent care expenses, if any, as specified under § 273.9(d)(4) for each dependent.
(F) If the State agency has chosen to treat legally obligated child support payments as a deduction rather than an exclusion in accordance with § 273.9(d)(5), subtract allowable monthly child support payments in accordance with § 273.9(d)(5).
(G) Subtract the homeless shelter deduction, if any, up to the maximum of $143.
(H) Total the allowable shelter expenses to determine shelter costs, unless a deduction has been subtracted in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(i)(G) of this section. Subtract from total shelter costs 50 percent of the household's monthly income after all the above deductions have been subtracted. The remaining amount, if any, is the excess shelter cost. If there is no excess shelter cost, the net monthly income has been determined. If there is excess shelter cost, compute the shelter deduction according to paragraph (e)(1)(i)(I) of this section.
(I) Subtract the excess shelter cost up to the maximum amount allowed for the area (unless the household is entitled to the full amount of its excess shelter expenses) from the household's monthly income after all other applicable deductions. Households not subject to a capped shelter expense shall have the full amount exceeding 50 percent of their net income subtracted. The household's net monthly income has been determined.
(ii) In calculating net monthly income, the State agency shall use one of the following two procedures:
(A) Round down each income and allotment calculation that ends in 1 through 49 cents and round up each calculation that ends in 50 through 99 cents; or
(B) Apply the rounding procedure that is currently in effect for the State's Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) program. If the State TANF program includes the cents in income calculations, the State agency may use the same procedures for SNAP income calculations. Whichever procedure is used, the State agency may elect to include the cents associated with each individual shelter cost in the computation of the shelter deduction and round the final shelter deduction amount. Likewise, the State agency may elect to include the cents associated with each individual medical cost in the computation of the medical deduction and round the final medical deduction amount.
(2)
Eligibility and benefits.
(i)(A) Households which contain an elderly or disabled member as defined in § 271.2, shall have their net income, as calculated in paragraph (e)(1) of this section (except for households considered destitute in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section), compared to the monthly income eligibility standards defined in § 273.9(a)(2) for the appropriate household size to determine eligibility for the month.
(B) In addition to meeting the net income eligibility standards, households which do not contain an elderly or disabled member shall have their gross income, as calculated in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(i)(A) of this section, compared to the gross monthly income standards defined in § 273.9(a)(1) for the appropriate household size to determine eligibility for the month.
(C) For households considered destitute in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the State agency shall determine a household's eligibility by computing its gross and net income according to paragraph (e)(3) of this section, and comparing, as appropriate, the gross and/or net income to the corresponding income eligibility standard in accordance with § 273.9(a) (1) or (2).
(D) If a household contains a member who is fifty-nine years old on the date of application, but who will become sixty before the end of the month of application, the State agency shall determine the household's eligibility in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(i)(A) of this section.
(E) If a household contains a student whose income is excluded in accordance with § 273.9(c)(7) and the student becomes 18 during the month of application, the State agency shall exclude the student's earnings in the month of application and count the student's earnings in the following month. If the student becomes 18 during the certification period, the student's income shall be excluded until the month following the month in which the student turns 18.
(ii)(A) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (e)(2)(iii) and (e)(2)(vi) of this section, the household's monthly allotment shall be equal to the maximum SNAP allotment for the household's size reduced by 30 percent of the household's net monthly income as calculated in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. If 30 percent of the household's net income ends in cents, the State
agency shall round in one of the following ways:
(
1
) The State agency shall round the 30 percent of net income up to the nearest higher dollar; or
(
2
) The State agency shall not round the 30 percent of net income at all. Instead, after subtracting the 30 percent of net income from the appropriate Thrifty Food Plan, the State agency shall round the allotment down to the nearest lower dollar.
(B) If the calculation of benefits in accordance with paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(A) of this section for an initial month would yield an allotment of less than $10 for the household, no benefits shall be issued to the household for the initial month.
(C) Except during an initial month, all eligible one-person and two-person households shall receive minimum monthly allotments equal to the minimum benefit. The minimum benefit is 8 percent of the maximum allotment for a household of one, rounded to the nearest whole dollar.
(iii) For an eligible household with three or more members which is entitled to no benefits (except because of the proration requirements of paragraph (a)(1) and the provision precluding issuances of less than $10 in an initial month of paragraph (e)(2)(ii)(B)) of this section:
(A) The State agency shall deny the household's application on the grounds that its net income exceeds the level at which benefits are issued; or
(B) The State agency shall certify the household but suspend its participation, subject to the following conditions:
(
1
) The State agency shall inform the suspended household, in writing, of its suspended status, and of its rights and responsibilities while it is in that status.
(
2
) The State agency shall set the household's change reporting requirements and the manner in which those changes will be reported and processed.
(
3
) The State agency shall specify which changes shall entitle the household to have its status converted from suspension to issuance, and which changes shall require the household to reapply for participation.
(
4
) The household shall retain the right to submit a new application while it is suspended.
(
5
) The State agency shall convert a household from suspension to issuance status, without requiring an additional certification interview, and issue its initial allotment, within ten days of the date the household reports the change.
(
6
) The State agency shall prorate the household's benefits, in the first month after the suspension period, from the date the household reports a change, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(
7
) The State agency may delay the work registration of the household's members until the household is determined to be entitled to benefits.
(iv) For those eligible households which are entitled to no benefits in their initial month of application, in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) or (e)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, but are entitled to benefits in subsequent months, the State agency shall certify the households beginning with the month of application.
(v) When a household's circumstances change and it becomes entitled to a different income eligibility standard, the State agency shall apply the different standard at the next recertification or whenever the State agency changes the household's eligibility, benefit level or certification period, whichever occurs first.
(vi) During a month when a reduction, suspension or cancellation of allotments has been ordered pursuant to the provisions of § 271.7, eligible households shall have their benefits calculated as follows:
(A) If a benefit reduction is ordered, State agencies shall reduce the maximum SNAP allotment amounts for each household size by the percentage ordered in the Department's notice on benefit reductions. State agencies shall multiply the maximum SNAP allotment amounts by the percentage specified in the FNS notice; if the result ends in 1 through 99 cents, round the result up to the nearest higher dollar; and subtract the result from the normal maximum SNAP allotment amount. In calculating benefit levels for eligible households, State agencies
would follow the procedures detailed in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section and substitute the reduced maximum SNAP allotment amounts for the normal maximum SNAP allotment amounts.
(B) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (e)(2)(ii)(B), and (e)(2)(vi)(C) of this section, one- and two-person households shall be provided with at least the minimum benefit.
(C) In the event that the national reduction in benefits is 90 percent or more of the benefits projected to be issued for the affected month, the provision for a minimum benefit for households with one or two members only may be disregarded and all households may have their benefits lowered by reducing maximum SNAP allotment amounts by the percentage specified by the Department. The benefit reduction notice issued by the Department to effectuate a benefit reduction will specify whether minimum benefits for households with one or two members only are to be provided to households.
(D) If the action in effect is a suspension or cancellation, eligible households shall have their allotment levels calculated according to the procedures in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section. However, the allotments shall not be issued for the month the suspension or cancellation is in effect. The provision for the minimum benefit for households with one or two members only shall be disregarded and all households shall have their benefits suspended or cancelled for the designated month.
(E) In the event of a suspension or cancellation, or a reduction exceeding 90 percent of the affected month's projected issuance, all households, including one and two-person households, shall have their benefits suspended, cancelled or reduced by the percentage specified by FNS.
(3)
Destitute households.
Migrant or seasonal farmworker households may have little or no income at the time of application and may be in need of immediate food assistance, even though they receive income at some other time during the month of application. The following procedures shall be used to determine when migrant or seasonal farmworker households in these circumstances may be considered destitute and, therefore, entitled to expedited service and special income calculation procedures. Households other than migrant or seasonal farmworker households shall not be classified as destitute.
(i) Households whose only income for the month of application was received prior to the date of application, and was from a terminated source, shall be considered destitute households and shall be provided expedited service.
(A) If income is received on a monthly or more frequent basis, it shall be considered as coming from a terminated source if it will not be received again from the same source during the balance of the month of application or during the following month.
(B) If income is normally received less often than monthly, the nonreceipt of income from the same source in the balance of the month of application or in the following month is inappropriate to determine whether or not the income is terminated. For example, if income is received on a quarterly basis (e.g., on January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1), and the household applies in mid-January, the income should not be considered as coming from a terminated source merely because no further payments will be received in the balance of January or in February. The test for whether or not this household's income is terminated is whether the income is anticipated to be received in April. Therefore, for households that normally receive income less often than monthly, the income shall be considered as coming from a terminated source if it will not be received in the month in which the next payment would normally be received.
(ii) Households whose only income for the month of application is from a new source shall be considered destitute and shall be provided expedited service if income of more than $25 from the new source will not be received by the 10th calendar day after the date of application.
(A) Income which is normally received on a monthly or more frequent basis shall be considered to be from a new source if income of more than $25 has not been received from that source
within 30 days prior to the date the application was filed.
(B) If income is normally received less often than monthly, it shall be considered to be from a new source if income of more than $25 was not received within the last normal interval between payments. For example, if a household applies in early January and is expecting to be paid every 3 months, starting in late January, the income shall be considered to be from a new source if no income of more than $25 was received from the source during October or since that time.
(iii) Households may receive both income from a terminated source prior to the date of application, and income from a new source after the date of application, and still be considered destitute if they receive no other income in the month of application and income of more than $25 from the new source will not be received by the 10th day after the date of application.
(iv) Destitute households shall have their eligibility and level of benefits calculated for the month of application by considering only income which is received between the first of the month and the date of application. Any income from a new source that is anticipated after the day of application shall be disregarded.
(v) Some employers provide travel advances to cover the travel costs of new employees who must journey to the location of their new employment. To the extent that these payments are excluded as reimbursements, receipt of travel advances will not affect the determination of when a household is destitute. However, if the travel advance is by written contract an advance of wages that will be subtracted from wages later earned by the employee, rather than a reimbursement, the wage advance shall count as income. In addition, the receipt of a wage advance for travel costs of a new employee shall not affect the determination of whether subsequent payments from the employer are from a new source of income, nor whether a household shall be considered destitute. For example, if a household applies on May 10, has received a $50 advance for travel from its new employer on May 1 which by written contract is an advance on wages, but will not receive any other wages from the employer until May 30, the household shall be considered destitute. The May 30 payment shall be disregarded, but the wage advance received prior to the date of application shall be counted as income.
(vi) A household member who changes jobs but continues to work for the same employer shall be considered as still receiving income from the same source. A migrant farmworker's source of income shall be considered to be the grower for whom the migrant is working at a particular point in time, and not the crew chief. A migrant who travels with the same crew chief but moves from one grower to another shall be considered to have moved from a terminated income source to a new source.
(vii) The above procedures shall apply at initial application and at recertification, but only for the first month of each certification period. At recertification, income from a new source shall be disregarded in the first month of the new certification period if income of more than $25 will not be received from this new source by the 10th calendar day after the date of the household's normal issuance cycle.
(4) Thrifty Food Plan (TFP) and Maximum SNAP Allotments.
(i) Maximum SNAP allotment level. Maximum SNAP allotments shall be based on the TFP as defined in § 271.2, and they shall be uniform by household size throughout the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia. The TFP for Hawaii shall be the TFP for the 48 States and DC adjusted for the price of food in Honolulu. The TFPs for urban, rural I, and rural II parts of Alaska shall be the TFP for the 48 States and DC adjusted by the price of food in Anchorage and further adjusted for urban, rural I, and rural II Alaska as defined in § 272.7(c). The TFPs for Guam and the Virgin Islands shall be adjusted for changes in the cost of food in the 48 States and DC, provided that the cost of these TFPs may not exceed the cost of the highest TFP for the 50 States. The TFP amounts and maximum allotments in each area are adjusted annually and will be prescribed in a table posted on
the FNS web site, at
www.fns.usda.gov/fsp.
(ii)
Adjustment.
Effective October 1, 1996, the maximum SNAP allotments must be based on 100% of the cost of the TFP as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter for the preceding June, rounded to the nearest lower dollar increment, except that on October 1, 1996, the allotments may not fall below those in effect on September 30, 1996.
(f)
Certification periods.
The State agency must certify each eligible household for a definite period of time. State agencies must assign the longest certification period possible based on the predictability of the household's circumstances. The first month of the certification period will be the first month for which the household is eligible to participate. The certification period cannot exceed 12 months except to accommodate a household's transitional benefit period and as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.
(1)
Households in which all adult members are elderly or disabled.
The State agency may certify for up to 24 months households in which all adult members are elderly or disabled. The State agency must have at least one contact with each household every 12 months. The State agency may use any method it chooses for this contact.
(2)
Households residing on a reservation.
The State agency must certify for 24 months those households residing on a reservation which it requires to submit monthly reports in accordance with § 273.21, unless the State agency obtains a waiver from FNS. In the waiver request the State agency must include justification for a shorter period and input from the affected Indian tribal organization(s). When households move off the reservation, the State agency must either continue their certification periods until they would normally expire or shorten the certification periods in accordance with paragraph (f)(4) of this section.
(3)
Certification period length.
The State agency should assign each household the longest certification period possible, consistent with its circumstances.
(i) Households should be assigned certification periods of at least 6 months, unless the household's circumstances are unstable or the household contains an ABAWD.
(ii) Households with unstable circumstances, such as households with zero net income, and households with an ABAWD member should be assigned certification periods consistent with their circumstances, but generally no less than 3 months.
(iii) Households may be assigned 1- or 2-month certification periods when it appears likely that the household will become ineligible for SNAP benefits in the near future.
(4)
Shortening certification periods.
The State agency may not end a household's certification period earlier than its assigned termination date, unless the State agency receives information that the household has become ineligible, the household has not complied with the requirements of § 273.12(c)(3), or the State agency must shorten the household's certification period to comply with the requirements of § 273.12(a)(5). Loss of public assistance or a change in employment status is not sufficient in and of itself to meet the criteria necessary for shortening the certification period. The State agency must close the household's case or adjust the household's benefit amount in accordance with § 273.12(c)(1) or (c)(2) in response to reported changes. The State agency must issue a notice of adverse action as provided in § 273.13 to shorten a participating household's certification period in connection with imposing the simplified reporting requirement. The State agency may not use the Notice of Expiration to shorten a certification period, except that the State agency must use the Notice of Expiration to shorten a household's certification period when the household is receiving transitional benefits under Subpart H, has not reached the maximum allowable number of months in its certification period during the transitional period, and the State agency has chosen to recertify the household in accordance with § 273.28(b). If the transition period results in a shortening of the household's certification period, the State agency shall not issue a household a notice of adverse action but shall specify in the transitional notice required under
§ 273.29 that the household must be recertified when it reaches the end of the transitional benefit period or if it returns to TANF during the transitional period.
(5)
Lengthening certification periods.
State agencies may lengthen a household's current certification period once it is established, as long as the total months of the certification period do not exceed 24 months for households in which all adult members are elderly or disabled, or 12 months for other households. If the State agency extends a household's certification period, it must advise the household of the new certification ending date with a notice containing the same information as the notice of eligibility set forth in paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section.
(g)
Certification notices to households
—(1)
Initial applications.
State agencies shall provide applicants with one of the following written notices as soon as a determination is made, but no later than 30 days after the date of the initial application:
(i)
Notice of eligibility.
(A) If an application is approved, the State agency shall provide the household with written notice of the amount of the allotment and the beginning and ending dates of the certification period. The household shall also be advised of variations in the benefit level based on changes anticipated at the time of certification. If the initial allotment contains benefits for both the month of application and the current month's benefits, the notice shall explain that the initial allotment includes more than 1 month's benefits, and shall indicate the monthly allotment amount for the remainder of the certification period. The notice shall also advise the household of its right to a fair hearing, the telephone number of the SNAP office (a toll-free number or a number where collect calls will be accepted for households outside the local calling area), and, if possible, the name of the person to contact for additional information. If there is an individual or organization available that provides free legal representation, the notice shall also advise the household of the availability of the services. The State agency may also include in the notice a reminder of the household's obligation to report changes in circumstance and of the need to reapply for continued participation at the end of the certification period. Other information which would be useful to the household may also be included.
(B) In cases where a household's application is approved on an expedited basis without verification, as provided in § 273.2(i), the notice shall explain that the household must provide the verification which was waived. If the State agency has elected to assign a longer certification period to some households certified on an expedited basis, the notice shall also explain the special conditions of the longer certification period, as specified in § 273.2(i), and the consequences of failure to provide the postponed verification.
(C) For households provided a notice of expiration at the time of certification, as required in § 273.14(b), the notice of eligibility may be combined with the notice of expiration or separate notices may be sent.
(ii)
Notice of denial.
If the application is denied, the State agency shall provide the household with written notice explaining the basis for the denial, the household's right to request a fair hearing, the telephone number of the SNAP office (a toll-free number or a number where collect calls will be accepted for households outside the local calling area), and, if possible, the name of the person to contact for additional information. If there is an individual or organization available that provides free legal representation, the notice shall also advise the household of the availability of the service. A household which is potentially categorically eligible but whose SNAP application is denied shall be asked to inform the State agency if it is approved to receive PA and/or SSI benefits or benefits from a State or local GA program. In cases where the State agency has elected to use a notice of denial when a delay was caused by the household's failure to take action to complete the application process, as provided in § 273.2(h)(2), the notice of denial shall also explain: The action that the household must take to reactivate the application; that the case will be reopened without a new application if action is taken within 30 days of the date
the notice of denial was mailed; and that the household must submit a new application if, at the end of the 30-day period, the household has not taken the needed action and wishes to participate in the program. If the State agency chooses the option specified in § 273.2(h)(2) of reopening the application in cases where verification is lacking only if household provides verification within 30 days of the date of the initial request for verification, the State agency shall include on the notice of denial the date by which the household must provide the missing verification.
(iii)
Notice of pending status.
If the application is to be held pending because some action by the State is necessary to complete the application process, as specified in § 273.2(h)(2), or the State agency has elected to pend all cases regardless of the reason for delay, the State agency shall provide the household with a written notice which informs the household that its application has not been completed and is being processed. If some action by the household is also needed to complete the application process, the notice shall also explain what action the household must take and that its application will be denied if the household fails to take the required action within 60 days of the date the application was filed. If the State agency chooses the option specified in § 273.2(h) (2) and (3) of holding the application pending in cases where verification is lacking only until 30 days following the date verification was initially requested, the State agency shall include on the notice of pending status the date by which the household must provide the missing verification.
(2)
Applications for recertification.
The State agency shall provide households that have filed an application by the 15th of the last month of their certification period with either a notice of eligibility or a notice of denial by the end of the current certification period if the household has complied with all recertification requirements. The State agency shall provide households that have received a notice of expiration at the time of certification, and have timely reapplied, with either a notice of eligibility or a notice of denial not later than 30 days after the date of the household's initial opportunity to obtain its last allotment.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.10, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 273.10, Nt.

# Effective Date Note:
At 89 FR 91221, Nov. 18, 2024, § 273.10 was amended by revising paragraph (d)(6), effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the revised text is set forth as follows:
§ 273.10
Determining household eligibility and benefit levels.
(d) * * *
(6)
Energy assistance payments.
The State agency shall prorate energy assistance payments as provided for in § 273.9(d) over the entire heating or cooling season the payment is intended to cover. Any such prorated energy assistance payments may qualify an individual or household for the HCSUA in more than one heating or cooling season.
§ 273.11
Action on households with special circumstances.
(a)
Self-employment income.
The State agency must calculate a household's self-employment income as follows:
(1)
Averaging self-employment income.
(i) Self-employment income must be averaged over the period the income is intended to cover, even if the household receives income from other sources. If the averaged amount does not accurately reflect the household's actual circumstances because the household has experienced a substantial increase or decrease in business, the State agency must calculate the self-employment income on the basis of anticipated, not prior, earnings.
(ii) If a household's self-employment enterprise has been in existence for less than a year, the income from that self-employment enterprise must be averaged over the period of time the business has been in operation and the monthly amount projected for the coming year.
(iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(1)(ii) of this section, households subject to monthly reporting and retrospective
budgeting who derive their self-employment income from a farming operation and who incur irregular expenses to produce such income have the option to annualize the allowable costs of producing self-employment income from farming when the self-employment farm income is annualized.
(2)
Determining monthly income from self-employment.
(i) For the period of time over which self-employment income is determined, the State agency must add all gross self-employment income (either actual or anticipated, as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section) and capital gains (according to paragraph (a)(3) of this section), exclude the costs of producing the self-employment income (as determined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section), and divide the remaining amount of self-employment income by the number of months over which the income will be averaged. This amount is the monthly net self-employment income. The monthly net self-employment income must be added to any other earned income received by the household to determine total monthly earned income.
(ii) If the cost of producing self-employment income exceeds the income derived from self-employment as a farmer (defined for the purposes of this paragraph (a)(2)(ii) as a self-employed farmer who receives or anticipates receiving annual gross proceeds of $1,000 or more from the farming enterprise), such losses must be prorated in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and then offset against countable income to the household as follows:
(A) Offset farm self-employment losses first against other self-employment income.
(B) Offset any remaining farm self-employment losses against the total amount of earned and unearned income
after
the earned income deduction has been applied.
(iii) If a State agency determines that a household is eligible based on its monthly net income, the State may elect to offer the household an option to determine the benefit level by using either the same net income which was used to determine eligibility, or by unevenly prorating the household's total net income over the period for which the household's self-employment income was averaged to more closely approximate the time when the income is actually received. If income is prorated, the net income assigned in any month cannot exceed the maximum monthly income eligibility standards for the household's size.
(3)
Capital gains.
The proceeds from the sale of capital goods or equipment must be calculated in the same manner as a capital gain for Federal income tax purposes. Even if only 50 percent of the proceeds from the sale of capital goods or equipment is taxed for Federal income tax purposes, the State agency must count the full amount of the capital gain as income for SNAP purposes. For households whose self-employment income is calculated on an anticipated (rather than averaged) basis in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the State agency must count the amount of capital gains the household anticipates receiving during the months over which the income is being averaged.
(b)
Allowable costs of producing self-employment income.
(1) Allowable costs of producing self-employment income include, but are not limited to, the identifiable costs of labor; stock; raw material; seed and fertilizer; payments on the principal of the purchase price of income-producing real estate and capital assets, equipment, machinery, and other durable goods; interest paid to purchase income-producing property; insurance premiums; and taxes paid on income-producing property.
(2) In determining net self-employment income, the following items are not allowable costs of doing business:
(i) Net losses from previous periods;
(ii) Federal, State, and local income taxes, money set aside for retirement purposes, and other work-related personal expenses (such as transportation to and from work), as these expenses are accounted for by the 20 percent earned income deduction specified in § 273.9(d)(2);
(iii) Depreciation; and
(iv) Any amount that exceeds the payment a household receives from a boarder for lodging and meals.
(3) When calculating the costs of producing self-employment income, State agencies may elect to use actual costs for allowable expenses in accordance
with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section or determine self-employment expenses as follows:
(i) For income from day care, use the current reimbursement amounts used in the Child and Adult Care Food Program or a standard amount based on estimated per-meal costs.
(ii) For income from boarders, other than those in commercial boarding houses or from foster care boarders, use:
(A) The maximum SNAP allotment for a household size that is equal to the number of boarders; or
(B) A flat amount or fixed percentage of the gross income, provided that the method used to determine the flat amount or fixed percentage is objective and justifiable and is stated in the State's SNAP manual.
(iii) For income from foster care boarders, refer to § 273.1(c)(6).
(iv) Use the standard amount the State uses for its TANF program.
(v) Use an amount approved by FNS. State agencies may submit a proposal to FNS for approval to use a simplified self-employment expense calculation method that does not result in increased Program costs. Different methods may be proposed for different types of self-employment. The proposal must include a description of the proposed method, the number and type of households and percent of the caseload affected, and documentation indicating that the proposed procedure will not increase Program costs.
(c)
Treatment of income and resources of certain nonhousehold members.
During the period of time that a household member cannot participate for the reasons addressed in this section, the eligibility and benefit level of any remaining household members shall be determined in accordance with the procedures outlined in this section.
(1)
Intentional Program violation, felony drug conviction, or fleeing felon disqualifications, and workfare or work requirement sanctions.
The eligibility and benefit level of any remaining household members of a household containing individuals determined ineligible because of a disqualification for an intentional Program violation, a felony drug conviction, their fleeing felon status, noncompliance with a work requirement of § 273.7, imposition of a sanction while they were participating in a household disqualified because of failure to comply with workfare requirements, or certain convicted felons as provided at § 273.11(s) shall be determined as follows:
(i)
Income, resources, and deductible expenses.
The income and resources of the ineligible household member(s) shall continue to count in their entirety, and the entire household's allowable earned income, standard, medical, dependent care, child support, and excess shelter deductions shall continue to apply to the remaining household members.
(ii)
Eligibility and benefit level.
The ineligible member shall not be included when determining the household's size for the purposes of:
(A) Assigning a benefit level to the household;
(B) Assigning a standard deduction to the household;
(C) Comparing the household's monthly income with the income eligibility standards; or
(D) Comparing the household's resources with the resource eligibility limits. The State agency shall ensure that no household's coupon allotment is increased as a result of the exclusion of one or more household members.
(2)
SSN disqualifications, comparable disqualifications, child support disqualifications, and ineligible ABAWDs.
The eligibility and benefit level of any remaining household members of a household containing individuals determined to be ineligible for refusal to obtain or provide an SSN, for meeting the time limit for able-bodied adults without dependents or for being disqualified under paragraphs (k), (o), (p), or (q) of this section shall be determined as follows:
(i)
Resources.
The resources of such ineligible members shall continue to count in their entirety to the remaining household members.
(ii)
Income.
A pro rata share of the income of such ineligible members shall be counted as income to the remaining members. This pro rata share is calculated by first subtracting the allowable exclusions from the ineligible member's income and dividing the income evenly among the household
members, including the ineligible members. All but the ineligible members' share is counted as income for the remaining household members.
(iii)
Deductible expenses.
The 20 percent earned income deduction shall apply to the prorated income earned by such ineligible members which is attributed to their households. That portion of the households' allowable child support payment, shelter and dependent care expenses which are either paid by or billed to the ineligible members shall be divided evenly among the households' members including the ineligible members. All but the ineligible members' share is counted as a deductible child support payment, shelter or dependent care expense for the remaining household members.
(iv)
Eligibility and benefit level.
Such ineligible members shall not be included when determining their households' sizes for the purposes of:
(A) Assigning a benefit level to the household;
(B) Assigning a standard deduction to the household;
(C) Comparing the household's monthly income with the income eligibility standards; or
(D) Comparing the household's resources with the resource eligibility limits.
(3)
Ineligible alien.
The State agency must determine the eligibility and benefit level of any remaining household members of a household containing an ineligible alien as follows:
(i) The State agency must count all or, at the discretion of the State agency, all but a pro rata share, of the ineligible alien's income and deductible expenses and all of the ineligible alien's resources in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section. In exercising its discretion under this paragraph (c)(3)(i), the State agency may count all of the alien's income for purposes of applying the gross income test for eligibility purposes while only counting all but a pro rata share to apply the net income test and determine level of benefits. This paragraph (c)(3)(i) does not apply to an alien:
(A) Who is lawfully admitted for permanent residence under the INA;
(B) Who is granted asylum under section 208 of the INA;
(C) Who is admitted as a refugee under section 207 of the INA;
(D) Who is paroled in accordance with section 212(d)(5) of the INA;
(E) Whose deportation or removal has been withheld in accordance with section 243 of the INA;
(F) Who is aged, blind, or disabled in accordance with section 1614(a)(1) of the Social Security Act and is admitted for temporary or permanent residence under section 245A(b)(1) of the INA; or
(G) Who is a special agricultural worker admitted for temporary residence under section 210(a) of the INA.
(ii) For an ineligible alien within a category described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (c)(3)(i)(G) of this section, State agencies may either:
(A) Count all of the ineligible alien's resources and all but a pro rata share of the ineligible alien's income and deductible expenses; or
(B) Count all of the ineligible alien's resources, count none of the ineligible alien's income and deductible expenses, count any money payment (including payments in currency, by check, or electronic transfer) made by the ineligible alien to at least one eligible household member, not deduct as a household expense any otherwise deductible expenses paid by the ineligible alien, but cap the resulting benefit amount for the eligible members at the allotment amount the household would receive if the household member within the one of the categories described in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (c)(3)(i)(G) of this section were still an eligible alien. The State agency must elect one State-wide option for determining the eligibility and benefit level of households with members who are aliens within the categories described paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (c)(3)(i)(G) of this section.
(iii) For an alien who is ineligible under § 273.4(a) because the alien's household indicates inability or unwillingness to provide documentation of the alien's immigration status, the State agency must count all or, at the discretion of the State agency, all but a pro rata share of the ineligible alien's income and deductible expenses and all of the ineligible alien's resources in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) or
(c)(2) of this section. In exercising its discretion under this paragraph (c)(3)(iii), the State agency may count all of the alien's income for purposes of applying the gross income test for eligibility purposes while only counting all but a pro rata to apply the net income test and determine level of benefits.
(iv) The State agency must compute the income of the ineligible aliens using the income definition in § 273.9(b) and the income exclusions in § 273.9(c).
(v) For purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), the State agency must not include the resources and income of the sponsor and the sponsor's spouse in determining the resources and income of an ineligible sponsored alien.
(4)
Reduction or termination of benefits within the certification period.
Whenever an individual is determined ineligible within the household's certification period, the State agency shall determine the eligibility or ineligibility of the remaining household members based, as much as possible, on information in the case file.
(i)
Excluded for intentional Program violation disqualification.
If a household's benefits are reduced or terminated within the certification period because one of its members was excluded because of disqualification for intentional Program violation, the State agency shall notify the remaining members of their eligibility and benefit level at the same time the excluded member is notified of his or her disqualification. The household is not entitled to a notice of adverse action but may request a fair hearing to contest the reduction or termination of benefits, unless the household has already had a fair hearing on the amount of the claim as a result of consolidation of the administrative disqualification hearing with the fair hearing. However, a participating household is entitled to a notice of adverse action prior to any action to reduce, suspend or terminate its benefits, if a State agency determines that it contains an individual who was disqualified in another State and is still within the period of disqualification.
(ii)
Disqualified or determined ineligible for reasons other than intentional Program violation.
If a household's benefits are reduced or terminated within the certification period for reasons other than an Intentional Program Violation disqualification, the State agency shall issue a notice of adverse action in accordance with § 273.13(a)(2) which informs the household of the ineligibility, the reason for the ineligibility, the eligibility and benefit level of the remaining members, and the action the household must take to end the ineligibility.
(d)
Treatment of income and resources of other nonhousehold members.
(1) For all other nonhousehold members defined in § 273.1 (b)(1) and (b)(2) who are not specifically mentioned in paragraph (c) of this section, the income and resources of such individuals shall not be considered available to the household with whom the individual resides. Cash payments from the nonhousehold member to the household will be considered income under the normal income standards set in § 273.9(b). Vendor payments, as defined in § 273.9(c)(1), shall be excluded as income. If the household shares deductible expenses with the nonhousehold member, only the amount actually paid or contributed by the household shall be deducted as a household expense. If the payments or contributions cannot be differentiated, the expenses shall be prorated evenly among persons actually paying or contributing to the expense and only the household's pro rata share deducted.
(2) When the earned income of one or more household members and the earned income of a nonhousehold member are combined into one wage, the income of the household members shall be determined as follows:
(i) If the household's share can be identified, the State agency shall count that portion due to the household as earned income.
(ii) If the household's share cannot be identified the State agency shall prorate the earned income among all those whom it was intended to cover and count that prorated portion to the household.
(3) Such nonhousehold members shall not be included when determining the size of the household for the purposes of:
(i) Assigning a benefit level to the household;
(ii) Comparing the household's monthly income with the income eligibility standards; or
(iii) Comparing the household's resources with the resource eligibility limits.
(e)
Residents of drug and alcohol treatment and rehabilitation programs.
(1) Narcotic addicts or alcoholics who regularly participate in publicly operated or private non-profit drug addict or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation programs (DAA treatment centers) on a resident basis may voluntarily apply for SNAP. Applications must be made through an authorized representative who is employed by the DAA treatment center and designated by the center for that purpose. The State agency may require the household to designate the DAA treatment center as its authorized representative for the purpose of receiving and using an allotment on behalf of the household. Residents must be certified as one-person households unless their children are living with them, in which case their children must be included in the household with the parent.
(2)(i) Prior to certifying any residents for SNAP, the State agency must verify that the DAA treatment center is authorized by FNS as a retailer in accordance with § 278.1(e) of this chapter or that it comes under part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 300x
et seq.,
(as defined in “Drug addiction or alcoholic treatment and rehabilitation program” in § 271.2 of this chapter).
(ii) Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph (e)(2), the State agency must certify residents of DAA treatment centers by using the same provisions that apply to all other households, including, but not limited to, the same rights to notices of adverse action and fair hearings.
(iii) The DAA treatment center must notify the State agency of changes in the household's circumstances as provided in § 273.12(a).
(3) The DAA treatment center must provide the State agency a list of currently participating residents that includes a statement signed by a responsible center official attesting to the validity of the list. The State agency must require submission of the list on either a monthly or semimonthly basis. In addition, the State agency must conduct periodic random on-site visits to the center to assure the accuracy of the list and that the State agency's records are consistent and up to date.
(4) The State agency may issue allotments on a semimonthly basis to households in DAA treatment centers.
(5) DAA treatment centers may redeem benefits in various ways depending on the State's EBT system design. The designs may include DAA treatment center use of individual household EBT cards at authorized stores, authorization of DAA treatment centers as retailers with EBT access via POS at the center, DAA treatment center use of a center EBT card that is an aggregate of individual household benefits, and other designs. Regardless of the process elected, the State must ensure that the EBT design or DAA treatment center procedures prohibit the DAA treatment center from obtaining more than one-half of the household's allotment prior to the 16th of the month or permit the return of benefits to the household's EBT account through a refund, transfer, or other means. Guidelines for approval of EBT systems are contained in part 274 of this chapter.
(6) When a household leaves the DAA treatment center, the center must perform the following:
(i) Notify the State agency. If possible, the center must provide the household with a change report form to report to the State agency the household's new address and other circumstances after leaving the center and must advise the household to return the form to the appropriate office of the State agency within 10 days. After the household leaves the DAA treatment center, the center can no longer act as the household's authorized representative for certification purposes or for obtaining or using benefits.
(ii) Provide the household with its EBT card if it was in the possession of the DAA treatment center. The DAA treatment center must return to the
State agency any EBT card not provided to departing residents by the end of each month.
(iii) If no benefits have been spent on behalf of the individual household, the center must return the full value of any benefits already debited from the household's current monthly allotment back into the household's EBT account at the time the household leaves the center.
(iv) If the benefits have already been debited from the EBT account and any portion spent on behalf of the household, the following procedures must be followed.
(A) If the household leaves prior to the 16th day of the month, the center must ensure that the household has one-half of its monthly benefit allotment remaining in its EBT account unless the State agency issues semi-monthly allotments and the second half has not been posted yet.
(B) If the household leaves on or after the 16th day of the month, the State agency, at its option, may require the center to give the household a portion of its allotment. If the center is authorized as a retailer, the State agency may require the center to provide a refund for that amount back to the household's EBT account at the time that the household leaves the center. Under an EBT system where the center has an aggregate EBT card, the State agency may, but is not required to, transfer a portion of the household's monthly allotment from a center's EBT account back to the household's EBT account. In either case, the household, not the center, must be allowed to have sole access to any benefits remaining in the household's EBT account at the time the household leaves the center.
(v) If the household has already left the DAA treatment center, and as a result, the DAA treatment center is unable to return the benefits in accordance with this paragraph (e)(6), the DAA treatment center must advise the State agency, and the State agency must effect the return instead. These procedures are applicable at any time during the month.
(7) The organization or institution shall be responsible for any misrepresentation or intentional Program violation which it knowingly commits in the certification of center residents. As an authorized representative, the organization or institution must be knowledgeable about household circumstances and should carefully review those circumstances with residents prior to applying on their behalf. The DAA treatment center shall be strictly liable for all losses or misuse of benefits and/or EBT cards held on behalf of resident households and for all overissuances which occur while the households are residents of the DAA treatment center.
(8) The organization or institution authorized by FNS as a retail food store may be penalized or disqualified, as described in § 278.6, if it is determined administratively or judicially that coupons were misappropriated or used for purchases that did not contribute to a certified household's meals. The State agency shall promptly notify FNS when it has reason to believe that a DAA treatment center is misusing benefits and/or EBT cards in its possession. However, the State agency shall take no action prior to FNS action against the organization or institution. The State agency shall establish a claim for overissuances of benefits held on behalf of resident clients as stipulated in paragraph (e)(7) of this section if any overissuances are discovered during an investigation or hearing procedure for redemption violations. If FNS disqualifies an organization or institution as an authorized retail food store, the State agency shall suspend its authorized representative status for the same period.
(f)
Residents of a group living arrangement.
(1) Disabled or blind residents of a group living arrangement (GLA) (as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter) may apply either through use of an authorized representative employed and designated by the group living arrangement or on their own behalf or through an authorized representative of their choice. The GLA must determine if a resident may apply on his or her own behalf based on the resident's physical and mental ability to handle his or her own affairs. Some residents of the GLA may apply on their own behalf while other residents of the same GLA may
apply through the GLA's representative. Prior to certifying any residents, the State agency must verify that the GLA is authorized by FNS or is certified by the appropriate agency of the State (as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter) including the agency's determination that the center is a nonprofit organization.
(i) If the residents apply on their own behalf, the household size must be in accordance with the definition in § 273.1. The State agency must certify these residents using the same provisions that apply to all other households. If FNS disqualifies the GLA as an authorized retail food store, the State agency must suspend its authorized representative status for the same time; but residents applying on their own behalf will still be able to participate if otherwise eligible.
(ii) If the residents apply through the use of the GLA's authorized representative, their eligibility must be determined as a one-person household.
(2) Each group living arrangement shall provide the State agency with a list of currently participating residents. This list shall include a statement signed by a responsible center official attesting to the validity of the list. The State shall require the list on a periodic basis. In addition, the State agency shall conduct periodic random onsite visits to assure the accuracy of the list and that the State agency's records are consistent and up to date.
(3) The same provisions applicable in § 273.11(e)(3) to residents of treatment centers also apply to blind or disabled residents of group living arrangements when the facility acts as the resident's authorized representative.
(4) If the resident has made application on his/her own behalf, the household is responsible for reporting changes to the State agency as provided in § 273.12(a). If the GLA is acting in the capacity of an authorized representative, the GLA shall notify the State agency, as provided in § 273.12(a), of changes in the household's income or other household circumstances and when the household leaves the GLA.
(5) When the household leaves the facility, the GLA, either acting as an authorized representative or retaining use of the EBT card and benefits on behalf of the residents (regardless of the method of application), shall return the EBT card (if applicable) to the household. The household, not the GLA, shall have sole access to any benefits remaining in the household's EBT account at the time the household leaves the facility. The State agency must ensure that the EBT design or procedures for GLAs permit the GLA to return unused benefits to the household through a refund, transfer, or other means.
(6) If, at the time the household leaves, no benefits have been spent on behalf of that individual household, the facility must return the full value of any benefits already debited from the household's current monthly allotment back into the household's EBT account. These procedures are applicable at any time during the month. However, if the facility has already debited benefits and spent any portion of them on behalf of the individual, the facility shall do the following:
(i) If the household leaves the GLA prior to the 16th day of the month, the facility shall provide the household with its EBT card (if applicable) and one-half of its monthly benefit allotment. Where a group of residents has been certified as one household and a member of the household leaves the center:
(A) The facility shall return a pro rata share of one-half of the household's benefit allotment to the EBT account and advise the State agency that the individual is entitled to that pro rata share; and
(B) The State agency shall create a new EBT account for the individual, issue a new EBT card and transfer the pro rata share from the original household's EBT account to the departing individual's EBT account. The facility will instruct the individual on how to obtain the new EBT card based on the State agency's card issuance procedures.
(ii) If the household or an individual member of the group household leaves on or after the 16th day of the month and the benefits have already been debited and used, the household or individual does not receive any benefits.
(iii) The GLA shall return to the State agency any EBT cards not provided to departing residents at the end of each month. Also, if the household has already left the facility and as a result, the facility is unable to perform the refund or transfer in accordance with this paragraph (f)(5), the facility must advise the State agency, and the State agency must effect the return or transfer instead.
(iv) Once the resident leaves, the GLA no longer acts as his/her authorized representative. The GLA, if possible, shall provide the household with a change report form to report to the State agency the individual's new address and other circumstances after leaving the GLA and shall advise the household to return the form to the appropriate office of the State agency within 10 days.
(7) The same provisions applicable to DAA treatment centers in paragraphs (e)(7) and (8) of this section also apply to GLAs when acting as an authorized representative. These provisions, however, are not applicable if a resident has applied on his/her own behalf. The resident applying on his/her own behalf shall be responsible for overissuances as would any other household as discussed in § 273.18.
(8) If the residents are certified on their own behalf, the benefits may either be debited by the GLA to be used to purchase meals served either communally or individually to eligible residents or retained by the residents and used to purchase and prepare food for their own consumption. The GLA may purchase and prepare food to be consumed by eligible residents on a group basis if residents normally obtain their meals at a central location as part of the GLA's service or if meals are prepared at a central location for delivery to the individual residents. If personalized meals are prepared and paid for with SNAP, the GLA must ensure that the resident's SNAP benefits are used for meals intended for that resident.
(g)
Shelters for battered women and children.
(1) Prior to certifying its residents under this paragraph, the State agency shall determine that the shelter for battered women and children meets the definition in § 271.2 and document the basis of this determination. Shelters having FNS authorization to redeem at wholesalers shall be considered as meeting the definition and the State agency is not required to make any further determination. The State agency may choose to require local project area offices to maintain a list of shelters meeting the definition to facilitate prompt certification of eligible residents following the special procedures outlined below.
(2) Many shelter residents have recently left a household containing the person who has abused them. Their former household may be certified for participation in the Program, and its certification may be based on a household size that includes the women and children who have just left. Shelter residents who are included in such certified households may nevertheless apply for and (if otherwise eligible) participate in the Program as separate households if such certified household which includes them is the household containing the person who subjected them to abuse. Shelter residents who are included in such certified households may receive an additional allotment as a separate household only once a month.
(3) Shelter residents who apply as separate households shall be certified solely on the basis of their income and resources and the expenses for which they are responsible. They shall be certified without regard to the income, resources, and expenses of their former household. Jointly held resources shall be considered inaccessible in accordance with § 273.8. Room payments to the shelter shall be considered as shelter expenses.
(4) Any shelter residents eligible for expedited service shall be handled in accordance with § 273.2(i).
(5) State agencies must take prompt action to ensure that the former household's eligibility or allotment reflects the change in the household's composition. Such action must include acting on the reported change in accordance with § 273.12 or § 273.21, as appropriate, by issuing a notice of adverse action in accordance with § 273.13.
(h)
Homeless SNAP households.
Homeless SNAP households shall be permitted to use their SNAP benefits to
purchase prepared meals from homeless meal providers authorized by FNS under § 278.1(h).
(i)
Prerelease applicants.
A household which consists of a resident or residents of a public institution(s) which applies for SSI under SSA's Prerelease Program for the Institutionalized shall be allowed to apply for SNAP benefits jointly with their application for SSI prior to their release from the institution. Such households shall be certified in accordance with the provisions of § 273.1(e), § 273.2(c), (g), (i), (j) and (k), and § 273.10(a), as appropriate.
(j)
Reduction of public assistance benefits.
If the benefits of a household that is receiving public assistance are reduced under a Federal, State, or local means-tested public assistance program because of the failure of a SNAP household member to perform an action required under the assistance program or for fraud, the State agency shall not increase the household's SNAP allotment as the result of the decrease in income. In addition to prohibiting an increase in SNAP benefits, the State agency may impose a penalty on the household that represents a percentage of the SNAP allotment that does not exceed 25 percent. The 25 percent reduction in SNAP benefits must be based on the amount of SNAP benefits the household should have received under the regular SNAP benefit formula, taking into account its actual (reduced) income. However, under no circumstances can the SNAP benefits be allowed to rise. Reaching a time limit for time-limited benefits, having a child that is not eligible because of a family cap, failing to reapply or complete the application process for continued assistance under the other program, failing to perform an action that the individual is unable to perform as opposed to refusing to perform, or failing to comply with a purely procedural requirement, shall not be considered a failure to perform an action required by an assistance program for purposes of this provision. A procedural requirement, which would not trigger a SNAP sanction, is a step that an individual must take to continue receiving benefits in the assistance program such as submitting a monthly report form or providing verification of circumstances. A substantive requirement, which would trigger a SNAP sanction, is a behavioral requirement in the assistance program designed to improve the well being of the recipient family, such as participating in job search activities. The State agency shall not apply this provision to individuals who fail to perform a required action at the time the individual initially applies for assistance. The State agency shall not increase SNAP benefits, and may reduce SNAP benefits only if the person is receiving such assistance at the time the reduction in assistance is imposed or the reduction in assistance is imposed at the time of application for continued assistance benefits if there is no break in participation. The individual must be certified for SNAP benefits at the time of the failure to perform a required action for this provision to apply. Assistance benefits shall be considered reduced if they are decreased, suspended, or terminated.
(1) For purposes of this provision a Federal, State or local “means-tested public assistance program” shall mean public or general assistance as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter, and is referred to as “assistance”. This provision must be applied to all applicable cases. If a State agency is not successful in obtaining the necessary cooperation from another Federal, State or local means-tested welfare or public assistance program to enable it to comply with the requirements of this provision, the State agency shall not be held responsible for noncompliance as long as the State agency has made a good faith effort to obtain the information. The State agency, rather than the household, shall be responsible for obtaining information about sanctions from other programs and changes in those sanctions.
(2) The prohibition on increasing SNAP benefits applies for the duration of the reduction in the assistance program. If at any time the State agency can no longer ascertain the amount of the reduction, then the State agency may terminate the SNAP sanction. However, the sanction may not exceed the sanction in the other program. If the sanction is still in effect at the end
of one year, the State agency shall review the case to determine if the sanction continues to be appropriate. If, for example, the household is not receiving assistance, it would not be appropriate to continue the sanction. Sanctions extended beyond one year must be reviewed at least annually but may be ended by the State agency at any time. It shall be concurrent with the reduction in the other assistance program to the extent allowed by normal SNAP change processing and notice procedures.
(3) The State agency shall determine how to prevent an increase in SNAP benefits. Among other options, the State agency may increase the assistance grant by a flat percent, not to exceed 25 percent, for all households that fail to perform a required action in lieu of computing an individual amount or percentage for each affected household.
(4) If the allotment of a household is reduced under Title IV-A of the Social Security Act, the State agency may use the same procedures that apply under Title IV-A to prevent an increase in SNAP benefits as the result of the decrease in Title IV-A benefits. For example, the same budgeting procedures and combined notices and hearings may be used, but the SNAP allotment may not be reduced by more than 25 percent.
(5) The State agency must lift the ban on increasing SNAP benefits if it becomes aware that the person has become ineligible for the assistance program during the disqualification period for some other reason, or the person's assistance case is closed.
(6) If an individual moves within the State, the prohibition on increasing SNAP benefits shall be applied to the gaining household unless that person is ineligible for the assistance program for some other reason. If such individual moves to a new State the prohibition on increasing benefits shall not be applied.
(7) The State agency must restore lost benefits when necessary in accordance with § 273.17 if it is later determined that the reduction in the public assistance grant was not appropriate.
(8) The State agency must act on changes which are not related to the assistance violation and that would affect the household's benefits.
(9) The State agency must include in its State Plan of Operations any options it has selected in this paragraph (j).
(k)
Comparable disqualifications.
If a disqualification is imposed on a member of a household for failure to perform an action required under a Federal, State or local means-tested public assistance program, the State agency may impose the same disqualification on the member of the household under SNAP. The program must be authorized by a Federal, State, or local law, but the provision itself does not have to be specified in the law. A State agency may choose to apply this provision to one or more of these programs, and it may select the types of disqualifications within a program that it wants to impose on SNAP recipients. The State agency shall be responsible for obtaining information about sanctions from other programs and changes in those sanctions. In the case of disqualification from the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations (FDPIR) for an intentional program violation as described under § 253.8 of this chapter, the State agency shall impose the same disqualification on the member of the household under SNAP. The State agency must, in cooperation with the appropriate FDPIR agency, develop a procedure that ensures that these household members are identified.
(1) For purposes of this section Federal, State or local “means-tested public assistance program” shall mean public and general assistance as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter.
(2) The State agency shall not apply this provision to individuals who are disqualified at the time the individual initially applies for assistance benefits. It may apply the provision if the person was receiving such assistance at the time the disqualification in the assistance program was imposed and to disqualifications imposed at the time of application for continued assistance benefits if there is no break in participation with the following exceptions: Reaching a time limit for time-limited benefits, having a child that is not eligible because of a family cap, failing to
reapply or complete the application process for continued assistance, failing to perform an action that the individual is unable to perform as opposed to refusing to perform, and failing to perform purely procedural requirements, shall not be considered failures to perform an action required by an assistance program. A procedural requirement, which would not trigger a SNAP sanction, is a step that an individual must take to continue receiving benefits in the assistance program such as submitting a monthly report form or providing verification of circumstances. A substantive requirement, which would trigger a SNAP sanction, is a behavioral requirement in the assistance program designed to improve the well being of the recipient family, such as participating in job search activities. The individual must be receiving SNAP at the time of the disqualification in the assistance program to be disqualified from SNAP under this provision.
(3) The State agency must stop the SNAP disqualification when it becomes aware that the person has become ineligible for assistance for some other reason, or the assistance case is closed.
(4) If a disqualification is imposed for a failure of an individual to perform an action required under a program under Title IV-A of the Social Security Act, the State may use the rules and procedures that apply under the Title IV-A program to impose the same disqualification under SNAP.
(5) Only the individual who committed the violation in the assistance program may be disqualified for SNAP purposes even if the entire assistance unit is disqualified for Title IV-A purposes.
(6) A comparable disqualification for SNAP purposes shall be imposed concurrently with the disqualification in the assistance program to the extent allowed by normal SNAP processing times and notice requirements. The State agency may determine the length of the disqualification, providing that the disqualification does not exceed the disqualification in the other program. If the sanction is still in effect at the end of one year, the State agency shall review the case to determine if the sanction continues to be appropriate. If, for example, the household is not receiving assistance, if would not be appropriate to continue the sanction. Sanctions extended beyond one year must be reviewed at least annually but may be ended by the State agency at any time. In instances where the disqualification is a reciprocal action based on disqualification from the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations, the length of disqualification shall mirror the period prescribed by the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations.
(7) If there is a pending disqualification for a SNAP violation and a pending comparable disqualification, they shall be imposed concurrently to the extent appropriate. For example, if the household is disqualified for June for a SNAP violation and an individual is disqualified for June and July for an assistance program violation, the whole household shall be disqualified for June and the individual shall be disqualified for July for SNAP purposes.
(8) The State agency must treat the income and resources of the disqualified individual in accordance with § 273.11(c)(2).
(9) After a disqualification period has expired, the person may apply for SNAP benefits and shall be treated as a new applicant or a new household member, except that a current disqualification based on a SNAP work requirement shall be considered in determining eligibility.
(10) A comparable SNAP disqualification may be imposed in addition to any coupon allotment reductions made in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.
(11) State agencies shall state in their Plan of Operation if they have elected to apply comparable disqualifications, identify which sanctions in the other programs this provision applies to, and indicate the options and procedures allowed in paragraphs (k)(1), (k)(2), (k)(3), (k)(4), and (k)(10) of this section which they have selected.
(12) The State agency must act on changes which are not related to the assistance violation and that would affect the household's benefits.
(13) The State agency must restore lost benefits when necessary in accordance with 7 CFR 273.17 if it is later determined that the reduction in the public assistance grant was not appropriate.
(l)
School Attendance.
Section 404(i) of Part A of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 601,
et seq.,
provides that any state receiving a TANF block grant cannot be prohibited from sanctioning a family that includes an adult who has received assistance financed with federal TANF dollars or provided from SNAP if such adult fails to ensure that the minor dependent children of such adult attend school as required by the law of the State in which the minor children reside. Section 404(j) of Part A of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. 601,
et seq.,
provides that States shall not be prohibited from sanctioning a family that includes an adult who is older than 20 and younger than 51 and who has received assistance that is either financed with federal TANF funds or provided through SNAP if such adult does not have, or is not working toward attaining, a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent. These provisions do not provide independent authority for SNAP sanctions beyond any that may apply through paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section.
(m)
Individuals convicted of drug-related felonies.
An individual convicted (under Federal or State law) of any offense which is classified as a felony by the law of the jurisdiction involved and which has as an element the possession, use, or distribution of a controlled substance (as defined in section 102(6) of the Controlled Substance Act, 21 U.S.C. 802(6)) shall not be considered an eligible household member unless the State legislature of the State where the individual is domiciled has enacted legislation exempting individuals domiciled in the State from the above exclusion. If the State legislature has enacted legislation limiting the period of disqualification, the period of ineligibility shall be equal to the length of the period provided under such legislation. Ineligibility under this provision is only limited to convictions based on behavior which occurred after August 22, 1996. The income and resources of individuals subject to disqualification under this paragraph (m) shall be treated in accordance with the procedures at paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(n)
Fleeing felons and probation or parole violators.
Individuals who are fleeing to avoid prosecution or custody for a crime, or an attempt to commit a crime, that would be classified as a felony (or in the State of New Jersey, a high misdemeanor) or who are violating a condition of probation or parole under a Federal or State law shall not be considered eligible household members. The income and resources of the ineligible member shall be handled in accordance with (c)(1) of this section.
(1)
Fleeing felon.
An individual determined to be a fleeing felon shall be an ineligible household member. To establish an individual as a fleeing felon, a State agency must verify that an individual is a fleeing felon as provided in paragraph (n)(1)(i) of this section, or a law enforcement official acting in his or her official capacity must have provided the State agency with a felony warrant as provided in paragraph (n)(1)(ii) of this section. The State shall specify in its State plan of operation which fleeing felon test it has adopted as required at § 272.2(d)(1)(xvii) of this chapter.
(i)
Four-part test to establish fleeing felon status.
To establish that an individual is a fleeing felon, the State agency must verify that:
(A) There is an outstanding felony warrant for the individual by a Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency, and the underlying cause for the warrant is for committing or attempting to commit a crime that is a felony under the law of the place from which the individual is fleeing or a high misdemeanor under the law of New Jersey;
(B) The individual is aware of, or should reasonably have been able to expect that, the felony warrant has already or would have been issued;
(C) The individual has taken some action to avoid being arrested or jailed; and
(D) The Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency is actively seeking the individual as provided in paragraph (n)(3) of this section.
(ii)
Alternative test to establish fleeing felon status.
Alternatively, a State agency may establish that an individual is a fleeing felon when a Federal, State, or local law enforcement officer acting in his or her official capacity presents an outstanding felony arrest warrant that conforms to one of the following National Crime Information Center Uniform Offense Classification Codes, to the State agency to obtain information on the location of and other information about the individual named in the warrant:
(A) Escape (4901);
(B) Flight to Avoid (prosecution, confinement, etc.) (4902); or
(C) Flight-Escape (4999).
(2)
Probation and parole violator.
An individual determined a parole or probation violator shall not be considered to be an eligible household member. To be considered a probation or parole violator, an impartial party, as designated by the State agency, must determine that the individual violated a condition of his or her probation or parole imposed under Federal or State law and that Federal, State, or local law enforcement authorities are actively seeking the individual to enforce the conditions of the probation or parole, as provided in paragraph (n)(3) of this section.
(3)
Actively seeking.
For the purposes of this paragraph (n), actively seeking is defined as follows:
(i) A Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency informs a State agency that it intends to enforce an outstanding felony warrant or to arrest an individual for a probation or parole violation within 20 days of submitting a request for information about the individual to the State agency;
(ii) A Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency presents a felony arrest warrant as provided in paragraph (n)(1)(ii) of this section; or
(iii) A Federal, State, or local law enforcement agency states that it intends to enforce an outstanding felony warrant or to arrest an individual for a probation or parole violation within 30 days of the date of a request from a State agency about a specific outstanding felony warrant or probation or parole violation.
(4)
Response time.
The State agency shall give the law enforcement agency 20 days to respond to a request for information about the conditions of a felony warrant or a probation or parole violation, and whether the law enforcement agency intends to actively pursue the individual. If the law enforcement agency does not indicate that it intends to enforce the felony warrant or arrest the individual for the probation or parole violation within 30 days of the date of the State agency's request for information about the warrant, the State agency shall determine that the individual is not a fleeing felon or a probation or parole violator and document the household's case file accordingly. If the law enforcement agency indicates that it does intend to enforce the felony warrant or arrest the individual for the probation or parole violation within 30 days of the date of the State agency's request for information, the State agency will postpone taking any action on the case until the 30-day period has expired. Once the 30-day period has expired, the State agency shall verify with the law enforcement agency whether it has attempted to execute the felony warrant or arrest the probation or parole violator. If it has, the State agency shall take appropriate action to deny an applicant or terminate a participant who has been determined to be a fleeing felon or a probation or parole violator. If the law enforcement agency has not taken any action within 30 days, the State agency shall not consider the individual a fleeing felon or probation or parole violator, shall document the case file accordingly, and take no further action.
(5)
Application processing.
The State agency shall continue to process the application while awaiting verification of fleeing felon or probation or parole violator status. If the State agency is required to act on the case without being able to determine fleeing felon or probation or parole violator status in order to meet the time standards in § 273.2(g) or § 273.2(i)(3), the State agency shall process the application without consideration of the individual's fleeing felon or probation or parole violator status.
(o)
Custodial parent's cooperation with the State Child Support Agency.
For purposes of this provision, a custodial parent is a natural or adoptive parent who lives with his or her child, or other individual who is living with and exercises parental control over a child under the age of 18.
(1)
Option to disqualify custodial parent for failure to cooperate.
At the option of a State agency, subject to paragraphs (o)(2) and (o)(4) of this section, no natural or adoptive parent or, at State agency option, other individual (collectively referred to in this paragraph (o) as “the individual”) who is living with and exercising parental control over a child under the age of 18 who has an absent parent shall be eligible to participate in SNAP unless the individual cooperates with the agency administering a State Child Support Enforcement Program established under Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
), hereafter referred to as the State Child Support Agency.
(i) If the State agency chooses to implement paragraph (o)(1) of this section, it must notify all individuals of this requirement in writing at the time of application and reapplication for continued benefits.
(ii) If the State agency chooses to implement paragraph (o)(1) of this section, it must refer all appropriate individuals to the State Child Support Agency.
(iii) If the individual is receiving TANF or Medicaid, or assistance from the State Child Support Agency, and has already been determined to be cooperating, or has been determined to have good cause for not cooperating, then the State agency shall consider the individual to be cooperating for SNAP purposes.
(iv) The individual must cooperate with the State Child Support Agency in establishing paternity of the child, and in establishing, modifying, or enforcing a support order with respect to the child and the individual in accordance with section 454(29) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 654(29)).
(v) Pursuant to Section 454(29)(E) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 654(29)(E) the State Child Support Agency will notify the individual and the State agency whether or not it has determined that the individual is cooperating in good faith.
(2)
Claiming good cause for non-cooperation.
Prior to requiring cooperation under paragraph (o)(1) of this section, the State agency will notify the household in writing at initial application and at application for continued benefits of the right to good cause as an exception to the cooperation requirement and of all the requirements applicable to a good cause determination. Paragraph (o)(1) of this section shall not apply to the individual if good cause is found for refusing to cooperate, as determined by the State agency:
(i)
Circumstances under which cooperation may be “against the best interests of the child.”
The individual's failure to cooperate is deemed to be for “good cause” if:
(A) The individual meets the good cause criteria established under the State program funded under Part A of Title IV or Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601, et seq, or 42 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
) (whichever agency is authorized to define and determine good cause) for failing to cooperate with the State Child Support Agency; or
(B) Cooperating with the State Child Support Agency would make it more difficult for the individual to escape domestic violence or unfairly penalize the individual who is or has been victimized by such violence, or the individual who is at risk of further domestic violence. For purposes of this provision, the term “domestic violence” means the individual or child would be subject to physical acts that result in, or are threatened to result in, physical injury to the individual; sexual abuse; sexual activity involving a dependent child; being forced as the caretaker relative of a dependent child to engage in nonconsensual sexual acts or activities; threats of, or attempts at physical or sexual abuse; mental abuse; or neglect or deprivation of medical care.
(C) The individual meets any other good cause criteria identified by the State agency. These criteria will be defined in consultation with the Child Support Agency or TANF program,
whichever is appropriate, and identified in the State plan according to § 272.2(d) (xiii).
(ii)
Proof of good cause claim.
(A) The State agency will accept as corroborative evidence the same evidence required by Part A of Title IV or Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601, et seq. or 42 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
) to corroborate a claim of good cause.
(B) The State agency will make a good cause determination based on the corroborative evidence supplied by the individual only after it has examined the evidence and found that it actually verifies the good cause claim.
(iii)
Review by the State Child Support or TANF Agency.
Prior to making a final determination of good cause for refusing to cooperate, the State agency will afford the State Child Support Agency or the agency which administers the program funded under Part A of the Social Security Act the opportunity to review and comment on the findings and the basis for the proposed determination and consider any recommendation from the State Child Support or TANF Agency.
(iv)
Delayed finding of good cause.
The State agency will not deny, delay, or discontinue assistance pending a determination of good cause for refusal to cooperate if the applicant or recipient has complied with the requirements to furnish corroborative evidence and information. In such cases, the State agency must abide by the normal processing standards according to § 273.2(g).
(3)
Individual disqualification.
If the State agency has elected to implement this provision and determines that the individual has not cooperated without good cause, then that individual shall be ineligible to participate in SNAP. The disqualification shall not apply to the entire household. The income and resources of the disqualified individual shall be handled in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4)
Fees.
A State electing to implement this provision shall not require the payment of a fee or other cost for services provided under Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
)
(5)
Terminating the disqualification.
The period of disqualification ends once it has been determined that the individual is cooperating with the State Child Support Agency. The State agency must have procedures in place for re-qualifying such an individual.
(p)
Non-custodial parent's cooperation with child support agencies.
For purposes of this provision, a “non-custodial parent” is a putative or identified parent who does not live with his or her child who is under the age of 18.
(1)
Option to disqualify non-custodial parent for refusal to cooperate.
At the option of a State agency, subject to paragraphs (p)(2) and (p)(4) of this section, a putative or identified non-custodial parent of a child under the age of 18 (referred to in this subsection as “the individual”) shall not be eligible to participate in SNAP if the individual refuses to cooperate with the State agency administering the program established under Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
), hereafter referred to as the State Child Support Agency, in establishing the paternity of the child (if the child is born out of wedlock); and in providing support for the child.
(i) If the State agency chooses to implement paragraph (p)(1) of this section, it must notify all individuals in writing of this requirement at the time of application and reapplication for continued benefits.
(ii) If the individual is receiving TANF, Medicaid, or assistance from the State Child Support Agency, and has already been determined to be cooperating, or has been determined to have good cause for not cooperating, then the State agency shall consider the individual is cooperating for SNAP purposes.
(iii) If the State agency chooses to implement paragraph (p)(1) of this section, it must refer all appropriate individuals to the State Child Support Agency established under Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
).
(iv) The individual must cooperate with the State Child Support Agency in establishing the paternity of the child (if the child is born out of wedlock), and in providing support for the child.
(v) Pursuant to Section 454(29)(E) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C.
654(29)(E)), the State Child Support Agency will notify the individual and the State agency whether or not it has determined that the individual is cooperating in good faith.
(2)
Determining refusal to cooperate.
If the State Child Support Agency determines that the individual is not cooperating in good faith, then the State agency will determine whether the non-cooperation constitutes a refusal to cooperate. Refusal to cooperate is when an individual has demonstrated an unwillingness to cooperate as opposed to an inability to cooperate.
(3)
Individual disqualification.
If the State agency determines that the non-custodial parent has refused to cooperate, then that individual shall be ineligible to participate in SNAP. The disqualification shall not apply to the entire household. The income and resources of the disqualified individual shall be handled according to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4)
Fees.
A State electing to implement this provision shall not require the payment of a fee or other cost for services provided under Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
)
(5)
Privacy.
The State agency shall provide safeguards to restrict the use of information collected by a State agency administering the program established under Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 651,
et seq.
) to purposes for which the information is collected.
(6)
Termination of disqualification.
The period of disqualification ends once it has been determined that the individual is cooperating with the child support agency. The State agency must have procedures in place for re-qualifying such an individual.
(q)
Disqualification for child support arrears
—(1)
Option to disqualify.
At the option of a State agency, no individual shall be eligible to participate in SNAP as a member of any household during any month that the individual is delinquent in any payment due under a court order for the support of a child of the individual. The State agency may opt to apply this provision to only non-custodial parents.
(2)
Exceptions.
A disqualification under paragraph (q)(1) of this section shall not apply if:
(i) A court is allowing the individual to delay payment;
(ii) The individual is complying with a payment plan approved by a court or the State agency designated under Part D of Title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C., 651
et seq.
) to provide support of a child of the individual; or
(iii) The State agency determines the individual has good cause for non-support.
(3)
Individual disqualification.
If the State agency has elected to implement this provision and determines that the individual should be disqualified for child support arrears, then that individual shall be ineligible to participate in SNAP. The disqualification shall not apply to the entire household. The income and resources of the disqualified individual shall be handled according to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
(4)
Collecting claims.
State agencies shall initiate collection action as provided for in § 273.18 for any month a household member is disqualified for child support arrears by sending the household a written demand letter which informs the household of the amount owed, the reason for the claim and how the household may pay the claim. The household should also be informed as to the adjusted amount of income, resources, and deductible expenses of the remaining members of the household for the month(s) a member is disqualified for child support arrears.
(r)
Disqualification for Substantial Lottery or Gambling Winnings.
Any household certified to receive benefits shall lose eligibility for benefits immediately upon receipt by any individual in the household of substantial lottery or gambling winnings, as defined in paragraph (r)(2) of this section. The household shall report the receipt of substantial winnings to the State agency in accordance with the reporting requirements contained in § 273.12(a)(5)(iii)(G)(3) and within the time-frames described in § 273.12(a)(2).
The State agency shall also take action to disqualify any household identified as including a member with substantial winnings in accordance with § 272.17.
(1)
Regaining Eligibility.
Such households shall remain ineligible until they meet the allowable resources and income eligibility requirements described in §§ 273.8 and 273.9, respectively.
(2)
Substantial Winnings
—(i)
In General.
Substantial lottery or gambling winnings are defined as a cash prize equal to or greater than the maximum allowable financial resource limit for elderly or disabled households as defined in § 273.8(b) won in a single game before taxes or other withholdings. For the purposes of this provision, the resource limit defined in § 273.8(b) applies to all households, including non-elderly/disabled households, with substantial lottery and gambling winnings. If multiple individuals shared in the purchase of a ticket, hand, or similar bet, then only the portion of the winnings allocated to the member of the SNAP household would be counted in the eligibility determination.
(ii)
Adjustment.
The value of substantial winnings shall be adjusted annually in accordance with § 273.8(b)(1) and (2).
(s)
Disqualification for certain convicted felons.
An individual shall not be eligible for SNAP benefits if:
(1) The individual is convicted as an adult of:
(i) Aggravated sexual abuse under section 2241 of title 18, United States Code;
(ii) Murder under section 1111 of title 18, United States Code;
(iii) An offense under chapter 110 of title 18, United States Code;
(iv) A Federal or State offense involving sexual assault, as defined in section 40002(a) of the Violence Against Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a)); or
(v) An offense under State law determined by the Attorney General to be substantially similar to an offense described in clause (i), (ii), or (iii); and
(2) The individual is not in compliance with the terms of the sentence of the individual or the restrictions under § 273.11(n).
(3) The disqualification contained in this paragraph (s) shall not apply to a conviction if the conviction is for conduct occurring on or before February 7, 2014.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.11, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.

# Subpart E—Continuing Participation
§ 273.12
Reporting requirements.
(a)
Household responsibility to report.
(1) Monthly reporting households are required to report as provided in § 273.21. Quarterly reporting households are subject to the procedures as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. Simplified reporting households are subject to the procedures as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section. Certified change reporting households are required to report the following changes in circumstances:
(i) (A) A change of more than $100 in the amount of unearned income, except changes relating to public assistance (PA) or general assistance (GA) in project areas in which GA and SNAP cases are jointly processed. The State agency is responsible for identifying changes during the certification period in the amount of PA, or GA in jointly processed cases. If GA and SNAP cases are not jointly processed, the household is responsible for reporting changes in GA of more than $100.
(B) A change in the source of income, including starting or stopping a job or changing jobs, if the change in employment is accompanied by a change in income.
(C) One of the following, as determined by the State agency (different options may be used for different categories of households as long as no household is required to report under more than one option; the State may also utilize different options in different project areas within the State):
(
1
) A change in the wage rate or salary or a change in full-time or part-time employment status (as determined by the employer or as defined in
the State's PA program), provided that the household is certified for no more than 6 months; or
(
2
) A change in the amount earned of more than $100 a month from the amount last used to calculate the household's allotment, provided that the household is certified for no more than 6 months.
(D) Beginning FY 2018, and for every fiscal year thereafter, the dollar amounts in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) and (C) of this section shall be adjusted and rounded to the nearest $25 to reflect changes in the Consumer Price Index for the All Urban Consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the Department of Labor (for the 12-month period ending the preceding June).
(ii) All changes in household composition, such as the addition or loss of a household member.
(iii) Changes in residence and the resulting change in shelter costs.
(iv) Acquisition of a licensed vehicle that is not fully excludable under § 273.8.
(v) A change in liquid resources, such as cash, stocks, bonds, and bank accounts that reach or exceed the resource limits as described in § 273.8(b) for elderly or disabled households and for all other households, unless these assets are excluded under § 273.8.
(vi) Changes in the legal obligation to pay child support. However, the State agency may remove this reporting requirement if it has chosen to use information provided by the State's CSE agency in determining a household's legal obligation to pay child support, the amount of its obligation, and amounts the household has actually paid in accordance with § 273.2(f)(1)(xii).
(vii) For able-bodied adults subject to the time limit of § 273.24, any changes in work hours that bring an individual below 20 hours per week, averaged monthly, as defined in § 273.24(a)(1)(i). An individual shall report this information in accordance with the reporting system for income to which he is subject.
(viii) Whenever a member of the household wins substantial lottery or gambling winnings in accordance with § 273.11(r).
(2) Certified households must report changes within 10 days of the date the change becomes known to the household, or at the State agency's option, the household must report changes within 10 days of the end of the month in which the change occurred. For reportable changes of income, the State agency shall require that change to be reported within 10 days of the date that the household receives the first payment attributable to the change. For households subject to simplified reporting, the household must report changes no later than 10 days from the end of the calendar month in which the change occurred, provided that the household receives the payment with at least 10 days remaining in the month. If there are not 10 days remaining in the month, the household must report within 10 days from receipt of the payment. Optional procedures for reporting changes are contained in paragraph (f) of this section for households in States with forms for jointly reporting SNAP and public assistance changes and SNAP and general assistance changes
(3) An applying household shall report all changes related to its SNAP eligibility and benefits at the certification interview. Changes, as provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, which occur after the interview but before the date of the notice of eligibility, shall be reported by the household within 10 days of the date of the notice.
(4) The State agency may establish a system of quarterly reporting in lieu of the change reporting requirements specified under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The following requirements are applicable to quarterly reporting systems:
(i)
Included households.
The State agency may include all households within a quarterly reporting system, except migrant or seasonal farmworker households, households that have no earned income and in which all adult members are elderly or disabled, households in which all members are homeless individuals, or households subject to the reporting requirement under paragraph (a)(1)(vii) of this section.
The State agency may also limit quarterly reporting to specific categories of households.
(ii)
Notification of the quarterly reporting requirement.
The State agency must notify households of the quarterly reporting requirement, including the consequences of failure to file a report, at initial certification and recertification.
(iii)
Failure to file a complete form by the specified filing date.
If a household fails to file a complete report by the specified filing date, the State agency will send a notice to the household advising it of the missing or incomplete report no later than 10 days from the date the report should have been submitted. If the household does not respond to the notice, the household's participation shall be terminated. The State agency may combine the notice of a missing or incomplete report with the adequate notice of termination described in paragraph (a)(4)(v) of this section.
(iv)
Content of the quarterly report form.
The State agency may include all of the items subject to reporting under paragraph (a)(1) of this section in the quarterly report, except changes reportable under paragraphs (a)(1)(vii) and (a)(1)(viii) of this section, or may limit the report to specific items while requiring that households report other items through the use of the change report form.
(v)
Reduction or termination of benefits.
If the household files a complete report resulting in reduction or termination of benefits, the State agency shall send an adequate notice, as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter. The notice must be issued so that it will be received by the household no later than the time that its benefits are normally received. If the household fails to provide sufficient information or verification regarding a deductible expense, the State agency will not terminate the household, but will instead determine the household's benefits without regard to the deduction.
(vi)
Changes reported outside of the quarterly report.
The State agency must act on any changes reported outside of the quarterly report in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
(vii)
Sole reporting requirement.
The quarterly report form shall be the sole reporting requirement for any information that is required to be reported on the form, except that able-bodied adults subject to the time limit of § 273.24 shall report whenever their work hours fall below 20 hours per week, averaged monthly.
(5) The State agency may establish a simplified reporting system in lieu of the change reporting requirements specified under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The following requirements are applicable to simplified reporting systems:
(i)
Included households.
The State agency may include any household certified for at least 4 months within a simplified reporting system.
(ii)
Notification of simplified reporting requirement.
At the initial certification, recertification and when the State agency transfers the households to simplified reporting, the State agency shall provide the household with the following:
(A) A written and oral explanation of how simplified reporting works;
(B) For households required to submit a periodic report, a written and oral explanation of the reporting requirements including:
(
1
) The additional changes that must be addressed in the periodic report and verified;
(
2
) When the report is due;
(
3
) How to obtain assistance in filing the periodic report; and
(
4
) The consequences of failing to file a report.
(C) Special assistance in completing and filing periodic reports to households whose adult members are all either mentally or physically handicapped or are non-English speaking or otherwise lacking in reading and writing skills such that they cannot complete and file the required report; and
(D) A telephone number (toll-free number or a number where collect calls will be accepted outside the local calling area) which the household may call to ask questions or to obtain help in completing the periodic report.
(iii) Periodic report. (A) Exempt households. The State agency must not require the submission of periodic reports by households certified for 12
months or less in which all adult members are elderly or have a disability with no earned income.
(B) Submission of periodic reports by non-exempt households. Households that are certified for longer than 6 months, except those households described in § 273.12(a)(5)(iii)(A), must file a periodic report between 4 months and 6 months, as required by the State agency. Households in which all adult members are elderly or have a disability with no earned income and are certified for periods lasting between 13 months and 24 months must file a periodic report once a year. In selecting a due date for the periodic report, the State agency must provide itself sufficient time to process reports so that households that have reported changes that will reduce or terminate benefits will receive adequate notice of action on the report in the first month of the new reporting period.
(C) The periodic report form must request from the household information on any changes in circumstances in accordance with paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(vii) of this section and conform to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
(D) If the household files a complete report resulting in reduction or termination of benefits, the State agency shall send an adequate notice, as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter. The notice must be issued so that the household will receive it no later than the time that its benefits are normally received. If the household fails to provide sufficient information or verification regarding a deductible expense, the State agency will not terminate the household, but will instead determine the household's benefits without regard to the deduction.
(E) If a household fails to file a complete report by the specified filing date, the State agency shall provide the household with a reminder notice advising the household that it has 10 days from the date the State agency mails the notice to file a complete report. If an eligible household files a complete periodic report during this 10 day period, the State agency shall provide it with an opportunity to participate no later than ten days after its normal issuance date If the household does not respond to the reminder notice, the household's participation shall be terminated and the State agency must send an adequate notice of termination described in paragraph (a)(5)(iii)(C) of this section.
(F) If an eligible household that has been terminated for failure to file a complete report files a complete report after its extended filing date under (E), but before the end of the issuance month, the State agency may choose to reinstate the household. If the household has requested a fair hearing on the basis that a complete periodic report was filed, but the State does not have it, the State agency shall reinstate the household if a completed periodic report is filed before the end of the issuance month.
(G) The periodic report form shall be the sole reporting requirement for any information that is required to be reported on the form, except that a household required to report less frequently than quarterly shall report:
(
1
) When the household monthly gross income exceeds the monthly gross income limit for its household size in accordance with paragraph (a)(5)(v) of this section;
(
2
) Whenever able-bodied adults subject to the time limit of § 273.24 have their work hours fall below 20 hours per week, averaged monthly; and
(
3
) Whenever a member of the household wins substantial lottery or gambling winnings in accordance with § 273.11(r).
(H) If the State agency uses a combined periodic report for SNAP and TANF or Medicaid, the State agency shall clearly indicate on the form that SNAP-only households need not provide information required by another program. Non-applicant household or family members need not provide SSNs or information about citizenship or immigration status.
(iv)
Processing periodic reports.
In selecting a due date for the periodic report, the State agency must provide itself sufficient time to process reports so that households will receive adequate notice of action on the report in the first month of the new reporting period. The State agency shall provide the household a reasonable period after the end of the last month covered by
the report in which to return the report. The State agency shall provide the household a reasonable period after the end of the last month covered by the report in which to return the report. Benefits should be issued in accordance with the normal issuance cycle if a complete report was filed timely.
(v)
Reporting when gross income exceeds 130 percent of poverty.
A household subject to simplified reporting in accordance with paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, whether or not it is required to submit a periodic report, must report when its monthly gross income exceeds the monthly gross income limit for its household size, as defined at § 273.9(a)(1). The household shall use the monthly gross income limit for the household size that existed at the time of its most recent certification or recertification, regardless of any subsequent changes in its household size.
(vi)
State agency action on changes reported outside of a periodic report.
The State agency must act when the household reports that its gross monthly income exceeds the gross monthly income limit for its household size. For other changes, the State agency need not act if the household reports a change for another public assistance program in which it is participating and the change does not trigger action in that other program but results in a decrease in the household's SNAP benefit. The State agency must act on all other changes reported by a household outside of a periodic report in accordance with one of the following two methods:
(A) The State agency must act on any change in household circumstances in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section; or
(B) The State agency must not act on changes that would result in a decrease in the household's benefits unless one of the following occurs:
(
1
) The household has voluntarily requested that its case be closed in accordance with § 273.13(b)(12).
(
2
) The State agency has information about the household's circumstances considered verified upon receipt.
(
3
) A household member has been identified as a fleeing felon or probation or parole violator in accordance with § 273.11(n).
(
4
) There has been a change in the household's PA grant, or GA grant in project areas where GA and food stamp cases are jointly processed in accordance with § 273.2(j)(2).
(
5
) The State agency has verified information that a member of a SNAP household has won substantial lottery or gambling winnings in accordance with § 273.11(r).
(vii)
State plan requirement.
A State agency that chooses to use simplified reporting procedures in accordance with this section must state in its State plan of operation that it has implemented simplified reporting and specify the types of households to whom the reporting requirement applies.
(6) For households eligible for the child support exclusion at § 273.9(c)(17) or deduction at § 273.9(d)(5), the State agency may use information provided by the State CSE agency in determining the household's legal obligation to pay child support, the amount of its obligation and amounts the household has actually paid if the household pays its child support exclusively through its State CSE agency and has signed a statement authorizing release of its child support payment records to the State agency. A household would not have to provide any additional verification unless they disagreed with the information provided by the State CSE agency. State agencies that choose to utilize information provided by their State CSE agency in accordance with this paragraph (a)(6) must specify in their State plan of operation that they have selected this option. If the State agency chooses not to utilize information provided by its State CSE agency, the State agency may make reporting child support payments an optional change reporting item in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) of this section.The State agency shall process the reports in accordance with procedures for the systems used in budgeting the household's income and deductions. The following requirements apply to quarterly reports:
(i) The State agency shall provide the household a reasonable period after the end of the last month covered by the
report in which to return the report. If the household does not file the report by the due date or files an incomplete report, the State agency shall provide the household with a reminder notice advising the household that it has 10 days from the date the State agency mails the notice to file a complete report. If the household does not file a complete report by the extended filing date as specified in the reminder notice, the State agency shall determine the household's eligibility and benefits without consideration of the child support deduction. The State agency shall not terminate the benefits of a household for failure to submit a quarterly report unless the household is otherwise ineligible. The State agency shall send the household an adequate notice as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter if the household fails to submit a complete report or if the information contained on a complete report results in a reduction or termination of benefits. The quarterly report shall meet the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The State agency may combine the content of the reminder notice and the adequate notice as long as the notice meets the requirements of the individual notices.
(ii) The quarterly report form, if required, shall be the sole reporting requirement for reporting child support payments during the certification period. Households excluded from monthly reporting as specified in § 273.21(b) and households required to submit monthly reports shall not be required to submit quarterly reports.
(7) State agencies shall not impose any SNAP reporting requirements on households except as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.
(b)
Report forms.
(1) The State agency shall provide the household with a form for reporting the changes required in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to be reported within 10 days and shall pay the postage for return of the form. The change report form shall, at a minimum, include the following:
(i) A space for the household to report whether the change shall continue beyond the report month;
(ii) The civil and criminal penalties for violations of the Act in understandable terms and in prominent and boldface lettering;
(iii) A reminder to the household of its right to claim actual utility costs if its costs exceed the standard;
(iv) The number of the SNAP office and a toll-free number or a number where collect calls will be accepted for households outside the local calling area; and
(v) A statement describing the changes in household circumstances contained in § 273.12(a)(1) that must be reported and a statement which clearly informs the household that it is required to report these changes.
(vi) If the State agency has chosen to disregard reported changes that affect some deductions in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section, a statement explaining that the State agency will not change certain deductions until the household's next recertification and identifying those deductions.
(2) The quarterly report form, including the form for the quarterly reporting of the child support obligation, and the periodic report form used in simplified reporting under paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section, must:
(i) Be written in clear, simple language;
(ii) Meet the bilingual requirements described in § 272.4(b) of this chapter;
(iii) Specify the date by which the agency must receive the form;
(iv) Specify the consequences of submitting a late or incomplete form including whether the State agency shall delay payment if the form is not received by a specified date;
(v) Specify the verification the household must submit with the form;
(vi) Inform the household where to call for help in completing the form;
(vii) Include a statement to be signed by a member of the household (in accordance with § 273.2(c)(7) regarding acceptable methods of signature) indicating his or her understanding that the information provided may result in reduction or termination of benefits;
(viii) Include a brief description of SNAP fraud penalties;
(ix) Include a statement explaining that the State agency will not change certain deductions until the household's next recertification and identify
those deductions if the State agency has chosen to disregard reported changes that affect certain deductions in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section;
(x) If the form requests Social Security numbers, include a statement of the State agency's authority to require Social Security numbers (including the statutory citation, the title of the statute, and the fact that providing Social Security numbers is mandatory except that non-participating household or family members need not provide SSNs or information about citizenship or immigration status), the purpose of requiring Social Security numbers, the routine uses for Social Security numbers, and the effect of not providing Social Security numbers. This statement may be on the form itself or included as an attachment to the form.
(3) Changes reported over the telephone or in person by the household shall be acted on in the same manner as those reported on the change report form.
(4) A change report form shall be provided to newly certified households at the time of certification, at recertification if the household needs a new form; and a new form shall be sent to the household whenever a change report form is returned by the household. A change report may be provided to households more often at the State agency's option.
(c)
State agency action on changes.
The State agency shall take prompt action on all changes to determine if the change affects the household's eligibility or allotment. However, the State agency has the option to disregard a reported change to an established deduction in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section. If a household reports a change in income, and the new circumstance is expected to continue for at least one month beyond the month in which the change is reported, the State agency may act on the change in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. The time frames in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section apply to these actions. During the certification period, the State agency shall not act on changes in the medical expenses of households eligible for the medical expense deduction which it learns of from a source other than the household and which, in order to take action, require the State agency to contact the household for verification. The State agency shall only act on those changes in medical expenses that it learns about from a source other than the household if those changes are verified upon receipt and do not necessitate contact with the household. Even if there is no change in the allotment, the State agency shall document the reported change in the casefile, provide another change report form to the household, and notify the household of the receipt of the change report. If the reported change affects the household's eligibility or level of benefits, the adjustment shall also be reported to the household. The State agency shall also advise the household of additional verification requirements, if any, and state that failure to provide verification shall result in increased benefits reverting to the original allotment. The State agency shall document the date a change is reported, which shall be the date the State agency receives a report form or is advised of the change over the telephone or by a personal visit. Restoration of lost benefits shall be provided to any household if the State agency fails to take action on a change which increases benefits within the time limits specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(1)
Increase in benefits.
(i) For changes which result in an increase in a household's benefits, other than changes described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the State agency shall make the change effective no later than the first allotment issued 10 days after the date the change was reported to the State agency. For example, a $30 decrease in income reported on the 15th of May would increase the household's June allotment. If the same decrease were reported on May 28, and the household's normal issuance cycle was on June 1, the household's allotment would have to be increased by July.
(ii) For changes which result in an increase in a household's benefits due to the addition of a new household member who is not a member of another certified household, or due to a
decrease of $50 or more in the household's gross monthly income, the State agency shall make the change effective not later than the first allotment issued 10 days after the date the change was reported. However, in no event shall these changes take effect any later than the month following the month in which the change is reported. Therefore, if the change is reported after the 20th of a month and it is too late for the State agency to adjust the following month's allotment, the State agency shall issue a supplementary ATP or otherwise provide an opportunity for the household to obtain the increase in benefits by the 10th day of the following month, or the household's normal issuance cycle in that month, whichever is later. For example, a household reporting a $100 decrease in income at any time during May would have its June allotment increased. If the household reported the change after the 20th of May and it was too late for the State agency to adjust the ATP normally issued on June 1, the State agency would issue a supplementary ATP for the amount of the increase by June 10.
(iii) The State agency may elect to verify changes which result in an increase in a household's benefits in accordance with the verification requirements of § 273.2(f)(8)(ii), prior to taking action on these changes. If the State agency elects this option, it must allow the household 10 days from the date the change is reported to provide verification required by § 273.2(f)(8)(ii). If the household provides verification within this period, the State shall take action on the changes within the timeframes specified in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section. The timeframes shall run from the date the change was reported, not from the date of verification. If, however, the household fails to provide the required verification within 10 days after the change is reported but does provide the verification at a later date, then the timeframes specified in paragraphs (c)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section for taking action on changes shall run from the date verification is provided rather than from the date the change is reported. If the State agency does not elect this option, verification required by § 273.2(f)(8)(ii) must be obtained prior to the issuance of the second normal monthly allotment after the change is reported. If in these circumstances the household does not provide verification, the household's benefits will revert to the original benefit level. Whenever a State agency increases a household's benefits to reflect a reported change and subsequent verification shows that the household was actually eligible for fewer benefits, the State agency shall establish a claim for the overissuance in accordance with § 273.18. In cases where the State agency has determined that a household has refused to cooperate as defined in § 273.2(d), the State agency shall terminate the household's eligibility following the notice of adverse action.
(2)
Decreases in benefits.
(i) If the household's benefit level decreases or the household becomes ineligible as a result of the change, the State agency shall issue a notice of adverse action within 10 days of the date the change was reported unless one of the exemptions to the notice of adverse action in § 273.13 (a)(3) or (b) applies. When a notice of adverse action is used, the decrease in the benefit level shall be made effective no later than the allotment for the month following the month in which the notice of adverse action period has expired, provided a fair hearing and continuation of benefits have not been requested. When a notice of adverse action is not used due to one of the exemptions in § 273.13 (a)(3) or (b), the decrease shall be made effective no later than the month following the change. Verification which is required by § 273.2(f) must be obtained prior to recertification.
(ii) The State agency may suspend a household's certification prospectively for one month if the household becomes temporarily ineligible because of a periodic increase in recurring income or other change not expected to continue in the subsequent month. If the suspended household again becomes eligible, the State agency shall issue
benefits to the household on the household's normal issuance date. If the suspended household does not become eligible after one month, the State agency shall terminate the household's certification. Households are responsible for reporting changes as required by paragraph (a) of this section during the period of suspension.
(3)
Unclear information.
During the certification period, the State agency might obtain unclear information about a household's circumstances from which the State agency cannot readily determine the effect on the household's continued eligibility for SNAP, or in certain cases benefit amounts. The State agency may receive such unclear information from a third party. Unclear information is information that is not verified, or information that is verified but the State needs additional information to act on the change.
(i) The State agency must pursue clarification and verification (if applicable) of household circumstances using the following procedure if unclear information received outside the periodic report is: Fewer than 60 days old relative to the current month of participation; and would, if accurate, have been required to be reported under the requirements that apply to the household under 273.12 based on the reporting system to which they have been assigned. Additionally, the State agency must pursue clarification and verification (if applicable) of household circumstances using the following procedure for any unclear information that appears to present significantly conflicting information from that used by the State agency at the time of certification. The procedures for unclear information regarding matches described in § 272.18 of this chapter are found in paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section.
(A) The State agency shall issue a written request for contact (RFC) which clearly advises the household of the verification it must provide or the actions it must take to clarify its circumstances, which affords the household at least 10 days to respond and to clarify its circumstances, either by telephone or by correspondence, as the State agency directs, and which states the consequences if the household fails to respond to the RFC.
(B) If the household does not respond to the RFC, or does respond but refuses to provide sufficient information to clarify its circumstances, the State agency must issue a notice of adverse action as described in § 273.13. The State has two options:
(
1
) The State agency may elect to send a notice of adverse action that terminates the case, explains the reasons for the action, and advises the household of the need to submit a new application if it wishes to continue participating in the program; or
(
2
) Alternatively, the State agency may elect to issue a notice of adverse action that suspends the household for 1 month before the termination becomes effective, explains the reasons for the action, and advises the household of the need to submit new information if it wishes to continue participating. If the household responds satisfactorily to the RFC during the period of suspension, the State agency must reinstate the household without requiring a new application, issue the allotment for the month of suspension and, if necessary, adjust the household's participation with a new notice of adverse action.
(C) If the household responds to the RFC and provides sufficient information, the State agency must act on the new circumstances in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section, as appropriate.
(ii) If the unclear information does not meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and does not relate to the matches described in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, then the State agency shall not act on the information or require the household to provide information until the household's next certification action or periodic report is due. A State may follow up with a household to provide information on a voluntary basis if that information would result in an increase in benefits but may not take adverse action if the household does not respond.
(iii) Unclear information resulting from certain data matches. If a State receives match information from a match described in § 272.13 or § 272.14, the State shall follow up with a notice
of match results as described in § 272.13(b)(4) and § 272.14 (c)(4). If a State receives information from a match described in § 272.18 of this chapter, the State shall follow up with a combined notice of match results and adverse action as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The notices must clearly explain what information is needed from the household and the consequences of failing to respond to the notice as explained in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) this section.
(A) For households subject to change reporting, if the household fails to respond to the notice of match results or does respond but refuses to provide sufficient information to clarify its circumstances, the State agency shall issue a notice of adverse action as described in § 273.13 that terminates the case.
(B) For all households not subject to change reporting, if the household fails to respond to the notice of match results or does respond but refuses to provide sufficient information to clarify its circumstances, the State agency shall remove the subject individual and the individual's income from the household and adjust benefits accordingly. As appropriate the State agency shall issue a notice of adverse action as described in § 273.13.
(iv) If a State agency receives unclear information during the certification period from a match described in § 272.18 of this chapter, the State agency shall initiate action to resolve the match and communicate with the other State agency within 10 days of receipt of the match notification, in accordance with paragraphs (c)(3)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.
(A) The State agency that receives a NAC data match shall provide to the household a notice of match results and notice of adverse action as described at § 273.13. The notice must clearly explain what information is needed from the household and the consequences of not responding in a timely manner as described at paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section. Any communication with the household, including a written notice, must not include the location of the individual(s) identified in a match and must follow bilingual requirements at § 272.4(b) of this chapter. State agencies must also follow regulations at § 272.18(c)(9) of this chapter for those who are considered vulnerable individual. Consistent with verification standards in § 273.2(f), the State agency must give the household at least 10 days to provide required verification.
(B) The State agency shall communicate with the other State agency to inform them they have initiated action to resolve the match. After the State agency has determined the appropriate disposition of the case, they shall promptly share the resolution information with the other State agency.
(4)
State agency option for processing changes in deductible expenses.
(i) If the household reports a change to an established deduction amount during the first six months of the certification period, other than a change in earnings or residence, that would affect the household's eligibility for, or amount of, the deduction under § 273.9(d), the State agency may at its option disregard the change and continue to provide the household the deduction amount that was established at certification until the household's next recertification or after the sixth month for households certified for 12 months. When a household reports a change in residence, the State agency must investigate and take action on potential changes in shelter costs arising from this reported change. However, if a household fails to provide information regarding the associated changes in shelter costs within 10 days of the report, the State agency should send a notice to the household that their allotment will be recalculated without the deduction. The notice will make it clear that the household does not need to await its first regular utility or rental payments to contact the SNAP office. Alternative forms of verification can be accepted, if necessary.
(ii) In the case of a household assigned a 24-month certification period in accordance with § 273.10(f)(1) and (f)(2), the State agency must act on any disregarded changes reported during the first 12 months of the certification period at the required 12-month contact for elderly and disabled households and in the thirteenth month of the certification period for households
residing on a reservation who are required to submit monthly reports. Changes reported during the second 12 months of the certification period can be disregarded until the household's next recertification.
(iii) If the State agency chooses to act on changes that affect a deduction, it may not act on changes in only one direction, i.e., changes that only increase or decrease the amount of the deduction, but must act on all changes that affect the deduction.
(iv) The State agency may disregard changes reported by the household in accordance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section and changes it learns of from a source other than the household. The State agency must not disregard new deductions, changes in earned income or changes in shelter costs arising from a reported change in residence until the household's next recertification or after the sixth month of a 12-month certification period but must act on those reports in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. When a household reports a change in residence, the State agency must investigate and take action on potential changes in shelter costs arising from this reported change. However, if a household fails to provide information regarding the associated changes in shelter costs within 10 days of the report, the State agency should send a notice to the household that their allotment will be recalculated without the deduction. The notice will make it clear that the household does not need to await its first regular utility or rental payments to contact the SNAP office. Alternative forms of verification can be accepted, if necessary.
(v) A State agency that chooses to postpone action on reported changes in deductions in accordance with this paragraph (c) must state in its State plan of operation that it has selected this option and specify the deductions affected.
(d)
Failure to report.
If the State agency discovers that the household failed to report a change as required by paragraph (a) of this section and, as a result, received benefits to which it was not entitled, the State agency shall file a claim against the household in accordance with § 273.18. If the discovery is made within the certification period, the household is entitled to a notice of adverse action if the household's benefits are reduced. A household shall not be held liable for a claim because of a change in household circumstances which it is not required to report in accordance with § 273.12(a)(1). Individuals shall not be disqualified for failing to report a change, unless the individual is disqualified in accordance with the disqualification procedures specified in § 273.16.
(e)
Mass changes.
Certain changes are initiated by the State or Federal government which may affect the entire caseload or significant portions of the caseload. These changes include, but are not limited to, adjustments to the income eligibility standards, the shelter and dependent care deductions, the maximum SNAP allotment and the standard deduction; annual and seasonal adjustments to State utility standards; periodic cost-of-living adjustments to Retirement, Survivors, and Disability Insurance (RSDI), Supplemental Security Income (SSI) and other Federal benefits; periodic adjustments to Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) or General Assistance (GA) payments; and other changes in the eligibility and benefit criteria based on legislative or regulatory changes.
(1)
Federal adjustments to eligibility standards, allotments, and deductions, and State adjustments to utility standards.
(i) State agencies shall implement these changes for all households at a specific point in time. Adjustments to Federal standards shall be implemented prospectively regardless of the household's budgeting system. Annual and seasonal adjustments in State utility standards shall also be implemented prospectively for all households.
(A) Adjustments in the maximum SNAP allotment shall be effective in accordance with § 273.10(e)(4)(ii).
(B) Adjustments in the standard deduction shall be effective in accordance with § 273.9(d)(1).
(C) Adjustments in the shelter deduction shall be effective in accordance with § 273.9(d)(6).
(D) Adjustments in the income eligibility standards shall be effective in accordance with § 273.9(a)(3).
(ii) A notice of adverse action shall not be used for these changes. At a minimum, the State agencies shall publicize these mass changes through the news media; posters in certification offices, issuance locations, or other sites frequented by certified households; or general notices mailed to households. At its option, the State agency may send the notice described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section or some other type of written explanation of the change. A household whose certification period overlaps a seasonal variation in the State utility standard shall be advised at the time of initial certification of when the adjustment will occur and what the variation in the benefit level will be, if known.
(2)
Mass changes in public assistance and general assistance.
(i) When the State agency makes an overall adjustment to public assistance (PA) payments, corresponding adjustments in households' SNAP benefits shall be handled as a mass change in accordance with the procedures in paragraphs (e) (4), (5) and (6) of this section. When the State agency has at least 30 days, advance knowledge of the amount of the PA adjustment, the State agency shall make the change in benefits effective in the same month as the PA change. If the State agency does not have sufficient notice, the SNAP change shall be effective no later than the month following the month in which the PA change was made.
(ii) State agencies which also administer a general assistance (GA) program shall handle mass adjustments to GA payments in accordance with the schedules outlined in paragraph (e)(2)(i) and the procedures in paragraphs (e) (4), (5) and (6) of this section. However, where State agencies do not administer both programs, mass changes in GA payments shall be subject to the schedule in paragraph (e)(3) and the procedures in paragraphs (e) (4), (5) and (6) of this section.
(3)
Mass changes in Federal benefits.
The State agency shall establish procedures for making mass changes to reflect cost-of-living adjustments (COLAs) in benefits and any other mass changes under RSDI, SSI, and other programs such as veteran's assistance under title 38 of the United States Code and the Black Lung Program, where information on COLA's is readily available and is applicable to all or a majority of those programs' beneficiaries. A State agency may require households to report the change on the appropriate monthly report or may handle the change using the mass change procedures in this section. If the State agency requires the household to report the information on the monthly report, the State agency shall handle such information in accordance with its normal procedures. Households that are not required to report the change on the monthly report, and households not subject to monthly reporting, shall not be responsible for reporting these changes. The State agency shall be responsible for automatically adjusting these households' SNAP benefit levels in accordance with either paragraph (e)(3)(i) or (e)(3)(ii) of this section.
(i) The State agency may make mass changes by applying percentage increases communicated by the source agency to represent cost-of-living increases provided in other benefit programs. These changes shall be reflected no later than the second allotment issued after the month in which the change becomes effective.
(ii) The State agency may update household income information based on cost-of-living increases supplied by a data source covered under the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act of 1988 (CMA) in accordance with § 272.12 of this chapter. The State agency shall take action, including proper notices to households, to terminate, deny or reduce benefits based on this information if it is considered verified upon receipt under § 273.2(f)(9). If the information is not considered verified upon receipt, the State agency shall initiate appropriate action and notice in accordance with § 273.2(f)(9).
(4)
Notice for mass change.
When the State agency makes a mass change in SNAP eligibility or benefits by simultaneously converting the caseload, or that portion of the caseload that is affected, using the percentage increase calculation provided for in
§ 273.12(e)(3)(i), or by conducting individual desk reviews using information not covered under the Computer Matching and Privacy Protection Act (CMA) in place of a mass change, it shall notify all households whose benefits are reduced or terminated in accordance with the requirements of this paragraph, except for mass changes made under § 273.12(e)(1); and
(i) At a minimum, the State agency shall inform the household of:
(A) The general nature of the change;
(B) Examples of the change's effect on households' allotments;
(C) The month in which the change will take effect;
(D) The household's right to a fair hearing;
(E) The household's right to continue benefits and under what circumstances benefits will be continued pending a fair hearing;
(F) General information on whom to contact for additional information; and
(G) The liability the household will incur for any overissued benefits if the fair hearing decision is adverse.
(ii) At a minimum, the State agency shall notify the household of the mass change or the result of the desk review on the date the household is scheduled to receive the allotment which has been changed.
(iii) In addition, the State shall notify the household of the mass change as much before the household's scheduled issuance date as reasonably possible, although the notice need not be given any earlier than the time required for advance notice of adverse action.
(5)
Fair hearings.
The household shall be entitled to request a fair hearing when it is aggrieved by the mass change.
(6)
Continuation of benefits.
A household which requests a fair hearing due to a mass change shall be entitled to continued benefits at its previous level only if the household meets three criteria;
(i) The household does not specifically waive its right to a continuation of benefits;
(ii) The household requests a fair hearing in accordance with § 273.13(a)(1); and
(iii) The household's fair hearing is based upon improper computation of SNAP eligibility or benefits, or upon misapplication or misinterpretation of Federal law or regulation.
(f)
PA and GA households.
(1) Except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, PA households have the same reporting requirements as any other SNAP household. PA households which report a change in circumstances to the PA worker shall be considered to have reported the change for SNAP purposes. All of the requirements pertaining to reporting changes for PA households shall be applied to GA households in project areas where GA and SNAP cases are processed jointly in accordance with provisions of § 273.2(j)(3).
(2)(i) State agencies may use a joint change reporting form for households to report changes for both PA and SNAP purposes. Whenever a joint change reporting form is used, the State agency shall insure that adjustments are made in a household's eligibility status or allotment for the months determined appropriate given the household's budgeting cycle.
(ii) State agencies may combine the use of a joint PA/SNAP change reporting form with a PA reporting system that demands the regular submission of reports, such as a monthly reporting system. The State agency shall insure that the procedures in § 273.21(h) are followed.
(3) The State agency may not terminate a household's SNAP benefits solely because it has terminated the household's PA benefits without a separate determination that the household fails to satisfy the eligibility requirements for participation in the Program. Whenever a change results in the reduction or termination of a household's PA benefits within its SNAP certification period, the State agency must follow the procedures set forth below:
(i) If a change in household circumstances requires a reduction or termination in the PA payment and the State agency has sufficient information to determine how the change affects the household's SNAP eligibility and benefit level, the State agency must take the following actions:
(A) If the change requires a reduction or termination of SNAP benefits, the State agency must issue a single notice of adverse action for both the PA and SNAP actions. If the household requests a fair hearing within the period provided by the notice of adverse action, the State agency must continue the household's SNAP benefits on the basis authorized immediately prior to sending the notice. If the fair hearing is requested for both programs' benefits, the State agency must conduct the hearing according to PA procedures and timeliness standards. However, the household must reapply for SNAP benefits if the SNAP certification period expires before the fair hearing process is completed. If the household does not appeal, the State agency must make the change effective in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(B) If the household's SNAP benefits will increase as a result of the reduction or termination of PA benefits, the State agency must issue the PA notice of adverse action, but must not take any action to increase the household's SNAP benefits until the household decides whether it will appeal the PA adverse action. If the household decides to appeal and its PA benefits are continued, the household's SNAP benefits must continue at the previous level. If the household does not appeal, the State agency must make the change effective in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section, except that the time limits for the State agency to act on changes which increase a household's benefits must be calculated from the date the PA notice of adverse action period expires.
(ii) Whenever a change results in the termination of a household's PA benefits within its SNAP certification period, and the State agency does not have sufficient information to determine how the change affects the household's SNAP eligibility and benefit level (such as when an absent parent returns to a household, and the household asks to have its TANF case closed without providing any information on the income of the new household member), the State agency must take the following action:
(A) If the situation requires a reduction or termination of PA benefits, the State agency must issue a request for contact (RFC) in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section at the same time it sends a PA notice of adverse action. Before taking further action, the State agency must wait until the household's PA notice of adverse action period expires or until the household requests a fair hearing, whichever occurs first. If the household requests a fair hearing and elects to have its PA benefits continued pending the appeal, the State agency must continue the household's SNAP benefits at the same level. If the household decides not to request a fair hearing and continuation of its PA benefits, the State agency must resume action on the changes as required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(B) If the situation does not require a PA notice of adverse action, the State agency must issue a RFC and take action in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.
(iii) Depending on the household's response to the RFC, the State agency must take appropriate action, if necessary, to close the household's case or adjust the household's benefit amount.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.12, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 273.13
Notice of adverse action.
(a)
Use of notice.
Prior to any action to reduce or terminate a household's benefits within the certification period, the State agency shall, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, provide the household timely and adequate advance notice before the adverse action is taken.
(1) The notice of adverse action shall be considered timely if the advance notice period conforms to that period of time defined by the State agency as an adequate notice period for its public assistance caseload, provided that the period includes at least 10 days from the date the notice is mailed to the date upon which the action becomes effective. Also, if the adverse notice period ends on a weekend or holiday, and
a request for a fair hearing and continuation of benefits is received the day after the weekend or holiday, the State agency shall consider the request timely received.
(2) The notice of adverse action shall be considered adequate if it explains in easily understandable language: The proposed action; the reason for the proposed action; the household's right to request a fair hearing; the telephone number of the SNAP office (toll-free number or a number where collect calls will be accepted for households outside the local calling area) and, if possible, the name of the person to contact for additional information; the availability of continued benefits; and the liability of the household for any overissuances received while awaiting a fair hearing if the hearing official's decision is adverse to the household. If there is an individual or organization available that provides free legal representation, the notice shall also advise the household of the availability of the service. A notice of adverse action that combines the request for verification of information received through an IEVS computer match shall meet the requirements in § 273.2(f)(9). A notice of adverse action that combines the request for verification of information received through a SAVE computer match shall meet the requirements in § 273.2(f)(10). A notice of adverse action that combines a notice of match results received through a National Accuracy Clearinghouse (NAC) computer match shall meet the requirements in § 273.12(c)(3)(iv) and § 272.18(c)(5) of this chapter.
(3) The State agency may notify a household that its benefits will be reduced or terminated, no later than the date the household receives, or would have received, its allotment, if the following conditions are met:
(i) The household reports the information which results in the reduction or termination.
(ii) The reported information is in writing and signed by the household.
(iii) The State agency can determine the household's allotment or ineligibility based solely on the information provided by the household as required in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section.
(iv) The household retains its right to a fair hearing as allowed in § 273.15.
(v) The household retains its right to continued benefits if the fair hearing is requested within the time period set by the State agency in accordance with § 273.13(a)(1).
(vi) The State agency continues the household's previous benefit level, if required, within five working days of the household's request for a fair hearing.
(4) The State agency shall notify a household that its benefits will be reduced if an EBT system-error has occurred during the redemption process resulting in an out-of-balance settlement condition. This notification shall be made no later than the date the action is initiated against the household account. The State agency shall adjust the benefit in accordance with § 274.12 of this chapter.
(b)
Exemptions from notice.
Individual notices of adverse action shall not be provided when:
(1) The State initiates a mass change through means other than computer matches as described in § 273.12(e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3)(i).
(2) The State agency determines, based on reliable information, that all members of a household have died.
(3) The State agency determines, based on reliable information, that the household has moved from the project area.
(4) The household has been receiving an increased allotment to restore lost benefits, the restoration is complete, and the household was previously notified in writing of when the increased allotment would terminate.
(5) The household's allotment varies from month to month within the certification period to take into account changes which were anticipated at the time of certification, and the household was so notified at the time of certification.
(6) The household jointly applied for PA/GA and SNAP benefits and has been receiving SNAP benefits pending the approval of the PA/GA grant and was notified at the time of certification that SNAP benefits would be reduced upon approval of the PA/GA grant.
(7) A household member is disqualified for an intentional Program violation in accordance with § 273.16, or the benefits of the remaining household members are reduced or terminated to reflect the disqualification of that household member, except as provided in § 273.11(c)(3)(i). A notice of adverse action must be sent to a currently participating household prior to the reduction or termination of benefits if a household member is found through a disqualified recipient match to be within the period of disqualification for an intentional Program violation penalty determined in another State. In the case of applicant households, State agencies shall follow the procedures in § 273.2(f)(11) for issuing notices to the disqualified individual and the remaining household members. The notice requirements for individuals or households affected by intentional Program violation disqualifications are explained in § 273.16.
(8) The State agency has elected to assign a longer certification period to a household certified on an expedited basis and for whom verification was postponed, provided the household has received written notice that the receipt of benefits beyond the month of application is contingent on its providing the verification which was initially postponed and that the State agency may act on the verified information without further notice as provided in § 273.2(i)(4).
(9) The State agency must change the household's benefits back to the original benefit level as required in § 273.12(c)(1)(iii).
(10) Converting a household from cash and/or SNAP benefit repayment to benefit reduction as a result of failure to make agreed upon repayment as discussed in § 273.18.
(11) The State agency is terminating the eligibility of a resident of a drug or alcoholic treatment center or a group living arrangement if the facility loses either its certification from the appropriate agency or agencies of the State (as defined in § 271.2) or has its status as an authorized representative suspended due to FNS disqualifying it as a retailer. However, residents of group living arrangements applying on their own behalf are still eligible to participate.
(12) The household voluntarily requests, in writing or in the presence of a caseworker, that its participation be terminated. If the household does not provide a written request, the State agency shall send the household a letter confirming the voluntary withdrawal. Written confirmation does not entail the same rights as a notice of adverse action except that the household may request a fair hearing.
(13) The State agency determines, based on reliable information, that the household will not be residing in the project area and, therefore, will be unable to obtain its next allotment. The State agency shall inform the household of its termination no later than its next scheduled issuance date. While the State agency may inform the household before its next issuance date, the State agency shall not delay terminating the household's participation in order to provide advance notice.
(14) The State agency initiates recoupment of a claim as specified in § 273.18(g)(4) against a household which has previously received a notice of adverse action with respect to such claim.
(c)
Optional notice.
The State agency may, at its option, send the household an adequate notice as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section when the household's address is unknown and mail directed to it has been returned by the post office indicating no known forwarding address.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.13, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 273.14
Recertification.
(a)
General.
No household may participate beyond the expiration of the certification period assigned in accordance with § 273.10(f) without a determination of eligibility for a new period. The State agency must establish procedures for notifying households of expiration dates, providing application forms, scheduling interviews, and recertifying eligible households prior to the expiration of certification periods.
Households must apply for recertification and comply with interview and verification requirements.
(b)
Recertification process
—(1)
Notice of expiration.
(i) The State agency shall provide households certified for one month or certified in the second month of a two-month certification period a notice of expiration (NOE) at the time of certification. The State agency shall provide other households the NOE before the first day of the last month of the certification period, but not before the first day of the next-to-the-last month. Jointly processed PA and GA households need not receive a separate SNAP notice if they are recertified for SNAP benefits at the same time as their PA or GA redetermination.
(ii) Each State agency shall develop a NOE. The NOE must contain the following:
(A) The date the certification period expires;
(B) The date by which a household must submit an application for recertification in order to receive uninterrupted benefits;
(C) The consequences of failure to apply for recertification in a timely manner;
(D) Notice of the right to receive an application form upon request and to have it accepted as long as it contains a signature and a legible name and address;
(E) Information on alternative submission methods available to households which cannot come into the certification office or do not have an authorized representative and how to exercise these options;
(F) The address of the office where the application must be filed;
(G) The household's right to request a fair hearing if the recertification is denied or if the household objects to the benefit issuance;
(H) Notice that any household consisting only of Supplemental Security Income (SSI) applicants or recipients is entitled to apply for SNAP recertification at an office of the Social Security Administration;
(I) Notice that failure to attend an interview may result in delay or denial of benefits; and
(J) Notice that the household is responsible for rescheduling a missed interview and for providing required verification information.
(iii) To expedite the recertification process, State agencies are encouraged to send a recertification form, an interview appointment letter that allows for either in-person or telephone interviews, and a statement of needed verification required by § 273.2(c)(5) with the NOE.
(2)
Application.
The State agency must develop an application to be used by households when applying for recertification. It may be the same as the initial application, a simplified version, a monthly reporting form, or other method such as annotating changes on the initial application form. A new household signature and date is required at the time of application for recertification. The provisions of § 273.2(c)(7) regarding acceptable signatures on applications also apply to applications used at recertification. The recertification process can only be used for those households which apply for recertification prior to the end of their current certification period, except for delayed applications as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The process, at a minimum, must elicit from the household sufficient information that, when added to information already contained in the casefile, will ensure an accurate determination of eligibility and benefits. The State agency must notify the applicant of information which is specified in § 273.2(b)(2), and provide the household with a notice of required verification as specified in § 273.2(c)(5).
(3)
Interview.
As part of the recertification process, the State agency must conduct an interview with a member of the household or its authorized representative at least once every 12 months for households certified for 12 months or less. The provisions of § 273.2(e) also apply to interviews for recertification. The State agency may choose not to interview the household at interim recertifications within the 12-month period. The requirement for an interview once every 12 months may be waived in accordance with § 273.2(e)(2).
(ii) If a household receives PA/GA and will be recertified for SNAP benefits more than once in a 12-month period, the State agency may choose to conduct a face-to-face interview with that household only once during that period. At any other recertification during that year period, the State agency may interview the household by telephone, conduct a home visit, or recertify the household by mail.
(iii) State agencies shall schedule interviews so that the household has at least 10 days after the interview in which to provide verification before the certification period expires. If a household misses its scheduled interview, the State agency shall send the household a Notice of Missed Interview that may be combined with the notice of denial. If a household misses its scheduled interview and requests another interview, the State agency shall schedule a second interview.
(4)
Verification.
Information provided by the household shall be verified in accordance with § 273.2(f)(8)(i). The State agency shall provide the household a notice of required verification as provided in § 273.2(c)(5) and notify the household of the date by which the verification requirements must be satisfied. The household must be allowed a minimum of 10 days to provide required verification information. Any household whose eligibility is not determined by the end of its current certification period due to the time period allowed for submitting any missing verification shall receive an opportunity to participate, if eligible, within 5 working days after the household submits the missing verification and benefits cannot be prorated.
(5)
Advise of available employment and training services.
(i) At the time of recertification, the State agency shall advise household members subject to the work requirements of § 273.7(a) who reside in households meeting the criteria in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section of available employment and training services. This shall include, at a minimum, providing a list of available employment and training services electronically or in printed form to the household.
(ii) The State agency requirement in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section only applies to households that meet all of the following criteria, as most recently reported by the household:
(A) Contain a household member subject to the work requirements of § 273.7(a);
(B) Contain at least one adult;
(C) Contain no elderly or disabled individuals; and
(D) Have no earned income.
(c)
Timely application for recertification.
(1) Households reporting required changes in circumstances that are certified for one month or certified in the second month of a two-month certification period shall have 15 days from the date the NOE is received to file a timely application for recertification.
(2) Other households reporting required changes in circumstances that submit applications by the 15th day of the last month of the certification period shall be considered to have made a timely application for recertification.
(3) For monthly reporting households, the filing deadline shall be either the 15th of the last month of the certification period or the normal date for filing a monthly report, at the State agency's option. The option chosen must be uniformly applied to the State agency's entire monthly reporting caseload.
(4) For households consisting only of SSI applicants or recipients who apply for SNAP recertification at SSA offices in accordance with § 273.2(k)(1), an application shall be considered filed for normal processing purposes when the signed application is received by the SSA.
(d)
Timely processing.
(1) Households that were certified for one month or certified for two months in the second month of the certification period and have met all required application procedures shall be notified of their eligibility or ineligibility. Eligible households shall be provided an opportunity to receive benefits no later than 30 calendar days after the date the household received its last allotment.
(2) Other households that have met all application requirements shall be notified of their eligibility or ineligibility by the end of their current certification period. In addition, the State agency shall provide households that
are determined eligible an opportunity to participate by the household's normal issuance cycle in the month following the end of its current certification period.
(e)
Delayed processing.
(1) If an eligible household files an application before the end of the certification period but the recertification process cannot be completed within 30 days after the date of application because of State agency fault, the State agency must continue to process the case and provide a full month's allotment for the first month of the new certification period. The State agency shall determine cause for any delay in processing a recertification application in accordance with the provisions of § 273.3(h)(1).
(2) If a household files an application before the end of the certification period, but fails to take a required action, the State agency may deny the case at that time, at the end of the certification period, or at the end of 30 days. Notwithstanding the State's right to issue a denial prior to the end of the certification period, the household has 30 days after the end of the certification period to complete the process and have its application be treated as an application for recertification. If the household takes the required action before the end of the certification period, the State agency must reopen the case and provide a full month's benefits for the initial month of the new certification period. If the household takes the required action after the end of the certification period but within 30 days after the end of the certification period, the State agency shall reopen the case and provide benefits retroactive to the date the household takes the required action. The State agency shall determine cause for any delay in processing a recertification application in accordance with the provisions of § 273.3(h)(1).
(3) If a household files an application within 30 days after the end of the certification period, the application shall be considered an application for recertification; however, benefits must be prorated in accordance with § 273.10(a). If a household's application for recertification is delayed beyond the first of the month of what would have been its new certification period through the fault of the State agency, the household's benefits for the new certification period shall be prorated based on the date of the new application, and the State agency shall provide restored benefits to the household back to the date the household's certification period should have begun had the State agency not erred and the household been able to apply timely.
(f)
Expedited service.
A State agency is not required to apply the expedited service provisions of § 273.2(i) at recertification if the household applies for recertification before the end of its current certification period.
[Amdt. 364, 61 FR 54318, Oct. 17, 1996, as amended by Amdt. 388, 65 FR 70210, Nov. 21, 2000; 82 FR 2042, Jan. 6, 2017; 86 FR 410, Jan. 5, 2021]

# Subpart F—Disqualification and Claims
§ 273.15
Fair hearings.
(a)
Availability of hearings.
Except as provided in § 271.7(f), each State agency shall provide a fair hearing to any household aggrieved by any action of the State agency which affects the participation of the houshold in the Program.
(b)
Hearing system.
Each State agency shall provide for either a fair hearing at the State level or for a hearing at the local level which permits the household to further appeal a local decision to a State level fair hearing. State agencies may adopt local level hearings in some project areas and maintain only State level hearings in other project areas.
(c)
Timely action on hearings
—(1)
State level hearings.
Within 60 days of receipt of a request for a fair hearing, the State agency shall assure that the hearing is conducted, a decision is reached, and the household and local agency are notified of the decision. Decisions that result in an increase in household benefits shall be reflected in the household's EBT account within 10 days of the receipt of the hearing decision even if the State agency must provide supplementary benefits or otherwise provide the household with an opportunity to obtain the benefits outside of the normal issuance cycle. However, the State agency may take longer
than 10 days if it elects to make the decision effective in the household's normal issuance cycle, provided that the issuance will occur within 60 days from the household's request for the hearing. Decisions which result in a decrease in household benefits shall be reflected in the next scheduled issuance following receipt of the hearing decision.
(2)
Local level hearings.
Within 45 days of receipt of a request for a fair hearing, the State agency shall assure that the hearing is conducted, and that a decision is reached and reflected in the SNAP benefit allotment.
(3)
Appeals of local level decisions.
Within 45 days of receipt of any request for a State level review of a decision or for a new State level hearing, the State agency shall assure that the review or the new hearing is conducted, and that a decision is reached and reflected in the SNAP benefit allotment.
(4)
Household requests for postponement.
The household may request and is entitled to receive a postponement of the scheduled hearing. The postponement shall not exceed 30 days and the time limit for action on the decision may be extended for as many days as the hearing is postponed. For example, if a State level hearing is postponed by the household for 10 days, notification of the hearing decision will be required within 70 days from the date of the request for a hearing.
(d)
Agency conferences.
(1) The State agency shall offer agency conferences to households which wish to contest a denial of expedited service under the procedures in § 273.2(i). The State agency may also offer agency conferences to households adversely affected by an agency action. The State agency shall advise households that use of an agency conference is optional and that it shall in no way delay or replace the fair hearing process. The agency conferences may be attended by the eligibility worker responsible for the agency action, and shall be attended by an eligibility supervisor and/or the agency director, and by the household and/or its representative. An agency conference may lead to an informal resolution of the dispute. However, a fair hearing must still be held unless the household makes a written withdrawal of its request for a hearing.
(2) An agency conference for households contesting a denial of expedited service shall be scheduled within 2 working days, unless the household requests that it be scheduled later or states that it does not wish to have an agency conference.
(e)
Consolidated hearings.
State agencies may respond to a series of individual requests for hearings by conducting a single group hearing. State agencies may consolidate only cases where individual issues of fact are not disputed and where related issues of State and/or Federal law, regulation or policy are the sole issues being raised. In all group hearings, the regulations governing individual hearings must be followed. Each individual household shall be permitted to present its own case or have its case presented by a representative.
(f)
Notification of right to request hearing.
At the time of application, each household shall be informed in writing of its right to a hearing, of the method by which a hearing may be requested, and that its case may be presented by a household member or a representative, such as a legal counsel, a relative, a friend or other spokesperson. In addition, at any time the household expresses to the State agency that it disagrees with a State agency action, it shall be reminded of the right to request a fair hearing. If there is an individual or organization available that provides free legal representation, the household shall also be informed of the availability of that service.
(g)
Time period for requesting hearing.
A household shall be allowed to request a hearing on any action by the State agency or loss of benefits which occurred in the prior 90 days. Action by the State agency shall include a denial of a request for restoration of any benefits lost more than 90 days but less than a year prior to the request. In addition, at any time within a certification period a household may request a fair hearing to dispute its current level of benefits.
(h)
Request for hearing.
A request for a hearing is defined as a clear expression, oral or written, by the household or its representative to the effect that
it wishes to appeal a decision or that an opportunity to present its case to a higher authority is desired. If it is unclear from the household's request what action it wishes to appeal, the State agency may request the household to clarify its grievance. The freedom to make a request for a hearing shall not be limited or interfered with in any way.
(i)
State agency responsibilities on hearing requests.
(1) Upon request, the State agency shall make available without charge the specific materials necessary for a household or its representative to determine whether a hearing should be requested or to prepare for a hearing. If the individual making the request speaks a language other than English and the State agency is required by § 272.4(c)(3) to provide bilingual staff or interpreters who speak the appropriate language, the State agency shall insure that the hearing procedures are verbally explained in that language. Upon request, the State agency shall also help a household with its hearing request. If a household makes an oral request for a hearing, the State agency shall complete the procedures necessary to start the hearing process. Households shall be advised of any legal services available that can provide representation at the hearing.
(2) The State agency shall expedite hearing requests from households, such as migrant farmworkers, that plan to move from the jurisdiction of the hearing official before the hearing decision would normally be reached. Hearing requests from these households shall be processed faster than others if necessary to enable them to receive a decision and a restoration of benefits if the decision so indicates before they leave the area.
(3) The State agency shall publish clearly written uniform rules of procedure that conform to these regulations and shall make the rules available to any interested party. At a minimum, the uniform rules of procedure shall include the time limits for hearing requests as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, advance notification requirements as specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section, hearing timeliness standards as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, and the rights and responsibilities of persons requesting a hearing as specified in paragraph (p) of this section.
(j)
Denial or dismissal of request for hearing.
(1) The State agency must not deny or dismiss a request for a hearing unless:
(i) The State agency does not receive the request within the appropriate time frame specified in paragraph (g) of this section, provided that the State agency considers untimely requests for hearings as requests for restoration of lost benefits in accordance with § 273.17;
(ii) The household or its representative fails, without good cause, to appear at the scheduled hearing;
(iii) The household or its representative withdraws the request in writing; or
(iv) The household or its representative orally withdraws the request and the State agency has elected to allow such oral requests.
(2) The State agency electing to accept an oral expression from the household or its representative to withdraw a fair hearing may discuss the option with the household when it appears that the State agency and household have resolved issues related to the fair hearing. However, the State agency is prohibited from coercion or actions which would influence the household or its representative to withdraw the household's fair hearing request. The State agency must provide a written notice to the household within 10 days of the household's request confirming the withdrawal request and providing the household with an opportunity to request a hearing. The written notice must advise the household it has 10 days from the date it receives the notice to advise the State agency of its desire to request, or reinstate, the hearing. If the household timely advises the State agency that it wishes to reinstate the fair hearing, the State agency must provide the household with a fair hearing, within the time frames specified in paragraph (c) of this section and beginning the date the household advises the State agency that it wishes to reinstate its request. The State agency must reinstate a fair hearing as requested from a household at least once. The State agency must not deny a household's request for a
fair hearing if the household is aggrieved by a State agency action that differs from the reinstated action.
(k)
Continuation of benefits.
(1) If a household requests a fair hearing within the period provided by the notice of adverse action, as set forth in § 273.13, and its certification period has not expired, the household's participation in the program shall be continued on the basis authorized immediately prior to the notice of adverse action, unless the household specifically waives continuation of benefits. The form for requesting a fair hearing shall contain space for the household to indicate whether or not continued benefits are requested. If the form does not positively indicate that the household has waived continuation of benefits, the State agency shall assume that continuation of benefits is desired and the benefits shall be issued accordingly. If the State agency action is upheld by the hearing decision, a claim against the household shall be established for all overissuances, with one exception. In the case of an EBT adjustment, as defined in § 274.12(f)(4)(ii) of this chapter, once an adverse action is upheld, the State agency shall immediately debit the household's account for the total amount stated in its original notice. If there are no benefits or insufficient benefits remaining in the household's account at the time the State agency action is upheld, the State agency may only make the adjustment from the next month's benefits, regardless of whether this satisfies the full adjustment amount. If a hearing request is not made within the period provided by the notice of adverse action, benefits shall be reduced or terminated as provided in the notice. However, if the household establishes that its failure to make the request within the advance notice period was for good cause, the State agency shall reinstate the benefits to the prior basis. When benefits are reduced or terminated due to a mass change, participation on the prior basis shall be reinstated only if the issue being contested is that SNAP eligibility or benefits were improperly computed or that Federal law or regulation is being misapplied or misinterpreted by the State agency.
(2) Once continued or reinstated, the State agency must not reduce or terminate benefits prior to the receipt of the official hearing decision unless:
(i) The certification period expires. The household may reapply and may be determined eligible for a new certification period with a benefit amount as determined by the State agency;
(ii) The hearing official makes a preliminary determination, in writing and at the hearing, that the sole issue is one of Federal law or regulation and that the household's claim that the State agency improperly computed the benefits or misinterpreted or misapplied such law or regulation is invalid;
(iii) A change affecting the household's eligibility or basis of issuance occurs while the hearing decision is pending and the household fails to request a hearing after the subsequent notice of adverse action;
(iv) A mass change affecting the household's eligibility or basis of issuance occurs while the hearing decision is pending; or
(v) The household, or its representative, orally withdrew its request for a fair hearing and did not advise the State agency of its desire to reinstate the fair hearing within the time frame specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section.
(3) The State agency shall promptly inform the household in writing if benefits are reduced or terminated pending the hearing decision.
(l)
Notification of time and place of hearing.
The time, date, and place of the hearing shall be arranged so that the hearing is accessible to the household. At least 10 days prior to the hearing, advance written notice shall be provided to all parties involved to permit adequate preparation of the case. However, the household may request less advance notice to expedite the scheduling of the hearing. The notice shall:
(1) Advise the household or its representative of the name, address, and phone number of the person to notify in the event it is not possible for the household to attend the scheduled hearing.
(2) Specify that the State agency will dismiss the hearing request if the
household or its representative fails to appear for the hearing without good cause.
(3) Include the State agency hearing procedures and any other information that would provide the household with an understanding of the proceedings and that would contribute to the effective presentation of the household's case.
(4) Explain that the household or representative may examine the case file prior to the hearing.
(m)
Hearing official.
Hearings shall be conducted by an impartial official(s) who: Does not have any personal stake or involvement in the case; was not directly involved in the initial determination of the action which is being contested; and was not the immediate supervisor of the eligibility worker who took the action. State level hearings shall be conducted by State level personnel and shall not be conducted by local level personnel.
(1)
Designation of hearing official.
The hearing official shall be:
(i) An employee of the State agency;
(ii) An individual under contract with the State agency;
(iii) An employee of another public agency designated by the State agency to conduct hearings;
(iv) A member or official of a statutory board or other legal entity designated by the State agency to conduct hearings; or
(v) An executive officer of the State agency, a panel of officials of the State agency or a person or persons expressly appointed to conduct State level hearings or to review State and/or local level hearing decisions.
(2)
Power and duties.
The hearing official shall:
(i) Administer oaths or affirmations if required by the State;
(ii) Insure that all relevant issues are considered;
(iii) Request, receive and make part of the record all evidence determined necessary to decide the issues being raised;
(iv) Regulate the conduct and course of the hearing consistent with due process to insure an orderly hearing;
(v) Order, where relevant and useful, an independent medical assessment or professional evaluation from a source mutually satisfactory to the household and the State agency;
(vi) Provide a hearing record and recommendation for final decision by the hearing authority; or, if the hearing official is the hearing authority, render a hearing decision in the name of the State agency, in accordance with paragraph (q) of this section, which will resolve the dispute.
(n)
Hearing authority.
The hearing authority shall be the person designated to render the final administrative decision in a hearing. The same person may act as both the hearing official and the hearing authority. The hearing authority shall be subject to the requirements specified in paragraph (m) of this section.
(o)
Attendance at hearing.
The hearing shall be attended by a representative of the State agency and by the household and/or its representative. The hearing may also be attended by friends or relatives of the household if the household so chooses. The hearing official shall have the authority to limit the number of persons in attendance at the hearing if space limitations exist.
(p)
Household rights during hearing.
The household may not be familiar with the rules of order and it may be necessary to make particular efforts to arrive at the facts of the case in a way that makes the household feel most at ease. The household or its representative must be given adequate opportunity to:
(1) Examine all documents and records to be used at the hearing at a reasonable time before the date of the hearing as well as during the hearing. The contents of the case file including the application form and documents of verification used by the State agency to establish the household's ineligibility or eligibility and allotment shall be made available, provided that confidential information, such as the names of individuals who have disclosed information about the household without its knowledge or the nature or status of pending criminal prosecutions, is protected from release. If requested by the household or its representative, the State agency shall provide a free copy of the portions of the case file that are relevant to the hearing. Confidential information that is
protected from release and other documents or records which the household will not otherwise have an opportunity to contest or challenge shall not be introduced at the hearing or affect the hearing official's decision.
(2) Present the case or have it presented by a legal counsel or other person.
(3) Bring witnesses.
(4) Advance arguments without undue interference.
(5) Question or refute any testimony or evidence, including an opportunity to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses.
(6) Submit evidence to establish all pertinent facts and circumstances in the case.
(q)
Hearing decisions.
(1) Decisions of the hearing authority shall comply with Federal law and regulations and shall be based on the hearing record. The verbatim transcript or recording of testimony and exhibits, or an official report containing the substance of what transpired at the hearing, together with all papers and requests filed in the proceeding, shall constitute the exclusive record for a final decision by the hearing authority. This record shall be retained in accordance with § 272.1(f). This record shall also be available to the household or its representative at any reasonable time for copying and inspection.
(2) A decision by the hearing authority shall be binding on the State agency and shall summarize the facts of the case, specify the reasons for the decision, and identify the supporting evidence and the pertinent Federal regulations. The decision shall become a part of the record.
(3) The household and the local agency shall each be notified in writing of: The decision; the reasons for the decision in accordance with paragraph (q)(2) of this section; the available appeal rights; and that the household's benefits will be issued or terminated as decided by the hearing authority. The notice shall also state that an appeal may result in a reversal of the decision. The following are additional notice requirements and the available appeal rights:
(i) After a State level hearing decision which upholds the State agency action, the household shall be notified of the right to pursue judicial review of the decision. In addition, in States which provide for rehearings of State level decisions, the household shall be notified of the right to pursue a rehearing.
(ii) After a local level hearing decision which upholds the State agency action, the household shall be notified of the right to request a completely new State agency level hearing, and that a reversal of the decision may result in the restoration of lost benefits to the household. In addition, the household shall be advised that if a new hearing would pose an inconvenience to the household, a State level review of the decision based on the hearing record may be requested instead of a new hearing. A clear description of the two appeal procedures must be included to enable the household to make an informed choice, if it wishes to appeal. If the household indicates that it wishes to appeal, but does not select the method, the State agency shall proceed with a new State level hearing.
(4) If the household wishes to appeal a local level hearing decision, the appeal request must be filed within 15 days of the mailing date of the hearing decision notice. Within 45 days of receipt of any request for a State level review of the decision or for a new State level hearing, the State agency shall assure that the review or the hearing is conducted, and that a decision is reached and reflected in the SNAP benefit allotment. If a new hearing will not be held, the State level hearing official will review the local level hearing record to determine if the local decision was supported by substantial evidence. State level review procedures shall provide for notifying the local agency and the household that each may file a summary of arguments which shall become a part of the record if timely received. Both parties shall be advised that failure to file a summary will not be considered in deciding the case and that the summary must be postmarked within 10 days of receipt of the notice.
(5) All State agency hearing records and decisions shall be available for public inspection and copying, subject
to the disclosure safeguards provided in § 272.1(c), and provided identifying names and addresses of household members and other members of the public are kept confidential.
(r)
Implementation of local level hearing decision.
(1) In the event the local hearing decision upholds the State agency action, any benefits to the household which were continued pending the hearing shall be discontinued beginning with the next scheduled issuance, regardless of whether or not an appeal is filed. Collection action for any claims against the household for overissuances shall be postponed until the 15-day appeal request period has elapsed, or if an appeal is requested, until the State agency upholds the decision of the local hearing authority.
(2) In the event the local hearing authority decides in favor of the household, benefits to the household shall begin or be reinstated, as required by the decision, within the 45-day time limit allowed for local hearing procedures. Any lost benefits due to the household shall be issued as soon as administratively feasible. The State agency shall restore benefits to households which are leaving the project area before the departure whenever possible. If benefits are not restored prior to the household's departure, the State agency shall forward an authorization to the benefits to the household or to the new project area if this information is known. The new project area shall accept an authorization and issue the appropriate benefits whether the notice is presented by the household or received directly from another project area.
(s)
Implementation of final State agency decisions.
The State agency is responsible for insuring that all final hearing decisions are reflected in the household's SNAP benefit allotment within the time limits specified in paragraph (c) of this section.
(1) When the hearing authority determines that a household has been improperly denied program benefits or has been issued a lesser allotment than was due, lost benefits shall be provided to the household in accordance with § 273.17. The State agency shall restore benefits to households which are leaving the project area before the departure whenever possible. If benefits are not restored prior to the household's departure, the State agency shall forward an authorization to the benefits to the household or to the new project area if this information is known. The new project area shall accept an authorization and issue the appropriate benefits whether the notice is presented by the household or received directly from another project area.
(2) When the hearing authority upholds the State agency's action, a claim against the household for any overissuances shall be prepared in accordance with § 273.18.
(t)
Review of appeals of local level decisions.
State agencies which adopt a local level hearing system shall establish a procedure for monitoring local level hearing decisions. The number of local level decisions overturned upon appeal to a State level hearing shall be examined. If the number of reversed decisions is excessive, the State agency shall take corrective action.
(u)
Departmental review of decisions contrary to Federal law and regulations.
[Reserved]
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 132, 44 FR 33385, June 8, 1979; Amdt. 146, 46 FR 1427, Jan. 6, 1981; Amdt. 269, 51 FR 10793, Mar. 28, 1986; Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994; 64 FR 48938, Sept. 9, 1999; Amdt. 378, 65 FR 41325, July 5, 2000; Amdt. 388, 65 FR 70211, Nov. 21, 2000; 82 FR 2042, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 273.16
Disqualification for intentional Program violation.
(a)
Administrative responsibility.
(1) The State agency shall be responsible for investigating any case of alleged intentional Program violation, and ensuring that appropriate cases are acted upon either through administrative disqualification hearings or referral to a court of appropriate jurisdiction in accordance with the procedures outlined in this section. Administrative disqualification procedures or referral for prosecution action should be initiated by the State agency in cases in which the State agency has sufficient documentary evidence to substantiate that an individual has intentionally made one or more acts of intentional Program violation as defined in paragraph (c) of this section. If the State
agency does not initiate administrative disqualification procedures or refer for prosecution a case involving an overissuance caused by a suspected act of intentional Program violation, the State agency shall take action to collect the overissuance by establishing an inadvertent household error claim against the household in accordance with the procedures in § 273.18. The State agency should conduct administrative disqualification hearings in cases in which the State agency believes the facts of the individual case do not warrant civil or criminal prosecution through the appropriate court system, in cases previously referred for prosecution that were declined by the appropriate legal authority, and in previously referred cases where no action was taken within a reasonable period of time and the referral was formally withdrawn by the State agency. The State agency shall not initiate an administrative disqualification hearing against an accused individual whose case is currently being referred for prosecution or subsequent to any action taken against the accused individual by the prosecutor or court of appropriate jurisdiction, if the factual issues of the case arise out of the same, or related, circumstances. The State agency may initiate administrative disqualification procedures or refer a case for prosecution regardless of the current eligibility of the individual.
(2) Each State agency shall establish a system for conducting administrative disqualifications for intentional Program violation which conforms with the procedures outlined in paragraph (e) of this section. FNS shall exempt any State agency from the requirement to establish an administrative disqualification system if the State agency has already entered into an agreement, pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section, with the State's Attorney General's Office or, where necessary, with county prosecutors. FNS shall also exempt any State agency from the requirement to establish an administrative disqualification system if there is a State law that requires the referral of such cases for prosecution and if the State agency demonstrates to FNS that it is actually referring cases for prosecution and that prosecutors are following up on the State agency's referrals. FNS may require a State agency to establish an administrative disqualification system if it determines that the State agency is not promptly or actively pursuing suspected intentional Program violation claims through the courts.
(3) The State agency shall base administrative disqualifications for intentional Program violations on the determinations of hearing authorities arrived at through administrative disqualification hearings in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section or on determinations reached by courts of appropriate jurisdiction in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section. However, any State agency has the option of allowing accused individuals either to waive their rights to administrative disqualification hearings in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section or to sign disqualification consent agreements for cases of deferred adjudication in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section. Any State agency which chooses either of these options may base administrative disqualifications for intentional Program violation on the waived right to an administrative disqualification hearing or on the signed disqualification consent agreement in cases of deferred adjudication.
(b)
Disqualification penalties.
(1) Individuals found to have committed an intentional Program violation either through an administrative disqualification hearing or by a Federal, State or local court, or who have signed either a waiver of right to an administrative disqualification hearing or a disqualification consent agreement in cases referred for prosecution, shall be ineligible to participate in the Program:
(i) For a period of twelve months for the first intentional Program violation, except as provided under paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5) of this section;
(ii) For a period of twenty-four months upon the second occasion of any intentional Program violation, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5) of this section; and
(iii) Permanently for the third occasion of any intentional Program violation.
(2) Individuals found by a Federal, State or local court to have used or received benefits in a transaction involving the sale of a controlled substance (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802)) shall be ineligible to participate in the Program:
(i) For a period of twenty four months upon the first occasion of such violation; and
(ii) Permanently upon the second occasion of such violation.
(3) Individuals found by a Federal, State or local court to have used or received benefits in a transaction involving the sale of firearms, ammunition or explosives shall be permanently ineligible to participate in the Program upon the first occasion of such violation.
(4) An individual convicted by a Federal, State or local court of having trafficked benefits for an aggregate amount of $500 or more shall be permanently ineligible to participate in the Program upon the first occasion of such violation.
(5) Except as provided under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, an individual found to have made a fraudulent statement or representation with respect to the identity or place of residence of the individual in order to receive multiple SNAP benefits simultaneously shall be ineligible to participate in the Program for a period of 10 years.
(6) The penalties in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section shall also apply in cases of deferred adjudication as described in paragraph (h) of this section, where the court makes a finding that the individual engaged in the conduct described in paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section.
(7) If a court fails to impose a disqualification or a disqualification period for any intentional Program violation, the State agency shall impose the appropriate disqualification penalty specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), (b)(4), and (b)(5) of this section unless it is contrary to the court order.
(8) One or more intentional Program violations which occurred prior to April 1, 1983 shall be considered as only one previous disqualification when determining the appropriate penalty to impose in a case under consideration.
(9) Regardless of when an action taken by an individual which caused an intentional Program violation occurred, the disqualification periods specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section shall apply to any case in which the court makes the requisite finding on or after September 1, 1994.
(10) For the disqualification periods in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(5) or (b)(6) of this section, if the offense occurred prior to the implementation of these penalties, the State agency may establish a policy of disqualifying these individuals in accordance with the disqualification periods in effect at the time of the offense. This policy must be consistently applied for all affected individuals.
(11) State agencies shall disqualify only the individual found to have committed the intentional Program violation, or who signed the waiver of the right to an administrative disqualification hearing or disqualification consent agreement in cases referred for prosecution, and not the entire household.
(12) Even though only the individual is disqualified, the household, as defined in § 273.1, is responsible for making restitution for the amount of any overpayment. All intentional Program violation claims must be established and collected in accordance with the procedures set forth in § 273.18.
(13) The individual must be notified in writing once it is determined that he/she is to be disqualified. The disqualification period shall begin no later than the second month which follows the date the individual receives written notice of the disqualification. The disqualification period must continue uninterrupted until completed regardless of the eligibility of the disqualified individual's household.
(c)
Definition of intentional Program violation.
Intentional Program violations shall consist of having intentionally:
(1) Made a false or misleading statement, or misrepresented, concealed or withheld facts; or
(2) Committed any act that constitutes a violation of SNAP, SNAP regulations, or any State statute for
the purpose of using, presenting, transferring, acquiring, receiving, possessing or trafficking of SNAP benefits or EBT cards.
(d)
Notification to applicant households.
The State agency shall inform the household in writing of the disqualification penalties for intentional Program violation each time it applies for Program benefits. The penalties shall be in clear, prominent, and boldface lettering on the application form.
(e)
Disqualification hearings.
The State agency shall conduct administrative disqualification hearings for individuals accused of intentional Program violation in accordance with the requirements outlined in this section.
(1)
Consolidation of administrative disqualification hearing with fair hearing.
The State agency may combine a fair hearing and an administrative disqualification hearing into a single hearing if the factual issues arise out of the same, or related, circumstances and the household receives prior notice that hearings will be combined. If the disqualification hearing and fair hearing are combined, the State agency shall follow the timeframes for conducting disqualification hearings. If the hearings are combined for the purpose of settling the amount of the claim at the same time as determining whether or not intentional Program violation has occurred, the household shall lose its right to a subsequent fair hearing on the amount of the claim. However, the State agency shall, upon household request, allow the household to waive the 30-day advance notice period required by paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section when the disqualification hearing and fair hearing are combined.
(2)
Disqualification hearing procedures.
(i) State agencies have the option of using the same hearing officials for disqualification hearings and fair hearings or designating hearing officials to conduct only disqualification hearings.
(ii) The provisions of § 273.15 (m), (n), (o), (p), and (q)(1) are also applicable for disqualification hearings.
(iii) At the disqualification hearing, the hearing official shall advise the household member or representative that they may refuse to answer questions during the hearing.
(iv) Within 90 days of the date the household member is notified in writing that a State or local hearing initiated by the State agency has been scheduled, the State agency shall conduct the hearing, arrive at a decision and notify the household member and local agency of the decision. The household member or representative is entitled to a postponement of the scheduled hearing, provided that the request for postponement is made at least 10 days in advance of the date of the scheduled hearing. However, the hearing shall not be postponed for more than a total of 30 days and the State agency may limit the number of postponements to one. If the hearing is postponed, the above time limits shall be extended for as many days as the hearing is postponed.
(v) The State agency shall publish clearly written rules of procedure for disqualification hearings, and shall make these procedures available to any interested party.
(3)
Advance notice of hearing.
(i) The State agency shall provide written notice to the individual suspected of committing an intentional Program violation at least 30 days in advance of the date a disqualification hearing initiated by the State agency has been scheduled. If mailed, the notice shall be sent either first class mail or certified mail-return receipt requested. The notice may also be provided by any other reliable method. If the notice is sent using first class mail and is returned as undeliverable, the hearing may still be held.
(ii) If no proof of receipt is obtained, a timely (as defined in paragraph (e)(4) of this section) showing of nonreceipt by the individual due to circumstances specified by the State agency shall be considered good cause for not appearing at the hearing. Each State agency shall establish the circumstances in which non-receipt constitutes good cause for failure to appear. Such circumstances shall be consistent throughout the State agency.
(iii) The notice shall contain at a minimum:
(A) The date, time, and place of the hearing;
(B) The charge(s) against the individual;
(C) A summary of the evidence, and how and where the evidence can be examined;
(D) A warning that the decision will be based solely on information provided by the State agency if the individual fails to appear at the hearing;
(E) A statement that the individual or representative will, upon receipt of the notice, have 10 days from the date of the scheduled hearing to present good cause for failure to appear in order to receive a new hearing;
(F) A warning that a determination of intentional Program violation will result in disqualification periods as determined by paragraph (b) of this section, and a statement of which penalty the State agency believes is applicable to the case scheduled for a hearing;
(G) A listing of the individual's rights as contained in § 273.15(p);
(H) A statement that the hearing does not preclude the State or Federal Government from prosecuting the individual for the intentional Program violation in a civil or criminal court action, or from collecting any overissuance(s); and
(I) If there is an individual or organization available that provides free legal representation, the notice shall advise the affected individual of the availability of the service.
(iv) A copy of the State agency's published hearing procedures shall be attached to the 30-day advance notice or the advance notice shall inform the individual of his/her right to obtain a copy of the State agency's published hearing procedures upon request.
(v) Each State agency shall develop an advance notice form which contains the information required by this section.
(4)
Scheduling of hearing.
The time and place of the hearing shall be arranged so that the hearing is accessible to the household member suspected of intentional Program violation. If the household member or its representative cannot be located or fails to appear at a hearing initiated by the State agency without good cause, the hearing shall be conducted without the household member being represented. Even though the household member is not represented, the hearing official is required to carefully consider the evidence and determine if intentional Program violation was committed based on clear and convincing evidence. If the household member is found to have committed an intentional Program violation but a hearing official later determines that the household member or representative had good cause for not appearing, the previous decision shall no longer remain valid and the State agency shall conduct a new hearing. The hearing official who originally ruled on the case may conduct the new hearing. In instances where good cause for failure to appear is based upon a showing of nonreceipt of the hearing notice as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, the household member has 30 days after the date of the written notice of the hearing decision to claim good cause for failure to appear. In all other instances, the household member has 10 days from the date of the scheduled hearing to present reasons indicating a good cause for failure to appear. A hearing official must enter the good cause decision into the record.
(5)
Participation while awaiting a hearing.
A pending disqualification hearing shall not affect the individual's or the household's right to be certified and participate in the Program. Since the State agency cannot disqualify a household member for intentional Program violation until the hearing official finds that the individual has committed intentional Program violation, the State agency shall determine the eligibility and benefit level of the household in the same manner it would be determined for any other household. For example, if the misstatement or action for which the household member is suspected of intentional Program violation does not affect the household's current circumstances, the household would continue to receive its allotment based on the latest certification action or be recertified based on a new application and its current circumstances. However, the household's benefits shall be terminated if the certification period has expired and the household, after receiving its notice of expiration, fails to reapply. The State agency shall also reduce or terminate the household's benefits if the State
agency has documentation which substantiates that the household is ineligible or eligible for fewer benefits (even if these facts led to the suspicion of intentional Program violation and the resulting disqualification hearing) and the household fails to request a fair hearing and continuation of benefits pending the hearing. For example, the State agency may have facts which substantiate that a household failed to report a change in its circumstances even though the State agency has not yet demonstrated that the failure to report involved an intentional act of Program violation.
(6)
Criteria for determining intentional Program violation.
The hearing authority shall base the determination of intentional Program violation on clear and convincing evidence which demonstrates that the household member(s) committed, and intended to commit, intentional Program violation as defined in paragraph (c) of this section.
(7)
Decision format.
The hearing authority's decision shall specify the reasons for the decision, identify the supporting evidence, identify the pertinent FNS regulation, and respond to reasoned arguments made by the household member or representative.
(8)
Imposition of disqualification penalties.
(i) If the hearing authority rules that the individual has committed an intentional Program violation, the household member must be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification periods and procedures in paragraph (b) of this section. The same act of intentional Program violation repeated over a period of time must not be separated so that separate penalties can be imposed.
(ii) No further administrative appeal procedure exists after an adverse State level hearing. The determination of intentional Program violation made by a disqualification hearing official cannot be reversed by a subsequent fair hearing decision. The household member, however, is entitled to seek relief in a court having appropriate jurisdiction. The period of disqualification may be subject to stay by a court of appropriate jurisdiction or other injunctive remedy.
(iii) Once a disqualification penalty has been imposed against a currently participating household member, the period of disqualification shall continue uninterrupted until completed regardless of the eligibility of the disqualifed member's household. However, the disqualified member's household shall continue to be responsible for repayment of the overissuance which resulted from the disqualified member's intentional Program violation regardless of its eligibility for Program benefits.
(9)
Notification of hearing decision.
(i) If the hearing official finds that the household member did not commit intentional Program violation, the State agency shall provide a written notice which informs the household member of the decision.
(ii) If the hearing official finds that the household member committed intentional Program violation, the State agency shall provide written notice to the household member prior to disqualification. The notice shall inform the household member of the decision and the reason for the decision. In addition, the notice shall inform the household member of the date the disqualification will take effect. If the individual is no longer participating, the notice shall inform the individual that the period of disqualification will be deferred until such time as the individual again applies for and is determined eligible for Program benefits. The State agency shall also provide written notice to the remaining household members, if any, of either the allotment they will receive during the period of disqualification or that they must reapply because the certification period has expired. The procedures for handling the income and resources of the disqualified member are described in § 273.11(c). A written demand letter for restitution, as described in § 273.18(d)(3), shall also be provided.
(iii) Each State agency shall develop a form for notifying individuals that they have been found by an administrative disqualification hearing to have committed intentional Program violation. The form shall contain the information required by this section.
(10)
Local level hearings.
(i) The State agency may choose to provide administrative disqualification hearings at the local level in some or all of its project
areas with a right to appeal to a State level hearing. If a local level disqualification hearing determines that a household member committed intentional Program violation, the notification of hearing decision described in paragraph (e)(9) of this section shall also inform the household member of the right to appeal the decision within 15 days after the receipt of the notice, the date the disqualification will take effect unless a State level hearing is requested, and that benefits will be continued pending a State level hearing if the household is otherwise eligible. If the household member appeals the local level decision, the advance notice of hearing, as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, shall be provided at least 10 days in advance of the scheduled State level hearing and shall also inform the household member that the local hearing decision will be upheld if the household or its representative fails to appear for the hearing without good cause. When a local level decision is appealed, the State agency shall conduct the State level hearing, arrive at a decision, and notify the household member and local agency of the decision within 60 days of the date the household member appealed its case. The prior decision shall not be taken into consideration by the State hearing officer in making the final determination. In all other respects, local level disqualification hearings shall be handled in accordance with the procedures specified in this section for State level hearings.
(ii) The State agency shall develop appropriate forms which contain the information required by this section for notification of a local level hearing decision and advance notice of a scheduled State level hearing for appeal of a local level decision.
(f)
Waived hearings.
Each State agency shall have the option of establishing procedures to allow accused individuals to waive their rights to an administrative disqualification hearing. For State agencies which choose the option of allowing individuals to waive their rights to an administrative disqualification hearing, the procedures shall conform with the requirements outlined in this section.
(1)
Advance notification.
(i) The State agency shall provide written notification to the household member suspected of intentional Program violation that the member can waive his/her right to an administrative disqualification hearing. Prior to providing this written notification to the household member, the State agency shall ensure that the evidence against the household member is reviewed by someone other than the eligibility worker assigned to the accused individual's household and a decision is obtained that such evidence warrants scheduling a disqualification hearing.
(ii) The written notification provided to the household member which informs him/her of the possibility of waiving the administrative disqualification hearing shall include, at a minimum:
(A) The date that the signed waiver must be received by the State agency to avoid the holding of a hearing and a signature block for the accused individual, along with a statement that the head of household must also sign the waiver if the accused individual is not the head of household, with an appropriately designated signature block;
(B) A statement of the accused individual's right to remain silent concerning the charge(s), and that anything said or signed by the individual concerning the charge(s) can be used against him/her in a court of law;
(C) The fact that a waiver of the disqualification hearing will result in disqualification and a reduction in benefits for the period of disqualification, even if the accused individual does not admit to the facts as presented by the State agency;
(D) An opportunity for the accused individual to specify whether or not he/she admits to the facts as presented by the State agency. This opportunity shall consist of the following statements, or statements developed by the State agency which have the same effect, and a method for the individual to designate his/her choice:
(
1
) I admit to the facts as presented, and understand that a disqualification penalty will be imposed if I sign this waiver; and
(
2
) I do not admit that the facts as presented are correct. However, I have
chosen to sign this waiver and understand that a disqualification penalty will result;
(E) The telephone number and, if possible, the name of the person to contact for additional information; and
(F) The fact that the remaining household members, if any, will be held responsible for repayment of the resulting claim.
(iii) The State agency shall develop a waiver of right to an administrative disqualification hearing form which contains the information required by this section as well as the information described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section for advance notice of a hearing. However, if the household member is notified of the possibility of waiving his/her right to an administrative disqualification hearing before the State agency has scheduled a hearing, the State agency is not required to notify the household member of the date, time and place of the hearing at that point as required by paragraph (e)(3)(i)(A) of this section.
(2)
Imposition of disqualification penalties.
(i) If the household member suspected of intentional Program violation signs the waiver of right to an administrative disqualification hearing and the signed waiver is received within the timeframes specified by the State agency, the household member shall be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The period of disqualification shall begin with the first month which follows the date the household member receives written notification of the disqualification. However, if the act of intentional Program violation which led to the disqualification occurred prior to the written notification of the disqualification periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the household member shall be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification periods in effect at the time of the offense. The same act of intentional Program violation repeated over a period of time shall not be separated so that separate penalties can be imposed.
(ii) No further administrative appeal procedure exists after an individual waives his/her right to an administrative disqualification hearing and a disqualification penalty has been imposed. The disqualification penalty cannot be changed by a subsequent fair hearing decision. The household member, however is entitled to seek relief in a court having appropriate jurisdiction. The period of disqualification may be subject to stay by a court of appropriate jurisdiction or other injunctive remedy.
(iii) Once a disqualification penalty has been imposed against a currently participating household member, the period of disqualification shall continue uninterrupted until completed regardless of the eligibility of the disqualified member's household. However, the disqualified member's household shall continue to be responsible for repayment of the overissuance which resulted from the disqualified member's intentional Program violation regardless of its eligibility for Program benefits.
(3)
Notification of disqualification.
The State agency shall provide written notice to the household member prior to disqualification. The State agency shall also provide written notice to any remaining household members of the allotment they will receive during the period of disqualification or that they must reapply because the certification period has expired. The notice(s) shall conform to the requirements for notification of a hearing decision specified in paragraph (e)(9) of this section. A written demand letter for restitution, as described in § 273.18(d)(3), shall also be provided.
(4)
Waiver of hearing at local level.
Any State agency which has adopted the two-tiered approach for administrative disqualification hearings may also provide for waiver of the right to disqualification hearing procedures outlined in this section.
(g)
Court referrals.
Any State agency exempted from the requirement to establish an administrative disqualification system in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section shall refer appropriate cases for prosecution by a court of appropriate jurisdiction in accordance with the requirements outlined in this section.
(1)
Appropriate cases.
(i) The State agency shall refer cases of alleged intentional Program violation for prosecution in accordance with an agreement with prosecutors or State law. The agreement shall provide for prosecution of intentional Program violation cases and include the understanding that prosection will be pursued in cases where appropriate. This agreement shall also include information on how, and under what circumstances, cases will be accepted for possible prosecution and any other criteria set by the prosecutor for accepting cases for prosecution, such as a minimum amount of overissuance which resulted from intentional Program violation.
(ii) State agencies are encouraged to refer for prosecution under State or local statutes those individuals suspected of committing intentional Program violation, particularly if large amounts of SNAP benefits are suspected of having been obtained by intentional Program violation, or the individual is suspected of committing more than one act of intentional Program violation. The State agency shall confer with its legal representative to determine the types of cases which will be accepted for possible prosecution. State agencies shall also encourage State and local prosecutors to recommend to the courts that a disqualification penalty as provided in section 6(b) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 be imposed in addition to any other civil or criminal penalties for such violations.
(2)
Imposition of disqualification penalties.
(i) State agencies shall disqualify an individual found guilty of intentional Program violation for the length of time specified by the court. If the court fails to impose a disqualification period, the State agency shall impose a disqualification period in accordance with the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section, unless contrary to the court order. If disqualification is ordered but a date for initiating the disqualification period is not specified, the State agency shall initiate the disqualification period for currently eligible individuals within 45 days of the date the disqualification was ordered. Any other court-imposed disqualification shall begin within 45 days of the date the court found a currently eligible individual guilty of civil or criminal misrepresentation or fraud.
(ii) Once a disqualification penalty has been imposed against a currently participating household member, the period of disqualification shall continue uninterrupted until completed regardless of the eligibility of the disqualified member's household. However, the disqualified member's household shall continue to be responsible for repayment of the overissuance which resulted from the disqualified member's intentional Program violation regardless of its eligibility for Program benefits.
(3)
Notification of disqualification.
If the court finds that the household member committed intentional Program violation, the State agency shall provide written notice to the household member. The notice shall be provided prior to disqualification, whenever possible. The notice shall inform the household member of the disqualification and the date the disqualification will take effect. The State agency shall also provide written notice to the remaining household members, if any, of the allotment they will receive during the period of disqualification or that they must reapply because the certification period has expired. The procedures for handling the income and resources of the disqualified member are described in § 273.11(c). In addition, the State agency shall provide the written demand letter for restitution described in § 273.18(d)(3).
(h)
Deferred adjudication.
Each State agency shall have the option of establishing procedures to allow accused individuals to sign disqualification consent agreements for cases of deferred adjudication. State agencies are encouraged to use this option for those cases in which a determination of guilt is not obtained from a court due to the accused individual having met the terms of a court order or which are not prosecuted due to the accused individual having met the terms of an agreement with the prosecutor. For State agencies which choose the option of allowing individuals to sign disqualification consent agreements in cases referred for prosecution, the procedures
shall conform with the requirements outlined in this section.
(1)
Advance notification.
(i) The State agency shall enter into an agreement with the State's Attorney General's Office or, where necessary, with county prosecutors which provides for advance written notification to the household member of the consequences of consenting to disqualification in cases of deferred adjudication.
(ii) The written notification provided to the household member which informs him/her of the consequences of consenting to disqualification as a part of deferred adjudication shall include, at a minimum:
(A) A statement for the accused individual to sign that the accused individual understands the consequences of consenting to disqualification, along with a statement that the head of household must also sign the consent agreement if the accused individual is not the head of household, with an appropriately designated signature block.
(B) A statement that consenting to disqualification will result in disqualification and a reduction in benefits for the period of disqualification, even though the accused individual was not found guilty of civil of criminal misrepresentation or fraud.
(C) A warning that the disqualification periods for intentional Program violations under SNAP are as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, and a statement of which penalty will be imposed as a result of the accused individual having consented to disqualification.
(D) A statement of the fact that the remaining household members, if any, will be held responsible for repayment of the resulting claim, unless the accused individual has already repaid the claim as a result of meeting the terms of the agreement with the prosecutor or the court order.
(iii) The State agency shall develop a disqualification consent agreement, or language to be included in the agreements reached between the prosecutors and accused individuals or in the court orders, which contains the information required by this section for notifying a household member suspected of intentional Program violation of the consequences of signing a disqualification consent agreement.
(2)
Imposition of disqualification penalties.
(i) If the household member suspected of intentional Program violation signs the disqualification consent agreement, the household member shall be disqualified in accordance with the disqualification periods specified in paragraph (b) of this section, unless contrary to the court order. The period of disqualification shall begin within 45 days of the date the household member signed the disqualification consent agreement. However, if the court imposes a disqualification period or specifies the date for initiating the disqualification period, the State agency shall disqualify the household member in accordance with the court order.
(ii) Once a disqualification penalty has been imposed against a currently participating household member, the period of disqualification shall continue uninterrupted until completed regardless of the eligibility of the disqualified member's household. However, the disqualified member's household shall continue to be responsible for repayment of the overissuance which resulted from the disqualified member's intentional Program violation regardless of its eligibility for Program benefits.
(3)
Notification of disqualification.
If the household member suspected of intentional Program violation signs the disqualification consent agreement, the State agency shall provide written notice to the household member. The notice shall be provided prior to disqualification, whenever possible. The notice shall inform the household member of the disqualification and the date the disqualification will take effect. The State agency shall also provide written notice to the remaining household members, if any, of the allotment they will receive during the period of disqualification or that they must reapply because the certification period has expired. The procedures for handling the income and resources of the disqualified member are described in § 273.11(c). In addition, the State agency shall provide the written demand letter for restitution described in § 273.18(d)(3).
(i)
Reporting requirements.
(1) Each State agency shall report to FNS information concerning individuals disqualified for an intentional Program violation, including those individuals disqualified based on the determination of an administrative disqualification hearing official or a court of appropriate jurisdiction, and those individuals disqualified as a result of signing either a waiver of right to a disqualification hearing or a disqualification consent agreement in cases referred for prosecution. This information shall be submitted to FNS so that it is received no more than 30 days after the date the disqualification took effect.
(2) State agencies shall report information concerning each individual disqualified for an intentional Program violation to FNS. FNS will maintain this information and establish the format for its use.
(i) State agencies shall report information to the disqualified recipient database in accordance with procedures specified by FNS.
(ii) State agencies shall access disqualified recipient information from the database that allows users to check for current and prior disqualifications.
(3) The elements to be reported to FNS are name, social security number, date of birth, gender, disqualification number, disqualification decision date, disqualification start date, length of disqualification period (in months), locality code, and the title, location and telephone number of the locality contact. These elements shall be reported in accordance with procedures prescribed by FNS.
(i) The disqualification decision date is the date that a disqualification decision was made at either an administrative or judicial hearing, or the date an individual signed a waiver to forego an administrative or judicial hearing and accept a disqualification penalty.
(ii) The disqualification start date is the date the disqualification penalty was imposed by any of the means identified in § 273.16(i)(3)(i).
(iii) The locality contact is a person, position or entity designated by a State agency as the point of contact for other State agencies to verify disqualification records supplied to the disqualified recipient database by the locality contact's State.
(4) All data submitted by State agencies will be available for use by any State agency that is currently under a valid signed Matching Agreement with FNS.
(i) State agencies shall, at a minimum, use the data to determine the eligibility of individual Program applicants prior to certification, and for 1 year following implementation, to determine the eligibility at recertification of its currently participating caseload. In lieu of the 1-year match at recertification requirement and for the same purpose, State agencies may conduct a one-time match of their participating caseload against active disqualifications in the disqualified recipient database. State agencies have the option of exempting minors from this match.
(ii) State agencies shall also use the disqualified recipient database for the purpose of determining the eligibility of newly added household members.
(5) The disqualification of an individual for an intentional Program violation in one political jurisdiction shall be valid in another. However, one or more disqualifications for an intentional Program violation, which occurred prior to April 1, 1983, shall be considered as only one previous disqualification when determining the appropriate penalty to impose in a case under consideration, regardless of where the disqualification(s) took place. State agencies are encouraged to identify and report to FNS any individuals disqualified for an intentional Program violation prior to April 1, 1983. A State agency submitting such historical information should take steps to ensure the availability of appropriate documentation to support the disqualifications in the event it is contacted for independent verification.
(6) If a State determines that supporting documentation for a disqualification record that it has entered is inadequate or nonexistent, the State agency shall act to remove the record from the database.
(7) If a court of appropriate jurisdiction reverses a disqualification for an intentional Program violation, the
State agency shall take action to delete the record in the database that contains information related to the disqualification that was reversed in accordance with instructions provided by FNS.
(8) If an individual disputes the accuracy of the disqualification record pertaining to him/herself the State agency submitting such record(s) shall be responsible for providing FNS with prompt verification of the accuracy of the record.
(i) If a State agency is unable to demonstrate to the satisfaction of FNS that the information in question is correct, the State agency shall immediately, upon direction from FNS, take action to delete the information from the disqualified recipient database.
(ii) In those instances where the State agency is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of FNS that the information in question is correct, the individual shall have an opportunity to submit a brief statement representing his or her position for the record. The State agency shall make the individual's statement a permanent part of the case record documentation on the disqualification record in question, and shall make the statement available to each State agency requesting an independent verification of that disqualification.
(j)
Reversed disqualifications.
In cases where the determination of intentional program violation is reversed by a court of appropriate jurisdiction, the State agency shall reinstate the individual in the program if the household is eligible. The State agency shall restore benefits that were lost as a result of the disqualification in accordance with the procedures specified in § 273.17(e).
[Amdt. 242, 48 FR 6855, Feb. 15, 1983, as amended by Amdt. 269, 51 FR 10793, Mar. 28, 1986; Amdt. 357, 60 FR 43515, Aug. 22, 1995; 66 FR 4468, Jan. 17, 2001; 77 FR 48057, Aug. 13, 2012; 82 FR 2043, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 273.17
Restoration of lost benefits.
(a)
Entitlement.
(1) The State agency shall restore to households benefits which were lost whenever the loss was caused by an error by the State agency or by an administrative disqualification for intentional Program violation which was subsequently reversed as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, or if there is a statement elsewhere in the regulations specifically stating that the household is entitled to restoration of lost benefits. Furthermore, unless there is a statement elsewhere in the regulations that a household is entitled to lost benefits for a longer period, benefits shall be restored for not more than twelve months prior to whichever of the following occurred first:
(i) The date the State agency receives a request for restoration from a household; or
(ii) The date the State agency is notified or otherwise discovers that a loss to a household has occurred.
(2) The State agency shall restore to households benefits which were found by any judicial action to have been wrongfully withheld. If the judicial action is the first action the recipient has taken to obtain restoration of lost benefits, then benefits shall be restored for a period of not more than twelve months from the date the court action was initiated. When the judicial action is a review of a State agency action, the benefits shall be restored for a period of not more than twelve months from the first of the following dates:
(i) The date the State agency receives a request for restoration:
(ii) If no request for restoration is received, the date the fair hearing action was initiated; but
(iii) Never more than one year from when the State agency is notified of, or discovers, the loss.
(3) Benefits shall be restored even if the household is currently ineligible.
(b)
Errors discovered by the State agency.
If the State agency determines that a loss of benefits has occurred, and the household is entitled to restoration of those benefits, the State agency shall automatically take action to restore any benefits that were lost. No action by the household is necessary. However, benefits shall not be restored if the benefits were lost more than 12 months prior to the month the loss was discovered by the State agency in the normal course of business, or were lost more than 12 months prior to the month the State agency was notified in writing or orally of a possible loss to a
specific household. The State agency shall notify the household of its entitlement, the amount of benefits to be restored, any offsetting that was done, the method of restoration, and the right to appeal through the fair hearing process if the household disagrees with any aspect of the proposed lost benefit restoration.
(c)
Disputed benefits.
(1) If the State agency determines that a household is entitled to restoration of lost benefits, but the household does not agree with the amount to be restored as calculated by the State agency or any other action taken by the State agency to restore lost benefits, the household may request a fair hearing within 90 days of the date the household is notified of its entitlement to restoration of lost benefits. If a fair hearing is requested prior to or during the time lost benefits are being restored, the household shall receive the lost benefits as determined by the State agency pending the results of the fair hearing. If the fair hearing decision is favorable to the household, the State agency shall restore the lost benefits in accordance with that decision.
(2) If a household believes it is entitled to restoration of lost benefits but the State agency, after reviewing the case file, does not agree, the household has 90 days from the date of the State agency determination to request a fair hearing. The State agency shall restore lost benefits to the household only if the fair hearing decision is favorable to the household. Benefits lost more than 12 months prior to the date the State agency was initially informed of the household's possible entitlement to lost benefits shall not be restored.
(d)
Computing the amount to be restored.
After correcting the loss for future months and excluding those months for which benefits may have been lost prior to the 12-month time limits described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the State agency shall calculate the amount to be restored as follows:
(1) If the household was eligible but received an incorrect allotment, the loss of benefits shall be calculated only for those months the household participated. If the loss was caused by an incorrect delay, denial, or termination of benefits, the months affected by the loss shall be calculated as follows:
(i) If an eligible household's application was erroneously denied, the month the loss initially occurred shall be the month of application, or for an eligible household filing a timely reapplication, the month following the expiration of its certification period.
(ii) If an eligible household's application was delayed, the months for which benefits may be lost shall be calculated in accordance with procedures in § 273.2(h).
(iii) If a household's benefits were erroneously terminated, the month the loss initially occurred shall be the first month benefits were not received as a result of the erroneous action.
(iv) After computing the date the loss initially occurred, the loss shall be calculated for each month subsequent to that date until either the first month the error is corrected or the first month the household is found ineligible.
(2) For each month affected by the loss, the State agency shall determine if the household was actually eligible. In cases where there is no information in the household's case file to document that the household was actually eligible, the State agency shall advise the household of what information must be provided to determine eligibility for these months. For each month the household cannot provide the necessary information to demonstrate its eligibility, the household shall be considered ineligible.
(3) For the months the household was eligible, the State agency shall calculate the allotment the household should have received. If the household received a smaller allotment than it was eligible to receive, the difference between the actual and correct allotments equals the amount to be restored.
(4) If a claim against a household is unpaid or held in suspense as provided in § 273.18, the amount to be restored shall be offset against the amount due on the claim before the balance, if any, is restored to the household. At the point in time when the household is certified and receives an initial allotment, the initial allotment shall not be
reduced to offset claims, even if the initial allotment is paid retroactively.
(e)
Lost benefits to individuals disqualified for intentional Program violation.
Individuals disqualified for intentional Program violation are entitled to restoration of any benefits lost during the months that they were disqualified, not to exceed twelve months prior to the date of State agency notification, only if the decision which resulted in disqualification is subsequently reversed. For example, an individual would not be entitled to restoration of lost benefits for the period of disqualification based solely on the fact that a criminal conviction could not be obtained, unless the individual successfully challenged the disqualification period imposed by an administrative disqualification in a separate court action. For each month the individual was disqualified, not to exceed twelve months prior to State agency notification, the amount to be restored, if any, shall be determined by comparing the allotment the household received with the allotment the household would have received had the disqualified member been allowed to participate. If the household received a smaller allotment than it should have received, the difference equals the amount to be restored. Participation in an administrative disqualification hearing in which the household contests the State agency assertion of intentional Program violation shall be considered notification that the household is requesting restored benefits.
(f)
Method of restoration.
Regardless of whether a household is currently eligible or ineligible, the State agency shall restore lost benefits to a household by issuing an allotment equal to the amount of benefits that were lost. The amount restored shall be issued in addition to the allotment currently eligible households are entitled to receive. The State agency shall honor reasonable requests by households to restore lost benefits in monthly installments if, for example, the household fears the excess coupons may be stolen, or that the amount to be restored is more than it can use in a reasonable period of time.
(g)
Changes in household composition.
Whenever lost benefits are due a household and the household's membership has changed, the State agency shall restore the lost benefits to the household containing a majority of the individuals who were household members at the time the loss occurred. If the State agency cannot locate or determine the household which contains a majority of household members the State agency shall restore the lost benefits to the household containing the head of the household at the time the loss occurred.
(h)
Accounting procedures.
Each State agency shall be responsible for maintaining an accounting system for documenting a household's entitlement to restoration of lost benefits and for recording the balance of lost benefits that must be restored to the household. Each State agency shall at a minimum, document how the amount to be restored was calculated and the reason lost benefits must be restored. The accounting system shall be designed to readily identify those situations where a claim against a household can be used to offset the amount to be restored.
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 225, 48 FR 16831, Apr. 19, 1983; Amdt. 314, 54 FR 24518, June 7, 1989; Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994]
§ 273.18
Claims against households.
(a)
General.
(1) A recipient claim is an amount owed because of:
(i) Benefits that are overpaid or
(ii) Benefits that are trafficked. Trafficking is defined in 7 CFR 271.2.
(2) This claim is a Federal debt subject to this and other regulations governing Federal debts. The State agency must establish and collect any claim by following these regulations.
(3) As a State agency, you must develop a plan for establishing and collecting claims that provides orderly claims processing and results in claims collections similar to recent national rates of collection. If you do not meet these standards, you must take corrective action to correct any deficiencies in the plan.
(4) The following are responsible for paying a claim:
(i) Each person who was an adult member of the household when the overpayment or trafficking occurred;
(ii) A person connected to the household, such as an authorized representative, who actually trafficks or otherwise causes an overpayment or trafficking.
(b)
Types of claims.
There are three types of claims:
An . . .
is . . .
(1) Intentional Program violation (IPV) claim
any claim for an overpayment or trafficking resulting from an individual committing an IPV. An IPV is defined in § 273.16.
(2) Inadvertent household error (IHE) claim
any claim for an overpayment resulting from a misunderstanding or unintended error on the part of the household.
(3) Agency error (AE) claim
any claim for an overpayment caused by an action or failure to take action by the State agency.
(c)
Calculating the claim amount
—(1)
Claims not related to trafficking.
(i) As a State agency, you
must calculate a claim . . .
and . . .
and . . .
back to at least twelve months prior to when you become aware of the overpayment
for an IPV claim, the claim must be calculated back to the month the act of IPV first occurred
for all claims, don't include any amounts that occurred more than six years before you became aware of the overpayment.
(ii) The actual steps for calculating a claim are
you . . .
unless . . .
then . . .
(A) determine the correct amount of benefits for each month that a household received an overpayment
(B) do not apply the earned income deduction to that part of any earned income that the household failed to report in a timely manner when this act is the basis for the claim
the claim is an AE claim
apply the earned income deduction.
(C) subtract the correct amount of benefits from the benefits actually received. The answer is the amount of the overpayment
this answer is zero or negative
dispose of the claim referral.
(D) reduce the overpayment amount by any EBT benefits expunged from the household's EBT benefit account in accordance with your own procedures. The difference is the amount of the claim
you are not aware of any expunged benefits
the amount of the overpayment calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(C) of this section is the amount of the claim.
(2)
Trafficking-related claims.
Claims arising from trafficking-related offenses will be the value of the trafficked benefits as determined by:
(i) The individual's admission;
(ii) Adjudication; or
(iii) The documentation that forms the basis for the trafficking determination.
(d)
Claim referral management.
(1) As a State agency, you
must . . .
and you . . .
unless . . .
establish a claim before the last day of the quarter following the quarter in which the overpayment or trafficking incident was discovered
will ensure that no less than 90 percent of all claim referrals are either established or disposed of according to this time frame
you develop and use your own standards and procedures that have been approved by us (see paragraph (d)(2) of this section).
(2) Instead of using the standard in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, you may opt to develop and follow your own plan for the efficient and effective management of claim referrals.
(i) This plan must be approved by us.
(ii) At a minimum, this plan must include:
(A) Justification as to why your standards and procedures will be more efficient and effective than our claim referral standard;
(B) Procedures for the detection and referral of potential overpayments or trafficking violations;
(C) Time frames and procedures for tracking claim referrals through date of discovery to date of establishment;
(D) A description of the process to ensure that these time frames are being met;
(E) Any special procedures and time frames for IPV referrals; and
(F) A procedure to track and follow-up on IPV claim referrals when these referrals are referred for prosecutorial or similar action.
(3) States must establish claims even if they cannot be established within the timeframes outlined under paragraph (d) of this section.
(e)
Initiating collection action and managing claims
—(1)
Applicability.
State agencies must begin collection action on all claims unless the conditions under paragraph (e)(2) of this section apply.
(2)
Pre-establishment cost effectiveness determination.
A State agency may opt not to establish and subsequently collect an overpayment that is not cost effective. The following is our cost-effectiveness policy for State agencies:
(i) You may follow your own cost effectiveness plan and
opt not to establish any claim if . . .
unless . . .
or . . .
you determine that the claim referral is not cost effective to pursue
you do not have a cost-effectiveness plan approved by us
you already established the claim or discovered the overpayment in a quality control review.
(ii) Or you may follow the FNS threshold and
opt not to establish any claim if . . .
unless . . .
or . . .
you determine that the claim referral is $125 or less
the household is currently participating in the Program
you already established the claim or discovered the overpayment in a quality control review.
(3)
Notification of claim.
(i) Each State agency must develop and mail or otherwise deliver to the household written notification to begin collection action on any claim.
(ii) The claim will be considered established for tracking purposes as of the date of the initial demand letter or written notification.
(iii) If the claim or the amount of the claim was not established at a fair hearing, the State agency must provide the household with a one-time notice of adverse action. The notice of adverse action may either be sent separately or as part of the demand letter.
(iv) The initial demand letter or notice of adverse action must include language stating:
(A) The amount of the claim.
(B) The intent to collect from all adults in the household when the overpayment occurred.
(C) The type (IPV, IHE, AE or similar language) and reason for the claim.
(D) The time period associated with the claim.
(E) How the claim was calculated.
(F) The phone number to call for more information about the claim.
(G) That, if the claim is not paid, it will be sent to other collection agencies, who will use various collection methods to collect the claim.
(H) The opportunity to inspect and copy records related to the claim.
(I) Unless the amount of the claim was established at a fair hearing, the opportunity for a fair hearing on the decision related to the claim. The household will have 90 days to request a fair hearing.
(J) That, if not paid, the claim will be referred to the Federal government for federal collection action.
(K) That the household can make a written agreement to repay the amount of the claim prior to it being referred for Federal collection action.
(L) That, if the claim becomes delinquent, the household may be subject to additional processing charges.
(M) That the State agency may reduce any part of the claim if the agency believes that the household is not able to repay the claim.
(N) A due date or time frame to either repay or make arrangements to repay the claim, unless the State agency is to impose allotment reduction.
(O) If allotment reduction is to be imposed, a due date or time frame to either repay or make arrangements to repay the claim in the event that the household stops receiving benefits.
(P) If allotment reduction is to be imposed, the percentage to be used and the effective date.
(v) The due date or time frame for repayment must be not later than 30 days after the date of the initial written notification or demand letter.
(vi) Subsequent demand letters or notices may be sent at the discretion of the State agency. The language to be used and content of these letters is left up to the State agency.
(4)
Repayment agreements.
(i) Any repayment agreement for any claim must contain due dates or time frames for the periodic submission of payments.
(ii) The agreement must specify that the household will be subject to involuntary collection action(s) if payment is not received by the due date and the claim becomes delinquent.
(5)
Determining Delinquency.
(i) Unless specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iv) of this section, a claim must be considered delinquent if:
(A) The claim has not been paid by the due date and a satisfactory payment arrangement has not been made; or
(B) A payment arrangement has been established and a scheduled payment has not been made by the due date.
(ii) The date of delinquency for a claim covered under paragraph (e)(5)(i)(A) of this section is the due date on the initial written notification/demand letter. The claim will remain delinquent until payment is received in full, a satisfactory payment agreement is negotiated, or allotment reduction is invoked.
(iii) The date of delinquency for a claim covered under paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section is the due date of the missed installment payment unless the claim was delinquent prior to entering into a repayment agreement, in which case the due date will be the due date on the initial notification/demand letter. The claim will remain delinquent until payment is received in full, allotment reduction is invoked, or if the State agency determines to either resume or re-negotiate the repayment schedule.
(iv) A claim will not be considered delinquent if another claim for the same household is currently being paid either through an installment agreement or allotment reduction and you, as a State agency, expect to begin collection on the claim once the prior claim(s) is settled.
(v) A claim is not subject to the requirements for delinquent debts if the State agency is unable to determine delinquency status because collection is coordinated through the court system.
(6)
Fair hearings and claims.
(i) A claim awaiting a fair hearing decision must not be considered delinquent.
(ii) If the hearing official determines that a claim does, in fact, exist against the household, the household must be re-notified of the claim. The language to be used in this notice is left up to the State agency. The demand for payment may be combined with the notice of the hearing decision. Delinquency must be based on the due date of this subsequent notice and not on the initial pre-hearing demand letter sent to the household.
(iii) If the hearing official determines that a claim does not exist, the claim is disposed of in accordance with paragraph (e)(8) of this section.
(7)
Compromising claims.
(i) As a State agency, you may compromise a claim or any portion of a claim if it can be reasonably determined that a household's economic circumstances dictate that the claim will not be paid in three years.
(ii) You may use the full amount of the claim (including any amount compromised) to offset benefits in accordance with § 273.17.
(iii) You may reinstate any compromised portion of a claim if the claim becomes delinquent.
(8)
Terminating and writing-off claims
—(i)
A terminated claim
is a claim in
which all collection action has ceased. A
written-off claim
is no longer considered a receivable subject to continued Federal and State agency collection and reporting requirements.
(ii) The following is our claim termination policy:
As a State agency, if . . .
Then you . . .
Unless . . .
(A) you find that the claim is invalid
must discharge the claim and reflect the event as a balance adjustment rather than a termination
it is appropriate to pursue the overpayment as a different type of claim (e.g., as an IHE rather than an IPV claim).
(B) all adult household members die
must terminate and write-off the claim
you plan to pursue the claim against the estate.
(C) the claim balance is $25 or less and the claim has been delinquent for 90 days or more
must terminate and write-off the claim
other claims exist against this household resulting in an aggregate claim total of greater than $25.
(D) you determine it is not cost effective to pursue the claim any further
must terminate and write-off the claim
we have not approved your overall cost-effectiveness criteria.
(E) the claim is delinquent for three years or more
must terminate and write-off the claim
you plan to continue to pursue the claim through Treasury's Offset Program.
(F) you cannot locate the household
may terminate and write-off the claim
(G) a new collection method or a specific event (such as winning the lottery) substantially increases the likelihood of further collections
may reinstate a terminated and written-off claim
you decide not to pursue this option.
(f)
Acceptable forms of payment.
You may collect a claim by:
However . . .
(1) Reducing benefits prior to issuance. This includes allotment reduction and offsets to restored benefits
You must follow the instructions and limits found in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(3) of this section.
(2) Reducing benefits after issuance. These are benefits from electronic benefit transfer (EBT) accounts
You must follow the instructions and limits found in paragraph (g)(2) of this section.
(3) Accepting cash or any of its generally accepted equivalents. These equivalents include check, money order, and credit or debit cards
You do not have to accept credit or debit cards if you do not have the capability to accept these payments.
(4) Conducting your own offsets and intercepts. This includes but is not limited to wage garnishments and intercepts of various State payments. These collections are considered “cash” for FNS claim accounting and reporting purposes
You must follow any limits that may apply in paragraph (g) of this section.
(5) Requiring the household to perform public service
This form of payment must be ordered by a court and specifically be in lieu of paying any claim.
(6) Participating in the Treasury collection programs
You must follow the procedures found in paragraph (n) of this section.
(g)
Collection methods
—(1)
Allotment reduction.
The following is our allotment reduction policy:
As a State agency, you must . . .
Unless . . .
(i) Automatically collect payments for any claim by reducing the amount of monthly benefits that a household receives
the claim is being collected at regular intervals at a higher amount or another household is already having its allotment reduced for the same claim (see paragraph (g)(1)(vi) of this section).
(ii) For an IPV claim, limit the amount reduced to the greater of $20 per month or 20 percent of the household's monthly allotment or entitlement
the household agrees to a higher amount.
(iii) For an IHE or AE claim, limit the amount reduced to the greater of $10 per month or 10 percent of the household's monthly allotment
the household agrees to a higher amount.
(iv) Not reduce the initial allotment when the household is first certified
the household agrees to this reduction.
(v) Not use additional involuntary collection methods against individuals in a household that is already having its benefit reduced
the additional payment is voluntary; or the source of the payment is irregular and unexpected such as a State tax refund or lottery winnings offset.
You may . . .
(vi) Collect using allotment reduction from two separate households for the same claim. However, you are not required to perform this simultaneous reduction.
(vii) Continue to use any other collection method against any individual who is not a current member of the household that is undergoing allotment reduction.
(2)
Benefits from EBT accounts.
(i) As a State agency, you must allow a household to pay its claim using benefits from its EBT benefit account.
(ii) You must comply with the following EBT benefit claims collection and adjustment requirements:
(A) For collecting from active (or reactivated) EBT benefits . . .
You . . .
or . . .
and . . .
need written permission which may be obtained in advance and done in accordance with paragraph (g)(2)(iv) of this section;
oral permission for one time reductions with you sending the household a receipt of the transaction within 10 days
the retention rules do apply to this collection.
(B) For collecting from stale EBT benefits . . .
You . . .
and . . .
and . . .
must mail or otherwise deliver to the household written notification that you intend to apply the benefits to the outstanding claim
give the household at least 10 days to notify you that it doesn't want to use these benefits to pay the claim
the retention rules apply to this collection.
(C) For making an adjustment with expunged EBT benefits . . .
You . . .
and . . .
and . . .
must adjust the amount of any claim by subtracting any expunged amount from the EBT benefit account for which you become aware
this can be done anytime
the retention rules do not apply to this adjustment.
(iii) A collection from an EBT account must be non-settling against the benefit drawdown account.
(iv) At a minimum, any written agreement with the household to collect a claim using active EBT benefits must include:
(A) A statement that this collection activity is strictly voluntary;
(B) The amount of the payment;
(C) The frequency of the payments (i.e., whether monthly or one time only);
(D) The length (if any) of the agreement; and
(E) A statement that the household may revoke this agreement at any time.
(3)
Offsets to restored benefits.
You must reduce any restored benefits owed to a household by the amount of any outstanding claim. This may be done at any time during the claim establishment and collection process.
(4)
Lump sum payments.
You must accept any payment for a claim whether it represents full or partial payment. The payment may be in any of the acceptable formats.
(5)
Installment payments.
(i) You may accept installment payments made for a claim as part of a negotiated repayment agreement.
(ii) As a household, if you fail to submit a payment in accordance with the terms of your negotiated repayment schedule, your claim becomes delinquent and it will be subject to additional collection actions.
(6)
Intercept of unemployment compensation benefits.
(i) As a State agency, you may arrange with a liable individual to intercept his or her unemployment compensation benefits for the collection of any claim. This collection option may be included as part of a repayment agreement.
(ii) You may also intercept an individual's unemployment compensation benefits by obtaining a court order.
(iii) You must report any intercept of unemployment compensation benefits as “cash” payments when they are reported to us.
(7)
Public service.
If authorized by a court, the value of a claim may be paid by the household performing public service. As a State agency, you will report these amounts in accordance with our instructions.
(8)
Other collection actions.
You may employ any other collection actions to collect claims. These actions include, but are not limited to, referrals to collection and/or other similar private and public sector agencies, state tax refund and lottery offsets, wage garnishments, property liens and small claims court.
(9)
Unspecified joint collections.
When an unspecified joint collection is received for a combined public assistance/SNAP recipient claim, each program must receive its pro rata share of the amount collected. An unspecified joint collection is when funds are received in response to correspondence or a referral that contained both the SNAP and other program claim(s) and the debtor does not specify to which claim to apply the collection.
(h)
Refunds for overpaid claims.
(1) As a household, if you overpay a claim, the State agency must provide a refund for the overpaid amount as soon as possible after the State agency finds out about the overpayment. You will be paid by whatever method the State agency deems appropriate considering the circumstances.
(2) You are not entitled to a refund if the overpaid amount is attributed to an expunged EBT benefit.
(i)
Interstate claims collection.
(1) Unless a transfer occurs as outlined in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, as a State agency, you are responsible for initiating and continuing collection action on any SNAP recipient claim regardless of whether the household remains in your State.
(2) You may accept a claim from another State agency if the household with the claim moves into your State. Once you accept this responsibility, the claim is yours for future collection and reporting. You will report interstate transfers to us in accordance with our instructions.
(j)
Bankruptcy.
A State agency may act on our behalf in any bankruptcy proceeding against a bankrupt household with outstanding recipient claims.
(k)
Retention rates.
(1) The retention rates for State agencies are as follows:
If you collect an . . .
then the retention rate is . . .
(i) IPV claim
35 percent.
(ii) IHE claim
20 percent.
(iii) IHE claim by reducing a person's unemployment compensation benefit
35 percent.
(iv) AE claim
nothing.
(2) These rates do not apply to:
(i) Any reduction in benefits when you disqualify someone for an IPV;
(ii) The value of court-ordered public service performed in lieu of the payment of a claim; or
(iii) Payments made to a court that are not subsequently forwarded as payment of an established claim.
(l)
Submission of payments to us.
A State agency must send us the value of funds collected for IHE, IPV or AE claims according to our instructions. We must pay you for claims collection retention by electronic funds transfer.
(m)
Accounting procedures.
(1) As a State agency, you must maintain an accounting system for monitoring recipient claims against households. This accounting system shall consist of both the system of records maintained for individual debtors and the accounts receivable summary data maintained for these debts.
(2) At a minimum, the accounting system must document the following for each claim:
(i) The date of discovery;
(ii) The reason for the claim;
(iii) The calculation of the claim;
(iv) The date you established the claim;
(v) The methods used to collect the claim;
(vi) The amount and incidence of any claim processing charges;
(vii) The reason for the final disposition of the claim;
(viii) Any collections made on the claim;
(ix) Any correspondence, including follow-up letters, sent to the household.
(3) At a minimum, your accounting or certification system must also identify the following for each claim:
(i) Those households whose claims have become delinquent;
(ii) Those situations in which an amount not yet restored to a household can be used to offset a claim owed by the household; and
(iii) Those households with outstanding claims that are applying for benefits.
(4) When requested and at intervals determined by us, your accounting system must also produce:
(i) Accurate and supported outstanding balances and collections for established claims; and
(ii) Summary reports of the funds collected, the amount submitted to FNS, the claims established and terminated, any delinquent claims processing charges, the uncollected balance and the delinquency of the unpaid debt.
(5) On a quarterly basis, unless otherwise directed by us, your accounting system must reconcile summary balances reported to individual supporting records.
(n)
Treasury's Offset Programs (TOP)
—(1)
Referring debts to TOP.
(i) As a State agency, you must refer to TOP all recipient claims that are delinquent for 180 or more days.
(ii) You must certify that all of these claims to be referred to TOP are 180 days delinquent and legally enforceable.
(iii) You must refer these claims in accordance with our and the Department of the Treasury's (Treasury) instructions.
(iv) You must not refer claims to TOP that:
(A) You become aware that the debtor is a member of a participating household that is having its allotment reduced to collect the claim; or
(B) Fall into any other category designated by us as non-referable to TOP.
(2)
Notifying debtors of referral to TOP.
(i) As a State agency, you must notify the debtor of the impending referral to TOP according to our instructions relating to:
(A) What constitutes an adequate address to send the notice;
(B) What specific language will be included in the TOP referral notice;
(C) What will be the appropriate time frames and appeal rights; and
(D) Any other information that we determine necessary to fulfill all due process and other legal requirements as well as to adequately inform the debtor of the impending action.
(ii) You must also follow our instructions regarding procedures connected with responding to inquiries, subsequent reviews and hearings, and any other procedures determined by us as necessary in the debtor notification process.
(3)
Effect on debtors.
(i) If you, as a debtor, have your claim referred to TOP, any eligible Federal payment that you are owed may be intercepted through TOP.
(ii) You may also be responsible for paying any collection or processing fees charged by the Federal government to intercept your payment.
(4)
Procedures when a claim is in TOP.
(i) As a State agency, you must follow FNS and Treasury procedures when the claim is in TOP.
(ii) You must remove a claim from TOP if:
(A) FNS or Treasury instruct you to remove the debt; or
(B) You discover that:
(
1
) The debtor is a member of a SNAP household undergoing allotment reduction;
(
2
) The claim is paid up;
(
3
) The claim is disposed of through a hearing, termination, compromise or any other means;
(
4)
The claim was referred to TOP in error; or
(
5
) You make an arrangement with the debtor to resume payments.
(5)
Receiving and reporting.
As a State agency, you must follow our procedures on receiving and reporting TOP payments.
(6)
Security or confidentiality agreements.
As a State agency, you must follow our procedures regarding any security or confidentiality agreements or processes necessary for TOP participation.
[Amdt. 389, 65 FR 41775, July 6, 2000; 65 FR 47587, Aug. 2, 2000, as amended at 75 FR 78153, Dec. 15, 2010; 82 FR 2043, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 273.19
[Reserved]

# Subpart G—Program Alternatives
§ 273.20
SSI cash-out.
(a)
Ineligibility.
No individual who receives supplemental security income (SSI) benefits and/or State supplementary payments as a resident of California is eligible to receive SNAP benefits. The Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services has determined that the SSI payments in California have been specifically increased to include the value of the SNAP allotment.
(b)
Receipt of SSI benefits.
In California, an individual must actually receive, not merely have applied for, SSI benefits to be determined ineligible for SNAP. If the State agency provides payments at least equal to the level of SSI benefits to individuals who have applied for but are awaiting an SSI eligibility determination, receipt of these substitute payments will terminate the individual's eligibility for SNAP benefits. Once SSI benefits are received, the individual will remain ineligible for SNAP benefits, even during months in which receipt of the SSI benefits is interrupted, or suspended, until the individual is terminated from the SSI program.
(c)
Income and resources.
In California, the income and resources of the SSI recipient living in a household shall not be considered in determining eligibility or level of benefits of the household, as specified in § 273.11(d).
[Amdt. 132, 43 FR 47889, Oct. 17, 1978, as amended by Amdt. 132, 44 FR 33383, June 8, 1979. Redesignated at 45 FR 7217, Jan. 31, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 237, 47 FR 57669, Dec. 28, 1982; Amdt. 269, 51 FR 10793, Mar. 28, 1986; Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994; Amdt. 364, 61 FR 54320, Oct. 17, 1996]
§ 273.21
Monthly Reporting and Retrospective Budgeting (MRRB).
(a)
System design.
This section provides for an MRRB system for determining household eligibility and benefits. For included households, this system replaces the prospective budgeting system provided in the preceding sections of this part. The MRRB system provides for the use of retrospective information in calculating household benefits, normally based on information submitted by the household in monthly reports. The State agency shall establish an MRRB system as follows:
(1) In establishing either a one-month or a two-month MRRB system, the State agency shall use the same system it uses in its TANF Program unless it has been granted a waiver by FNS. Differences between a one-month and a two-month system are described in paragraph (d) of this section.
(2) The State agency shall determine eligibility, either prospectively or retrospectively, on the same basis that it uses for its TANF program, unless it has been granted a waiver by FNS.
(3)
Budgeting waivers.
FNS may approve waivers of the budgeting requirements of this section to conform to budgeting procedures in the TANF program, except for households excluded from retrospective budgeting under paragraph (b) of this section.
(b)
Included and excluded households.
The establishment of either a monthly reporting or retrospective budgeting system is a State agency option. Certain households are specifically excluded from both monthly reporting and retrospective budgeting. A household that is included in a monthly reporting system must be retrospectively budgeted. Households not required to submit monthly reports may have their benefits determined on either a prospective or retrospective basis at
the State agency's option, unless specifically excluded from retrospective budgeting.
(1) The following households are excluded from both monthly reporting and retrospective budgeting:
(i) Migrant or seasonal farmworker households.
(ii) Households in which all members are homeless individuals.
(iii) Households with no earned income in which all adult members are elderly or disabled.
(2) Households residing on an Indian reservation where there was no monthly reporting system in operation on March 25, 1994 are excluded from monthly reporting.
(c)
Information on MRRB.
At the certification and recertification interview, the State agency shall provide the household with the following:
(1) An oral explanation of the purpose of MRRB;
(2) A copy of the monthly report and an explanation of how to complete and file it;
(3) An explanation that information required to be reported on the monthly report is the only reporting requirement for such information;
(4) An explanation of what the household shall verify when it submits a monthly report and how it will verify it;
(5) A telephone number (toll-free number or a number where collect calls will be accepted outside the local calling area) which the household may call to ask questions or to obtain help in completing the monthly report; and
(6) Written explanations of this information.
(7)
Special assistance.
The State agency shall provide special assistance in completing and filing monthly reports to households whose adult members are all either mentally or physically handicapped or are non-English speaking or otherwise lacking in reading and writing skills such that they cannot complete and file the required reports.
(d)
One and two-month systems.
Each State agency shall adopt either a one-month or two-month MRRB system. A one-month system shall have either one or two beginning months in the certification period and a two-month system shall have two beginning months. Except for beginning months in sequence as described in the preceding sentence, the State agency shall not consider as a beginning month any month which immediately follows a month in which a household is certified.
(1)
One-month system.
In the one-month system, the issuance month immediately follows its corresponding budget month.
(2)
Two-month system.
In the two-month system, the issuance month is the second month following its corresponding budget month. There are two beginning months of participation in this system, the first month and the following month.
(e)
Determining eligibility for households not certified under the beginning months' procedures of § 273.21(g).
The State agency shall determine eligibility consistent with paragraph (a)(2) of this section and in accordance with either of the following options.
(1)
Prospective eligibility.
The State agency shall determine eligibility by considering all factors of eligibility prospectively for each of the issuance months.
(2)
Retrospective eligibility.
The State agency shall determine eligibility by considering all factors of eligibility retrospectively using the appropriate budget month except for residency and compliance with the requirements regarding social security numbers. Compliance with work registration provisions shall be considered as of the issuance month or month of application. The 60-day time frame for determining the applicability of the voluntary quit provision of § 273.7(n) shall be measured by the State agency from the date of application.
(f)
Calculating allotments for households following the beginning months
—(1)
Household composition.
(i) If eligibility is determined retrospectively the State agency shall determine the household's composition as of the last day of the budget month.
(ii) If eligibility is determined prospectively (during the beginning months or for households processed under paragraph (e)(1) of this section), the State agency shall determine the household's composition as of the issuance month.
(iii) In a two-month system, the following provisions shall apply with regard to a household which reports, in the month between the budget month and the corresponding issuance month, that it has gained a new member.
(A) The State agency shall use the same household composition for determining the household's eligibility that it uses for calculating the household's benefit level.
(B) If the new member is not already certified to receive SNAP benefits in another household participating within the State, the new member's income, deductible expenses, and resources from the issuance month shall be considered in determining the household's eligibility and benefit level. If the new member had been providing income to the household on an ongoing basis prior to becoming a member of the household, the State agency shall exclude the previously provided income in determining the household's issuance month benefits and eligibility.
(C) If the individual has moved out of one household receiving SNAP benefits within the State and into another, with no break in participation, the State agency shall use the individual's income, deductible expenses, and resources from the budget month in determining benefits to be provided in the issuance month. The State agency shall include such an individual and the individual's income, deductible expenses, and resources in determining the issuance month eligibility and benefit level of either the household from which the individual has moved or the household into which the individual has moved, but not both. In determining the issuance month eligibility and benefit level of the household into which the individual has moved, the State agency shall disregard budget month income received by the new member from a terminated source.
(D) The State agency may add new members to the household effective either the month the household reports the gain of a new household member or the first day of the issuance month following the month the household reports the gain of a new member. The benefits shall not be prorated.
(iv) The State agency shall add a previously excluded member who was disqualified for an intentional program violation or failure to comply with workfare or work requirements, was ineligible because of failure to comply with the social security number requirement, or was previously an ineligible alien retrospectively to the household the month after the disqualification period ends. All other previously excluded members shall be added in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, using the new member's issuance month income and expenses.
(2)
Income and deductions.
For the household members as determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the State agency shall calculate the allotment using the household members' income and deductions from the budget month, except as follows:
(i) The State agency shall annualize self-employment income which is received other than monthly, in accordance with § 273.11(a). Such income shall be budgeted either prospectively or retrospectively and shall not affect more benefit months than the number of months in the period over which it is annualized or prorated. Except that, households which receive self-employment income from a farm operation monthly but incur irregular expenses to produce such self-employment farm income shall be given the option to annualize the self-employment farm income and expenses over a 12-month period.
(ii) The State agency shall prorate contract income received over a period of less than one year and either prospectively or retrospectively budget such income. Such income shall not effect more benefit months than the number of months in the period over which it is prorated.
(iii) Earned and unearned educational income shall be prorated over the period it is intended to cover in accordance with § 273.10(c)(3)(iii), and it shall be budgeted either prospectively or retrospectively. Such income shall not effect more benefit months than the number of months in the period over which it is prorated.
(iv) The State agency shall budget deductible expenses prorated over two or more months, except medical expenses, either prospectively or retrospectively,
provided
That such deductions are not budgeted over more months than they are intended to cover, and the total amount deducted does not exceed the total amount of the expenses. Medical expenses shall be budgeted prospectively. The State agency shall continue to allow deductions for expenses incurred even if billed on other than a monthly basis unless the household reports a change in the expense. The State agency may average the child support expense and budget it prospectively or retrospectively.
(v) The State agency shall budget income received on a recurring monthly or semimonthly basis for the month that it is intended to cover. The State agency shall not vary the budgeting of such income merely because it is received during another month as the result of changes in mailing cycles or pay dates, or because weekends or holidays result in an additional or missed payment.
(vi) The State agency may budget interest income using one of the following methods in paragraphs (f)(2)(vi) (A), (B), or (C) of this section. The State agency shall either establish categories of interest to be handled by each of the methods or shall offer each household the option of which method to budget the interest income.
(A) Actual interest income received in the budget month.
(B) Prorated interest income calculated by dividing the amount of interest anticipated during the certification period by the number of months in the certification period.
(C) An averaged amount adjusted for anticipated changes.
(vii) For a new household member described under paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, the State agency shall consider the new member's income and deductible expenses prospectively until the new member's first month living with the household becomes the budget month.
(viii) The options provided under paragraph (j)(1)(vii) of this section may affect the calculation of income and deductions.
(g)
Determining eligibility and allotments in the beginning months.
The State agency shall use the prospective budgeting procedures of this paragraph for determining the allotments and eligibility of households in the MRRB system during this first month, or first and second month of participation. The State agency shall not apply the procedures of this paragraph to the month(s) following the month of termination resulting from a temporary one-month change.
(1)
Determining eligibility during the beginning months.
The State agency shall determine eligibility prospectively in the beginning month(s).
(2)
Calculating allotments during the beginning months.
the State agency shall calculate allotments prospectively in the beginning month(s).
(3)
The first months of retrospective budgeting following the beginning months.
The State agency shall begin to base issuances to the household on retrospective budgeting during the first month for which the State's system can use the month of application as a budget month. In a one-month system, the first month for which the issuance is based on retrospective budgeting shall be the second month of participation. In a two-month system, the first month for which the issuance is based on retrospective budgeting shall be the third month of participation. If the State agency had been averaging income or converting weekly or biweekly income to a monthly amount in the beginning months, it may begin using the household's actual budget month income when the household becomes subject to retrospective budgeting. For purposes of this paragraph, any income received in either or both of the beginning months from a source which no longer provides income to the household (terminated income), which was included in the household's prospective budget, shall be disregarded when the beginning month becomes the budget month.
(h)
The monthly report form
—(1)
General.
(i) The State agency shall give the household a reasonable period of time after close of the budget month to submit the monthly reports.
(ii) The State agency shall require each household in the MRRB system to report on household circumstances on a monthly basis as a condition of continuing eligibility.
(iii) The State agency shall provide an individual or agency unit which a household may contact to receive prompt answers about the completion of the form. A telephone number (toll free for households outside the local calling area) which a household may use to obtain further information shall also be available.
(iv) The State agency shall ensure that households are informed about the availability and amount of the standard utility allowances, if the State agency offers them.
(2)
Monthly report form.
The State agency's monthly report form shall meet the following requirements:
(i) Be written in clear, simple language;
(ii) Meet the bilingual requirements described in § 272.4(b) of this chapter;
(iii) Specify the date by which the agency must receive the form and the consequences of a late or incomplete form, including whether the State agency shall delay payment if the form is not received by the specified date;
(iv) Specify the verification which the household must submit with the form, in accordance with § 273.21(i);
(v) Identify the individual or agency unit available to assist in completing the form:
(vi) Include a statement to be signed by a member of the household (in accordance with § 273.2(c)(7) regarding acceptable methods of signature), indicating his or her understanding that the provided information may result in changes in the level of benefits, including reduction and termination;
(vii) Include, in prominent and boldface lettering, an understandable description of the Act's civil and criminal penalties for fraud.
(viii) If the form requests Social Security numbers, include a statement of the State agency's authority to require Social Security numbers (SSN's) (including the statutory citation, the title of the statute, and the fact that providing SSN's is mandatory), the purpose of requiring SSN's, the routine uses for SSN's, and the effect of not providing SSN's. This statement may be on the form itself or included as an attachment to the form.
(3)
Reported information.
The State agency may determine the information relevant to eligibility and benefit determination to be included on the monthly report form except that the State agency shall not require households to monthly report medical expenses. Medical expenses may be reported in accordance with § 273.10(d)(4).
(4)
Combined form.
If the State agency uses a combined monthly report for SNAP benefits and TANF, the State agency shall clearly indicate on the form that non-TANF SNAP households need not provide TANF-only information.
(i)
Verification.
Each month the household shall verify information for those items designated by the State agency. The State agency may designate that verification be submitted for any item that has changed or appears questionable. If the household voluntarily reports a change in its medical expenses, the State agency shall verify the change in accordance with § 273.2(f)(8)(ii) before acting on it if the change would increase the household's allotment. In the case of a reported change that would decrease the household's allotment, or make the household ineligible, the State agency shall act on the change without requiring verification, though verification which is required by § 273.2(f)(8)(i) shall be obtained prior to the household's recertification.
(j)
State agency action on reports
—(1)
Processing.
Upon receiving a monthly report, the State agency shall:
(i) Review the report to ensure accuracy and completeness.
(ii) Consider the report incomplete only if:
(A) It is not signed by the head of the household, an authorized representative or a responsible member of the household;
(B) It is not accompanied by verification required by the State agency on the monthly report;
(C) It omits information required by the State agency on the monthly report necessary either to determine the household's eligibility or to compute the household's level of SNAP benefits.
(iii) Determine those items which will require additional verification, in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.
(iv) Contact the household directly, and take action as needed, to obtain further information on specific items. These items include:
(A) The effect of a reported change in resources on a household's total resources; and
(B) The effect of a reported change in household composition or loss of a job or source of earned income on the applicability of the work registration requirement.
(v) Notify the household, in accordance with paragraph (j)(3)(ii) of this section, of the need to submit a report, correct an incomplete or inaccurate report, or submit the necessary verification within the extension period.
(vi) Determine the household's eligibility by considering all factors, including income, in accordance with paragraphs (e) or (g) of this section.
(vii) Determine the household's level of benefits in accordance with § 273.10(e) based on the household composition determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section. For those household members the following (except as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section) income and deductions shall be considered:
(A) Earned and unearned income received in the corresponding budget month, including income that has been averaged in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section. The earned income of an elementary or secondary school student excluded in accordance with § 273.9(c)(7) shall be excluded until the budget month following the budget month in which the student turns 18. The State agency has the option of converting to a regular monthly amount the income that a household receives weekly or biweekly. If the State agency elects to convert weekly or biweekly income for MRRB households, it shall do so for all households in its MRRB caseload. The State agency may convert or average income in the beginning months and use actual earned or unearned income received in the budget month following the beginning months of participation.
(B) The PA grant paid in the corresponding budget month or the PA grant to be paid in the issuance month. If the State agency elects to use the PA grant to be paid in the issuance month, the State agency shall ensure that:
(
1
) Any additional or corrective payments are counted, either prospectively or retrospectively; and
(
2
) the State agency shall disregard income received in the budget month from a terminated source which results in an increase in the PA grant, provided the household has reported the termination of the income either in the monthly report for the budget month or in some other manner which, as determined by the State agency, allows the State agency sufficient time to process the change and affect the allotment in the issuance month.
A State agency which elects to use the PA grant to be paid in the issuance month shall implement mass changes in accordance with the procedures at § 273.11(i).
(C) Deductions as billed or averaged from the corresponding budget month, including those shelter costs billed less often than monthly which the household has chosen to average.
(viii) Issue benefits in accordance with part 274 of this chapter and on the time schedule set forth in paragraph (k) of this section.
(ix) Provide specific information on how the State agency calculated the benefit level if it has changed since the preceding month, either with the issuance or in a separate notification.
(2)
Notices.
(i) All notices regarding changes in a household's benefits shall meet the definition of adequate notice as defined in § 271.2.
(ii) The State agency shall notify a household of any change from its prior benefit level and the basis for its determination. If the State agency reduces, suspends or terminates benefits, it shall send the notice so the household receives it no later than either the date the resulting benefits are to be received or in place of the benefits.
(iii) The State agency shall notify a household, in accordance with paragraph (j)(3)(iii), if its monthly report is late or incomplete, or further information is needed.
(3)
Incomplete filing.
(i) If a household fails to file a monthly report, or files an incomplete report, by the specified filing date, the State agency shall give the household at least ten more days, from the date the State agency mails the notice to file a complete monthly report.
(ii) The State agency shall notify the household within five days of the filing date:
(A) That the monthly report is either overdue or incomplete;
(B) What the household must do to complete the form;
(C) If any verification is missing and the lack of that verification will adversely affect the household's allotment;
(D) That the Social Security number of a new member must be reported, if the household has reported a new member but not the new member's Social Security number;
(E) What the extended filing date is;
(F) That the State agency will assist the household in completing the report.
(iii) When a State agency requires verification for the item listed and the household does not provide the verification, the State agency shall take the following actions:
(A) If the household does not verify earned income, the State agency shall regard the household's report as incomplete, take action in accordance with paragraphs (j)(3)(i) and (j)(3)(ii) of this section and, if appropriate, terminate the household in accordance with paragraph (m) of this section.
(B) If the household is using its actual utility costs to establish its shelter cost deduction in accordance with § 273.9(d) and it does not verify a change in its actual utility expenses, the State agency shall not allow a deduction for such costs.
(C) If a household fails to verify a change in reported medical expenses in accordance with § 273.2(f)(8), and that change would increase the household's allotment, the State agency shall not make the change. The State agency shall act on reported changes without requiring verification if the changes would decrease the household's allotment, or make the household ineligible.
(D) If the household does not verify other items for which verification is required, the State agency shall:
(
1
) Act on the reported change if it would decrease benefits.
(
2
) Not act on the reported change if it would increase benefits.
(E) If the household does not report or verify changes in child support, the State agency shall not allow a child support deduction.
(k)
Issuance of benefits
—(1)
Timely issuance.
(i) For an eligible household which has filed a complete monthly report by the scheduled filing date, the State agency shall provide an opportunity to participate within the month following the budget month in a one-month system, or within the second month following the budget month in a two-month system.
(ii) The State agency shall provide each household with an issuance cycle so that the household receives its benefits at about the same time each month and has an opportunity to participate before the end of each issuance month.
(2)
Delayed issuance.
(i) If an eligible household files a complete monthly report during its extension period, the State agency shall provide it with an opportunity to participate no later than ten days after its normal issuance date.
(ii) If an eligible household which has been terminated for failure to file a complete report files a complete report after its extended filing date, but before the end of the issuance month, the State agency may choose to reinstate the household by providing it with an opportunity to participate. If the household has requested a fair hearing on the basis that a complete monthly report was filed, the State agency shall reinstate the household if a completed monthly report is filed before the end of the issuance month.
(iii) If an eligible household files a complete report after the issuance month, the State agency shall not provide the household with an opportunity to participate for that month.
(l)
Other reporting requirements
—(1)
Information reported on the monthly report.
The monthly report shall be the sole reporting requirement for information required to be included in the monthly
report. Changes in household circumstances not subject to monthly reporting shall be reported in accordance with § 273.12.
(2)
Households excluded from monthly reporting.
Households which are excluded from monthly reporting shall report changes in accordance with § 273.12.
(m)
Termination.
(1) The State agency shall terminate a household's SNAP participation if the household:
(i) Is ineligible for SNAP benefits, unless suspended in accordance with paragraph (n) of this section:
(ii) Fails to file a complete report by the extended filing date; or
(iii) Fails to comply with a nonfinancial eligibility requirement, such as registering for employment.
(2) The State agency shall issue a notice to the household which:
(i) Complies with the requirements of § 271.2 for adequate notice;
(ii) Informs the household of the reason for its termination;
(iii) If the State agency allows reinstatement under paragraph (k)(2)(ii), explains how the household may be reinstated;
(iv) Informs the household of its rights to request a fair hearing and to receive continued benefits. If termination is for failure to submit a monthly report and the household states that a monthly report has been filed, the notice must advise the household that a completed monthly report must be filed prior to the end of the issuance month as a condition for continued receipt of benefits.
(3) The State agency shall issue the notice to the household so that it receives the notice no later than the household's normal or extended issuance date.
(n)
Suspension.
The State agency may suspend a household's issuance in accordance with this paragraph. If the State agency does not choose this option, it shall instead terminate households in accordance with paragraph (m) of this section.
(1) The State agency may suspend a household's issuance for one month if the household becomes temporarily ineligible due to a periodic increase in recurring income or other change not expected to continue in the subsequent month. The State agency may on a Statewide basis either suspend the household's certification prospectively for the issuance month or retrospectively for the issuance month corresponding to the budget month in which the noncontinuing circumstance occurs.
(2) The State agency shall continue to supply monthly reports to the household for one month.
(3) If the suspended household again becomes eligible, the State agency shall issue benefits on the household's normal issuance date.
(4) If the suspended household does not become eligible after one month, the State agency shall terminate the household.
(o) If a household has been terminated or suspended based on an anticipated change in circumstances, the State agency shall not count any noncontinuing circumstances which caused the prospective ineligibility when calculating the household's benefits retrospectively in a subsequent month.
(p)
Fair hearings
—(1)
Entitlement.
All households participating in a MRRB system shall be entitled to fair hearings in accordance with § 273.15.
(2)
Continuation of benefits.
(i) Any household which requests a fair hearing and does not waive continuation of benefits, and is otherwise eligible for continuation of benefits, shall have its benefits continued until the end of the certification period or the resolution of the fair hearing, whichever is first. If the State agency did not receive a monthly report from the household by the extended filing date and the household states that a monthly report was submitted, the household is entitled to continued benefits,
provided
That a completed report is submitted no later than the last day of the issuance month.
(ii) The State agency shall provide continued benefits no later than five working days from the day it receives the household's request.
(iii) A household whose benefits have been continued shall file montly reports until the end of the certification period. If the fair hearing is with regard to termination for nonreceipt of the monthly report by the State agency, a completed monthly report for the
month in question shall be submitted by the household no later than the last day of the issuance month.
(iv) During the fair hearing period the State agency shall adjust allotments to take into account reported changes, except for the factor(s) on which the fair hearing is based.
(q)
Recertification
—(1)
Timeliness.
The State agency shall recertify an eligible household which timely reapplies and provides it with an opportunity to participate in the household's normal issuance cycle.
(2)
Retrospective Recertification.
(i) The State agency shall recertify the household using retrospective information to determine the household's benefit level for the first month of the new certification period.
(ii) If the State agency is operating a two-month MRRB system, the State agency may delay reflecting information from the recertification interview in the household's eligibility and benefit level until the second month of the new certification period.
(iii) The State agency shall recertify households according to one of the three options set forth in paragraphs (q) (3), (4), or (5) of this section.
(3)
Option One: Recertification form.
(i) The State agency shall provide each household with a recertification form to obtain all necessary information about the household's circumstances for the budget month.
(ii) The State agency shall mail the form to the household, along with a notice of expiration, in place of the monthly report form. The State agency shall either: Mail the recertification form along with the notice of expiration; use a recertification form which contains a notice of expiration; or mail the recertification form and the notice of expiration separately, as long as the forms are mailed at the same time.
(iii) The household shall submit the form to the State agency in accordance with paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section.
(4)
Option Two: Monthly report and addendum.
(i) The State agency shall provide each household with a notice of expiration and monthly report form and an addendum to obtain all additional information necessary for recertification.
(ii) The State agency shall either: Mail the monthly report form along with the notice of expiration; use a monthly report form which contains a notice of expiration; or mail the monthly report form and the notice of expiration separately, as long as the forms are mailed at the same time.
(iii) The household shall submit the monthly report to the State agency in accordance with paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section.
(iv) The State agency shall deliver the recertification addendum to the household along with the monthly report form or obtain the necessary information from the household at the interview.
(v) The household shall submit the addendum to the State agency no later than the time of the interview.
(5)
Option Three: Signed Statement.
(i) The State agency shall recertify households based on the monthly report and the interview.
(ii) At the interview, the State agency shall obtain all of the information not provided in the monthly report which is necessary for recertification.
(iii) The State agency shall ensure that it has on file a statement signed by the appropriate household member that the household has applied for recertification.
(6)
Interview.
(1) The State agency shall conduct a complete interview with a household member or an authorized representative.
(ii) The State agency shall schedule the interview at any time during the last month of the old certification period.
(iii) If the State agency schedules the interview for a date on or before the normal filing due date of the monthly report, the State agency shall permit the household member and authorized representative to bring the recertification form or monthly report to the interview.
(r)
Procedures for households that change their reporting and budgeting status.
The State agency shall use one of the following procedures for households subject to change in reporting/budgeting status.
(1)
Households which become subject to MRRB.
The State agency may change the reporting/budgeting status of
households which become subject to monthly reporting at any time following the change in household circumstances which results in the change in the household's reporting/budgeting status, subject to the following conditions:
(i) The State agency shall provide the household with information provided to MRRB households under paragraph (c) of this section. If the State agency elects to implement the change during the certification period, it may omit the oral explanation of MRRB required under paragraph (c)(1).
(ii) The State agency shall not require the household to submit a monthly report during any month in which the household was subject to the change reporting requirements of § 273.12.
(2)
Households which are no longer subject to MRRB.
The agency shall use one of the following procedures to remove households from the MRRB system.
(i)
Procedures for households exempt from MRRB.
For any household which becomes exempt from MRRB under paragraph (b) of this section, the State agency shall notify the household within 10 days of the date the State agency becomes aware of the change that the household has become exempt from monthly reporting and is no longer required to file any future monthly reports and has also become exempt from retrospective budgeting and when the change in budgeting will go into effect. The State agency shall begin determining the household's benefits prospectively no later than the first issuance month for which a household has not submitted a monthly report for the budget month.
(ii)
Other households moving from MRRB to change reporting and prospective budgeting.
When a household is no longer subject to MRRB under a State agency's system, the State agency may begin determining the household's benefits prospectively in any month following the month the State agency becomes aware of the changed circumstances which necessitate the need to change the household's reporting/budgeting status. If the State agency elects to change the household's reporting/budgeting status prior recertification it shall provide the household with a notice explaining the change in the month prior to the month the change is effective. If the State agency elects to change the household's status at recertification it shall advise the household at the recertification interview that its reporting/budgeting status is being changed.
(iii)
Households moving from MRRB to retrospective budgeting and change reporting.
If a household's status necessitates changing it from a monthly reporter to a change reporter while continuing to be budgeted retrospectively, the State agency may change the household's status at any time. If the State agency elects to change the household immediately, the State agency shall provide the household with a notice that it is no longer subject to monthly reporting. The notice shall include information about the household's reporting requirements under § 273.12.
(s)
Implementation of Regulatory Changes.
The State agency shall implement changes in regulatory provisions for households subject to MRRB prospectively based on the effective date and implementation time frame published in the
Federal Register.
Rules are effective as of the same date for all households regardless of the budgeting system.
(t)
Monthly reporting requirements for households residing on reservations.
The following procedures shall be used for households which reside on reservations and are required to submit monthly reports:
(1)
Definition of a reservation.
For purposes of this section, the term “reservation” shall mean the geographically defined area or areas over which a tribal organization exercises governmental jurisdiction. The term “tribal organization” shall mean the recognized governing body of an Indian tribe (including the tribally recognized intertribal organization of such tribes), as well as any Indian tribe, band, or community holding a treaty with a State government.
(2)
Benefit determination for missing reports.
The State agency shall not delay, reduce, or suspend the allotment of a household that fails to submit a report by the issuance date.
(3)
Reinstatement.
If a household is terminated for failing to submit a monthly report, the household shall be reinstated without being required to submit a new application if a monthly report is submitted no later than the last day of the month following the month the household was terminated.
(4)
Notices.
(i) All notices regarding changes in a household's benefits shall meet the definition of adequate notice as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter.
(ii) If a household fails to file a monthly report by the specified filing date, the State agency shall notify the household within five days of the filing date:
(A) That the monthly report is either overdue or incomplete;
(B) What the household must do to complete the form;
(C) If any verification is missing;
(D) That the Social Security number of a new member must be reported, if the household has reported a new member but not the new member's Social Security number;
(E) What the extended filing date is;
(F) That the State agency will assist the household in completing the report; and
(G) That the household's benefits will be issued based on the previous month's submitted report without regard to any changes in the household's circumstances if the missing report is not submitted.
(iii) Simultaneously with the issuance, the State agency shall notify a household, if its report has not been received, that the benefits being provided are based on the previous month's submitted report and that this benefit does not reflect any changes in the household's circumstances. This notice shall also advise the household that, if a complete report is not filed timely, the household will be terminated.
(iv) If the household is terminated, the State agency shall send the notice so the household receives it no later than the date benefits would have been received. This notice shall advise the household of its right to reinstatement if a complete monthly report is submitted by the end of the month following termination.
(5)
Supplements and claims.
If the household submits the missing monthly report after the issuance date but in the issuance month, the State agency shall provide the household with a supplement, if warranted. If the household submits the missing monthly report after the issuance date or the State agency becomes aware of a change that would have decreased benefits in some other manner, the State agency shall file a claim for any benefits overissued.
[48 FR 54965, Dec. 8, 1983]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 273.21, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 273.22
[Reserved]
§ 273.23
Simplified application and standardized benefit projects.
(a)
General.
This subpart establishes rules under which Simplified Application and Standardized Benefit Projects shall operate. State agencies and political subdivisions chosen as project operators may designate households containing members receiving TANF, SSI, or Medicaid benefits as project eligible. Project eligible households shall have their SNAP eligibility determined using simplified application procedures. SNAP eligibility shall be determined using information contained in their TANF, or Medicaid application, or, in the case of SSI, on the State Data Exchange (SDX) tape, and any appropriate addendum. Project-eligible households shall be considered categorically SNAP resource eligible based on their eligibility for these other programs and shall be required to meet SNAP income eligibility standards. However, income definitions appropriate to the TANF, SSI or Medicaid programs shall be used instead of SNAP income definitions in determining eligibility. In addition, such households shall, as a condition of program eligibility, meet and/or fulfill all SNAP nonfinancial eligibility requirements. (Project-eligible households defined as categorically eligible in § 273.2 (j) and (k) of these regulations are not required to meet the income eligibility standards.) To further simplify program administration, benefits provided
to such households may be standardized by category of assistance and household size.
(b)
Program administration.
(1) Simplified application and standardized benefit procedures are applicable in five States and five political subdivisions. For the purpose of this section, a political subdivision is a project area as defined in § 271.2 of these regulations.
(2) State agencies and political subdivisions seeking to operate a Simplified Application and Standardized Benefit Project shall submit Work Plans to FNS in accordance with the requirements of this section.
(3) FNS shall evaluate Work Plans according to the criteria set forth in the Simplified Application/Standardized Benefit Notice of Intent.
(4) Political subdivisions shall submit their Work Plans to FNS through their respective State agencies for review and approval.
(5) A State agency selected by FNS to operate a Simplified Application and Standardized Benefit Project shall include the Work Plan in its State Plan of Operations. A political subdivision chosen to operate a Simplified Application and Standardized Benefit Project shall assure that the responsible State agency include that political subdivision's project Work Plan in its own State Plan of Operations. The Work Plan shall be updated, as needed, to reflect changes in the benefit methodology, subject to prior FNS approval.
(c)
Contents of the work plan.
The Work Plan submitted by each applicant shall contain the following information:
(1) Background information on the proposed site's characteristics, current operating procedures, and a general description of the proposed procedures;
(2) A description of the proposed project design, including the benefit methodology, households which will be project eligible, operational procedures, and the need for waivers;
(3) An implementation and monitoring plan describing tasks, staffing and a timetable for implementation;
(4) An estimate of project impacts including implementation costs and, on an annual basis, operating costs, administrative costs, error reduction, and benefit changes; and
(5) A statement signed by the State official with authority to commit the State or political subdivisions to the project's operation.
(d)
Project-eligible households.
Each operating agency shall decide which of the following categories of household shall be eligible to participate in the project.
(1) Households all of whose members receive TANF benefits under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act;
(2) Households all of whose members receive SSI benefits under title XVI of the Social Security Act;
(3) Households all of whose members receive Medicaid benefits under title XIX of the Social Security Act;
(4) Households each of whose members receive one or more of the following: TANF, SSI, or Medicaid benefits (multiple-benefit households); and
(5) Households only some of whose members receive TANF, SSI, and/or Medicaid benefits (mixed households).
(e)
Determining SNAP eligibility.
Under the Simplified Application and Standardized Benefit Project, project eligible households shall have their SNAP eligibility determined using the following criteria.
(1) Certain households, at the operating agency's option, which contain members receiving TANF, SSI, or Medicaid benefits, shall be designated project eligible and need not make separate application for SNAP benefits. Once such households indicate in writing a desire to receive SNAP benefits, their eligibility will be determined based on information contained in their application for TANF or Medicaid benefits or, in the case of SSI, on the State Data Exchange (SDX) tape. TANF or Medicaid applications may need to be modified, or be subject to an addendum in order to accommodate any additional information required by the operating agency.
(2) The income definitions and resource requirements prescribed under § 273.9 (b) and (c) and § 273.8 are inapplicable to project-eligible households. Project-eligible households which have met the resource requirements of the TANF, SSI, and/or Medicaid programs shall be considered to have satisfied
the SNAP resource requirements. Gross income less any allowed exclusions, as defined by the appropriate categorical aid program, shall be used to determine SNAP income eligibility (unless the project household is categorically income eligible as defined in § 273.2 (j) and (k)) and benefit levels. Deemed income, as defined under TANF, SSI or Medicaid rules, shall be excluded to the extent that households with such income are part of the SNAP household providing the deemed income.
(3) Project-eligible households which are not categorically income eligible shall meet the gross and net income standards prescribed in § 273.9(a). Net income shall be determined by subtracting from gross income either actual or standardized deduction amounts. If standardized deduction amounts are used, they may be initially determined using recent historical data on deductions claimed by such households. Such deductions must be updated, as necessary, on at least an annual basis. Such deductions shall include:
(i) The current standard deduction for all households;
(ii) An excess shelter deduction and a dependent care deduction for households not containing an elderly or disabled member;
(iii) A dependent care deduction, an uncapped excess shelter deduction and a medical deduction for households containing a qualified elderly or disabled member; and
(iv) A standardized or actual earned income deduction for households containing members with earned income.
(4) All non-financial SNAP eligibility requirements shall be applicable to project-eligible households.
(f)
Benefit levels.
(1) In establishing benefits for project eligible households, either the appropriate State standard of need (maximum aid payment) or gross income as determined for the appropriate categorical aid program plus the value of any monetary categorical benefits received, if any, may be used as the gross income amount. If mixed households are designated project eligible, procedures shall be developed to include as household income the income of those household members not receiving categorical aid.
(2) If allotments are standardized, the average allotment for each category of household, by household size, shall be no less than average allotments would have been were the project not in operation.
(3) Benefit methodologies shall be constructed to ensure that benefits received by households having higher than average allotments under normal program rules are not significantly reduced as a result of standardization.
(4) Benefit methodologies shall be structured to ensure that decreases in household benefits are not reduced by more than $10 or 20%, whichever is less.
(5) The methodology to be used in developing benefit levels shall be determined by the operating agency but shall be subject to FNS approval.
(6) With FNS approval, operating agencies may develop an alternate methodology for standardizing allotments/deductions for specific sizes and categories of households where such size and category is so small as to make the use of average deductions and/or allotments impractical.
(7) FNS may require operating agencies to revise their standardized allotments during the course of the project to reflect changes in items such as household characteristics, the Thrifty Food Plan, deduction amounts, the benefit reduction rate, or benefit levels in TANF or SSI. Such changes will be documented by revising the Work Plan amendment to the State Plan of Operations.
(g)
Household notification.
All certified project-eligible households residing in the selected project sites shall be provided with a notice, prior to project commencement, informing them of the revised procedures and household requirements under the project. If household allotments are to be standardized, the notice shall also provide specific information on the value of the newly computed benefit and the formula used to calculate the benefit. The notice shall meet the requirements of a notice of adverse action as set forth in § 273.13(a)(2).
(h)
Application processing procedures.
(1) The operating agency shall allow project-eligible households to indicate
in writing their desire to receive SNAP benefits. Such households shall be notified in writing, at the time such indication is made, that information contained in their TANF, SSI, or Medicaid application will be the basis of their SNAP eligibility determination. If mixed households are included in the project-eligible universe, the project operator shall develop a procedure to collect the necessary information on household members not receiving categorical aid.
(2) The operating agency may use simplified application and standardized benefit procedures only for those households containing at least one member certified to receive either TANF, SSI, or Medicaid benefits. If simplified procedures are to be used, the State agency shall make all eligibility determinations for households jointly applying for SNAP benefits and TANF, SSI, or Medicaid benefits within the 30-day SNAP processing period. If a household's eligibility for TANF, SSI, or Medicaid cannot be established within the 30-day period, normal SNAP application, certification, and benefit determination procedures shall be used and benefits shall be issued within 30 days if the household is eligible. Households which are jointly applying for TANF, SSI, or Medicaid, and which qualify for expedited service, shall be certified for SNAP benefits using procedures prescribed at § 273.2(i). However, if the State agency can process the application of an expedited service household for categorical assistance within the expedited period prescribed at § 273.2(i), it may use simplified application and standardized benefit procedures to certify the household for SNAP benefits.
(i)
Regulatory requirements.
(1) All SNAP regulations shall remain in effect unless they are expressly altered by the provisions of this section or the provisions contained within the approved SA/SB Work Plan.
(2)
Certification periods for mixed households.
At the option of the operating agency, mixed households may be assigned certification periods of up to one year. Such households, if circumstances warrant, may be required to attend a face-to-face interview on a schedule which would conform to certification periods normally assigned such households as specified in § 273.10(f). At the time of the interview, the household shall be required to complete a modified application and provide additional information in accordance with § 273.2(f). If the household fails to comply with the interview review requirement or if information obtained indicates a revision in household eligibility or benefits, action will be taken in accordance with§ 273.13, Notice of Adverse Action.
(j)
Quality control.
(1) Project eligible households selected for quality control review shall be reviewed by the State agency using special procedures, based on project requirements, which have been developed by the State agency and approved by FNS.
(2) The error rate(s) determined using the special quality control review procedures shall be included when determining the State agency's overall error rate.
(k)
Funding.
Operating agencies shall be reimbursed for project costs at the rates prescribed in § 277.4.
(l)
Evaluation.
Each project site shall conduct a self-evaluation of the project's impact on benefits, administrative costs and participation. Such evaluation shall be conducted within three months of project implementation. The results of the self-evaluation shall be sent to FNS within six months of project implementation. The impact of the project on project-eligible households' error rates shall be reported on an annual basis in accordance with § 273.23(m).
(m)
Reporting requirements.
Operating agencies shall be required to prepare and submit to FNS an annual report on the error rate attributable to project-eligible households. The timing of such reports shall coincide with the due date for the annual quality control report prescribed in § 275.21(d).
(n)
State agency monitoring.
Monitoring shall be undertaken to ensure compliance with these regulations and the Work Plan submitted to and approved by FNS. Project monitoring shall be conducted in accordance with the appropriate sections of part 275, Performance Reporting System, of
these regulations. At a minimum, onsite reviews of the Simplified Application and Standardized Benefit Project shall be conducted once within six months of the project's implementation and then in accordance with the Management Evaluation review schedule for the project area.
(o)
Termination.
(1) FNS may terminate project operations for any reason and at any time on 60 days written notice to the administering State agency or political subdivision. State or local agencies may also choose to terminate their participation with 60 days written notice to FNS. In either such event, operating agencies shall be given sufficient time to return to normal operations in an orderly fashion.
(2) If termination occurs, FNS may select another site for project operations. Such selection shall be based on either previously received project proposals or proposals received under a new solicitation.
[53 FR 26224, July 12, 1988]
§ 273.24
Time limit for able-bodied adults.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of the SNAP time limit, the terms below have the following meanings:
(1)
Fulfilling the work requirement
means:
(i) Working 20 hours per week, averaged monthly; for purposes of this provision, 20 hours a week averaged monthly means 80 hours a month;
(ii) Participating in and complying with the requirements of a work program 20 hours per week, as determined by the State agency;
(iii) Any combination of working and participating in a work program for a total of 20 hours per week, as determined by the State agency; or
(iv) Participating in and complying with a workfare program;
(2)
Working
means:
(i) Work in exchange for money;
(ii) Work in exchange for goods or services (“in kind” work); or
(iii) Unpaid work, verified under standards established by the State agency.
(iv) Any combination of paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(2)(iii) of this section.
(3)
Work Program
means:
(i) A program under title 1 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (WIOA) (Pub. L.113-128);
(ii) A program under section 236 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2296);
(iii) An employment and training program operated or supervised by a State or political subdivision of a State agency that meets standards approved by the Chief Executive Office, including a SNAP E
T program under § 2 73.7(e) excluding any job search, supervised job search, or job search training program. However, a program under this clause may contain job search, supervised job search, or job search training as subsidiary activities as long as such activity is less than half the requirement. Participation in job search, supervised job search, or job search training as subsidiary activities that make up less than half the requirement counts for purposes of fulfilling the work requirement under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(iv) A program of employment and training for veterans operated by the Department of Labor or the Department of Veterans Affairs. For the purpose of this paragraph, any employment and training program of the Department of Labor or Veterans Affairs that serves veterans shall be an approved work program; or
(v) A workforce partnership under § 273.7(n)
(b)
General Rule.
Individuals are not eligible to participate in SNAP as a member of any household if the individual received SNAP benefits for more than three countable months during any three-year period, except that individuals may be eligible for up to three additional countable months in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
(1)
Countable months.
Countable months are months during which an individual receives SNAP benefits for the full benefit month while not:
(i) Exempt under paragraph (c) of this section;
(ii) Covered by a waiver under paragraph (f) of this section;
(iii) Fulfilling the work requirement as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section;
(iv) Receiving benefits that are prorated in accordance with § 273.10; or
(v) In the month of notification from the State agency of a provider determination in accordance with § 273.7(c)(18)(i).
(2)
Good cause.
As determined by the State agency, if an individual would have fulfilled the work requirement as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, but missed some hours for good cause, the individual shall be considered to have fulfilled the work requirement if the absence from work, the work program, or the workfare program is temporary. Good cause shall include circumstances beyond the individual's control, such as, but not limited to, illness, illness of another household member requiring the presence of the member, a household emergency, or the unavailability of transportation. In addition, if the State agency grants an individual good cause under § 273.7(i) for failure or refusal to meet the mandatory E
T requirement, that good cause determination confers good cause under this paragraph, except in the case of § 273.7(i)(4), without the need for a separate good cause determination under this paragraph. Good cause granted under § 273.7(i)(4) only provides good cause to ABAWDs for failure or refusal to participate in a mandatory SNAP E
T program, and does not confer good cause for failure to fulfill the work requirement in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.
(3)
Measuring the three-year period.
The State agency may measure and track the three-year period as it deems appropriate. The State agency may use either a “fixed” or “rolling” clock. If the State agency chooses to switch tracking methods it must inform FNS in writing. With respect to a State, the three-year period:
(i) Shall be measured and tracked consistently so that individuals who are similarly situated are treated the same; and
(ii) Shall not include any period before the earlier of November 22, 1996, or the date the State notified SNAP recipients of the application of Section 824 of the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-193).
(4)
Treatment of income and resources.
The income and resources of an individual made ineligible under this paragraph (b) shall be handled in accordance with § 273.11(c)(2).
(5)
Benefits received erroneously.
If an individual subject to this section receives SNAP benefits erroneously, the State agency shall consider the benefits to have been received for purposes of this provision unless or until the individual pays it back in full.
(6)
Verification.
Verification shall be in accordance with § 273.2(f)(1) and (f)(8).
(7)
Reporting.
A change in work hours below 20 hours per week, averaged monthly, is a reportable change in accordance with § 273.12(a)(1)(viii). Regardless of the type of reporting system the State agency assigns to potential ABAWDs, the State agency must adhere to the statutory requirements of time-limited benefits for individuals who are subject to the work requirement. The State agency may opt to consider work performed in a job that was not reported according to the requirements of § 273.12 “work.”
(8) The State agency shall inform all ABAWDs of the ABAWD work requirement and time limit both in writing and orally in accordance with § 273.7(c)(1)(ii) and (iii).
(c)
Exceptions.
The time limit does not apply to an individual if he or she is:
(1) Under 18 or 50 years of age or older;
(2) Determined by the State agency to be medically certified as physically or mentally unfit for employment. An individual is medically certified as physically or mentally unfit for employment if he or she:
(i) Is receiving temporary or permanent disability benefits issued by governmental or private sources;
(ii) Is obviously mentally or physically unfit for employment as determined by the State agency; or
(iii) If the unfitness is not obvious, provides a statement from a physician, physician's assistant, nurse, nurse practitioner, designated representative of the physician's office, a licensed or certified psychologist, a social worker, or any other medical personnel the State agency determines appropriate, that he or she is physically or mentally unfit for employment.
(3) Is a parent (natural, adoptive, or step) of a household member under age 18, even if the household member who is under 18 is not himself eligible for SNAP benefits;
(4) Is residing in a household where a household member is under age 18, even if the household member who is under 18 is not himself eligible for SNAP benefits;
(5) Is otherwise exempt from work requirements under section 6(d)(2) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as implemented in regulations at § 273.7(b); or
(6) Is pregnant.
(d)
Regaining eligibility.
(1) An individual denied eligibility under paragraph (b) of this section, or who did not reapply for benefits because he was not meeting the work requirements under paragraph (b) of this section, shall regain eligibility to participate in SNAP if, as determined by the State agency, during any 30 consecutive days, he or she:
(i) Worked 80 or more hours;
(ii) Participated in and complied with the requirements of a work program for 80 or more hours;
(iii) Any combination of work and participation in a work program for a total of 80 hours; or participated in and complied with a workfare program; or
(iv) At State agency option, verifies that the he or she will meet one of the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii), (d)(1)(iii), or (d)(1)(v) of this section, within the 30 days subsequent to application; or
(v) Becomes exempt.
(2) An individual regaining eligibility under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall have benefits calculated as follows:
(i) For individuals regaining eligibility by working, participating in a work program, or combining hours worked and hours participating in a work program, the State agency may either prorate benefits from the day the 80 hours are completed or from the date of application, or
(ii) For individuals regaining eligibility by participating in a workfare program, and the workfare obligation is based on an estimated monthly allotment prorated back to the date of application, then the allotment issued must be prorated back to this date.
(3) There is no limit on how many times an individual may regain eligibility and subsequently maintain eligibility by meeting the work requirement.
(e)
Additional three-month eligibility.
An individual who regained eligibility under paragraph (d) of this section and who is no longer fulfilling the work requirement as defined in paragraph (a) of this section is eligible for a period of three consecutive countable months (as defined in paragraph (b) of this section), starting on the date the individual first notifies the State agency that he or she is no longer fulfilling the work requirement, unless the individual has been satisfying the work requirement by participating in a work or workfare program, in which case the period starts on the date the State agency notifies the individual that he or she is no longer meeting the work requirement. An individual shall not receive benefits under this paragraph (e) more than once in any three-year period.
(f)
Waivers
—(1)
General.
On the request of a State agency, FNS may waive the time limit for a group of individuals in the State if we determine that the area in which the individuals reside:
(i) Has an unemployment rate of over 10 percent; or
(ii) Does not have a sufficient number of jobs to provide employment for the individuals.
(2)
Required data.
The State agency may submit whatever data it deems appropriate to support its request. However, to support waiver requests based on unemployment rates or labor force data, States must submit data that relies on standard Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) data or methods. A non-exhaustive list of the kinds of data a State agency may submit follows:
(i) To support a claim of unemployment over 10 percent, a State agency may submit evidence that an area has a recent 12 month average unemployment rate over 10 percent; a recent three month average unemployment rate over 10 percent; or an historical seasonal unemployment rate over 10 percent; or
(ii) To support a claim of lack of sufficient jobs, a State may submit evidence that an area: Is designated as a Labor Surplus Area (LSA) by the Department of Labor's Employment and Training Administration (ETA); is determined by the Department of Labor's Unemployment Insurance Service as qualifying for extended unemployment benefits; has a low and declining employment-to-population ratio; has a lack of jobs in declining occupations or industries; is described in an academic study or other publications as an area where there are lack of jobs; has a 24-month average unemployment rate 20 percent above the national average for the same 24-month period. This 24-month period may not be any earlier than the same 24-month period the ETA uses to designate LSAs for the current fiscal year.
(3)
Waivers that are readily approvable.
FNS will approve State agency waivers where FNS confirms:
(i) Data from the BLS or the BLS cooperating agency that shows an area has a most recent 12 month average unemployment rate over 10 percent;
(ii) Evidence that the area has been designated a Labor Surplus Area by the ETA for the current fiscal year; or
(iii) Data from the BLS or the BLS cooperating agency that an area has a 24 month average unemployment rate that exceeds the national average by 20 percent for any 24-month period no earlier than the same period the ETA uses to designate LSAs for the current fiscal year.
(4)
Effective date of certain waivers.
In areas for which the State certifies that data from the BLS or the BLS cooperating agency show a most recent 12 month average unemployment rate over 10 percent; or the area has been designated as a Labor Surplus Area by the Department of Labor's Employment and Training Administration for the current fiscal year, the State may begin to operate the waiver at the time the waiver request is submitted. FNS will contact the State if the waiver must be modified.
(5)
Duration of waiver.
In general, waivers will be approved for one year. The duration of a waiver should bear some relationship to the documentation provided in support of the waiver request. FNS will consider approving waivers for up to one year based on documentation covering a shorter period, but the State agency must show that the basis for the waiver is not a seasonal or short term aberration. We reserve the right to approve waivers for a shorter period at the State agency's request or if the data is insufficient. We reserve the right to approve a waiver for a longer period if the reasons are compelling.
(6)
Areas covered by waivers.
States may define areas to be covered by waivers. We encourage State agencies to submit data and analyses that correspond to the defined area. If corresponding data does not exist, State agencies should submit data that corresponds as closely to the area as possible.
(g)
Discretionary exemptions.
(1) For the purpose of establishing the discretionary exemptions for each State agency, the following terms are defined:
(i)
Caseload
means the average monthly number of individuals receiving SNAP benefits during the 12-month period ending the preceding June 30.
(ii)
Covered individual
means a SNAP recipient, or an applicant denied eligibility for benefits solely because he or she received SNAP benefits during the 3 months of eligibility provided under paragraph (b) of this section, who:
(A) Is not exempt from the time limit under paragraph (c) of this section;
(B) Does not reside in an area covered by a waiver granted under paragraph (f) of this section;
(C) Is not fulfilling the work requirements as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and
(D) Is not receiving SNAP benefits under paragraph (e) of this section.
(2) Subject to paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, a State agency may provide an exemption from the 3-month time limit of paragraph (b) of this section for covered individuals. Exemptions do not count towards a State agency's allocation if they are provided to an individual who is otherwise exempt from the time limit during that month.
(3) For each fiscal year, a State agency may provide a number of exemptions such that the average monthly
number of exemptions in effect during the fiscal year does not exceed 12 percent of the number of covered individuals in the State, as estimated by FNS, based on FY 1996 quality control data and other factors FNS deems appropriate, and adjusted by FNS to reflect changes in:
(i) The State agency's caseload; and
(ii) FNS's estimate of changes in the proportion of SNAP recipients covered by waivers granted under paragraph (f) of this section.
(4) State agencies must not discriminate against any covered individual for reasons of age, race, color, sex, disability, religious creed, national origin, or political beliefs. Such discrimination is prohibited by this part, the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (Public Law 94-135), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (Public Law 93-112, section 504), and title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d). Enforcement action may be brought under any applicable Federal law. Title VI complaints will be processed in accord with 7 CFR part 15.
(h)
Adjustments.
FNS will make adjustments as follows:
(1)
Caseload adjustments.
FNS will adjust the number of exemptions estimated for a State agency under paragraph (g)(2) of this section during a fiscal year if the number of SNAP recipients in the State varies from the State's caseload by more than 10 percent, as estimated by FNS.
(2)
Exemption adjustments.
During each fiscal year, FNS will adjust the number of exemptions allocated to a State agency based on the number of exemptions in effect in the State for the preceding fiscal year.
(i) If the State agency does not use all of its exemptions by the end of the fiscal year, FNS will increase the estimated number of exemptions allocated to the State agency for the subsequent fiscal year by the remaining balance.
(ii) If the State agency exceeds its exemptions by the end of the fiscal year, FNS will reduce the estimated number of exemptions allocated to the State agency for the subsequent fiscal year by the corresponding number.
(i)
Reporting requirement.
The State agency will track the number of exemptions used each month and report this number to the regional office on a quarterly basis as an addendum to the quarterly Employment and Training Report (Form FNS-583) required by § 273.7(c)(8).
(j)
Other Program rules.
Nothing in this section will make an individual eligible for SNAP benefits if the individual is not otherwise eligible for benefits under the other provisions of this part and the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008.
[Amdt. 379, 64 FR 48257, Sept. 3, 1999, as amended at 66 FR 4469, Jan. 17, 2001; 67 FR 41618, June 19, 2002; 71 FR 33384, June 9, 2006; 84 FR 66811, Dec. 5, 2019; 84 FR 66811, Dec. 5, 2020; 86 FR 410, Jan. 5, 2021; 86 FR 34605, June 30, 2021]
§ 273.24, Nt.

# Effective Date Notes:
1. At 89 FR 102362, Dec. 17, 2024, § 273.24 was amended by:
a. Removing the number “50” and adding in its place “55” in paragraph (c)(1);
b. Removing “or” from the end of paragraph (c)(5);
c. Removing the period and adding a semicolon in its place in paragraph (c)(6);
d. Adding paragraphs (c)(7) through (10);
e. Removing the number “12” and adding in its place “8” in paragraph (g)(3);
f. Adding a sentence at the end of paragraph (h)(2)(i); and
g. Adding paragraphs (k) and (l).
The amendments are effective Jan. 16, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 273.24
Time limit for able-bodied adults.
(c) * * *
(7) Homeless, as defined in § 271.2 of this chapter;
(8) A veteran, defined as an individual who, regardless of the conditions of their discharge or release from, served in the United States Armed Forces (such as Army, Marine Corps, Navy, Air Force, Space Force, Coast Guard, and National Guard), including an individual who served in a reserve component of the Armed Forces, or served as a commissioned officer of the Public Health Service, Environmental Scientific Services Administration, or the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; or
(9) An individual who is 24 years of age or younger and who was in foster care under the responsibility of any State, District, U.S. Territories, Indian Tribal Organization, or Unaccompanied Refugee Minors Program on the date of attaining 18 years of age, including those who remain in extended foster care in States that have elected to extend foster
care in accordance with section 475(8)(B)(iii) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 675(8)(B)(iii)) or those who leave extended foster care before the maximum age.
(10) Unless otherwise changed by law, the exceptions provided at paragraphs (c)(7) through (9) of this section cease to have effect on October 1, 2030, and the age limit provided in paragraph (c)(1) of this section reverts from “55 years of age or older” to “50 years of age or older” on October 1, 2030.
(h) * * *
(2) * * *
(i) * * * Starting in FY 2026, FNS will increase the estimated number of exemptions allocated to the State agency for the subsequent fiscal year by the remaining balance of unused exemptions earned for the previous fiscal year. FNS will consider the State agency to use exemptions in order of accrual (first-in, first-out) for the purposes of calculating carryover of unused exemptions.
(k)
Screening.
The State agency must screen individuals for all exceptions from the time limit listed under paragraph (c) of this section at certification and recertification. The State agency must not assign countable months unless it has screened the individual and determined that no exception applies. When an individual qualifies for more than one exception, the State agency must apply the exception that will be in effect the longest.
(1) Changes in exception status during the certification period.
(i)
Loss of an exception.
If during the certification period an individual has a change in circumstances that results in the loss of an exception from the time limit, the State agency cannot begin assigning countable months until it screens the individual to determine whether any other exception applies.
(ii)
Newly meeting an exception.
If during the certification period an individual subject to the time limit has a change in circumstance that results in the individual now meeting an exception, the State agency must act promptly to apply the exception and cannot assign a countable month once the State receives information that is not questionable. If the State agency determines the information is questionable, the State agency must act promptly to verify the information in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section. Once verified, the State agency must apply the exception and cannot assign countable months.
(l)
Verification of exceptions.
If the State agency determines an individual's exception status under paragraph (c) of this section is questionable, the State agency must first attempt to verify exception status using information available to the State agency, such as information from other public assistance programs through data sharing, before requiring individuals provide documentary evidence or other sources of verification.
2. At 89 FR 90569, Nov. 18, 2024, § 273.24 was further amended by adding paragraph (a)(4), effective Jan. 17, 2025. For the convenience of the user, the added text is set forth as follows:
§ 273.24
Time limit for able-bodied adults.
(a) * * *
(4)
Workfare program
means:
(i) A program under § 273.7(m); or
(ii) A comparable program established by a State or political subdivision of a State.
§ 273.25
Simplified SNAP.
(a)
Definitions.
For purposes of this section:
(1) Simplified SNAP (S-SNAP) means a program authorized under 7 U.S.C. 2035.
(2) Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) means a State program of family assistance operated by an eligible State under its TANF plan as defined at 45 CFR 260.30.
(3) Pure-TANF household means a household in which all members receive assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
(4) Mixed-TANF household means a household in which 1 or more members, but not all members, receive assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
).
(5) Assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601
et seq.
) means “assistance” as defined in regulations at 45 CFR 260.31.
(b)
Limit on benefit reduction for mixed-TANF households under the S-SNAP.
If a State agency chooses to operate an S-SNAP and includes mixed-TANF households in its program, the following requirements apply in addition to the statutory requirements governing the S-SNAP.
(1) If a State's S-SNAP reduces benefits for mixed-TANF households, then
no more than 5 percent of these participating households can have benefits reduced by 10 percent of the amount they are eligible to receive under the regular SNAP and no mixed-TANF household can have benefits reduced by 25 percent or more of the amount it is eligible to receive under the regular SNAP. Reductions of $10 or less will be disregarded when applying this requirement.
(2) The State must include in its State S-SNAP plan an analysis showing the impact its program has on benefit levels for mixed-TANF households by comparing the allotment amount such households would receive using the rules and procedures of the State's S-SNAP with the allotment amount these households would receive if certified under regular SNAP rules and showing the number of households whose allotment amount would be reduced by 9.99 percent or less, by 10 to 24.99 percent, and by 25 percent or more, excluding those households with reductions of $10 or less. In order for FNS to accurately evaluate the program's impact, States must describe in detail the methodology used as the basis for this analysis.
(3) To ensure compliance with the benefit reduction requirement once an S-SNAP is operational, States must describe in their plan and have approved by FNS a methodology for measuring benefit reductions for mixed-TANF households on an on-going basis throughout the duration of the SFSP. In addition, States must report to FNS on a periodic basis the amount of benefit loss experienced by mixed-TANF households participating in the State's S-SNAP. The frequency of such reports will be determined by FNS taking into consideration such factors as the number of mixed-TANF households participating in the S-SNAP and the amount of benefit loss attributed to these households through initial or on-going analyses.
(c)
Application processing standards.
Under statutory requirements, a household is not eligible to participate in an S-SNAP unless it is receiving TANF assistance. If a household is not receiving TANF assistance (payments have not been authorized) at the time of its application for S-SNAP, the State agency must process the application using the regular SNAP requirements of § 273.2, including processing within the 30-day time frame, and screening for and provision of expedited service if eligible. The State agency must determine under regular SNAP rules the eligibility and benefits of any household that it has found ineligible for TANF assistance because of time limits, more restrictive resource standards, or other rules that do not apply to SNAP.
(d)
Standards for shelter costs.
Legislation governing the S-SNAP requires that State plans must address the needs of households with high shelter costs relative to their income. If a State chooses to standardize shelter costs under the S-SNAP, it must, therefore, use multiple standards that take into consideration households with high shelter costs versus those with low shelter costs. A State is prohibited from using a single standard based on average shelter costs for all households participating in an S-SNAP.
(e)
Opportunity for public comment.
States must provide an opportunity for public input on proposed S-SNAP plans (with special attention to changes in benefit amounts that are necessary in order to ensure that the overall proposal not increase Federal costs) through a public comment period, public hearings, or meetings with groups representing participants' interests. Final approval will be given after the State informs the Department about the comments received from the public. After the public comment period, the State agency must inform the Department about the comments received from the public and submit its final S-SNAP plan for Departmental approval.
[Amdt. 388, 65 FR 70211, Nov. 21, 2000, as amended at 82 FR 2043, Jan. 6, 2017]

# Subpart H—The Transitional Benefits Alternative

# Source:
75 FR 4953, Jan. 29, 2010, unless otherwise noted.
§ 273.26
General eligibility guidelines.
(a)
Eligible programs.
The State agency may elect to provide transitional SNAP benefits to households whose
participation in the following programs is ending:
(1) TANF or State Maintenance of Effort (MOE) funded cash assistance programs, as authorized under part A of Title IV of the Social Security Act; or
(2) A State-funded cash assistance (SFCA) program that provides assistance to families with children. Eligible SFCA programs may include programs funded by both state and local funds provided the programs are intended to be statewide.
(b)
Description of State transitional benefits.
A State agency that chooses to provide transitional benefits must describe features of its transitional SNAP benefits alternative in its plan of operation, as specified in § 272.2(d)(1)(xvi)(H) of this chapter and as described in § 273.26(b)(1) through (b)(6).
(1) A statement that transitional benefits are available;
(2) The eligible programs by which households may qualify for transitional benefits;
(3) If the State agency is offering transitional benefits through a SFCA program, in addition to TANF or MOE, whether the SFCA program participation runs concurrently, sequentially, or alternatively to the TANF or MOE program;
(4) The categories of households eligible for such benefits;
(5) The maximum number of months for which transitional benefits will be provided; and
(6) Any other items required to be included under this subpart H.
(c)
Eligible households.
The State agency may limit transitional benefits to households in which all members had been receiving TANF, MOE, or SFCA, or it may provide such benefits to any household in which at least one member had been receiving TANF, MOE, or SFCA. If a member of a household has been sanctioned but the household is still receiving benefits, the remaining eligible household members may receive transitional SNAP benefits if the cash assistance ends for another reason.
(d)
Ineligible households.
The State agency may not provide transitional benefits to a household that is leaving TANF, MOE, or SFCA when:
(1) The household is leaving TANF or MOE due to a full-family TANF sanction or the household is leaving the SFCA program due to a full-family SFCA program sanction;
(2) The household is a member of a category of households designated by the State agency as ineligible for transitional benefits;
(3) All household members are ineligible to receive SNAP benefits because they are:
(i) Disqualified for an intentional program violation in accordance with § 273.16;
(ii) Ineligible for failure to comply with a work requirement in accordance with § 273.7;
(iii) Receiving SSI in a cash-out State in accordance with § 273.20;
(iv) Ineligible students in accordance with § 273.5;
(v) Ineligible aliens in accordance with § 273.4;
(vi) Disqualified for failing to provide information necessary for making a determination of eligibility or for completing any subsequent review of its eligibility in accordance with § 273.2(d) and § 273.21(m)(1)(ii);
(vii) Disqualified for knowingly transferring resources for the purpose of qualifying or attempting to qualify for the program as provided at § 273.8(h);
(viii) Disqualified for receipt of multiple SNAP benefits;
(ix) Disqualified for being a fleeing felon in accordance with § 273.11(n); or
(x) ABAWD who fail to comply with the requirements of § 273.24.
(e)
Optional household exclusions.
The State agency has the option to exclude households where all household members are ineligible to receive SNAP benefits because they are:
(1) Disqualified for failure to perform an action under Federal, State or local law relating to a means-tested public assistance program in accordance with § 273.11(k);
(2) Ineligible for failing to cooperate with child support agencies in accordance with § 273.11(o) and (p); or
(3) Ineligible for being delinquent in court-ordered child support in accordance with § 273.11(q).
(f)
Recalculating eligibility for denied households.
The State agency must use
procedures at § 273.12(f)(3) to determine the continued eligibility and benefit level of households denied transitional benefits under § 273.26.
[82 FR 2043, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 273.27
General administrative guidelines.
(a) When a household leaves TANF, MOE, or a SFCA program, a State agency that has elected this option shall freeze the household's benefit allotment for up to 5 months after making an adjustment for the loss of TANF, MOE, or the SFCA. This is the household's transitional period. To provide the full transitional period, the State agency may extend the certification period for up to 5 months and may extend the household's certification period beyond the maximum periods specified in § 273.10(f). Before initiating the transitional period, the State agency, without requiring additional information or verification from the household, must recalculate the household's SNAP benefit amount by removing the TANF payment, MOE payment, or the SFCA payment from the household's SNAP income. At its option, the State agency may also adjust the benefit to account for:
(1) Changes in household income that it learns about from another State or
Federal means-tested assistance program in which the household participates; or
(2) Automatic annual changes in the SNAP benefit rules, such as the annual cost of living adjustment, the standard deduction adjustment, and the adjustment to the cap on the excess shelter deduction.
(b) The State agency must include in its State plan of operation whether it has elected to make these changes:
(1) At the beginning of the transitional period; or
(2) Both at the beginning and during the transitional period.
(c) When a household leaves TANF, MOE, or SFCA program, the State agency at its option may end the household's existing certification period and assign the household a new certification period that conforms to the transitional period. The recertification requirements at § 273.14 that would normally apply when the household's certification period ends must be postponed until the end of the new certification period. If the transitional period results in a shortening of the household's certification period, the State agency shall not issue a household a notice of adverse action under § 273.10(f)(4) but shall specify in the transitional notice required under § 273.29 that the household must be recertified when it reaches the end of the transitional benefit period or if it returns to TANF, MOE, or SFCA program during the transitional period.
[75 FR 4953, Jan. 29, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 2044, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 273.28
Application for SNAP recertification.
At any time during the transitional period, the household may apply for recertification. If a household applies for recertification during its transitional period, the State agency shall observe the following procedures:
(a) The State agency must schedule an interview in accordance with § 273.2(e);
(b) The State agency must provide the household with a notice of required verification in accordance with § 273.2(c)(5) and provide the household a minimum of 10 days to provide the required verification in accordance with § 273.2(f).
(c) Households that have met all of the required application procedures shall be notified of their eligibility or ineligibility as soon as possible, but no later than 30 calendar days following the date the application was filed.
(1) If the State agency does not determine a household's eligibility and provide an opportunity to participate within 30 days following the date the application was filed, the State agency shall continue processing the application while continuing the household's transitional benefits.
(2) If the application process cannot be completed due to State agency fault, the State agency must continue to process the application and provide a full month's allotment for the first month of the new certification period. The State agency shall determine cause for any delay in processing a recertification application in accordance with the provisions of § 273.2(h)(1).
(d) If the application process cannot be completed because the household failed to take a required action, the State agency may deny the application at that time or at the end of the 30 days. If the household is determined to be ineligible for the program, the State agency will deny the household's application for recertification and continue the household's transitional benefits to the end of the transitional benefit period, at which time the State agency will either recertify the household or send a RFC in accordance with § 273.31;
(e) If the household is determined eligible for the regular SNAP but is entitled to a benefit lower than its transitional benefit, the State agency shall encourage the household to withdraw its application for recertification and continue to receive transitional benefits. If the household chooses not to withdraw its application, the State agency has the option to deny the application and allow the transitional period to run its course, or complete the recertification process and issue the household the lower benefit amount beginning with the first month of the new certification period.
(f) If the household is determined eligible for the program, its new certification period will begin with the first day of the month following the month in which the household submitted the application for recertification. The State agency must issue the household full benefits for that month. For example, if the household applied for recertification on the 25th day of the third month of a 5-month transitional period, and the household is determined eligible for the regular SNAP, the State agency will begin the household's new certification period on the first day of what would have been the fourth month of the transitional period.
(g) If the household is eligible for the regular SNAP and entitled to benefits higher than its transitional benefits, and the State agency has already issued the household transitional benefits for the first month of its certification period, the State agency must issue the household a supplement.
(h) Applications for recertification submitted in the final month of the transitional period must be processed in accordance with § 273.14.
§ 273.29
Transitional notice requirements.
The State agency must issue a transitional notice (TN) to the household that includes the following information:
(a) A statement informing the household that it will be receiving transitional benefits and the length of its transitional period;
(b) A statement informing the household that it has the option of applying for recertification at any time during the transitional period. The household must be informed that if it does not apply for recertification during the transitional period, the State agency must, at the end of the transitional period, either reevaluate the household's SNAP case or require the household to undergo a recertification;
(c) A statement that if the household returns to TANF, MOE, or SFCA program during its transitional benefit period, it will be asked to reapply for SNAP at the same time. However, if the household has been assigned a new certification period in accordance with § 273.27(c), the notice must inform the household that it must be recertified if it returns to TANF, MOE, or SFCA program during its transitional period;
(d) A statement explaining any changes in the household's benefit amount due to the loss of TANF income, MOE income, or SFCA program income and/or changes in household circumstances learned from another State or Federal means-tested assistance program;
(e) A statement informing the household that it is not required to report and provide verification for any changes in household circumstances until the deadline established in accordance with § 273.12(c)(3) or its recertification interview; and
(f) A statement informing the household that the State agency will not act on changes that the household reports during the transitional period prior to the deadline specified in § 273.29(e) and that if the household experiences a decrease in income or an increase in expenses or household size prior to that deadline, the household should apply for recertification.
[75 FR 4953, Jan. 29, 2010, as amended at 82 FR 2044, Jan. 6, 2017]
§ 273.30
Transitional benefit alternative change reporting requirements.
If the household does report changes in its circumstances during the transitional period, the State agency may make the change effective the month following the last month of the transitional period or invite the household to reapply and be certified to receive benefits. However, in order to prevent duplicate participation, the State agency must act to change the household's transitional benefit when a household member moves out of the household and either reapplies as a new household or is reported as a new member of another household. Moreover, the State agency must remove any income, resources and deductible expenses clearly attributable to the departing member.
§ 273.31
Closing the transitional period.
In the final month of the transitional benefit period, the State agency must do one of the following:
(a) Issue the RFC specified in § 273.12(c)(3) and act on any information it has about the household's new circumstances in accordance with § 273.12(c)(3). The State agency may extend the household's certification period in accordance with § 273.10(f)(5) unless the household's certification period has already been extended past the maximum period specified in § 273.10(f) in accordance with § 273.27(a); or
(b) Recertify the household in accordance with § 273.14. If the household has not reached the maximum number of months in its certification period during the transitional period, the State agency may shorten the household's prior certification period in order to recertify the household. When shortening the household's certification period pursuant to this section, the State agency must send the household a notice of expiration in accordance with § 273.14(b).
§ 273.32
Households that return to TANF, MOE, or SFCA program during the transitional period.
If a household receiving transitional benefits starts to receive TANF, MOE, or SFCA program during the transitional period, the State agency shall use the information from the TANF, MOE, or SFCA application to re-determine continued SNAP eligibility and benefits, at the same time that the TANF, MOE, or SFCA application is being processed and follow procedures in § 273.2(j) for joint processing of SNAP/TANF applications. This includes processing the application within 30 days. However, for a household assigned a new certification period in accordance with § 273.27(c), the household must be recertified if it returns to TANF, MOE, or the SFCA program during its transitional period.
[82 FR 2044, Jan. 6, 2017
Pt. 274

# PART 274—ISSUANCE AND USE OF PROGRAM BENEFITS
Sec.
274.1
Issuance system approval standards.
274.2
Providing benefits to participants.
274.3
Retailer management.
274.4
Reconciliation and reporting.
274.5
Record retention and forms security.
274.6
Replacement issuances and cards to households.
274.7
Benefit redemption by eligible households.
274.8
Functional and technical EBT system requirements.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2011-2036.

# Source:
75 FR 18381, Apr. 12, 2010, unless otherwise noted.

# Editorial Note:
OMB control numbers relating to this part 274 are contained in § 271.8.
§ 274.1
Issuance system approval standards.
(a)
Basic issuance requirements.
State agencies shall establish issuance and accountability systems which ensure that only certified eligible households receive benefits; that Program benefits are timely distributed in the correct amounts; and that benefit issuance and reconciliation activities are properly conducted and accurately reported to FNS.
(b)
System classification.
State agencies may issue benefits to households through any of the following systems:
(1) An on-line Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) system in which Program benefits are stored in a central computer database and electronically accessed by households at the point of sale via reusable plastic cards.
(2) An off-line EBT system in which benefit allotments can be stored on a card or in a card access device and used to purchase authorized items at a point-of-sale (POS) terminal without real-time authorization from a central processor.
(c)
Alternative benefit issuance system.
(1) If the Secretary, in consultation with the Office of the Inspector General, determines that Program integrity would be improved by changing the issuance system of a State, the Secretary shall require the State agency to issue or deliver benefits using another method. The alternative method may be one of the methods described in paragraph (b) of this section. The determination of which alternative to use will be made by FNS after consultation with the State agency. The cost of conversion will be shared by the Department and the State agency in accordance with the cost accounting provision of part 277 of this chapter.
(2) The cost of documents or systems which may be required as a result of a permanent alternative issuance system pursuant to this section shall not be imposed upon retail food firms participating in the Program.
(d)
Contracting or delegating issuance responsibilities.
State agencies may assign to others such as banks, savings and loan associations, and other commercial businesses, the responsibility for the issuance of benefits. State agencies may permit contractors to subcontract assigned issuance responsibilities.
(1) Any assignment of issuance functions shall clearly delineate the responsibilities of both parties. The State agency remains responsible, regardless of any agreements to the contrary, for ensuring that assigned duties are carried out in accordance with these regulations. In addition, the State agency is strictly liable to FNS for all losses of benefits, even if those losses are the result of the performance of issuance, security, or accountability duties by another party.
(2) All issuance contracts shall follow procurement standards set forth in part 277 of this chapter.
(3) The State agency shall not assign the issuance of benefits to any retail food firm.
(e)
Ownership rights and procurement requirements.
(1) The State agency shall comply with the software and automated data processing equipment ownership rights prescribed under §§ 277.13 and 277.18(1) of this chapter.
(2) The State agency shall comply with the procurement standards prescribed under § 277.18(c)(2)(iii) of this chapter. Under service agreements, the procurement of equipment and services which will be utilized in the SNAP EBT system shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions set forth under § 277.18(e) of this chapter.
(f)
Advance planning documentation.
State agencies must comply with the procurement requirements of part 277 of this chapter for the acquisition, design, development, or implementation of initial and subsequent EBT systems. With certain exceptions detailed in part 277, State agencies must receive prior approval for the design and acquisition of EBT systems through submission of advance planning documents (APDs).
(1)
Pilot project approval requirements.
To the extent the State is moving EBT to new technology or incorporating enhancements or upgrades that significantly change the architecture and interface requirements or functionality of issuing benefits electronically:
(i) The State agency shall comply with the two stage approval process for submitting an EBT system proposal to FNS for approval. The Planning APD shall contain the requirements specified under § 277.18(d)(1) of this chapter, including a brief letter of intent, planning budget, cost allocation plan, and schedule of activities and deliverables.
(ii) The State agency shall implement EBT systems in a pilot area prior to expansion statewide or to other project areas. The areas of pilot operation and full scale operation shall be identified in the planning APD when submitted to FNS for approval.
(A)
Pilot project site and expanded site descriptions.
At a minimum, the proposed pilot project site and expanded site descriptions shall include the geographical boundaries, average number and characteristics of Program participants and households, the number and type of authorized food retailers and authorized retailers bordering the pilot
and expanded areas, the SNAP redemption patterns of food retailers, the status of commercial POS deployment and the estimated number of checkout lanes that will require POS equipment; and
(B)
A description of major contacts.
A description of initial contacts the State agency has made in the proposed pilot area among food retailers, financial institutions and households or their representatives that may be affected by implementation of the EBT system. Written commitments from the retail grocer community (including supermarket chains, independent retailers, and convenience stores) and participating financial institutions in the pilot area shall be provided along with other documentation that demonstrates the willingness to support the proposed EBT system within the pilot area and expanded system area. The State agency shall submit evidence of contacts with recipient organizations and others.
(iii)
Pilot project reporting.
The State agency is required to report to FNS all issues that arise during the pilot period. Reports to FNS shall be provided as problems occur. In instances where the State agency must investigate the issue, FNS must receive the information no later than 1 month after completion of the pilot operations.
(iv)
Expansion requirements.
The pilot and expansion schedule must be delineated in the State agency's approved implementation plan. As part of the plan, the State agency must indicate a suitable pilot area to serve as the basis of the 3-month analysis and reporting, however, expansion can occur simultaneously with pilot operations. Submission of an Advanced Planning Document Update to request FNS approval to implement and operate the EBT system in areas beyond the pilot area is only required in instances where there are substantial changes to the implementation plan. However, if significant problems arise during the pilot period or expansion, the Department can require the roll-out be suspended until such problems are resolved.
(2)
EBT Implementation APD.
The EBT Implementation APD shall include the completed documents required under § 277.18 of this chapter for implementation APDs, where appropriate. Also, the State agency shall commit to completing and submitting the following documents for FNS approval and obtaining such approval prior to issuance of benefits to eligible households in the project area:
(i)
Functional demonstration.
A functional demonstration of the functional requirements prescribed in § 274.8 in combination with the system components described by the approved system design is recommended in order to identify and resolve any problems prior to acceptance testing. The Department reserves the right to participate in the functional demonstration if one is conducted. FNS may require that any or all of these tests be repeated in instances where significant modifications are made to the system after these tests are initially completed or if problems that surfaced during initial testing warrant a retest;
(ii)
An acceptance test plan.
The Acceptance Test Plan for the project shall describe the methodology to be utilized to verify that the EBT system complies with Program requirements and System Design specifications. At a minimum, the Acceptance Test Plan shall address:
(A) The types of testing to be performed;
(B) The organization of the test team and associated responsibilities, test database generation, test case development, test schedule, and the documentation of test results. Acceptance testing shall include functional requirements testing, error condition handling and destructive testing, security testing, recovery testing, controls testing, stress and throughput performance testing, and regression testing;
(C) A “what-if” component shall also be included to permit the opportunity for observers and participants to test possible scenarios in a free-form manner.
(D) The Department reserves the right to participate and conduct independent testing as necessary during the acceptance testing and appropriate events during system design, development, implementation and operation.
(iii)
An acceptance test report.
The State agency shall provide a separate
report after the completion of the acceptance test only in instances where FNS is not present at the testing or when serious problems are uncovered during the testing that remain unresolved by the end of the test session. The report shall summarize the activities, describe any discrepancies, describe the proposed solutions to discrepancies, and the timetable for their retesting and completion. In addition, the report shall contain the State agency's recommendations regarding implementation of the EBT system.
(iv)
A prototype food retailer agreement.
The State agency shall enter an agreement with each FNS authorized retailer that complies with the requirements under § 274.3.
(v)
An implementation plan.
The implementation plan shall include the following:
(A) A description of the tools, procedures, detailed schedules, and resources needed to implement the project;
(B) The equipment acquisition and installation requirements, ordering schedules, and system and component testing;
(C) A phase-in-strategy which permits a measured and orderly transition from one EBT system to another. In describing this strategy, the plan shall address schedules that avoid disruption of normal shopping patterns and operations of participating households and food retailers. Training of SNAP households, State agency personnel and retailers and/or their trainers shall be coordinated with the installation of equipment in retail stores;
(D) A description of on-going tasks associated with fine-tuning the system and making any corrective actions necessary to meet contractual requirements. The description shall also address those tasks associated with ongoing training, document updates, equipment maintenance, on-site support and system adjustments, as needed to meet Program requirements; and,
(E) A plan for orderly phase-out of the project and/or for continuing benefit issuance operations if it is demonstrated during the pilot project or conversion operations that the new system is not acceptable.
(vi)
A contingency plan.
The State agency shall submit a written contingency plan for FNS approval. The contingency plan shall contain information regarding the back-up issuance system that will be activated in the event of an emergency shut-down which results in short-term or extended system inaccessibility, or total discontinuation of EBT system operations. The contingency plan shall be incorporated into the State system security plan after FNS approval as prescribed at § 277.18(m) of this chapter.
(3)
EBT Implementation APD budget.
The Implementation APD budget shall be prepared and submitted for FNS approval in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section and § 277.18(d)(2) of this chapter.
(g)
EBT system administration.
(1) The State agency shall be responsible for the coordination and management of the EBT system. The Secretary may suspend or terminate some or all EBT system funding or withdraw approval of the EBT system from the State agency upon a finding that the State agency or its contracted representative has failed to comply with the requirements of this section and/or § 277.18 of this chapter.
(2) All EBT systems within a State must follow a single EBT APD and system architecture submitted by the State agency. Multiple EBT designs will be acceptable only if such designs can be fully justified by the State agency; the system differences are transparent to participating households that move within the State; operating costs are the same or lower; and the different systems have the ability to readily communicate (transaction interchange) with one another.
(3) The State agency shall indicate how it plans to incorporate additional programs into the EBT system if it anticipates the addition of other public assistance programs concurrent with or after implementation of the SNAP EBT system. The State agency shall also consult with the State agency officials responsible for administering the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) prior to submitting the Planning APD for FNS approval.
(4) The State agency shall ensure that a sufficient number of authorized
food retailers have agreed to participate throughout the area in which the EBT system will operate to ensure that eligible SNAP households will not suffer a significant reduction in their choice of retail food stores and that a sufficient number of retail food stores serving minority language populations are participating.
(h)
Master issuance file.
(1) The State agency shall establish a master issuance file which is a composite of the issuance records of all certified SNAP households. The State agency shall establish the master issuance file in a manner compatible with its system used for maintaining case record information and shall separate the information on the master issuance file into active and inactive case file categories. The master issuance file shall contain all the information needed to identify certified households, issue household benefits, record the participation activity for each household and supply all information necessary to fulfill the reporting requirements prescribed in § 274.4.
(i) The master issuance file shall be kept current and accurate. It shall be updated and maintained through the use of documents such as notices of change and controls for expired certification periods.
(ii) Before entering a household's data on the master issuance file, the State agency shall review the master issuance file to ensure that the household is not currently participating in, or disqualified from, the Program. If benefits are issued under the expedited service requirements of §§ 273.2(i) of this chapter and 274.2(b), the State agency shall complete as much of the master issuance file review as possible prior to issuing the benefits. Any uncompleted reviews shall be completed after issuance and appropriate corrective action shall be taken to recover overissuance.
(2) State agencies should divide issuance responsibilities between at least two persons to prevent any single individual from having complete control over the authorization of issuances and the issuances themselves. Responsibilities to be divided include maintenance of inventory records, the posting of benefits to an EBT account and preparation of EBT cards and PINs for mailing. If issuance functions in an office are handled by one person, a second-party review shall be made to verify card inventory, the reconciliation of the mail log, and the number of mailings prepared.
(3) State agencies shall establish controls to prevent a household from concurrently receiving benefits through expedited and normal issuance services.
(4) State agencies shall clearly identify issuances in their accountability systems as initial, supplemental, replacement, or restored benefits.
(i)
State monitoring, examinations, and audits.
(1) The State agency's accountability system shall include procedures for monitoring benefit issuers to assure that the day-to-day operations of all benefit issuers comply with these regulations, to identify and correct deficiencies, and to report violations of the Act or regulations to FNS.
(2) The State agency must obtain an examination by an independent auditor of the transaction processing of the State EBT service provider regarding the issuance, redemption, and settlement of Program benefits. The examination must be done at least annually and the report must be completed ninety days after the examination period ends. Subsequent examinations must cover the entire period since the previous examination. Examinations must follow the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement on Auditing Standards No. 70, Service Organizations (SAS No. 70), requirements for reports on controls placed in operation and tests of the operating effectiveness of the controls.
(i) The examination report must include a list of all States whose systems operate under the same control environment. Auditors conducting the examination must follow EBT guidance contained in the 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement, and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415 to the extent the guidelines refer to SNAP benefits.
(ii) The State agency must retain a copy of the SAS No. 70 examination report.
(iii) The State agency shall respond to written requests from the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), USDA Office of the Inspector General (OIG), or the Government Accountability Office (GAO) for completed SAS No. 70 examination reports by providing the report within thirty days of receipt of the written request.
(iv) The State agency shall respond to written requests from FNS, OIG, or GAO to view auditor's workpapers from SAS No. 70 reports by arranging to have workpapers made available within thirty days of receipt of the written request.
(v) FNS and the USDA OIG shall rely on SAS No. 70 reports on EBT transaction processing services provided by contractors to the State. FNS and USDA OIG reserve the right to conduct other reviews or audits if necessary.
(vi) EBT services provided directly by the State are not subject to SAS No. 70 examination requirements of this section but remain subject to the single audit requirements at 7 CFR 277.7 and 2 CFR part 200, subpart F and Appendix XI, Compliance Supplement and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415.
(j)
Compliance Investigations.
State agencies shall provide on-line read-only access to State EBT systems for compliance investigations.
(1) The State agency is required to provide software and telecommunications capability as necessary to FNS Retailer Investigation Branch Area offices, Regional offices and Field offices so that FNS compliance investigators, other appropriate FNS personnel and USDA OIG investigators have access to the system in order to conduct investigations of program abuse and alleged violations;
(2) The State agency must ensure that FNS compliance investigators and USDA OIG investigators have access to EBT cards and accounts that are updated as necessary to conduct SNAP investigations.
(k)
Federal financial participation.
(1) The cost of administering statewide benefit issuance after implementation of the EBT system shall be funded at the regular Federal financial participation rate.
(2) The State agency shall comply with the provisions set forth under § 277.18 of this chapter and 2 CFR part 200, subparts D and E and USDA implementing regulations 2 CFR part 400 and part 415, as applicable.
(3) Access to system documentation, including cost records of contractors or subcontractors shall be made available and incorporated into contractual agreements in accordance with § 277.18(k) of this chapter.
(4) State agencies may receive one hundred percent Federal funding for the costs they incur for switching and settling all SNAP interstate transactions. For purposes of this section, the term “switching” means the routing of an interstate transaction that consists of transmitting the details of a transaction electronically recorded through the use of an EBT card in one State to the issuer of the card that is in another State; and the term “settling” means movement, and reporting such movement, of funds from an EBT card issuer located in one State to a retail food store, or wholesale food concern, that is located in another State, to accomplish an interstate transaction. The total amount of one hundred percent funding available annually is limited to $500,000 nationwide. Once the $500,000 limitation is exceeded, Federal financial participation reverts to the standard fifty percent program reimbursement rate and procedure. To qualify for this funding, the State agency must:
(i) Meet standards of interoperability and portability under § 274.8;
(ii) Sign and submit, in each fiscal year for which the State agency requests enhanced funding, an Interoperability Funding Agreement to comply with the administrative procedures established by the Department. The State agency must submit the signed agreement to the Department before the end of the fiscal year in which costs are incurred in order to qualify for payment for that fiscal year, and
(iii) Submit requests for payment on a quarterly basis after the end of the quarter in which interoperability costs are incurred, in accordance with the Department's administrative procedures. Requests for payments shall be due February 15 (for the period October
through December), May 15 (January through March), August 15 (April through June), and November 15 (July through September). Requests for payment submitted after the required date for a quarter shall not be considered until the following quarter, when such requests for payments are scheduled to be processed.
[75 FR 18381, Apr. 12, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 10, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 66498, Sept. 28, 2016]
§ 274.2
Providing benefits to participants.
(a)
General.
Each State agency is responsible for the timely and accurate issuance of benefits to certified eligible households, including EBT system compliance with the expedited service benefit delivery standard and the normal application processing standards, as prescribed by these regulations. Those households located in rural areas or comprised of elderly or disabled members who have difficulty reaching issuance offices, and households which do not reside in a permanent dwelling or of a fixed mailing address shall be given assistance in obtaining an EBT card. State agencies shall assist these households by arranging for the mailing of EBT cards to them, by assisting them in finding authorized representatives who can act on their behalf, or by using other appropriate means.
(b)
Availability of benefits.
All newly certified households, except those that are given expedited service, shall be given an opportunity to participate no later than 30 calendar days following the date the application was filed. An opportunity to participate consists of providing households with an active EBT card and PIN, and benefits that have been posted to the household's EBT account and are available for spending. State agencies, utilizing a centralized mailing system, must mail EBT cards and PINs, if applicable, in time to assure that the benefits can be spent after they are received but before the 30-day standard expires. A household has not been provided an opportunity to participate within the 30-day standard if the EBT card or PIN is mailed on the 29th or 30th day. For households entitled to expedited service, the State agency shall make benefits available to the household not later than the seventh calendar day following the date of application.
(c)
Benefit allotments.
(1) State agencies shall not issue ongoing monthly benefit allotments to a household in more than one issuance during a month except with respect to the issuance of benefits to a resident of a drug and alcohol treatment and rehabilitation program in accordance with § 273.11(e) of this chapter or when a benefit correction is necessary.
(2) For those households which are to receive a combined allotment, the State agency shall provide the benefits for both months as an aggregate (combined) allotment, or as two separate allotments, made available at the same time in accordance with the timeframes specified in § 273.2 of this chapter.
(d)
Ongoing households.
State agencies shall establish an availability date for household access to their benefits and inform households of this date. All households shall be placed on an issuance schedule so that they receive their benefits on or about the same date each month. The date upon which a household receives its initial allotment after certification need not be the date that the household must receive its subsequent allotments.
(1) State agencies may stagger issuance throughout the month, or for a shorter period. When staggering benefit delivery, however, State agencies shall not allow more than 40 days to elapse between the issuance of any two allotments provided to a household participating longer than two consecutive, complete months. Regardless of the issuance schedule used, the State agency shall adhere to the reporting requirements specified in § 274.4.
(2) Upon the request of the Tribal organization that exercises governmental jurisdiction over a reservation, the State agency shall stagger the issuance of benefits for eligible households located on reservations for at least 15 days each month.
(3) When a participating household is transferred from one issuance system or procedure to another issuance system or procedure, the State agency shall not permit more than 40 days to elapse between the last issuance under the previous system or procedure, and
the first issuance under the new system or procedure. The 40-day requirement does not apply to instances in which actions by recipients, such as failure to submit a monthly report, disrupt benefits. Transfers include, but are not limited to, households being moved into or out of a staggered issuance procedure and households on a fluctuating schedule within a staggered system. If the State agency determines that more than 40 days may elapse between issuances, the State agency shall divide the new issuance into two parts, with one part being issued within the 40-day period, and the second part, or supplemental issuance, being issued on the household's established issuance date in the new system or procedure. The supplemental issuance cannot provide the household more benefits than the household is entitled to receive.
(4) Notwithstanding the above provisions, in months in which benefits have been suspended under the provisions of § 271.7 of this chapter, State agencies may stagger issuance to certified households following the end of the suspension. In such situations, State agencies may, at their option, stagger issuance from the date issuance resumes through the end of the month or over a five-day period following the resumption of issuance, even if this results in benefits being issued after the end of the month in which the suspension occurred.
(e)
Household training.
The State agency shall provide training to each household prior to implementation and as needed during ongoing operation of the EBT system. Training functions for an EBT system may be incorporated into certification procedures. At a minimum, the household training shall include:
(1) Content which will familiarize each household with the provisions of this section and §§ 274.6 and 274.7;
(2) Notification to the household of the procedures for manual transactions and re-presentation as described in § 274.8(d);
(3) The appropriate utilization and security of the PIN;
(4) Each household's responsibilities for reporting loss or damage to the EBT card and who to report them to, both during and outside business hours. Information on a 24 hour hotline telephone number shall be provided to each household during training;
(5) Written materials and/or other information, including the specific rights to benefits in an EBT system, shall be provided as prescribed under 7 CFR 272.4(b) for bilingual households and for households with disabilities. This shall include the statement of non-discrimination found in Departmental Regulation 4300-3 (available from USDA, Office of Civil Rights, Room 326-W, Whitten Building, Washington, DC 20250). Written materials shall be prepared at an educational reading level suitable for SNAP households;
(6) Information on the signs or other appropriate indicators located in checkout lanes that enable the household to identify lanes equipped to accept EBT cards.
(7) Disclosure information regarding adjustments and a household's rights to notice, fair hearings, and provisional credits. The disclosure must also state where to call to dispute an adjustment and request a fair hearing.
(f)
EBT cards and Personal Identification Numbers (PINs).
(1) State agencies which issue EBT cards by mail shall, at a minimum, use first class mail and sturdy nonforwarding envelopes or packages to send EBT cards to households.
(2) The State agency shall permit SNAP households to select their PIN.
(i) PIN assignment procedures shall be permitted in accordance with industry standards as long as PIN selection is available to clients if they so desire and clients are informed of this option.
(ii) If assigning a PIN by mail in conjunction with card issuance, State agencies shall mail the PIN separate from the card one business day after the card is mailed.
(g)
Adjustments.
(1) The State agency may make adjustments to benefits posted to household accounts after the posting process is complete but prior to the availability date for household access in the event benefits are erroneously posted.
(2) A State agency shall make adjustments to an account to correct an auditable, out-of-balance settlement
condition that occurs during the redemption process as a result of a system error. A system error is defined as an error resulting from a malfunction at any point in the redemption process: from the system host computer, to the switch, to the third party processors, to a store's host computer or POS device. These adjustments may occur after the availability date and may result in either a debit or credit to the household.
(i)
Client-initiated adjustments.
The State agency must act on all requests for adjustments made by client households within 90 calendar days of the error transaction. The State agency has 10 business days from the date the household notifies it of the error to investigate and reach a decision on an adjustment and move funds into the client account. This timeframe also applies if the State agency or entity other than the household discovers a system error that requires a credit adjustment to the household. Business days are defined as calendar days other than Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays.
(ii)
Retailer-initiated adjustments.
The State agency must act upon all adjustments to debit a household's account no later than 10 business days from the date the error occurred, by placing a hold on the adjustment balance in the household's account. If there are insufficient benefits to cover the entire adjustment, a hold shall be placed on any remaining balance that exists, with the difference being subject to availability only in the next future month. The household shall be given, at a minimum, adequate notice in accordance with § 273.13 of this chapter. The notice must be sent at the time the initial hold is attempted on the household's current month's remaining balance, clearly state the full adjustment amount, and advise the household that any amount still owed is subject to collection from the household's next future month's benefits.
(A) The household shall have 90 days from the date of the notice to request a fair hearing.
(B) Should the household dispute the adjustment and request a hearing within 10 days of the notice, a provisional credit must be made to the household's account by releasing the hold on the adjustment balance within 48 hours of the request by the household, pending resolution of the fair hearing. If no request for a hearing is made within 10 days of the notice, the hold is released on the adjustment balance, and this amount is credited to the retailer's account. If there are insufficient funds available in the current month to cover the full adjustment amount, the hold may be maintained and settled at one time after the next month's benefits become available.
(3) The appropriate management controls and procedures for accessing benefit accounts after the posting shall be instituted to ensure that no unauthorized adjustments are made in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.
(h)
Off-line storage.
If a household's EBT account is inactive for three months (91 days) or longer, State agencies may elect to store all benefits in that account off-line.
(1) An EBT account is inactive if the household has not initiated activity that affects the balance of the household's SNAP EBT account, such as a purchase or return.
(2) Taking benefits off-line means that the household's SNAP EBT account, including all existing benefits in the account and any new issuances deposited into the account, is no longer accessible to the household unless and until the account and its benefits are reinstated upon contact by the household.
(3) The State agency shall send written notification to the household up to 10 days prior to or concurrent with the action to store benefits off-line. If an inactive account has a zero balance, a notice to the household is not required. At a minimum, the notice shall include information on:
(i) The steps necessary to bring the benefits back on-line; and
(ii) The State agency's permanent expungement policy.
(4) Benefits stored off-line that have not been expunged in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section shall be reinstated and made available within 48 hours of reapplication or contact by the household. In addition to a specific
request for benefit restoration, household contact shall include, but is not limited to:
(i) Recertification or reapplication for benefits; and
(ii) A general request for assistance.
(i)
Expungement.
(1) State agencies shall apply SNAP transactions against a household's SNAP benefits on a first-in-first-out basis. As a result, the oldest SNAP benefits are used first. On a daily basis, the State agency shall expunge benefits from EBT accounts at the monthly benefit allotment level in accordance with either paragraph (i)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. State agencies must designate which approach will be used in its State plan and use the same approach for all households within the State.
(i)
Inactive EBT accounts.
Benefits allotments, or portion thereof, shall be expunged from EBT accounts that have been inactive, per paragraph (h)(1) of this section, for a period of nine months (274 days) in accordance with the following:
(A) When the oldest benefit allotment has not been accessed by the household for nine months, the State agency shall expunge benefits from the EBT account or off-line storage at the monthly benefit allotment level as each benefit allotment ages to nine months since the date of issuance or since the last date of account activity, whichever date is later.
(B) The State agency shall not expunge any benefits from active accounts even if there are benefit allotments older than nine months. If at any time after the expungement process begins, the household initiates activity affecting the balance of the account, the State shall stop expunging benefits from the account and start the account aging process over again for the remaining benefits.
(ii)
Unused benefits.
The State agency shall expunge individual benefit allotments, or portion thereof, that remain in a household's EBT account nine months (274 days) after the date the allotment was issued to the household, regardless of any account activity that may have taken place.
(2) Not later than 30 days before benefit expungement is scheduled to begin, State agencies shall provide notice to the household that benefits in their EBT account are approaching expungement due to nonuse/inactivity. At a minimum, the notice shall include:
(i) The date upon which benefits are scheduled to be expunged; and
(ii) The steps necessary to prevent the expungement, including an opportunity to request that any benefits stored off-line be restored to the household in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section;
(3) Expunged benefits shall be removed from the Account Management Agent and shall not be reinstated.
(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (i)(1) of this section, in instances when the State agency verifies a death match for all certified members of the household and closes the SNAP case in accordance with § 272.14 of this chapter, the State agency shall expunge the remaining SNAP balance in the household's EBT account at that time. In accordance with § 273.13(b)(2) of this chapter, expungement notices, per paragraph (i)(2) of this section, are not required for these households.
(j)
Procedures to adjust SNAP accounts.
Procedures shall be established to permit the appropriate managers to adjust SNAP benefits that have already been posted to an EBT account prior to the household accessing the account, or to remove benefits from inactive accounts for off-line storage or expungement in accordance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section.
(1) Whenever benefits are stored off-line or expunged, the State agency shall document the date, amount of the benefits, and storage location in the household case file.
(2) Issuance reports shall reflect the adjustment to the State agency issuance totals to comply with monthly issuance reporting requirements prescribed under § 274.4.
[75 FR 18381, Apr. 12, 2010,, as amended at 78 FR 51657, Aug. 21, 2013; 85 FR 52032, Aug. 24, 2020]
§ 274.3
Retailer management.
(a)
Retailer participation.
(1) All authorized retailers must be afforded the opportunity to participate in the EBT system. An authorized food retailer
shall not be required to participate in an EBT system.
(i) Retailers who do not have immediate access to telephones at the time of authorization shall be accommodated by an alternative system (
e.g.,
manual vouchers with preliminary or delayed telephone verification) for redeeming Program benefits from eligible SNAP customers. These retailers include stationary food stores which opt to make home deliveries to SNAP households, house-to-house trade routes which operate on standing orders from customers,
e.g.
milk and bread delivery routes, food buying cooperatives authorized to participate as well as other food retailers authorized under § 278.1 of this chapter. Prior to delivery or upon returning to the store, the retailer shall telephone the EBT central computer or hotline number to log the transaction and obtain an authorization number. If authorization cannot be obtained before or at the time of purchase, the retailer assumes the risk for sufficient benefits being available in the household's account. Any alternate method cannot be burdensome on either the household or the retailer, and it must include acceptable privacy and security features. Such systems shall only be available to retailers that cannot be equipped with a POS terminal at the time of authorization.
(ii) Newly authorized retailers shall have access to the EBT system within 2 weeks after the receipt of the FNS authorization notice. However, whenever a retailer chooses to employ a third party processor to drive its terminals or elects to drive its own terminals, access to the system shall be accomplished within a 30 day period or a mutually agreed upon time to enable the third party interface specifications and any State required functional certification to be performed by the State agency and/or its contractor.
(2) Authorized retailers shall not be required to pay costs essential to and directly attributable to EBT system operations as long as the equipment or services are provided by the State agency or its contractor and are utilized solely for SNAP. In addition, if Program equipment is deployed under contract to the State agency, the State agency may, with USDA approval, share appropriate costs with retailers if the equipment is also utilized for commercial purposes. The State agency may choose to charge retailers reasonable fees in the following circumstances:
(i) Cost for the replacement of lost, stolen or damaged equipment;
(ii) The cost of materials and supplies for POS terminals not provided by the State agency;
(iii) Telecommunication costs for all non-EBT use by retailers when lines are provided by the State agency. In addition, State agencies may remove phone lines from retailers in instances where there is significant misuse of the lines.
(3) The State agency shall ensure that the EBT system provides credits to the financial institution holding the accounts for retailers or third party processors within two business days of the daily cut-over period for retailer settlement. The cut-over period is the time of day established by the system to define the end of a transaction day for settlement and reconciliation.
(b)
POS deployment.
POS terminals shall be deployed as follows:
(1) For an FNS authorized retailer with Program benefit redemption amounting to 15 percent or more of total food sales, all checkout lanes shall be equipped;
(2) For an FNS authorized retailer with Program benefit redemptions representing less than 15 percent of total food sales, superstores and supermarkets shall, at a minimum, receive one terminal for every $11,000 in monthly redemption activity up to the number of lanes per store. All other food retailers shall receive one terminal for every $8,000 in monthly redemption activity up to the number of lanes per store. However, a State agency may utilize an alternative deployment formula that permits equipment deployment at higher levels than required by this paragraph up to the number of lanes in each store. The State agency shall review terminal deployment on a yearly basis and shall be authorized to remove excess terminals if actual redemption activity warrants a reduction.
(3) For newly authorized retailers, the State agency and retailer shall negotiate a mutually agreed level of terminal deployment up to the number of lanes per store. The State agency may consult with the appropriate FNS field office in order to determine the previous SNAP redemption activity that could be utilized in determining the initial number of terminals to deploy in newly authorized retailer firms. State agencies will also need to make accommodations for border stores that are deemed necessary for client access. To do so, State agencies must ensure that procedures are in place to process manual vouchers in instances when the system is down or for those retailers that do not have POS equipment. Redemption information shall remain confidential. Unauthorized release of redemption information is subject to penalties defined in Section 15 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2024).
(4) Any FNS authorized retailer shall be able to submit further evidence that it warrants additional terminals after the initial POS terminals are deployed. SNAP households may also submit evidence to the State agency that additional POS terminals are needed. State agencies may provide retailers with additional terminals above the minimum number required by this paragraph at customer service booths or other locations if appropriate.
(c)
Retailer agreements.
The State agency shall enter into an agreement with each authorized retailer. The retailer agreement shall describe the terms and conditions of participation in the SNAP EBT system. At a minimum, the agreement shall:
(1) Describe all terms and conditions with respect to equipment ownership, lease arrangements, handling and maintenance for which the State agency and merchant are liable;
(2) Describe the agreed upon procedures and policies for participation and withdrawal from the EBT system;
(3) Comply with all Program regulations with respect to retailer participation in the Program and treatment of SNAP households. This shall include specific requirements with respect to the deployment of terminals and the identification of checkout lanes for SNAP customers;
(4) Delineate the liabilities during system downtime and the associated responsibilities of each party with respect to the use of off-line and/or manually entered data, paper vouchers, and re-presented vouchers.
(d) Third party processors are financial institutions, cardholder authorization processors other than the party with which the State agency has contracted for EBT services, and food retailers driving their own terminals that are capable of relaying electronic transactions to a central database computer for authorization. The State agency shall afford retailers the opportunity to use third party processors and shall provide interface specifications and certification standards in order for the third party processor to participate in the EBT system.
(1) In order to participate in a SNAP EBT system, a third party processor must be able to meet all third party interface specifications and certification standards associated with § 274.8. The State agency shall make available to third party processors the third party interface specifications prior to implementation of the EBT system to enable third party processors to access the database. Third party processors shall undergo functional and acceptance tests as specified by the State agency;
(2) Third party processors shall be liable for transactions until the transaction has been electronically accepted by the contracted vendor or an intermediate processing facility;
(3) The State agency shall ensure that third party processors and food retailers driving their own terminals comply with this section and all applicable Program regulations.
(e)
Managing retailer participation.
The State agency shall:
(1) Convey retailer authorization information provided by FNS to the system operator using the Retailer EBT Data Exchange (REDE) system. The State agency must access the REDE files to ensure that the FNS retailer files used to authorize valid EBT SNAP transactions are updated on a daily basis.
(2) Follow-up on actions taken regarding any disqualification or withdrawal of an authorized retailer from the Program must occur within two business days after receipt;
(3) Add newly authorized retailers or third party processors to the EBT system as prescribed under paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.
(4) Ensure that only currently authorized retailers can access the system;
(5) Monitor retailers to ensure that equipment deployment complies with paragraph (b) of this section;
(6) Ensure that equipment and supplies are maintained in working order for retail stores equipped by the State agency or its contractor. Equipment shall be replaced or repaired within 48 hours;
(7) Ensure that retail store employees are trained in system operation prior to redeeming benefits. Retailer training shall be offered by the State agency and include the provision of appropriate written and program specific materials. Retailers have the option to waive instruction by the State agency if they desire. State agencies shall direct retailers to confirm in writing that they are waiving their option to training;
(8) Conduct adjustments as prescribed under § 274.2(g) of this chapter;
§ 274.4
Reconciliation and reporting.
(a)
Reconciliation.
State agencies shall account for all issuance through a reconciliation process. The EBT system shall provide reports and documentation pertaining to the following:
(1)
Reconciliation.
Reconciliation shall be conducted and records kept as follows:
(i) Reconciliation of benefits posted to household accounts on the central computer against benefits on the Issuance Authorization File;
(ii) Reconciliation of individual household account balances against account activities on a daily basis;
(iii) Reconciliation of each individual retail store's SNAP transactions per POS terminal and in total to deposits on a daily basis;
(iv) Verification of retailer's credits against deposit information entered into the automated clearinghouse (ACH) network;
(v) Reconciliation of total funds entered into, exiting from, and remaining in the system each day;
(vi) Maintenance of audit trails that document the full cycle of issuance from benefit allotment posting to the State issuance authorization file through posting to POS transactions at retailers through settlement of retailer credits.
(b)
Management reports.
The State agency shall require the EBT system to provide reports that enable the State agency to manage the system. The reports shall be available to the State agency or FNS as requested on a timely basis and consist of:
(1) Information on how the system operates relative to its performance standards, the incidence, type and cause of system problems, and utilization patterns.
(2) Retailer transaction data submitted to FNS on a monthly basis. This data must be submitted in the specified format in accordance with the required schedule.
(3) Data detailing by specified category the amount of Program benefits issued or returned through the EBT system shall be provided in a format and mechanism specified by FNS to the FNS Account Management Agent as the benefits become available to recipients. This data will be used to increase or decrease the SNAP EBT benefit funding authorization for the State's Automated Standard Application for Payment (ASAP) account.
(c)
Required reports.
The State agency shall review and submit the following reports to FNS on a monthly basis:
(1) Form FNS-46, Issuance Reconciliation Report, shall be submitted by each State agency operating an issuance system. The report shall be prepared at the level of the State agency where the actual reconciliation of posted benefits and the master issuance file occurs.
(i) The State agency shall identify and report the number and value of all issuances which do not reconcile with the master issuance file. All unreconciled issuances shall be identified as specified on this reporting document.
(ii) The report shall be received by FNS no later than 90 days following the end of the report month.
(2)
Form FNS-388, State Issuance and Participation Estimates.
(i) State agencies shall telephone or transmit by computer the Form FNS-388 data and mail the reports to the FNS regional office no later than the 19th day of each month. When the 19th falls on a weekend or holiday, the Form FNS-388 data shall be reported by telephone or transmitted by computer and mailed on the first work day after the 19th. The Form FNS-388 report shall be signed by the person responsible for completing the report or a designated State agency official.
(ii) The Form FNS-388 report shall provide Statewide estimated or actual totals of issuance and participation for the current and previous month, and actual or final participation totals for the second preceding month. In addition to the participation totals for the second preceding months of January and July, provided on the March and September reports, non-assistance (NA) and public assistance (PA) household and person participation breakdowns shall be provided. As an attachment to the March and September Form FNS-388 reports, State agencies shall provide project area breakdowns of benefit issuance and NA/PA household and person participation data for the second preceding months of January and July.
(iii) State agencies shall submit any proposed changes in their estimation procedures to be used in determining the Form FNS-388 data to the FNS regional office for review and comment. FNS shall monitor the accuracy of the Statewide estimated dollar value of benefits issued and the number of households and persons participating as reported on the Form FNS-388 report against the Statewide actual total participation as reported on succeeding Form FNS-388 reports and against the semiannual project area participation totals attached to the March and September Form FNS-388 reports. The FNS accuracy standards for the issuance and participation estimates are that estimates for the current month be within ( + ) or (−) four (4) percent of actual levels, and the estimates for the previous month be within ( + ) or (−) two (2) percent of actual levels. State agencies shall explain any unusual circumstances that cause benefit issuance and/or participation data to not meet these accuracy standards. If a State agency fails to meet these accuracy standards, FNS shall notify the State agency and assist the State agency in revising its estimating procedures to improve its reporting.
(iv) A participating household is one that is certified and has been, or will be, issued benefits (whether or not the benefits are used), and households that have met the eligibility requirements, but will receive zero benefits.
§ 274.5
Record retention and forms security.
(a)
Availability of records.
(1) The State agency shall maintain issuance, inventory, reconciliation, and other accountability records for a period of three years as specified in § 272.1(f) of this chapter. This period may be extended at the written request of FNS.
(2) In lieu of the records themselves, easily retrievable microfilm, microfiche, or computer tapes which contain the required information may be maintained.
(b)
Control of issuance documents.
The State agency shall control all issuance documents which establish household eligibility while the documents are transferred and processed within the State agency. The State agency shall use numbers, batching, inventory control logs, or similar controls from the point of initial receipt through the issuance and reconciliation process.
(c)
Accountable documents.
(1) EBT cards shall be considered accountable documents. The State agency shall provide the following minimum security and control procedures for these documents:
(i) Secure storage;
(ii) Access limited to authorized personnel;
(iii) Bulk inventory control records;
(iv) Subsequent control records maintained through the point of issuance or use; and
(v) Periodic review and validation of inventory controls and records by parties not otherwise involved in maintaining control records.
(2) For notices of change which initiate, update or terminate the master issuance file, the State agency shall, at a minimum, provide secure storage and shall limit access to authorized personnel.
§ 274.6
Replacement issuances and cards to households.
(a)
Providing replacement issuance.
(1) Subject to the restrictions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, State agencies shall provide replacement issuances to a household when the household reports that food purchased with Program benefits was destroyed in a household misfortune.
(2) Where a Federal disaster declaration has been issued and the household is eligible for disaster SNAP benefits under the provisions of part 280, the household shall not receive both the disaster allotment and a replacement allotment for a misfortune.
(3)
Replacement restrictions.
(i) Replacement issuances shall be provided only if a household timely reports a loss orally or in writing. The report will be considered timely if it is made to the State agency within 10 days of the date food purchased with Program benefits is destroyed in a household misfortune.
(ii) No limit on the number of replacements shall be placed on the replacement of food purchased with Program benefits which was destroyed in a household misfortune.
(iii) Except for households certified under 7 CFR part 280, replacement issuances shall be provided in the amount of the loss to the household, up to a maximum of one month's allotment, unless the issuance includes restored benefits which shall be replaced up to their full value.
(4)
Household statement of loss.
(i) Prior to issuing a replacement, the State agency shall obtain from a member of the household a signed statement attesting to the household's loss. The required statement may be mailed to the State agency if the household member is unable to come into the office because of age, handicap or distance from the office and is unable to appoint an authorized representative.
(ii) If the signed statement or affidavit is not received by the State agency within 10 days of the date of report, no replacement shall be made. If the 10th day falls on a weekend or holiday, and the statement is received the day after the weekend or holiday, the State agency shall consider the statement timely received.
(iii) The statement shall be retained in the case record. It shall attest to the destruction of food purchased with the original issuance and the reason for the replacement. It shall also state that the household is aware of the penalties for intentional misrepresentation of the facts, including but not limited to, a charge of perjury for a false claim.
(5)
Time limits for making issuance replacements.
(i) Replacement issuances shall be provided to households within 10 days after report of loss or within two (2) working days of receiving the signed household statement required in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, whichever date is later.
(ii) The State agency shall deny or delay replacement issuances in cases in which available documentation indicates that the household's request for replacement appears to be fraudulent.
(iii) The household shall be informed of its right to a fair hearing to contest the denial or delay of a replacement issuance. Replacements shall not be made while the denial or delay is being appealed.
(6)
Verifying issuance and household misfortune.
(i) Upon receiving a request for replacement of an issuance for food destroyed in a household misfortune, the State agency shall determine if the issuance was validly issued. The State agency shall also comply with all applicable provisions in paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(5)of this section.
(ii) Prior to replacing destroyed food that was purchased with Program benefits, the State agency shall determine that the destruction occurred in a household misfortune or disaster, such as, but not limited to, a fire or flood. This shall be verified through a collateral contact, documentation from a community agency including, but not limited to, the fire department or the Red Cross, or a home visit.
(7)
Documentation and reconciliation of replacement issuances.
(i) The State
agency shall document in the household's case file each request for replacement, the date, the reason, and whether or not the replacement was provided. This information may be recorded exclusively on the household statement required in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
(ii) The State agency shall maintain, in readily-identifiable form, a record of the replacements granted to the household, the reason, and the month. The record may be a case action sheet maintained in the case file, notations on the master issuance file, if readily accessible, or a document maintained solely for this purpose.
(iii) When a request for replacement is made late in an issuance month, the replacement will be issued in a month subsequent to the month in which the original benefit was issued. All replacements shall be posted and reconciled to the month of issuance of the replacement and may be posted to the month of issuance of the original benefit, so that all duplicate transactions may be identified.
(b)
Providing replacement EBT cards or PINs.
The State agency shall make replacement EBT cards available for pick up or place the card in the mail within two business days following notice by the household to the State agency that the card has been lost, stolen or damaged unless the State agency implements a replacement procedure pursuant to paragraph (b)(5) of this section.
(1) The State agency shall ensure that a duplicate account is not established which would permit households to access more than one account in the system.
(2) An immediate hold shall be placed on accounts at the time notice is received from a household regarding the need for card or PIN replacement. The State agency shall implement a reporting system which is continually operative. Once a household reports that their EBT card has been lost or stolen, the State agency shall assume liability for benefits subsequently drawn from the account and replace any lost or stolen benefits to the household. The State agency or its agent shall maintain a record showing the date and time of all reports by households that their card is lost or stolen.
(3) The State agency may impose a replacement fee by reducing the monthly allotment of the household receiving the replacement card; however, the fee may not exceed the cost to replace the card. If the State agency intends to collect the fee by reducing the monthly allotment, it must follow FNS reporting procedures for collecting program income. State agencies currently operating EBT systems must inform FNS of their proposed collection operations. State agencies in the process of developing an EBT system must include the procedure for collection of the fee in their system design document. All plans must specify how the State agency intends to account for card replacement fees and include identification of the replacement threshold, frequency, and circumstances in which the fee shall be applicable. State agencies may establish good cause policies that provide exception rules for cases where replacement card fees will not be collected.
(4)
Replacement card.
The State agency shall issue replacement cards and PINs in accordance with § 274.2(f) of this chapter.
(5)
State option to withhold replacement card.
The State agency may require an individual member of a household to contact the State agency to provide an explanation in cases where the number of requests for card replacements is determined excessive. If they so require, the State agency must establish a threshold for the number of card replacements during a specified period of time to be considered excessive. That threshold shall not be less than four cards requested within 12 months prior to the request, unless the State agency has additional evidence indicating a suspected trafficking violation, as defined at § 271.2 of this chapter. If a trafficking violation is suspected prior to the fourth card request, the State agency shall refer the client for investigation and, if deemed appropriate, may provide a notice to the client, requiring the individual or household to contact the State agency to provide an explanation prior to receiving a subsequent replacement card.
(i) The State agency shall notify the household in writing when it has reached the threshold, indicating that
the next request for card replacement will require contact with the State agency to provide an explanation for the requests, before the replacement card will be issued. The State agency shall also notify the household in writing once the threshold has been exceeded that the State agency is withholding the card until contact is made. These notices must:
(A) Be written in clear and simple language;
(B) Meet the language requirements described at § 272.4(b) of this chapter;
(C) Specify the number of cards requested and over what period of time;
(D) Explain that the next request, or the current request if the threshold has been exceeded, requires contact with the State agency before another card is issued;
(E) Provide all applicable information on how contact is to be made in order for the client to comply, such as whom to contact, a telephone number and address;
(F) Include a statement that explains what is considered a misuse or fraudulent use of benefits and the possibility of referral to the fraud investigation unit for suspicious activity.
(ii) Following notification, should another card be requested, the State agency shall require that the household contact the State agency to provide an explanation for the requests. If the client makes contact, the State agency shall make the replacement EBT card available for pick up or place the card in the mail in accordance with § 274.2(f) of this chapter within two business days following household contact with the State agency, regardless of whether or not an explanation was provided.
(A) If a household does not contact the State agency in response to the State agency's notice, the State agency shall not issue a replacement card to the household and the case must be referred for investigation.
(B) The State agency shall educate the client on the proper use of the card if the explanation is deemed appropriate and the State agency shall not require contact upon subsequent requests, unless the pattern of card activity has changed since the initial contact and indicates possible trafficking activity.
(C) The State agency shall refer the individual for investigation in cases where the individual contacts the State agency but refuses to explain the card losses or the explanation provided appears to be indicative of trafficking in accordance with § 271.2 of this chapter. The State agency shall issue a replacement card to any household that makes the required contact so that the household has access to benefits in its EBT account while the investigation is underway and while awaiting a hearing, in accordance with § 273.16(e)(5).
(iii) In all cases, a State agency shall act to protect households containing homeless persons, elderly or disabled members, victims of crimes and other vulnerable persons who may lose EBT cards but are not committing fraud.
(6)
Excessive Replacement Card Notice.
The State agency shall monitor all client requests for EBT card replacements and send a notice, upon the fourth request in a 12-month period, alerting the household that their account is being monitored for potential, suspicious activity. If another replacement card is subsequently requested and trafficking is suspected, the State agency shall refer that case to the State's fraud investigation unit.
(i) The State agency shall be exempt from sending the Excessive Replacement Card Notice if they have chosen to exercise the option to withhold the replacement card until contact is made with the State agency, in accordance with paragraph (b)(5) of this section, as long as the State agency has chosen to use the minimum threshold, which requires sending the first warning notice on the fourth card replacement request within 12 months. If the State agency chooses to use a threshold higher than the fourth card replacement request, the State agency must send the Excessive Replacement Card Notice on the fourth card request in accordance with this section.
(ii) The State agency shall notify the household in writing upon their fourth card request that their case is being monitored. This notice shall, at a minimum:
(A) Be written in clear and simple language;
(B) Meet the language requirements described at § 272.4(b) of this chapter;
(C) Specify the number of cards requested and over what period of time;
(D) Explain that the transactions of the cardholder's account are being monitored for potential trafficking activity;
(E) Include a statement that explains what is considered a misuse or fraudulent use of benefits and the possibility of referral to the State's fraud investigation unit for suspicious activity.
(F) Provide contact information, including a telephone number, should the household have questions or concerns regarding the notice.
[75 FR 18381, Apr. 12, 2010, as amended at 78 FR 51657, Aug. 21, 2013]
§ 274.7
Benefit redemption by eligible households.
(a)
Eligible food.
Program benefits may be used only by the household, or other persons the household selects, to purchase eligible food for the household, which includes, for certain households, the purchase of prepared meals, and for other households residing in certain designated areas of Alaska, the purchase of hunting and fishing equipment with benefits.
(b)
Prior payment prohibition.
Program benefits shall not be used to pay for any eligible food purchased prior to the time at which an EBT card is presented to authorized retailers or meal services. Neither shall benefits be used to pay for any eligible food in advance of the receipt of food, except when prior payment is for food purchased from a nonprofit cooperative food purchasing venture.
(c)
Transaction limits.
No minimum dollar amount per transaction or maximum limit on the number of transactions shall be established. In addition, no transaction fees shall be imposed on SNAP households utilizing the EBT system to access their benefits.
(d)
Access to balances.
(1) Households shall be permitted to determine their SNAP account balances without making a purchase or standing in a checkout line.
(2) The State agency shall ensure that the EBT system is capable of providing a transaction history for a period of up to 2 calendar months to households upon request.
(3) Households shall be provided printed receipts at the time of transaction in accordance with § 274.8(b)(7).
(e)
Access to retail stores.
(1) The EBT system shall provide for minimal disruption of access to and service in retail stores by eligible households.
(2) The EBT system shall not result in a significant increase in the cost of food or cost of transportation to authorized retailers for SNAP households.
(f)
Equal treatment.
The EBT system shall be implemented and operated in a manner that maintains equal treatment for SNAP households in accordance with § 278.2(b) of this chapter. The following requirements for the equal treatment of SNAP households shall directly apply to EBT systems:
(1) Retailers shall not establish special checkout lanes which are only for SNAP households. If special lanes are designated for the purpose of accepting other electronic debit or credit cards and/or other payment methods such as checks, SNAP customers with EBT cards may also be assigned to such lanes as long as other commercial customers are assigned there as well.
(2) Checkout lanes equipped with POS devices shall be made available to SNAP households during all retail store hours of operation.
(g)
Households eligible for prepared meals.
(1)
Meals-on-wheels.
Eligible household members 60 years of age or over or members who are housebound, physically handicapped, or otherwise disabled to the extent that they are unable to adequately prepare all their meals, and their spouses, may use Program benefits to purchase meals prepared for and delivered to them by a nonprofit meal delivery service authorized by FNS.
(2)
Communal dining facilities.
Eligible household members 60 years of age or over and their spouses, or those receiving SSI and their spouses, may use Program benefits issued to them to purchase meals prepared especially for them at communal dining facilities authorized by FNS for that purpose.
(3)
Residents of certain institutions.
(i) Members of eligible households who are narcotics addicts or alcoholics and who
regularly participate in a drug or alcoholic treatment rehabilitation program may use Program benefits to purchase food prepared for them during the course of such program by a private nonprofit organization or institution or publicly operated community mental health center which is authorized by FNS to redeem benefits in accordance with §§ 278.1 and 278.2(g) of this chapter.
(ii) Eligible residents of a group living arrangement may use Program benefits issued to them to purchase meals prepared especially for them at a group living arrangement which is authorized by FNS to redeem benefits in accordance with §§ 278.1 and 278.2(g) of this chapter.
(iii) Residents of shelters for battered women and children as defined in § 278.1(g) of this chapter may use their Program benefits to purchase meals prepared especially for them at a shelter which is authorized by FNS to redeem benefits in accordance with §§ 278.1 and 278.2(g) of this chapter.
(4)
Homeless households.
(i) Homeless SNAP households may use their Program benefits to purchase prepared meals from authorized homeless meal providers.
(ii) Eligible homeless households may use Program benefits to purchase meals from restaurants authorized by FNS for such purpose.
(h) Eligible households residing in areas of Alaska determined by FNS as areas where access to authorized retailers is difficult and which rely substantially on hunting and fishing for subsistence may use all or any part of the Program benefits issued to purchase hunting and fishing equipment such as nets, hooks, rods, harpoons and knives, but may not use benefits to purchase firearms, ammunition, and other explosives.
(i) State agencies shall implement a method to ensure that access to prepared meals and hunting and fishing equipment is limited to eligible households as described in paragraphs (g) through (h) of this section.
(j)
Container deposit fees.
Program benefits may not be used to pay for deposit fees in excess of the amount of the State fee reimbursement required to purchase any food or food product contained in a returnable bottle or can, regardless of whether the fee is included in the shelf price posted for item. The returnable container type and fee must be included in State law in order for the customer to be able to pay for the upfront deposit with SNAP benefits. If a SNAP eligible product has a State deposit fee associated with it, the product remains eligible for purchase with SNAP benefits, and the State deposit fee may be paid with SNAP as well; however, any fee in excess of the State deposit fee must be paid in cash or other form of payment other than with SNAP benefits.
[75 FR 18381, Apr. 12, 2010, as amended at 80 FR 53243, Sept. 3, 2015]
§ 274.8
Functional and technical EBT system requirements.
(a)
Functional requirements.
The State agency shall ensure that the EBT system is capable of performing the following functional requirements prior to implementation:
(1)
Authorizing household benefits.
(i) Issuing and replacing EBT cards to eligible households;
(ii) Permitting eligible households to select a personal identification number (PINs) at least four digits in length;
(iii) Establishing benefit cards and accounts with the central computer database;
(iv) Maintaining the master household issuance record file data and current authorization information;
(v) Training households and other users in system usage;
(vi) Authorizing benefit delivery;
(vii) Posting benefits to each household's account for regular and supplemental issuances;
(viii) Providing households with access to information on benefit availability;
(ix) Ensuring the privacy of household data and providing benefit and data security;
(x) Inventorying and securing accountable documents; and
(xi) Zeroing out benefit accounts and other account authorization activity.
(2)
Providing food benefits to households.
(i) Verifying the identity of authorized households or authorized household representatives at issuance terminals or POS;
(ii) Verifying the PIN and/or PIN off-set, primary account number (PAN), terminal identification number and retailer identification number;
(iii) Determining the sufficiency of the household's account balance in order to debit or credit household benefit accounts at the point of sale;
(iv) Sending messages authorizing or rejecting purchases;
(v) Providing back-up purchase procedures when the system is unavailable;
(vi) Ensuring that benefits are available and carried over from month-to-month.
(vii) Responding to issuance problems in a timely manner.
(3)
Crediting retailers and financial institutions for redeemed benefits.
(i) Verifying electronic transactions flowing to or from participating retailers' bank accounts;
(ii) Creating and maintaining a file containing the individual records of EBT transactions;
(iii) Totaling all credits accumulated by each retailer;
(iv) Providing balance information to retailers or third party processors from individual POS terminals, as needed;
(v) Providing each retailer information on total deposits in the system on a daily basis;
(vi) Preparing a daily tape in a National Automated Clearinghouse format or other process approved by FNS with information on benefits redeemed for each retailer and in summary;
(vii) Transmitting the ACH tape to a financial institution for transmission through the ACH or other method approved by FNS;
(viii) Transferring the information on the ACH tape or other process approved by FNS containing daily redemption activity of each retailer to the FNS Minneapolis Computer Support Center at least once weekly. Transmittal may be by tape, disc, remote job entry or other means acceptable to FNS.
(4) Managing retailer participation in accordance with § 274.3(e).
(b)
Performance and technical standards.
The State agency shall ensure that EBT systems comply with POS technical standards established by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) or International Organization for Standardization (ISO) where applicable. This includes the draft EBT ISO 8583 Processor Interface Technical Specifications contained in the ANSI standards, which delineates a standard message format for retailers and third parties. In addition, the State agency shall ensure that the EBT system meets performance and technical standards in the areas of system processing speeds, system availability and reliability, system security, system ease-of-use, minimum card and terminal requirements, performance bonding, and a minimum transaction set. With prior written approval from FNS, the State agency may utilize the prevailing industry performance standards in its region in lieu of those identified in this section. The standards shall be included in all requests for proposals and contracts.
(1)
System processing speeds.
(i) For leased line systems, 98 percent of EBT transactions shall be processed within 10 seconds or less and all EBT transactions shall be processed within 15 seconds. Leased line systems rent telecommunications carriers specifically to connect to the central authorizing computer. For dial-up systems, 95 percent of the EBT transactions shall be processed within 15 seconds or less and all EBT transactions shall be processed within 20 seconds or less. Dial-up systems utilize existing telecommunications lines to dial up and connect to the central computer at the time of the transaction. Processing response time shall be measured at the POS terminal from the time the ‘enter’ or ‘send’ key is pressed to the receipt and display of authorization or disapproval information. Third party processors, as defined in paragraph (h)(5) of this section, shall be required by the State agency to comply with the same processing response times required of the primary processor.
(ii) The EBT system shall provide re-ports, as determined by the State agency, that document transaction processing response time and the number and type of problematic transactions that could not be processed within the standard response time.
(2)
System availability and reliability.
(i) The EBT system central computer
shall be available 99.9 percent of scheduled up-time, 24 hours a day, 7 days per week. Scheduled up-time shall mean the time the database is available for transactions excluding scheduled downtime for routine maintenance. The total system, including the system's central computer, any network or intermediate processing facilities and cardholder authorization processors, shall be available 98 percent of scheduled up-time, 24 hours per day, 7 days per week. Scheduled downtime for routine maintenance shall occur during non-peak transaction periods. State certification procedures shall determine whether intermediate processing facilities and cardholder authorization processors are capable of complying with system availability standards prescribed herein prior to permitting the interface with the central computer system.
(ii) The system central computer shall permit no more than 2 inaccurate EBT transactions for every 10,000 EBT transactions processed. The transactions to be included in measuring system accuracy shall include all types of SNAP transactions permitted at POS terminals and processed through the host computer, manual transactions entered into the system, credits to household accounts, and funds transfers to retailer accounts.
(iii) Reconciliation reports and other information regarding problematic transactions shall be made available to the State agency by the system operator, individual retailers, households or financial institutions as appropriate. Reports on problematic transactions, including inaccurate transactions shall be delineated by the source of the problem such as card failure, POS terminal failure, interruption of telecommunications, or other component failure. Errors shall be resolved in a timely manner.
(3)
System security.
As an addition to or component of the Security Program required of Automated Data Processing systems prescribed under § 277.18(m) of this chapter, the State agency shall ensure that the following EBT security requirements are established:
(i) Storage and control measures to control blank unissued EBT cards and PINs, and unused or spare POS devices;
(ii) Measures to ensure communication access control. Communication controls shall include the transmission of transaction data and issuance information from POS terminals to work-stations and terminals at the data processing center. The following specific security measures shall be included, as appropriate, in the system design documentation, operating procedures or the State agency Security Program:
(A) Computer hardware controls that ensure acceptance of data from authorized terminals only. These controls shall include the use of mechanisms such as retailer identification codes, terminal identifiers and user identification codes, and/or other mechanisms and procedures recognized by the industry;
(B) Software controls, placed at either the terminal or central computer or both, that establish separate control files containing lists of authorized retailers, terminal identifying codes, and user access and identification codes. EBT system software controls shall include separate checks against the control files in order to validate each transaction prior to authorization and limiting the number of unsuccessful PIN attempts that can be made utilizing standard industry practices before the card is deactivated;
(C) Communications network security that utilizes the Data Encryption Standard algorithm to encrypt the PIN, at a minimum, from the point of entry. Other security may include authentication codes and check-sum digits, in combination with data encoded on the magnetic stripe such as the PIN and/or PIN offset, to ensure data security during electronic transmission. Any of the network security measures may be utilized together or separately and may be applied at the terminal or central computer as indicated in the approved system design to ensure communications control;
(D) Manual procedures that provide for secure access to the system with minimal risk to household or retailer accounts. Manual procedures may include the utilization of manager identification codes in obtaining telephonic
authorization from the central computer system; requirements for separate entry with audio response unit verification and authorization number; and/or the utilization of 24 hour hotline telephone numbers to authorize transactions.
(iii) Message validation shall include but shall not be limited to:
(A) Message format checks for completeness of the message, correct order of data, existence of control characters, number and size of data fields and appropriate format standards as specified in the approved system design;
(B) Range checks for acceptable date fields, number and valid account numbers, purchase and refund upper limitations in order to prevent and control damage to the system accounts;
(C) Reversal of messages that are not fully processed and recorded.
(iv) Administrative and operational procedures shall ensure that:
(A) Functions affecting an account balance are separated or dually controlled during processing and when requesting Federal reimbursement through a concentrator bank under the provisions of paragraph (i) of this section. These functions may include but are not limited to the set up of accounts, transmittal of funds to and from accounts, access to files to change account records, and transmittal of retailer deposits to the ACH network or other means approved by FNS for crediting retailer bank accounts;
(B) Passwords, identity codes or other security procedures must be utilized by State agency or local personnel and at data processing centers;
(C) Software programming changes shall be dual controlled to the extent possible;
(D) System operations functions shall be segregated from reconciliation duties;
(v) A separate EBT security component shall be incorporated into the State agency Security Program for Automated Data Processing (ADP) systems where appropriate as prescribed under § 277.18(m) of this chapter. The periodic risk analyses required by the Security Program shall address the following items specific to an EBT system:
(A) EBT system vulnerability to theft and unauthorized use;
(B) Completeness and timeliness of the reconciliation system;
(C) Vulnerability to tampering with or creating household accounts;
(D) Erroneous posting of issuances to household accounts;
(E) Manipulation of retailers' accounts such as creation of false transactions or intrusion by unauthorized computer users;
(F) Capability to monitor systematic abuses at POS terminals such as debits for a complete allotment, excessive manual issuances, and multiple manual transactions at the same time. Such monitoring may be accomplished through the use of exception reporting;
(G) Tampering with information on the ACH tape or similar information utilized in a crediting method approved by FNS; and,
(H) The availability of a complete audit trail. A complete audit trail shall, at a minimum, be able to provide a complete transaction history of each individual system activity that affects an account balance. The audit trail shall include the tracking of issuances from the Master File and Issuance File, network transactions from POS terminals to EBT central computer database and system file updates.
(vi) The State agency shall incorporate the contingency plan approved by FNS into the Security Program.
(4)
System ease-of-use.
(i) For all system users, the State agency shall ensure that the system:
(A) Minimizes the number of separate steps required to complete a transaction;
(B) Minimizes the number of codes or commands needed to make use of the system;
(C) Makes available clear and comprehensive account balance information with a minimum number of actions necessary;
(D) Provides training and instructions for all system users especially those persons with disabilities;
(E) Makes available prompts on POS terminals or balance only terminals, where appropriate;
(F) Identifies procedures for problem resolution;
(G) Provides reasonable accommodation for the needs of households with disabilities in keeping with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
(ii) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section, the State agency shall ensure that retailers utilizing the EBT system:
(A) Have available manual backup procedures;
(B) Can obtain timely information on daily credits to their banks;
(C) Have available deposit information in a format readily comparable to information maintained in the store; and
(D) Have available instructions on resolving problems with equipment and retailer accounts.
(5)
Minimum card requirements.
(i) The address of the office where a card can be returned if found or no longer in use should be printed on the card.
(ii) State agencies that implement the photo EBT card option in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section must print on the EBT cards the text “Any user with valid PIN can use SNAP benefits on card and need not be pictured.” or similar alternative text approved by FNS.
(iii) FNS reserves the right to require State agencies to place a Department logo on the EBT card and/or sleeves or jackets.
(iv) EBT cards and/or sleeves or jackets shall not contain the name of any State or local official. EBT informational materials shall not indicate association with any political party or other political affiliation.
(v) State agencies may require the use of a photograph of one or more household members on the card. If the State agency does require the EBT cards to contain a photo, it must establish procedures to ensure that all appropriate household members or authorized representatives are able to access benefits from the account as necessary.
(6)
POS terminals.
POS terminals shall meet the following requirements:
(i) Balance information shall not be displayed on the screen of the POS terminal except for balance-only inquiry terminals;
(ii) PINs shall not be displayed at the terminal; and
(iii) PIN encryption shall occur from the point of entry in a manner which prevents the unsecured transmission between any point in the system.
(7)
Transaction receipts.
Households shall be provided printed receipts at the time of transaction. At a minimum this information shall:
(i) State the date, merchant's name and location, transaction type, transaction amount and remaining balance for the SNAP account;
(ii) Comply with the requirements of 12 CFR part 205 (Regulation E) in addition to the requirements of this section; and
(iii) Identify the SNAP households member's account number (the PAN) using a truncated number or coded transaction number. The households' name shall not appear on the receipt except when a signature is required when utilizing a manual transaction voucher.
(8)
Performance bonding.
The State agency may require a performance bond in accordance with § 277.8 of this chapter or utilize other contractual clauses it deems necessary to enforce the requirements of this section.
(9)
Minimum transaction set.
At a minimum, the State agency shall ensure that the EBT system, including third party processors and retailers driving their own terminals, is capable of providing for authorizing or rejecting purchases, refunds or customer credits, voids or cancellations, key entered transactions, balance inquiries and settlement or close-out transactions. The system must be capable of completing this transaction set across State borders nationwide in accordance with standards specified in paragraph (h)(10) of this section.
(10)
Interoperability.
State agencies must adopt uniform standards to facilitate interoperability and portability nationwide. The term “interoperability” means the EBT system must enable benefits issued in the form of an EBT card to be redeemed in any State. The term “portability” means the EBT system must enable benefits issued in the form of an EBT card to be used in any State by a household to purchase food at a retail food store or a wholesale food concern approved under the
Food and Nutrition Act of 2008. The standards must include the following:
(i)
EBT system connectivity.
State agencies are responsible for establishing telecommunications links, transaction switching facilities and any other arrangements with other State agencies necessary for the routing of interoperable transactions to such other State EBT authorization systems. State agencies are also responsible for facilitating the settlement of such interoperable transactions and the handling of adjustments. These connections need not be direct connections between State authorization systems but may be facilitated through agreements and linkages with other designated agents or third party processors. All State agencies must agree to the timing and disposition of disputes, error resolution, and adjustments in accordance with Department regulations at § 273.13(a) and § 273.15(k) of this chapter and paragraph (f) of this section. State agencies or their designated agents must draw funds from State SNAP accounts for SNAP benefits transacted by that State's SNAP recipients, regardless of where benefits were transacted.
(ii)
Message format.
Each authorization system must use the ISO 8583 message format, modified for EBT, in a version mutually agreed to between the authorization agent and the party connected for all transactions. Each authorization system must process each financial transaction as a single message financial transaction, except for pre-authorized transactions and reversals, processed as paired transactions.
(iii)
Card Primary Account Number (PAN) Requirements.
Track 2 on each card shall contain the PAN. Each Government entity must obtain an Issuer Identification Number (IIN) from the American Banker's Association (ABA). The IIN should be included as the first six digits of the PAN. The PAN must comply with ISO 7812, Identification Cards—Numbering System and Registration Procedures for Issuer Identifiers. Each State agency must be responsible for generating, updating, and distributing IIN files of all States to each retailer, processor, or acquirer that is directly connected to the State's authorization system. Each terminal operator that uses a routing table for routing acquired transactions must, within 7 calendar days of receiving an IIN routing table update, modify its routing tables to reflect the updated routing information.
(iv)
Third Party Processor requirements.
Each Third Party Processor or terminal operator must have primary responsibility and liability for operating the telecommunications and processing system (including software and hardware) through which transactions initiated at POS terminals it owns, operates, controls or for which it has signed an agreement to accept EBT transactions, are processed and routed, directly or indirectly, to the appropriate State authorization system. Each terminal operator must maintain the necessary computer hardware and software to interface either directly with a State authorization system or with a third party service provider to obtain access to one or more State authorization systems. Each terminal operator must also establish a direct or indirect telecommunications connection for the routing of transactions to the State authorization system or to a processor directly or indirectly connected to the State authorization system.
(v)
REDE File.
The State agency must ensure that their EBT system verifies FNS retailer numbers for all interstate transactions against the National REDE file of all FNS EBT retailers to validate these transactions.
(c)
Concentrator bank responsibilities.
The concentrator bank shall be a Federally-insured financial institution or other entity acceptable to the Federal Reserve which has the capability to take retailer credits and/or debits, obtained from the EBT system operator, and transmit them to the ACH network operated by the Federal Reserve or through another process for crediting retailers approved by FNS. Transmittal shall be by tape or on-line in a format suitable for the ACH or as approved by FNS.
(1) The minimum functions of the concentrator bank are:
(i) Preparing a daily ACH tape or other crediting process approved by FNS with information on benefits redeemed and creditable to each retailer;
(ii) Transferring the ACH tape or other crediting process approved by FNS to the Federal Reserve or other entity approved by FNS;
(iii) Initiating and accepting reimbursement from the appropriate U.S. Treasury account through the ASAP system or other payment process approved by FNS. At the option of FNS, the State agency may designate another entity as the initiator of reimbursement for SNAP redemptions provided the entity is acceptable to FNS and U.S. Treasury;
(iv) Cooperating in the reconciliation of discrepancies and error resolution when necessary.
(2) With the approval of FNS, another procedure, other than the ACH system, may be utilized to credit retailer accounts and/or debit FNS' account, if it meets the needs of FNS and the EBT system.
(3) The State agency shall be liable for any errors in the creation of the ACH tape or its transmission. The State agency may transfer the liability associated with creation of the ACH tape, its transmission or another crediting process approved by FNS as appropriate to the EBT system operator or the concentrator bank. Appropriate system security administrative and operational procedures shall be instituted in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section.
(d)
Re-presentation.
The State agency shall ensure that a manual purchase system is available for use during times when the EBT system is inaccessible.
(1) Under certain circumstances, when a manual transaction occurs due to the inaccessibility of the host computer and the transaction is rejected because insufficient funds are available in a household's account, the State agency may permit the re-presentation of the transaction during subsequent months. At the State agency's option, re-presentation may be permitted within the EBT system as follows:
(i) Re-presentation of manual vouchers when there are insufficient funds in the EBT account to cover the manual transaction may be permitted only under the following circumstances:
(A) The manual transaction occurred because the host computer was down and authorization was obtained by the retailer for the transaction; or
(B) The manual transaction occurred because telephone lines were down.
(ii) Re-presentation of manual vouchers shall not be permitted when the EBT card, magnetic stripe, PIN pad, card reader, or POS terminal fails and telephone lines are operational. Manual transactions shall not be utilized to extend credit to a household via re-presentation when the household's account balance is insufficient to cover the planned purchase.
(iii) The State agency may debit the benefit allotment of a household following the insufficient funds transaction in either of two ways:
(A) Any amount which equals at least $10 or up to 10 percent of the transaction. This amount will be deducted monthly until the total balance owed is paid-in-full. State agencies may opt to re-present at a level that is less than the 10 percent maximum, however, this lesser amount must be applied to all households.
(B) $50 in the first month and the greater of $10 or 10 percent of the allotment in subsequent months until the total balance owed is paid-in-full. If the monthly allotment is less than $50, the State shall debit the account for $10.
(2) The State agency shall establish procedures for determining the validity of each re-presentation and subsequent procedures authorizing a debit from a household's monthly benefit allotment. The State agency may ask households to voluntarily pay the amount of a represented transaction or arrange for a faster schedule of payment than identified in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section.
(3) The State agency shall ensure that retailers provide notice to households at the time of the manual transaction that re-presentation may occur if there are insufficient benefits in the account to cover the transaction. The statement shall be printed on the paper voucher or on a separate sheet of paper. The State agency shall also provide notice to the household prior to the month when a benefit allotment is reduced when a re-presentation is necessary. Notice shall be provided to the
household for each insufficient transaction that is to be re-presented in a future month. The notice shall be provided prior to the month it occurs and shall state the amount of the reduction in the benefit allotment.
(4) The Department shall not accept liability under any circumstances for the overissuance of benefits due to the utilization of manual vouchers, including those situations when the host computer is inaccessible or telecommunications lines are not functioning. However, the State agency, in consultation with authorized retailers and with the mutual agreement of the State agency's vendor, if any, may accept liability for manual purchases within a specified dollar limit. Costs associated with liabilities accepted by the State agency shall not be reimbursable.
(5) The State agency shall be strictly liable for manual transactions that result in excess deductions from a household's account.
(e)
Store-and-forward.
As an alternative to manual transactions:
(1) State agencies may opt to allow retailers, at the retailer's own choice and liability, to perform store-and-forward transactions when the EBT system cannot be accessed for any reason. The retailer may forward the transaction to the host one time within 24 hours of when the system again becomes available. Should the 24-hour window cross into the beginning of a new benefit issuance period, retailers may draw against all available benefits in the account.
(2) State agencies may also opt, in instances where there are insufficient funds to authorize an otherwise approvable store-and-forward transaction, to allow the retailer to collect the balance remaining in the client's account, in accordance with the requirements detailed in this section.
(i) State Agencies may elect to allow store-and-forward to provide remaining balances to retailers as follows:
(A) The EBT processor may provide partial approval of the store-and-forward transaction, crediting the retailer with the balance remaining in the account through a one-step process;
(B) The transaction should be in accordance with the standard message format requirements for store and forward; and
(C) Re-presentation, as described in paragraph (d) of this section, to obtain the uncollected balance from current or future months' benefits shall not be allowed for store-and-forward transactions.
(ii) In States that elect not to give retailers the option described in this paragraph, all store-and-forward transactions with insufficient funds will be denied in full.
(f)
State agency requirements for photo EBT card implementation
—(1) Minimum requirements. Prior to implementation, State agencies must be performing sufficiently well in program administration to be eligible to implement the photo EBT card option.
Prior to implementation, State agencies must demonstrate to FNS successful administration of SNAP based on SNAP performance standards. Successful program administration will take into account at a minimum the metrics related to program access, the State's payment error rate, the State's Case and Procedural Error Rate, application processing timeliness, including both the 7-day expedited processing and the 30-day processing standards, timeliness of recertification actions, and other metrics, as determined by the Secretary, that may be relevant to the State agency's implementation of photo EBT cards.
(2)
Function of issuance.
The photo EBT card option is a function of issuance and not a condition of eligibility. Any implementation of the option to place a photo on the EBT card must not impact the certification of households. An application will be considered complete with or without a photo and a case shall be certified regardless of the status of a photo in accordance with timeframes established under 7 CFR 273.2. If a State agency chooses to implement a voluntary photo EBT card policy, issuance shall not be impacted. If a State agency chooses to implement a mandatory photo EBT card policy, a State agency may not deny or terminate a household because a household member who is exempted by paragraph (f)(4) of this section does not comply with the requirement to place a photo on the EBT card.
(3)
Mandatory vs. voluntary.
(i) State agencies shall have the option to implement a photo on EBT cards on a mandatory or voluntary basis. Regardless of whether the photo is mandatory or voluntary, the certification process must not be altered in order to facilitate photos, and clients must be informed that certification will not be impacted by whether or not a photo is on the card.
(ii) Under mandatory implementation, State agencies must exempt certain clients, as stated in paragraph (f)(4) of this section. State agencies must establish which member(s) of the household would be required to be photographed and the procedures that allow eligible nonexempt household members who do not agree to the photo to come into compliance at a later time.
(iii) Under voluntary implementation, clients must be clearly informed of the voluntary nature of the option. All applicant members of households, whether or not they are in an exempted category, must opt in to have a photo on their EBT card. States shall not require a photo be taken if the State is implementing a voluntary option.
(4)
Exemptions.
Under a mandatory implementation, the State agency must exempt, at a minimum, the elderly, the disabled, children under 18, homeless households, and victims of domestic violence. A victim of domestic violence shall be able to self-attest and cannot be required to submit documentation to prove domestic violence. The ability to self-attest must be applied equally regardless of if the victim is a female or male. Non-applicants cannot have a photo taken for an EBT card whether or not they desire to have their photo taken. A State agency may establish additional exempted categories.
(5)
Serving clients with hardship.
State agencies must have sufficient capacity to issue photo EBT cards and a process or procedure in place to address, on a case-by-case basis, household hardship situations as determined by the State agency so that such household benefits are not unduly withheld. Examples of hardship conditions include, but are not limited to: Illness, transportation difficulties, care of a household member, hardships due to residency in a rural area, prolonged severe weather, or work or training hours which prevent the household from being available during the hours that photos are taken in-office. These are households that do not already fall under the mandatory exemptions or other exemptions established by the State under paragraph (f)(4) of this section .
(6)
Issuance of photo EBT card.
(i) States can require households to come in to be photographed, but cannot do so for the purposes of certification. The amount of time provided to households to come in and be photographed needs to be sufficient and reasonable and be documented in the Implementation Plan as required in paragraph (f)(14) of this section.
(ii) Regardless of whether the State's photo EBT card policy is voluntary or mandatory, if a household meets expedited criteria, the State must issue the EBT card without a photo and provide the full benefit allotment to the entire household without delay. The State agency may require a nonexempt head of household member to comply at the next recertification.
(iii) Card issuance procedures for new SNAP households must ensure adherence to application processing standards as required at 7 CFR 273.2(g) and (i) and benefit issuance standards at § 274.2(b).
(iv) State agencies shall not store photos that are collected in conjunction with its photo EBT card policy but are not placed on an EBT card.
(v) The process for issuing and activating photo EBT cards must not disrupt, inhibit or delay access to benefits nor cause a gap in access for ongoing benefits for eligible households.
(vi) Any card issued as part of the implementation of the photo EBT card option may not count against the household with respect to card replacement fees or the card replacement threshold defined in § 274.6(b).
(7)
Prorating household benefits when photo EBT cards are mandatory.
For multi-person households, State agencies shall not withhold benefits for an entire household because nonexempt household members do not comply with the photo EBT card policy. If benefits of the nonexempt household member(s)
are to be withheld, a prorated share of benefits shall be issued to the household member(s) that are in compliance with or are exempt from the photo requirement. For example, if there are four household members and one household member is not in compliance with the photo requirement, 3-4 of the household's monthly benefit allotment must be issued, and 1-4 of the benefit allotment must be held in abeyance and allowed to accrue until the household member complies. For a single person household, the State agency would hold all the benefits in abeyance until the household complies.
(8)
Benefits held for noncompliance.
Benefits held for noncompliance with the photo EBT card requirement must be withheld from issuance in accordance with paragraph (f)(7) of this section. Benefits withheld for noncompliance shall not remain authorized for perpetuity, and States must treat such benefits in accordance with the same timeframe used for handling expungements under § 274.2(i). If the noncompliant member comes into compliance, the non-expired benefits must be issued within two business days of when the State agency obtains the client photo. Any action to withhold benefits from issuance is subject to fair hearings in accordance with 7 CFR 273.15.
(9)
Household and authorized representative card usage.
The State agency must establish procedures to ensure that all appropriate household members and authorized representatives (including individuals permitted by the household to purchase food or meals on their behalf, as provided for in 7 CFR 273.2(n)(3) and § 274.7(a)), can access SNAP benefits for the household regardless of who is pictured on the card or if there is no picture. States shall not require households to notify or provide the State information regarding individuals making purchases permitted by the household on an ad-hoc basis.
(10)
Client and staff training.
State agencies must ensure staff and clients are properly trained on photo EBT card requirements. At a minimum, this training shall include: Whether the State option is voluntary or mandatory, who must comply with the photo requirement, which household members are exempt, and that all appropriate household members and authorized representatives (including individuals permitted by the household to purchase food or meals on its behalf) are able to use the card regardless of who is pictured on the card or if there is no picture.
(i) All staff and client training materials must clearly describe the following statutory and regulatory requirements:
(A) Retailers must allow all appropriate household members and authorized representatives (including individuals permitted by the household to purchase food or meals on its behalf), regardless of whether they are pictured on the card, to utilize the card without having to submit additional verification of identity as long as the transaction is secured by the use of the PIN;
(B) EBT cards with or without a photo are valid in any State; and
(C) Retailers must treat all SNAP clients in the same manner as non-SNAP clients;
(ii) State agencies may not specifically reference which categories of individuals are exempt from the photo EBT requirement in any materials to retailers.
(11)
Retailer education and responsibility.
State agencies must conduct sufficient education of retailers if photos are used on cards. The State agency must clearly inform all retailers in the State and contiguous areas of implementation. State agency communications with retailers must clearly state:
(i) All household members and authorized representatives (including individuals permitted by the household to purchase food or meals on its behalf) are entitled to use the EBT card regardless of the picture on the card if the EBT card is presented with the valid PIN;
(ii) Retailers must treat all SNAP clients in the same manner as non-SNAP clients in accordance with 7 CFR 278.2(b);
(iii) Retailers must not prohibit individuals who have a EBT card and valid PIN, including but not limited to authorized representatives (including individuals permitted by the household
to purchase food or meals on its behalf), from using an EBT card because they are not pictured on the card or there is no picture on the card;
(iv) EBT cards from any State are valid with or without a photo.
(12)
Interoperability.
Interoperability of EBT cards will remain the same regardless of whether or not there is a photo and regardless of which State issued the card. State agencies must conduct sufficient education of clients and retailers, including retailers in contiguous areas, to inform them that the photo EBT cards remain interoperable and authorized retailers must accept EBT cards from all States as long as the user has a valid PIN.
(13)
Advance Planning Document.
Appropriate implementation and administration of the photo EBT card consistent with all applicable requirements is an allowable State administrative cost that FNS shall reimburse at 50 percent in accordance with 7 CFR part 277. Increased costs related to placing photos on the EBT card, whether contractual or produced from other sources, require an Implementation Advance Planning Document Update.
(14)
Implementation Plan.
(i) State agencies must submit an Implementation Plan for approval prior to implementation that delineates how the State agency will operationalize the photo EBT option. FNS shall review the plan and issue an approval, request modifications prior to granting approval or issue an approval subject to conditions. In cases where FNS finds that the steps outlined in the Implementation Plan are not sufficient for a successful implementation, FNS may deny the Implementation Plan or issue an approval subject to conditions, such as requiring the State agency to implement a successful pilot in a selected region of the State before a statewide implementation. Should a State be required to implement a pilot before statewide implementation, that requirement would be documented in the State's Implementation Plan approval, along with any information the State must report to FNS before expansion approval would be provided by FNS.
(ii) State agencies must demonstrate successful administration of SNAP based on SNAP performance standards as established in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. State agencies shall not issue EBT cards with photos before the State's Implementation Plan is approved and the State agency has also received FNS authorization to proceed to issue photo EBT cards.
(iii) The Implementation Plan shall include but not be limited to:
(A) A description of card issuance procedures;
(B) The text required at paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section;
(C) A detailed description of how client protections and ability to use SNAP benefits will be preserved;
(D) Specific information about exempted recipients, the State agency's exemption criteria, and how it will address the needs of household members with hardships;
(E) A description of how the State agency will obtain photographs for the EBT card;
(F) The procedures for opting into a voluntary photo EBT card policy and how the State agency will document that a household voluntarily chose to have a photo on its EBT card;
(G) Training materials and training plans for State agency staff;
(H) A description of any planned stakeholder assistance with implementation;
(I) Communication plans for informing clients, retailers and other stakeholders of the State agency's photo EBT card policy, including copies of letters and other materials communicating the policy to clients, retailers, and other stakeholders. Communication plans must describe compliance with language requirements at 7 CFR 272.4(b);
(J) A timeline for the implementation; and
(K) Draft memoranda of understanding if the State agency plans to share SNAP client data in accordance with 7 CFR 272.1(c) for purposes of implementing its photo EBT card option. The memoranda of understanding must state how any information collected will be securely stored and that the information can only be shared for the purpose of SNAP in accordance with 7 CFR 272.1(c).
(iv) The Implementation Plan shall also address the anticipated timetable
with specific action steps for the State agency and contractors, if any, that may be involved regarding implementation of the photo EBT card option, the State agency's capacity to issue photo EBT cards, and the logistics that shall allow for activation of the photo EBT card simultaneously or followed by deactivation of the active non-photo EBT card. This shall also include the description of the capacity at the facility where the photo EBT cards will be produced, both for transition and ongoing production, and confirmation that the State agency and any contractor will continue to meet regulatory time requirements for all EBT card issuances and replacements, including for expedited households. The Implementation Plan must also include indicators related to the photo EBT card implementation that the State will collect and analyze for the post implementation evaluation required by paragraph (f)(16) of this section in addition to the State's approach for continued oversight, which may include activities as such as the use of test shoppers.
(v) The State agency shall provide all applicable proposed written policy for staff to implement the photo EBT card option to FNS for review. State agencies shall include copies of all materials that will be used to inform clients, retailers and other stakeholders regarding photo EBT card implementation. In addition, the State agencies shall provide a detailed description of how the notifications, communication, policies, and procedures regarding the implementation of any new photo EBT card option will comply with applicable civil rights laws specified at 7 CFR 272.4(b)and 272.6(a).
(vi) The State agency's Implementation Plan shall also include: (A) An education component for retailers and clients to ensure all eligible household members and authorized representatives (including individuals permitted by the household to purchase food or meals on their behalf) are able to use the EBT card, and understand the timeframes associated with the implementation and rollout.
(B) A description of the resources that will be in place to handle comments, questions and complaints from clients, retailers, and external stakeholders, and
(C) A description of procedures to address unexpected events related to the photo EBT card option.
(vii) Upon approval of the Implementation Plan by FNS, the State may proceed with tasks described in the Implementation Plan, as modified by the approval, but may not proceed to issuing actual cards until it receives FNS authorization to do so. FNS may also require the State to implement in a phased manner, which may include criteria as determined by the Secretary.
(15)
Authorization to issue photo EBT cards.
States agencies shall not be permitted to issue EBT cards with photos until FNS provides an explicit authorization to issue photo EBT cards. After an Implementation Plan is approved, FNS will review the State agency's actions at an appropriate time interval to ensure that the process and steps outlined by the State agency in the Implementation Plan are fulfilled. In cases where the State agency has not acted consistently with the process and steps outlined in its photo EBT card Implementation Plan, FNS may deny authorization for the State agency to issue EBT cards with photos until the State agency has done so successfully.
(16)
Post implementation assessment and evaluation.
State agencies must submit to FNS a post-implementation assessment that provides FNS with a report of the results of its implementation, including any issues that arose and how they were resolved, the degree to which State agency staff, clients and retailers properly understood and implemented the new provisions.
(i) This report shall be delivered to FNS within 120 days of implementation. This report shall cover the first 90 days of implementation. The Department also reserves the right to conduct its own review of the State agency's implementation. The State agency's post-implementation report shall include at a minimum:
(A) A survey of clients conducted by an independent evaluator to demonstrate the clients' clear understanding of the State agency's photo EBT policy;
(B) A survey of retailers conducted by an independent evaluator that demonstrates evidence that at least 80 percent of retailers, including smaller independent retailers, demonstrate a full understanding of the policies related to the photo EBT card, which may include the use of test shoppers;
(C) The amount and percent of benefits held for noncompliance if mandatory;
(D) The number and percent of households with photo EBT cards;
(E) The number of households affected by withholding for noncompliance, if mandatory;
(F) The number and percent of households exempt from the photo EBT card requirement if mandatory;
(G) The number and percent of exempted households who opted for photo EBT cards if mandatory;
(H) The number and scope of complaints related to the implementation of the policy;
(I) The State agency's Case and Procedural Error Rate; and
(J) SNAP performance metrics as established in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and other SNAP performance metrics that may have been adversely affected by the implementation of the State agency's photo EBT card option, as determined by the Secretary.
(ii) [Reserved]
(17)
Ongoing monitoring.
FNS will continue to monitor and evaluate the operation of the option. State agencies shall provide FNS additional information upon request or as may be required by other guidelines established by the Secretary to conduct such evaluations.
(18)
Modifying implementation of photo EBT card option.
If any review or evaluation of a State's operations, including photo EBT operation implementation, finds deficiencies, FNS may require a corrective action plan consistent with 7 CFR 275.16 to reduce or eliminate deficiencies. If a State does not take appropriate actions to address the deficiencies, FNS would consider possible actions such as requiring an updated photo EBT Implementation Plan, suspension of the photo EBT policy and/or withholding funds in accordance with 7 CFR 276.4.
[75 FR 18381, Apr. 12, 2010, as amended at 79 FR 11, Jan. 2, 2014; 81 FR 89840, Dec. 13, 2016; 85 FR 52033, Aug. 24, 2020]
Pt. 275

# PART 275—PERFORMANCE REPORTING SYSTEM

# Subpart A—Administration
Sec.
275.1
General scope and purpose.
275.2
State agency responsibilities.
275.3
Federal monitoring.
275.4
Record retention.

# Subpart B—Management Evaluation (ME) Reviews
275.5
Scope and purpose.
275.6
Management units.
275.7
Selection of sub-units for review.
275.8
Review coverage.
275.9
Review process.

# Subpart C—Quality Control (QC) Reviews
275.10
Scope and purpose.
275.11
Sampling.
275.12
Review of active cases.
275.13
Review of negative cases.
275.14
Review processing.

# Subpart D—Data Analysis and Evaluation
275.15
Data management.

# Subpart E—Corrective Action
275.16
Corrective action planning.
275.17
State corrective action plan.
275.18
Project area/management unit corrective action plan.
275.19
Monitoring and evaluation.

# Subpart F—Responsibilities for Reporting on Program Performance
275.20
ME review schedules.
275.21
Quality control review reports.
275.22
Administrative procedure.

# Subpart G—Program Performance
275.23
Determination of State agency program performance.
275.24
High performance bonuses.

# Authority:
7 U.S.C. 2011-2036.

# Editorial Note:
OMB control numbers relating to this part 275 are contained in § 271.8.

# Subpart A—Administration
§ 275.1
General scope and purpose.
Under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, each State agency is responsible for the administration of SNAP in accordance with the Act, Regulations, and the State agency's plan of operation. To fulfill the requirements of the Act, each State agency shall have a system for monitoring and improving its administration of the program. The State agency is also responsible for reporting on its administration to FNS. These reports shall identify program deficiencies and the specific administrative action proposed to meet the program requirements established by the Secretary. If it is determined, however, that a State has failed without good cause to meet any of the program requirements established by the Secretary, or has failed to carry out the approved State plan of operation, the Department shall suspend and/or disallow from the State such funds as are determined to be appropriate in accordance with part 276 of this chapter.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15898, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3407, Feb. 4, 1987; Amdt. 328, 56 FR 60051, Nov. 27, 1991; 75 FR 33436, June 11, 2010]
§ 275.2
State agency responsibilities.
(a)
Establishment of the performance reporting system.
(1) The State agency shall establish a continuing performance reporting system to monitor program administration and program operations. The method for establishing each component of the system is identified and explained in subparts B through F of this part. The components of the State agency's performance reporting system shall be:
(i) Data collection through management evaluation (ME) reviews and quality control (QC) reviews;
(ii) Analysis and evaluation of data from all sources;
(iii) Corrective action planning;
(iv) Corrective action implementation and monitoring; and
(v) Reporting to FNS on program performance.
(2) The State agency must ensure corrective action is effected at the State and project area levels.
(b)
Staffing standards.
The State agency shall employ sufficient State level staff to perform all aspects of the Performance Reporting System as required in this part of the regulations. The staff used to conduct QC reviews shall not have prior knowledge of either the household or the decision under review. Where there is prior knowledge, the reviewer must disqualify her/himself. Prior knowledge is defined as having:
(1) Taken any part in the decision that has been made in the case; (2) any discussion of the case with staff who participated in the decision; or (3) any personal knowledge of or acquaintance with persons in the case itself. To ensure no prior knowledge on the part of QC or ME reviewers, local project area staff shall not be used to conduct QC or ME reviews; exceptions to this requirement concerning local level staff may be granted with prior approval from FNS. However, local personnel shall not, under any circumstances, participate in ME reviews of their own project areas.
(c)
Use of third party contractors.
Any State agency procuring services of a contractor for quality control related services, including any project or training that involves the interpretation of SNAP regulations, policies, or handbooks for quality control or payment accuracy purpose, must ensure that all activities and deliverables performed by the contractor within the scope of the contract adhere to Federal law, regulations, and policies. Activities performed or deliverables provided by a contractor that are not in accordance with Federal law, regulations, or policies are unallowable SNAP administrative costs and are not eligible for Federal reimbursement.
(1) For expenses related to the hiring of a contractor for any quality control related work to qualify for SNAP administrative cost reimbursement under § 277.4(b), FNS requires the following:
(i) The State must notify FNS in writing of its intent to hire a contractor at least 30 days prior to entering into the contract to do so. The notification must include a copy of the
selected contractor's complete proposal, which must receive FNS approval before the State may proceed with the procuring the contract.
(ii) Once the contract is procured, the State must submit to FNS a copy of the signed contract and documentation that outlines all tasks and deliverables to be performed or produced by the contractor.
(iii) The State must submit to FNS a copy of all deliverables, including any training materials, provided by the contractor.
(iv) The State must notify FNS of the date, time, and location of any training sessions led by the contractor at least 10 days in advance of the training. FNS shall be allowed to attend any such training session with or without providing prior notice to the State agency or the contractor.
(v) If the State discusses individual sampled cases with the contractor, the State must document, within the case file, the contents of the discussion and any action taken by the State as a result of the discussion. If the discussion occurs orally, FNS shall be given notice 24 hours in advance of the discussion and shall be allowed to participate in the discussion. If the discussion occurs in writing, the State must ensure that FNS is copied on all written correspondence discussing individual sampled cases.
(2) Copies of documentation and notices required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be provided to the appropriate FNS Regional SNAP Director.
(3) In accordance with the non-procurement debarment procedures under 2 CFR part 417, or successor regulations, FNS shall debar any person that, in carrying out the quality control system, knowingly submits or causes to be submitted false information to FNS.
(d)
FNS Access to State Systems.
Subject to data and security protocols agreed to by FNS and a State agency administering SNAP, each State agency shall ensure that FNS has complete access, including remote access for QC purposes, to both the records that are used in the administration of SNAP, including but not limited to the records contained within certification and EBT systems, and the information systems in which such records are contained.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15898, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3407, Feb. 4, 1987; 86 FR 44586, Aug. 13, 2021; 88 FR 23559, Apr. 18, 2023]
§ 275.3
Federal monitoring.
The Food and Nutrition Service shall conduct the review described in this section to determine whether a State agency is operating SNAP and the Performance Reporting System in accordance with program requirements. The Federal reviewer may consolidate the scheduling and conduction of these reviews to reduce the frequency of entry into the State agency. FNS regional offices will conduct additional reviews to examine State agency and project area operations, as considered necessary to determine compliance with program requirements. FNS shall notify the State agency of any deficiencies detected in program or system operations. Any deficiencies detected in program or system operations which do not necessitate long range analytical and evaluative measures for corrective action development shall be immediately corrected by the State agency. Within 60 days of receipt of the findings of each review established below, State agencies shall develop corrective action addressing all other deficiencies detected in either program or system operations and shall ensure that the State agency's own corrective action plan is amended and that FNS is provided this information at the time of the next formal semiannual update to the State agency's Corrective Action Plan, as required in § 275.17.
(a)
Reviews of State Agency's Administration/Operation of SNAP.
FNS shall conduct an annual review of certain functions performed at the State agency level in the administration/operation of the program. FNS will designate specific areas required to be reviewed each fiscal year.
(b)
Reviews of State Agency's Management Evaluation System.
FNS will review each State agency's management evaluation system on a biennial basis; however, FNS may review a State agency's management evaluation system on a more frequent basis if a regular review reveals serious deficiencies
in the ME system. The ME review will include but not be limited to a determination of whether or not the State agency is complying with FNS regulations, an assessment of the State agency's methods and procedures for conducting ME reviews, and an assessment of the data collected by the State agency in conducting the reviews.
(c)
Reviews of State Agency's Quality Control System.
FNS will conduct a management evaluation (ME) of at least two State Quality Control systems annually, to the maximum extent practicable. The ME will include, but not be limited to, a determination of whether the State agency is complying with FNS regulations; an assessment of the State agency's methods and procedures for conducting and managing the Quality Control system; and an assessment of the data collected by the State agency and submitted to the FNS Regional Office for conducting reviews.
(d)
Validation of State Agency error rates.
FNS shall validate each State agency's payment error rate, as described in § 275.23(c), during each annual quality control review period. Federal validation reviews shall be conducted by reviewing against the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and the regulations, taking into account any FNS-authorized waivers to deviate from specific regulatory provisions. FNS shall validate each State agency's reported negative error rate. Any deficiencies detected in a State agency's QC system shall be included in the State agency's corrective action plan. The findings of validation reviews shall be used as outlined in § 275.23(d)(4).
(1)
Payment error rate.
The validation review of each State agency's payment error rate shall consist of the following actions:
(i) FNS will select a subsample of a State agency's completed active cases, as follows:
(A) For State agencies that determine their active sample sizes in accordance with § 275.11(b)(1)(ii), the Federal review sample for completed active cases is determined as follows:
Average monthly reviewable caseload (N)
Federal subsample target (n′)
31,489 and over
n′ = 400
10,001 to 31,488
n′ = .011634 N + 33.66
10,000 and under
n′ = 150
(B) For State agencies that determine their active sample sizes in accordance with § 275.11(b)(1)(iii), the Federal review sample for completed active cases is determined as follows:
Average monthly reviewable caseload (N)
Federal subsample target (n′)
60,000 and over
n′ = 400
10,001 to 59,999
n′ = .005 N + 100
10,000 and under
n′ = 150
(C) In the above formula, n' is the minimum number of Federal review sample cases which must be selected when conducting a validation review, except that FNS may select a lower number of sample cases if:
(
1
) The State agency does not report a change in sampling procedures associated with a revision in its required sample size within 10 days of effecting the change; and/or
(
2
) The State agency does not complete the number of case reviews specified in its approved sampling plan.
(D) The reduction in the number of Federal cases selected will be equal to the number of cases that would have been selected had the Federal sampling interval been applied to the State agency's shortfall in its required sample size. This number may not be exact due to random starts and rounding.
(E) In the above formula, N is the State agency's minimum active case sample size as determined in accordance with § 275.11(b)(1).
(ii) FNS Regional Offices will conduct case record reviews to the extent necessary to determine the accuracy of the State agency's findings using the household's certification records and the State agency's QC records as the basis of determination. The FNS Regional Office may choose to verify any aspects of a State agency's QC findings through telephone interviews with participants or collateral contacts. In addition, the FNS Regional Office may choose to conduct field investigations to the extent necessary.
(iii) Upon the request of a State agency, the appropriate FNS Regional Office will assist the State agency in completing active cases reported as not
completed due to household refusal to cooperate.
(iv) FNS will also review the State agency's sampling procedures, estimation procedures, and the State agency's system for data management to ensure compliance with §§ 275.11 and 275.12.
(v) FNS validation reviews of the State agency's active sample cases will be conducted on an ongoing basis as the State agency reports the findings for individual cases and supplies the necessary case records. FNS will begin the remainder of each State agency's validation review as soon as possible after the State agency has supplied the necessary information regarding its sample and review activity.
(2)
Underissuance error rate.
The validation review of each State agency's underissuance error rate shall occur as a result of the Federal validation of the State agency's payment error rate as outlined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
(3)
Negative case error rate.
The validation review of each State agency's negative case error rate shall consist of the following actions:
(i) FNS will select a subsample of a State agency's completed negative cases, as follows:
Average monthly reviewable negative caseload (N)
Federal subsample target (n′)
5,000 and over
n′ = 160
501 to 4,999
n′ = .0188 N + 65.7
Under 500
n′ = 75
(A) In the above formula, n' is the minimum number of Federal review sample cases which must be selected when conducting a validation review, except that FNS may select a lower number of sample cases if:
(
1
) The State agency does not report a change in sampling procedures associated with a revision in its required sample size within 10 days of effecting the change; and/or
(
2
) The State agency does not complete the number of case reviews specified in its approved sampling plan.
(B) The reduction in the number of Federal cases selected will be equal to the number of cases that would have been selected had the Federal sampling interval been applied to the State agency's shortfall in its required sample size. This number may not be exact due to random starts and rounding.
(C) In the above formula, N is the State agency's minimum negative case sample size as determined in accordance with § 275.11(b)(2).
(ii) FNS Regional Offices will conduct case record reviews to the extent necessary to determine whether the household case record contained sufficient documentation to justify the State agency's QC findings of the correctness of the State agency's decision to deny, suspend or terminate a household's participation.
(iii) FNS will also review each State agency's negative case sampling and review procedures against the provisions of §§ 275.11 and 275.13.
(iv) FNS will begin each State agency's negative sample case validation review as soon as possible after the State agency has supplied the necessary information, including case records and information regarding its sample and review activity.
(4)
Arbitration.
(i) Whenever the State agency disagrees with the FNS regional office concerning individual QC case findings and the appropriateness of actions taken to dispose of an individual case, the State agency may request that the dispute be arbitrated on a case-by-case basis by an FNS Arbitrator, subject to the following limitations.
(A) The State agency may only request arbitration when the State agency's and FNS regional office's findings or disposition of an individual QC case disagree.
(B) The arbitration review shall be limited to the point(s) within the Federal findings or disposition that the State agency disputes. However, if the arbitrator in the course of the review discovers a mathematical error in the computational sheet, the arbitration shall correct the error while calculating the allotment.
(ii) The FNS Arbitrator(s) shall be an individual or individuals who are not directly involved in the validation effort.
(iii) With the exception of the restrictions contained in paragraph (c)(4)(iii), for an arbitration request to be considered, it must be received by the appropriate FNS regional office
within 20 calendar days of the date of receipt by the State agency of the regional office case findings. In the event the last day of this time period falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal or State holiday, the period shall run to the end of the next work day. The State agency shall be restricted in its eligibility to request arbitration of an individual case if that case was not disposed of and the findings reported in accordance with the timeframes specified in § 275.21(b)(2). For each day late that a case was disposed of and the findings reported, the State agency shall have one less day to request arbitration of the case.
(iv) When the State agency requests arbitration, it shall submit all required documentation to the appropriate FNS regional office addressed to the attention of the FNS Arbitrator. The FNS regional office QC staff may submit an explanation of the Federal position regarding a case to the FNS Arbitrator.
(A) A complete request is one that contains all information necessary for the arbitrator to render an accurate, timely decision.
(B) If the State agency's request is not complete the arbitrator shall make a decision based solely on the available documents.
(v) The FNS Arbitrator shall have 20 calendar days from the date of receipt of a State agency's request for arbitration to review the case and make a decision.
(5)
Household cooperation.
Households are required to cooperate with Federal QC reviewers. Refusal to cooperate shall result in termination of the household's eligibility. The Federal reviewer shall follow the procedures in § 275.12(g)(1)(ii) in order to determine whether a household is refusing to cooperate with the Federal QC reviewer. If the Federal reviewer determines that the household has refused to cooperate, as opposed to failed to cooperate, the household shall be reported to the State agency for termination of eligibility.
(e)
Assessment of Corrective Action.
(1) FNS will conduct will conduct a comprehensive annual assessment of a State agency's corrective action process by compiling all information relative to that State agency's corrective action efforts, including the State agency's system for data analysis and evaluation. The purpose of this assessment and review is to determine if: identified deficiencies are analyzed in terms of causes and magnitude and are properly included in either the State or Project Area/Management Unit corrective action plan; the State agency is implementing corrective actions according to the appropriate plan; target completion dates for reduction or elimination of deficiencies are being met; and, corrective actions are effective. In addition, FNS will examine the State agency's corrective action monitoring and evaluative efforts. The assessment of corrective action will be conducted at the State agency, project area, and local level offices, as necessary.
(2) In addition, FNS will conduct on-site reviews of selected corrective actions as frequently as considered necessary to ensure that State agencies are implementing proposed corrective actions within the timeframes specified in the State agency and/or Project Area/Management Unit corrective action plans and to determine the effectiveness of the corrective action. The on-site reviews will provide State agencies and FNS with a mechanism for early detection of problems in the corrective action process to minimize losses to the program, participants, or potential participants.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15898, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 237, 47 FR 57669, Dec. 28, 1982; Amdt. 260, 49 FR 6303, Feb. 17, 1984; Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3407, Feb. 4, 1987; 53 FR 1604, Jan. 21, 1988; 54 FR 23951, June 5, 1989; Amdt. 309, 55 FR 1672, Jan. 18, 1990; Amdt. 328, 56 FR 60051, Nov. 27, 1991; Amdt. 366, 62 FR 29658, June 2, 1997; Amdt. 373, 64 FR 38294, July 16, 1999; 68 FR 59523, Oct. 16, 2003; 75 FR 33436, June 11, 2010; 86 FR 44586, Aug. 13, 2021]
§ 275.4
Record retention.
(a) The State agency shall maintain Performance Reporting System records to permit ready access to, and use of, these records. Performance Reporting System records include information used in data analysis and evaluation, corrective action plans, corrective action monitoring records in addition to ME review records and QC review records as explained in paragraphs (b)
and (c) of this section. To be readily accessible, system records shall be retained and filed in an orderly fashion. Precautions should be taken to ensure that these records are retained without loss or destruction for the 3-year period required by these regulations. Information obtained on individual households for Performance Reporting System purposes shall be safeguarded in accordance with FNS policies on disclosure of information for SNAP.
(b) ME review records consist of thorough documentation of review findings, sources from which information was obtained, procedures used to review SNAP requirements including sampling techniques and lists, and ME review plans. The State agency must submit documented evidence of review findings to the FNS Regional Office upon request for purposes of evaluating State corrective action plans.
(c) QC review records consist of Forms FNS-380, Worksheet for Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, FNS-380-1, Quality Control Review Schedule, FNS-245, Negative Quality Control Review Schedule; other materials supporting the review decision, including all correspondence with the household and all case notes, digital or otherwise, taken or used by the eligibility worker that are applicable to the review period; sample lists; sampling frames; tabulation sheets; and reports of the results of all quality control reviews during each review period.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15898, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 260, 49 FR 6304, Feb. 17, 1984; Amdt. 262, 49 FR 50597, Dec. 31, 1984; 75 FR 33436, June 11, 2010; 86 FR 44586, Aug. 13, 2021]

# Subpart B—Management Evaluation (ME) Reviews
§ 275.5
Scope and purpose.
(a)
Objectives.
Each State agency shall ensure that project areas operate SNAP in accordance with the Act, regulations, and FNS-approved State Plan of Operation. To ensure compliance with program requirements, ME reviews shall be conducted to measure compliance with the provisions of FNS regulations. The objectives of an ME review are to:
(1) Provide a systematic method of monitoring and assessing program operations in the project areas;
(2) Provide a basis for project areas to improve and strengthen program operations by identifying and correcting deficiencies; and
(3) Provide a continuing flow of information between the project areas, the States, and FNS, necessary to develop the solutions to problems in program policy and procedures.
(b)
Frequency of review.
(1) State agencies shall conduct a review once every year for large project areas, once every two years for medium project areas, and once every three years for small project areas, unless an alternate schedule is approved by FNS. The most current and accurate information on active monthly caseload available at the time the review schedule is developed shall be used to determine project area size.
(2) A request for an alternate review schedule shall be submitted for approval in writing with a proposed schedule and justification. In any alternate schedule, each project area must be reviewed at least once every three years. Approval of an alternate schedule is dependent upon a State agency's justification that the project areas that will be reviewed less frequently than required in paragraph (b)(1) of this section are performing adequately and that previous reviews indicate few problems or that known problems have been corrected. FNS retains the authority for approving any alternate schedule and may approve a schedule in whole or in part. Until FNS approval of an alternate schedule is obtained, the State agency shall conduct reviews in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
(3) FNS may require the State agency to conduct additional on-site reviews when a serious problem is detected in a project area which could result in a substantial dollar or service loss.
(4) State agencies shall also establish a system for monitoring those project areas' operations which experience a significant influx of migratory workers during such migrations. This requirement may be satisfied by either scheduling ME reviews to coincide with such
migrations or by conducting special reviews. As part of the review the State agency shall contact local migrant councils, advocate groups, or other organizations in the project area to ensure that migrants are receiving the required services.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15900, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 262, 49 FR 50597, Dec. 31, 1984; Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3408, Feb. 4, 1987]
§ 275.6
Management units.
(a)
Establishment of management units.
For the purpose of ME reviews, State agencies may, subject to FNS approval, establish “management units” which are different from project areas designated by FNS for participation in the program. For example, State-established welfare districts, regions or other administrative structures within a State may be so designated. Management units can be designated as either large, medium, or small for purposes of frequency of review. However, establishment of management units solely for the purpose of reducing the frequency of review will not be approved by FNS.
(b)
FNS approval of management units.
State agencies shall submit requests for establishment of management units to FNS, which shall have final authority for approval of such units as well as any changes in those previously approved by FNS.
(1) The following minimum criteria must be met prior to requesting FNS approval:
(i) The proposed management unit must correspond with existing State-established welfare districts, regions, or other administrative structures; and
(ii) The unit must have supervisory control over SNAP operations within that geographic area and have authority for implementation of corrective action.
(2) In submitting the request for FNS approval, the State agency shall include the following information regarding the proposed management unit:
(i) That the proposed management unit meets the minimum criteria described in paragraphs (b)(1) (i) and (ii) of this section;
(ii) Geographic coverage, including the names of the counties/project areas within the unit and the identification (district or region number) and location (city) of the office which has supervisory control over the management unit;
(iii) SNAP participation, including the number of persons and number of households;
(iv) The number of certification offices;
(v) The number of issuance units;
(vi) The dollar value of allotments issued as reflected in the most recent available data; and
(vii) Any other relevant information.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15900, Mar. 11, 1980; 45 FR 23637, Apr. 8, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3408, Feb. 4, 1987]
§ 275.7
Selection of sub-units for review.
(a)
Definition of sub-units.
Sub-units are the physical locations of organizational entities within project areas responsible for operating various aspects of SNAP and include but are not limited to certification offices, call centers, and employment and training offices.
(b)
Selection of Sub-units for Review.
State agencies shall select a representative number of sub-units of each category for review in order to determine a project area's compliance with program standards.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15900, Mar. 11, 1980; 45 FR 23638, Apr. 8, 1980; 45 FR 46784, July 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3408, Feb. 4, 1987; 81 FR 2741, Jan. 19, 2016]
§ 275.8
Review coverage.
(a) During each review period, State agencies shall review the national target areas of program operation specified by FNS. FNS will notify State agencies of the minimum program areas to be reviewed at least 90 days before the beginning of each annual review period, which is the Federal fiscal year. FNS may add additional areas during the review period if deemed necessary. The FNS headquarters office will add national target areas during the review period only for deficiencies of national scope. State agencies have 60 days in which to establish a plan schedule for such reviews.
(b) State agencies shall be responsible for reviewing each national target area or other program requirement
based upon the provisions of the regulations governing SNAP and the FNS-approved Plan of Operation. If FNS approves a State agency's request for a waiver from a program requirement, any different policy approved by FNS would also be reviewed. When, in the course of a review, a project area is found to be out of compliance with a given program requirement, the State agency shall identify the specifics of the problem including: the extent of the deficiency, the cause of the deficiency, and, as applicable, the specific procedural requirements the project area is misapplying.
[Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3408, Feb. 4, 1987, as amended by Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994]
§ 275.9
Review process.
(a)
Review procedures.
State agencies shall review the program requirements specified for review in § 275.8 of this part using procedures that are adequate to identify problems and the causes of those problems. As each project area's operational structure will differ, State agencies shall review each program requirement applicable to the project area in a manner which will best measure the project area's compliance with each program requirement.
(b)
ME review plan.
(1) State agencies shall develop a review plan prior to each ME review. This review plan shall specify whether each project area is large, medium, or small and shall contain:
(i) Identification of the project area to be reviewed, program areas to be reviewed, the dates the review will be conducted, and the period of time that the review will cover;
(ii) Information secured from the project area regarding its caseload and organization;
(iii) Identification of the sub-units selected for review and the techniques used to select them;
(iv) At State agency option it may also indicate whether the State agency is using the ME review process to perform non-discrimination reviews; and
(v) A description of the review method(s) the State agency plans to use for each program area being reviewed.
(2) ME review plans shall be maintained in an orderly fashion and be made available to FNS upon request.
(c)
Review methods.
(1) State agenices shall determine the method of reviewing the program requirements associated with each program area. For some areas of program operation it may be necessary to use more than one method of review to determine if the project area is in compliance with program requirements. The procedures used shall be adequate to identify any problems and the causes of those problems.
(2) State agencies shall ensure that the method used to review a program requirement does not bias the review findings. Bias can be introduced through leading questions, incomplete reviews, incorrect sampling techniques, etc.
(d)
Review worksheet.
(1) State agencies shall use a review worksheet to record all review findings. For each sub-unit reviewed the State agency shall, on the worksheet, identify:
(i) The sub-unit being reviewed;
(ii) Each program requirement reviewed in the sub-unit;
(iii) The method used to review each program requirement;
(iv) A description of any deficiency detected;
(v) The cause(s) of any deficiency detected, if known;
(vi) The number of casefiles and/or program records selected and examined within the sub-unit, identification of those selected (record case number, household name, etc.), the proportion which were not subject to review, as well as the method used to select the sample;
(vii) Where applicable, the numerical extent of any deficiency detected through examination of program records; and
(viii) Any pertinent comments concerning the sub-unit's operation.
(2) State agencies shall promptly forward review findings to the appropriate State office for analysis, evaluation, and corrective action planning. Review
worksheets shall be retained in an orderly fashion and made available to FNS upon request.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15900, Mar. 11, 1980; 45 FR 25375, Apr. 15, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3409, Feb. 4, 1987; Amdt. 356, 59 FR 29713, June 9, 1994; 81 FR 2741, Jan. 19, 2016]

# Subpart C—Quality Control (QC) Reviews
§ 275.10
Scope and purpose.
(a) As part of the Performance Reporting System, each State agency is responsible for conducting quality control reviews. For SNAP quality control reviews, a sample of households shall be selected from two different categories: Households which are participating in SNAP (called active cases) and households for which participation was denied, suspended or terminated (called negative cases). Reviews shall be conducted on active cases to determine if households are eligible and receiving the correct allotment of SNAP benefits. The determination of whether the household received the correct allotment will be made by comparing the eligibility data gathered during the review against the amount authorized on the master issuance file. Reviews of negative cases shall be conducted to determine whether the State agency's decision to deny, suspend or terminate the household, as of the review date, was correct. Quality control reviews measure the validity of SNAP cases at a given time (the review date) by reviewing against SNAP standards established in the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 and the Regulations, taking into account any FNS authorized waivers to deviate from specific regulatory provisions. FNS and the State agency shall analyze findings of the reviews to determine the incidence and dollar amounts of errors, which will determine the State agency's liability for payment errors in accordance with the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, as amended, and to plan corrective action to reduce excessive levels of errors for any State agency.
(b) The objectives of quality control reviews are to provide:
(1) A systematic method of measuring the validity of the SNAP caseload;
(2) A basis for determining error rates;
(3) A timely continuous flow of information on which to base corrective action at all levels of administration; and
(4) A basis for establishing State agency liability for errors that exceed the National performance measure.
(c) The review process is the activity necessary to complete reviews and document findings of all cases selected in the sample for quality control reviews. The review process shall consist of:
(1) Case assignment and completion monitoring;
(2) Case reviews;
(3) Supervisory review of completed worksheets and schedules; and
(4) Transmission of completed worksheets and schedules to the State agency for centralized data compilation and analysis.
[Amdt. 149, 44 FR 45893, Aug. 3, 1979, as amended by Amdt. 260, 49 FR 6304, Feb. 17, 1984; 54 FR 7016, Feb. 15, 1989; Amdt. 328, 56 FR 60051, Nov. 27, 1991; Amdt. 373, 64 FR 38294, July 16, 1999; 75 FR 33436, June 11, 2010]
§ 275.11
Sampling.
(a)
Sampling plan.
Each State agency shall develop a quality control sampling plan which demonstrates the integrity of its sampling procedures.
(1)
Content.
The sampling plan shall include a complete description of the frame, the method of sample selection, and methods for estimating characteristics of the population and their sampling errors. The description of the sample frames shall include: source, availability, accuracy, completeness, components, location, form, frequency of updates, deletion of cases not subject to review, and structure. The description of the methods of sample selection shall include procedures for: estimating caseload size, overpull, computation of sampling intervals and random starts (if any), stratification or clustering (if any), identifying sample cases, correcting over-or undersampling, and monitoring sample selection and assignment. A time schedule for each step in the sampling procedures shall be included.
(2)
Criteria.
Sampling plans proposing non-proportional or other alternative designs shall document compliance with the approval criteria in paragraph
(b)(4) of this section. All sampling plans shall:
(i) Conform to principles of probability sampling;
(ii) Specify and explain the basis for the sample sizes chosen by the State agency;
(iii) If the State agency has chosen an active sample size as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, include a statement that, whether or not the sample size is increased to reflect an increase in participation as discussed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the State agency will not use the size of the sample chosen as a basis for challenging the resulting error rates.
(iv) If the State agency has chosen a negative sample size as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, include a statement that, whether or not the sample size is increased to reflect an increase in negative actions as discussed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the State agency will not use the size of the sample chosen as a basis for challenging the resulting error rates.
(3)
Design.
FNS generally recommends a systematic sample design for both active and negative samples because of its relative ease to administer, its validity, and because it yields a sample proportional to variations in the caseload over the course of the annual review period. (To obtain a systematic sample, a State agency would select every kth case after a random start between 1 and k. The value of k is dependent upon the estimated size of the universe and the sample size.) A State agency may, however, develop an alternative sampling design better suited for its particular situation. Whatever the design, it must conform to commonly acceptable statistical theory and application (see paragraph (b)(4) of this section).
(4)
FNS review and approval.
The State agency shall submit its sampling plan to FNS for approval as a part of its State Plan of Operation in accordance with § 272.2(e)(4). In addition, all sampling procedures used by the State agency, including frame composition, construction, and content shall be fully documented and available for review by FNS.
(b)
Sample size.
There are two samples for the SNAP quality control review process, an active case sample and a negative case sample. The size of both these samples is based on the State agency's average monthly caseload during the annual review period. Costs associated with a State agency's sample sizes are reimbursable as specified in § 277.4.
(1)
Active cases.
(i) All active cases shall be selected in accordance with standard procedures, and the review findings shall be included in the calculation of the State agency's payment error rate.
(ii) Unless a State agency chooses to select and review a number of active cases determined by the formulas provided in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section and has included in its sampling plan the reliability certification required by paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, the minimum number of active cases to be selected and reviewed by a State agency during each annual review period shall be determined as follows:
Average monthly reviewable caseload (N)
Minimum annual sample size (n)
60,000 and over
n = 2400
10,000 to 59,999
n = 300 + [0.042(N−10,000)]
Under 10,000
n = 300
(iii) A State agency which includes in its sampling plan the statement required by paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section may determine the minimum number of active cases to be selected and reviewed during each annual review period as follows:
Average monthly reviewable caseload (N)
Minimum annual sample size (n)
60,000 and over
n = 1020
12,942 to 59,999
n = 300 + [0.0153(N−12,941)]
Under 12,942
n = 300
(iv) In the formulas in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section n is the required active case sample size. This is the minimum number of active cases subject to review which must be selected each review period. Also in the formulas, N is the average monthly participating caseload subject to quality control review (i.e., households which are included in the active universe defined in paragraph (e)(1) of this
section) during the annual review period.
(2)
Negative cases.
(i) Unless a State agency chooses to select and review a number of negative cases determined by the formulas provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section and has included in its sampling plan the reliability certification required by paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section, the minimum number of negative cases to be selected and reviewed by a State agency during each annual review period shall be determined as follows:
Average monthly reviewable negative caseload (N)
Minimum annual sample size (n)
5,000 and over
n = 800
500 to 4,999
n = 150 + [0.144(N−500)]
Under 500
n = 150
(ii) A State agency which includes in its sampling plan the statement required by paragraph (a)(2)(iv) of this section may determine the minimum number of negative cases to be selected and reviewed during each annual review period as follows:
Average monthly reviewable negative caseload (N)
Minimum annual sample size (n)
5,000 and over
n = 680
684 to 4,999
n = 150 + [ 0.1224(N−683)]
Under 684
n = 150
(iii) In the formulas in this paragraph (b)(2), n is the required negative sample size. This is the minimum number of negative cases subject to review which must be selected each review period.
(iv) In the formulas in this paragraph (b)(2), N is the average monthly number of negative cases which are subject to quality control review (i.e., households which are part of the negative universe defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) during the annual review period.
(3)
Unanticipated changes.
Since the average monthly caseloads (both active and negative) must be estimated at the beginning of each annual review period, unanticipated changes can result in the need for adjustments to the sample size. FNS shall not penalize a State agency that does not adjust its sample size if the actual caseload during a review period is less than 20 percent larger than the estimated caseload initially used to determine sample size. If the actual caseload is more than 20 percent larger than the estimated caseload, the larger sample size appropriate for the actual caseload will be used in computing the sample completion rate.
(4)
Alternative designs.
The active and negative sample size determinations assume that State agencies will use a systematic or simple random sample design. State agencies able to obtain results of equivalent reliability with smaller samples and appropriate design may use an alternative design with FNS approval. To receive FNS approval, proposals for any type of alternative design must:
(i) Demonstrate that the alternative design provides payment error rate estimates with equal-or-better predicted precision than would be obtained had the State agency reviewed simple random samples of the sizes specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.
(ii) Describe all weighting, and estimation procedures if the sample design is non-self-weighted, or uses a sampling technique other than systematic sampling.
(iii) Demonstrate that self-weighting is actually achieved in sample designs claimed to be self-weighting.
(c)
Sample selection.
The selection of cases for quality control review shall be made separately for active and negative cases each month during the annual review period. Each month each State agency shall select for review approximately one-twelfth of its required sample, unless FNS has approved other numbers of cases specified in the sampling plan.
(1)
Substitutions.
Once a household has been identified for inclusion in the sample by a predesigned sampling procedure, substitutions are not acceptable. An active case must be reviewed each time it is selected for the sample. If a household is selected more than once for the negative sample as the result of separate and distinct instances of denial, suspension or termination, it shall be reviewed each time.
(2)
Corrections.
Excessive undersampling must be corrected during the annual review period. Excessive oversampling may be corrected at the State agency's option. Cases which are dropped to compensate for oversampling shall be reported as not subject
to review. Because corrections must not bias the sample results, cases which are dropped to compensate for oversampling must comprise a random subsample of all cases selected (including those completed, not completed, and not subject to review). Cases which are added to the sample to compensate for undersampling must be randomly selected from the entire frame in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (b), (c)(1), and (e) of this section. All sample adjustments must be fully documented and available for review by FNS.
(d)
Required sample size.
A State agency's required sample size is the larger of either the number of cases selected which are subject to review or the number of cases chosen for selection and review according to paragraph (b) of this section.
(e)
Sample frame.
The State agency shall select cases for quality control review from a sample frame. The choice of a sampling frame shall depend upon the criteria of timeliness, completeness, accuracy, and administrative burden. Complete coverage of the sample universes, as defined in paragraph (f) of this section, must be assured so that every household subject to quality control review has an equal or known chance of being selected in the sample. Since the SNAP quality control review process requires an active and negative sample, two corresponding sample frames are also required.
(1)
Active cases.
The frame for active cases shall list all households which were: (i) Certified prior to, or during, the sample month; and (ii) issued benefits for the sample month, except for those households excluded from the universe in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. State agencies may elect to use either a list of certified eligible households or a list of households issued an allotment. If the State agency uses a list of certified eligible households, those households which are issued benefits for the sample month after the frame has been compiled shall be included in a supplemental list. If the State agency uses an issuance list, the State agency shall ensure that the list includes those households which do not actually receive an allotment because the entire amount is recovered for repayment of an overissuance in accordance with the allotment reduction procedures in § 273.18.
(2)
Negative cases.
The frame for negative cases shall list:
(i) All actions to deny an application in the sample month except those excluded from the universe in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. If a household is subject to more than one denial action in a single sample month, each action shall be listed separately in the sample frame; and
(ii) All actions to suspend or terminate a household in the sample month except those excluded from the universe in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Each action to suspend or terminate a household in the sample month shall be listed separately in the sample frame.
(3)
Unwanted cases.
A frame may include cases for which information is not desired (e.g., households which have been certified but did not actually participate during the sample month). When such cases cannot be eliminated from the frame beforehand and are selected for the sample, they must be accounted for and reported as being not subject to review in accordance with the provisions in §§ 275.12(g) and 275.13(e).
(f)
Sample universe.
The State agency shall ensure that its active and negative case frames accurately reflect their sample universes. There are two sample universes for the SNAP quality control review process, an active case universe and a negative case universe. The exceptions noted below for both universes are households not usually amenable to quality control review.
(1)
Active cases.
The universe for active cases shall include all households certified prior to, or during, the sample month and receiving SNAP benefits for the sample month, except for the following:
(i) A household in which all the members had died or had moved out of the State before the review could be undertaken or completed;
(ii) A household receiving SNAP benefits under a disaster certification authorized by FNS;
(iii) A household which is under investigation for intentional Program violation, including a household with a
pending administrative disqualification hearing;
(iv) A household appealing an adverse action when the review date falls within the time period covered by continued participation pending the hearing; or
(v) A household receiving restored benefits in accordance with § 273.17 but not participating based upon an approved application. Other households excluded from the active case universe during the review process are identified in § 275.12(g).
(2)
Negative cases.
The universe for negative cases shall include all actions taken to deny, suspend, or terminate a household in the sample month except the following:
(i) A household which had its case closed due to expiration of the certification period;
(ii) A household denied SNAP benefits under a disaster certification authorized by FNS;
(iii) A household which withdrew an application prior to the agency's determination;
(iv) A household which is under active investigation for Intentional Program Violation;
(v) A household which has been sent a notice of pending status but which was not actually denied participation;
(vi) A household which was terminated for failure to file a complete monthly report by the extended filing date, but reinstated when it subsequently filed the complete report before the end of the issuance month;
(vii) Other households excluded from the negative case universe during the review process as identified in § 275.13(e).
(g)
Demonstration projects.
Households correctly classified for participation under the rules of an FNS-authorized demonstration project which FNS determines to significantly modify the rules for determining households' eligibility or allotment level, shall be included in the selection and review process. They shall be included in the universe for calculating sample sizes and included in the sample frames for sample selection as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. In addition, they shall be included in the quality control review reports as specified in § 275.21(d) and included in the calculation of a State agency's completion rate as specified in § 275.23(b)(1). The review of these cases shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions specified in §§ 275.12(h) and 275.13(f). FNS shall establish on an individual demonstration project basis whether the results of the reviews of active and negative demonstration project cases shall be included or excluded from the determination of State agencies' error rates as described in § 275.23(b).
[Amdt. 260, 49 FR 6304, Feb. 17, 1984; 49 FR 14495, Apr. 12, 1984, as amended by Amdt. 262, 49 FR 50598, Dec. 31, 1984; Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3409, Feb. 4, 1987; Amdt. 328, 56 FR 60051, Nov. 27, 1991; Amdt. 366, 62 FR 29658, June 2, 1997; Amdt. 373, 64 FR 38295, July 16, 1999; 68 FR 59523, Oct. 16, 2003; 75 FR 33436, June 11, 2010; 86 FR 44586, Aug. 13, 2021]
§ 275.12
Review of active cases.
(a)
General.
A sample of households which were certified prior to, or during, the sample month and issued SNAP benefits for the sample month shall be selected for quality control review. These active cases shall be reviewed to determine if the household is eligible and, if eligible, whether the household is receiving the correct allotment. The determination of a household's eligibility shall be based on an examination and verification of all elements of eligibility (i.e., basic program requirements, resources, income, and deductions). The elements of eligibility are specified in §§ 273.1 and 273.3 through 273.9 of this chapter. The verified circumstances and the resulting benefit level determined by the quality control review shall be compared to the benefits authorized by the State agency as of the review date. When changes in household circumstances occur, the reviewer shall determine whether the changes were reported by the participant and handled by the agency in accordance with the rules set forth in §§ 273.12, 273.13 and 273.21 of this chapter, as appropriate. For active cases, the review date shall always fall within the sample month, either the first day of a calendar or fiscal month or the day of certification, whichever is later. The review of active cases shall include: a household case
record review; a field investigation, except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section; the identification of any variances; an error analysis; and the reporting of review findings.
(b)
Household case record review.
The reviewer shall examine the household case record to identify the specific facts relating to the household's eligibility and basis of issuance. If the reviewer is unable to locate the household case record, the reviewer shall identify as many of the pertinent facts as possible from the household issuance record. The case record review shall include all information applicable to the case as of the review month, including the application and worksheet in effect as of the review date. Documentation contained in the case record can be used as verification if it is not subject to change and applies to the sample month. If during the case record review the reviewer can determine and verify the household's ineligibility the review can be terminated at that point, provided that if the determination is based on information not obtained from the household then the correctness of that information must be confirmed as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The reviewer shall utilize information obtained through the case record review to complete column (2) of the Form FNS-380, and to tentatively plan the content of the field investigation.
(c)
Field investigation.
A full field investigation shall be conducted for all active cases selected in the sample month except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section. A full field investigation shall include a review of any information pertinent to a particular case which is available through the State Income and Eligibility Verification System (IEVS) as specified in § 272.8 of this chapter. If during the field investigation the reviewer determines and verifies the household's ineligibility, the review can be terminated at that point, provided that if the determination is based on information not obtained from the household then the correctness of that information must be confirmed as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. In Alaska an exception to this requirement can be made in those isolated areas not reachable by regularly scheduled commercial air service, automobile, or other public transportation provided one fully documented attempt to contact the household has been made. Such cases may be completed through casefile review and collateral contact. The field investigation will include interviews with the head of household, spouse, or authorized representative; contact with collateral sources of information; and any other materials and activity pertinent to the review of the case. The scope of the review shall not extend beyond the examination of household circumstances which directly relate to the determination of household eligibility and basis of issuance status. The reviewer shall utilize information obtained through the field investigation to complete column (3) of the Form FNS-380.
(1)
Personal interviews.
Personal interviews shall be conducted in a manner that respects the rights, privacy, and dignity of the participants. Prior to conducting the personal interview, the reviewer shall notify the household that it has been selected, as part of an ongoing review process, for review by quality control, and that a personal face-to-face interview will be conducted in the future. The method of notifying the household and the specificity of the notification shall be determined by the State agency, in accordance with applicable State and Federal laws. The personal interview may take place at the participant's home, at an appropriate State agency certification office, or at a mutually agreed upon alternative location. The State agency shall determine the best location for the interview to take place, but would be subject to the same provisions as those regarding certification interviews at § 273.2(e)(2) of this chapter. Those regulations provide that an office interview must be waived under certain hardship conditions. Under such hardship conditions the quality control reviewer shall either conduct the personal interview with the participant's authorized representative, if one has been appointed by the household, or with the participant in the participant's home. Except in Alaska, when an exception to the field investigation
is made in accordance with this section, the interview with the participant may not be conducted by phone. During the personal interview with the participant, the reviewer shall:
(i) Explore with the head of the household, spouse, authorized representative, or any other responsible household member, household circumstances as they affect each factor of eligibility and basis of issuance;
(ii) Establish the composition of the household;
(iii) Review the documentary evidence in the household's possession and secure information about collateral sources of verification; and
(iv) Elicit from the participant names of collateral contacts. The reviewer shall use, but not be limited to, these designated collateral contacts. If required by the State, the reviewer shall obtain consent from the head of the household to secure collateral information. If the participant refuses to sign the release of information form, the reviewer shall explain fully the consequences of this refusal to cooperate (as contained in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section), and continue the review to the fullest extent possible.
(2)
Collateral contacts.
The reviewer shall obtain verification from collateral contacts in all instances when adequate documentation was not available from the participant. This second party verification shall cover each element of eligibility as it affects the household's eligibility and allotment. The reviewer shall make every effort to use the most reliable second party verification available (for example, banks, payroll listings, etc.), in accordance with FNS guidelines, and shall thoroughly document all verification obtained. If any information obtained by the QC reviewer differs from that given by the participant, then the reviewer shall resolve the differences to determine which information is correct before an error determination is made. The manner in which the conflicting information is resolved shall include recontacting the participant unless the participant cannot be reached. When resolving conflicting information reviewers shall use their best judgement based on the most reliable data available and shall document how the differences were resolved.
(d)
Variance identification.
The reviewer shall identify any element of a basic program requirement or the basis of issuance which varies (i.e., information from review findings which indicates that policy was applied incorrectly and/or information verified as of the review date that differs from that used at the most recent certification action). For each element that varies, the reviewer shall determine whether the variance was State agency or participant caused. The results of these determinations shall be coded and recorded in column (4) of the Form FNS-380.
(1)
Variances included in error analysis.
Except for those variances in an element resulting from one of the situations described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, any variance involving an element of eligibility or basis of issuance shall be included in the error analysis. Such variances shall include but not be limited to those resulting from a State agency's failure to take the disqualification action related to SSN's specified in § 273.6(c) of this chapter, and related to work requirements, specified in § 273.7(f) of this chapter.
(2)
Variances excluded from error analysis.
The following variances shall be excluded from the determination of a household's eligibility and basis of issuance for the sample month:
(i) Any variance resulting from the nonverified portion of a household's gross nonexempt income where there is conclusive documentation (a listing of what attempts were made to verify and why they were unsuccessful) that such income could not be verified at the time of certification because the source of income would not cooperate in providing verification and no other sources of verification were available. If there is no conclusive documentation as explained above, then the reviewer shall not exclude any resulting variance from the error determination. This follows certification policy outlined in § 273.2(f)(1)(i) of this chapter.
(ii) Any variance in cases certified under expedited certification procedures resulting from postponed verification of an element of eligibility as allowed under § 273.2(i)(4)(i) of this
chapter. Verification of gross income, deductions, resources, household composition, alien status, or tax dependency may be postponed for cases eligible for expedited certification. However, if a case certified under expedited procedures contains a variance as a result of a residency deficiency, a mistake in the basis of issuance computation, a mistake in participant identification, or incorrect expedited income accounting, the variance shall be included in the error determination. This exclusion shall only apply to those cases which are selected for QC review in the first month of participation under expedited certification.
(iii) Any variance subsequent to certification in an element of eligibility or basis of issuance which was not reported and was not required to have been reported as of the review date. The elements participants are required to report and the time requirements for reporting are specified in §§ 273.12(a) and 273.21(h) and (i) of this chapter, as appropriate. If, however, a change in any element is reported, and the State agency fails to act in accordance with §§ 273.12(c) and 273.21(j) of this chapter, as appropriate, any resulting variance shall be included in the error determination.
(iv) Any variance in deductible expenses which was not provided for in determining a household's benefit level in accordance with § 273.2(f)(3)(i)(B) of this chapter. This provision allows households to have their benefit level determined without providing for a claimed expense when the expense is questionable and obtaining verification may delay certification. If such a household subsequently provides the needed verification for the claimed expense and the State agency does not redetermine the household's benefits in accordance with § 273.12(c) of this chapter, any resulting variance shall be included in the error determination.
(v) Any variance resulting from use by the State agency of information concerning households or individuals from an appropriate Federal source, provided that such information is correctly processed by the State agency. An appropriate Federal source is one which verifies: Income that it provides directly to the household; deductible expenses for which it directly bills the household; or other household circumstances which it is responsible for defining or establishing. To meet the provisions for correct processing, the eligibility worker must have appropriately acted on timely information. In order to be timely, information must be the most current that was available to the State agency at the time of the eligibility worker's action.
(vi) Two variances relating to the Immigration and Naturalization Service's (INS) Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program.
(A) A variance based on a verification of alien documentation by INS. The reviewer shall exclude such variance only if the State agency properly used SAVE and the State agency provides the reviewer with:
(
1
) The alien's name;
(
2
) The alien's status; and
(
3
) Either the Alien Status Verification Index (ASVI) Query Verification Number or the INS Form G-845, as annotated by INS.
(B) A variance based on the State agency's wait for the response of INS to the State agency's request for official verification of the alien's documentation. The reviewer shall exclude such variance only if the State agency properly used SAVE and the State agency provides the reviewer with either:
(
1
) The date of request, if the State agency was waiting for an automated response; or
(
2
) A copy of the completed Form G-845, if the State agency was waiting for secondary verification from INS.
(vii) Subject to the limitations provided in paragraphs (d)(2)(vii)(A) through (d)(2)(vii)(F) of this section, any variance resulting from application of a new Program regulation or implementing memorandum of a mandatory or optional change in Federal law that occurs during the first 120 days from the required implementation date. The variance exclusion shall apply to any action taken on a case directly related to implementation of a covered provision during the 120-day exclusionary period until the case is required to be recertified or acted upon for some other reason.
(A) When a regulation allows a State agency an option to implement prior to the required implementation date, the date on which the State agency chooses to implement may, at the option of the State, be considered to be the required implementation date for purposes of this provision. The exclusion period would be adjusted to begin with this date and end on the 120th day that follows. States choosing to implement prior to the required implementation date must notify the appropriate FNS Regional Office, in writing, prior to implementation that they wish the 120 day variance exclusion to commence with actual implementation. Absent such notification, the exclusionary period will commence with the required implementation date.
(B) A State agency shall not exclude variances which occur prior to the States implementation.
(C) A State agency which did not implement until after the exclusion period shall not exclude variances under this provision.
(D) Regardless of when the State agency actually implemented the regulation, the variance exclusion period shall end on the 120th day following the required implementation date, including the required implementation date defined in paragraph (d)(2)(vii)(A) of this section.
(E) For purposes of this provision, implementation occurs on the effective date of State agency's written statewide notification to its eligibility workers.
(F) This variance exclusion applies to changes occasioned by final regulations or interim regulations. In the case of a final regulation issued following an interim regulation, the exclusion applies only to significant changes made to the earlier interim regulation. A significant change is one which the final regulation requires the State agency to implement on or after publication of a final rule.
(viii) Any variance resulting from incorrect written policy that a State agency acts on that is provided by a Departmental employee authorized to issue SNAP policy and that the State agency correctly applies. For purposes of this provision, written Federal policy is that which is issued in regulations, notices, handbooks, category three and four Policy Memoranda under the Policy Interpretation Response System, and regional policy memoranda issued pursuant to these. Written Federal policy is also a letter from the Food and Nutrition Service to a State agency which contains comments on the State agency's SNAP manual or instructions.
(ix) Any variance in a child support deduction which was the result of an unreported change subsequent to the most recent certification action shall be excluded from the error determination.
(3)
Other findings.
Findings other than variances made during the review which are pertinent to the SNAP household or the case record may be acted on at the discretion of the State agency. Examples of such findings are: an incorrect age of a household member which is unrelated to an element of eligibility; an overdue subsequent certification; no current application on file; insufficient documentation; incorrect application of the verification requirements specified in part 273 of this chapter; and deficiencies in work registration procedural requirements. Such deficiencies include: inadequate documentation of each household member's exempt status; work registration form for each nonexempt household member not completed at the time of application and every six months thereafter; and the household not advised of its responsibility to report any changes in the exempt status of any household member.
(e)
Error analysis.
The reviewer shall analyze all appropriate variances in completed cases, in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section, which are based upon verified information and determine whether such cases are either eligible, eligible with a basis of issuance error, or ineligible. The review of an active case determined ineligible shall be considered completed at the point of the ineligibility determination. For households determined eligible, the review shall be completed to the point where the correctness of the basis of issuance is determined, except in the situations outlined in paragraph (g) of this section. In the event
that a review is conducted of a household which is receiving restored or retroactive benefits for the sample month, the portion of the allotment which is the restored or retroactive benefit shall be excluded from the determination of the household's eligibility and/or basis of issuance. A SNAP case in which a household member(s) receives public assistance shall be reviewed in the same manner as all other SNAP cases, using income as received. The determination of a household's eligibility and the correctness of the basis of issuance shall be determined based on data entered on the computation sheet as well as other information documented on other portions of the Form FNS-380, as appropriate.
(f)
Reporting of review findings.
All information verified to be incorrect during the review of an active case shall be reported to the State agency for appropriate action on an individual case basis. This includes information on all variances in elements of eligibility and basis of issuance in both error and nonerror cases. In addition, the reviewer shall report the review findings on the Form FNS-380-1, in accordance with the following procedures:
(1)
Eligibility errors.
If the reviewer determines that a case is ineligible, the occurrence and the total allotment issued in the sample month shall be coded and reported. Whenever a case contains a variance in an element which results in an ineligibility determination and there are also variances in elements which would cause a basis of issuance error, the case shall be treated as an eligibility error. The reviewer shall also code and report any variances that directly contributed to the error determination. In addition, if the State agency has chosen to report information on all variances in elements of eligibility and basis of issuance, the reviewer shall code and report any other such variances which were discovered and verified during the course of the review.
(2)
Basis of issuance of errors.
If the reviewer determines that SNAP allotments were either overissued or underissued to eligible households in the sample month, the State agency shall code and report any variances that directly contributed to the error determination that were discovered and verified during the course of the review. For fiscal year 2014, only variances that exceed $37.00 (the threshold) shall be included in the calculation of the underissuance error rate, overissuance error rate, and payment error. For fiscal years 2015 and thereafter, this QC tolerance level shall be adjusted annually by the percentage by which the Thrifty Food Plan (TFP) for the 48 contiguous States and the District of Columbia is adjusted. If the State agency has chosen to report information on all variances in elements of eligibility and basis of issuance, the reviewer shall code and report any other such variances that were discovered and verified during the course of the review.
(g)
Disposition of case reviews.
Each case selected in the sample of active cases must be accounted for by classifying it as completed, not completed, or not subject to review. These case dispositions shall be coded and recorded on the Form FNS-380-1.
(1)
Cases reported as not complete.
Active cases shall be reported as not completed if the household case record cannot be located and the household itself is not subsequently located; if the household case record is located but the household cannot be located unless the reviewer attempts to locate the household as specified in this paragraph; or if the household refuses to cooperate, as discussed in this paragraph. All cases reported as not complete shall be reported to the State agency for appropriate action on an individual case basis. Without FNS approval, no active case shall be reported as not completed solely because the State agency was unable to process the case review in time for it to be reported in accordance with the timeframes specified in § 275.21(b)(2).
(i) If the reviewer is unable to locate the participant either at the address indicated in the case record or in the issuance record and the State agency is not otherwise aware of the participant's current address, the reviewer shall attempt to locate the household by contacting at least two sources which the State agency determines are
most likely to be able to inform the reviewer of the household's current address. Such sources include but are not limited to:
(A) The local office of the U.S. Postal Service;
(B) The State Motor Vehicle Department;
(C) The owner or property manager of the residence at the address in the case record; and
(D) Any other appropriate sources based on information contained in the case record, such as public utility companies, telephone company, employers, or relatives. Once the reviewer has attempted to locate the household and has documented the response of each source contacted, if the household still cannot be located and the State agency has documented evidence that the household did actually exist, the State agency shall report the active case as not subject to review. In these situations documented evidence shall be considered adequate if it either documents two different elements of eligibility or basis of issuance, such as a copy of a birth certificate for age and pay status for income; or documents the statement of a collateral contact indicating that the household did exist. FNS Regional Offices will monitor the results of the contacts which State agencies make in attempting to locate households.
(ii) If a household refuses to cooperate with the quality control reviewer and the State agency has taken other administrative steps to obtain that cooperation without obtaining it, the household shall be notified of the penalities for refusing to cooperate with respect to termination and reapplication, and of the possibility that its case will be referred for investigation for willful misrepresentation. If a household refuses to cooperate after such notice, the reviewer must- attempt to complete the case and shall report the household's refusal to the State agency for termination of its participation without regard for the outcome of that attempt. For a determination of refusal to be made, the household must be able to cooperate, but clearly demonstrate that it will not take actions that it can take and that are required to complete the quality control review process. In certain circumstances, the household may demonstrate that it is unwilling to cooperate by not taking actions after having been given every reasonable opportunity to do so, even though the household or its members do not state that the household refuses to cooperate. Instances where the household's unwillingness to cooperate in completing a quality control review has the effect of a refusal to cooperate shall include the following:
(A) The household does not respond to a letter from the reviewer sent Certified Mail-Return Receipt Requested within 30 days of the date of receipt;
(B) The household does not attend an agreed upon interview with the reviewer and then does not contact the reviewer within 10 days of the date of the scheduled interview to reschedule the interview; or
(C) The household does not return a signed release of information statement to the reviewer within 10 days of either agreeing to do so or receiving a request from the reviewer sent Certified Mail-Return Receipt Requested. However, in these and other situations, if there is any question as to whether the household has merely failed to cooperate, as opposed to refused to cooperate, the household shall not be reported to the State agency for termination.
(2)
Cases not subject to review.
Active cases which are not subject to review, if they have not been eliminated in the sampling process, shall be eliminated in the review process. In addition to cases listed in § 275.11(f)(1), these shall include:
(i) Death of all members of a household if they died before the review could be undertaken or completed;
(ii) The household moved out of State before the review could be undertaken or completed;
(iii) The household, at the time of the review, is under active investigation for intentional SNAP violation, including a household with a pending administrative disqualification hearing;
(iv) A household receiving restored benefits in accordance with § 273.17 of this chapter but not participating based upon an approved application for the sample month;
(v) A household dropped as a result of correction for oversampling;
(vi) A household participating under disaster certification authorized by FNS for a natural disaster;
(vii) A case incorrectly listed in the active frame;
(viii) A household appealing an adverse action when the review date falls within the time period covered by continued participation pending the hearing;
(ix) A household that did not receive benefits for the sample month; or
(x) A household that still cannot be located after the reviewer has attempted to locate it in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section.
(h)
Demonstration projects.
Households correctly classified for participation under the rules of a demonstration project which establishes new FNS-authorized eligibility criteria or modifies the rules for determining households' eligibility or allotment level shall be reviewed following standard procedures provided that FNS does not modify these procedures to reflect modifications in the treatment of elements of eligibility or basis of issuance in the case of a demonstration project. If FNS determines that information obtained from these cases would not be useful, then they may be excluded from review.
[Amdt. 260, 49 FR 6306, Feb. 17, 1984; 49 FR 14495, Apr. 12, 1984]

# Editorial Note:
For
Federal Register
citations affecting § 275.12, see the List of CFR Sections Affected, which appears in the Finding Aids section of the printed volume and at
www.govinfo.gov.
§ 275.13
Review of negative cases.
(a)
General.
A sample of actions to deny applications, or suspend or terminate a household in the sample month shall be selected for quality control review. These negative actions shall be reviewed to determine whether the State agency's decision to deny, suspend, or terminate the household, as of the review date, was correct. Depending on the characteristics of individual State systems, the review date for negative cases could be the date of the agency's decision to deny, suspend, or terminate program benefits, the date on which the decision is entered into the computer system, or the date of the notice to the client. State agencies must consistently apply the same definition for review date to all sample cases of the same classification. The review of negative cases shall include a household case record review; an error analysis; and the reporting of review findings, including procedural problems with the action regardless of the validity of the decision to deny, suspend or terminate. In certain instances, contact with the household or a collateral contact may be permitted.
(b)
Household case record review.
The reviewer shall examine the household case record and verify through documentation in it whether the reason given for the denial, suspension, or termination is correct. Through the review of the household case record, the reviewer shall complete the household case record sections and document the reasons for denial, suspension or termination on the Negative Quality Control Review Schedule, Form FNS-245.
(c)
Error analysis.
(1) A negative case shall be considered valid if the reviewer is able to verify through documentation in the household case record that a household was correctly denied, suspended, or terminated from the program in accordance with the reason for the action given by the State agency in the notice. Whenever the reviewer is unable to verify the correctness of the State agency's decision to deny, suspend, or terminate a household's participation through such documentation, the QC reviewer may contact the household or a collateral contact to verify the correctness of the specific negative action under review. If the reviewer is unable to verify the correctness of the State agency's decision to deny, suspend, or terminate the case for the specific reason given for the action, the negative case shall be considered invalid.
(2) The reviewer shall exclude a variance when the State agency erroneously denied, suspended or terminated a household's participation based on an erroneous verification of alien documentation by the Immigration and Nationalization Services (INS) Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements (SAVE) Program. The reviewer shall exclude the variance only if the
State agency properly used SAVE, and the State agency provides the reviewer with:
(i) The alien's name;
(ii) The alien's status; and
(iii) Either the Alien Status Verification Index (ASVI) Query Verification Number or the INS Form G-845, as annotated by INS.
(d)
Reporting of review findings.
When a negative case is incorrect, this information shall be reported to the State agency for appropriate action on an individual case basis, such as recomputation of the allotment and restoration of lost benefits. In addition, the reviewer shall code and record the error determination on the Negative Quality Control Review Schedule, Form FNS-245.
(e)
Disposition of case review.
Each case selected in the sample of negative cases must be accounted for by classifying it as completed, not completed, or not subject to review. These case dispositions shall be coded and recorded on the Negative Quality Control Review Schedule, Form FNS-245.
(1)
Cases reported as not complete.
Negative cases shall be reported as not completed if the reviewer, after all reasonable efforts, is unable to locate the case record. In no event, however, shall any negative case be reported as not completed solely because the State agency was unable to process the case review in time for it to be reported in accordance with the timeframes specified in § 275.21(b)(2), without prior FNS approval. This information shall be reported to the State agency for appropriate action on an individual case basis.
(2)
Cases not subject to review.
Negative cases which are not subject to review, if they have not been eliminated in the sampling process, shall be eliminated in the review process. In addition to cases listed in § 275.11(f)(2), these shall include:
(i) A household which was dropped as a result of a correction for oversampling;
(ii) A household which was listed incorrectly in the negative frame.
(f)
Demonstration projects.
A household whose application has been denied or whose participation has been suspended or terminated under the rules of an FNS-authorized demonstration project shall be reviewed following standard procedures unless FNS provides modified procedures to reflect the rules of the demonstration project. If FNS determines that information obtained from these cases would not be useful, then these cases may be excluded from review.
[Amdt. 260, 49 FR 6309, Feb. 17, 1984, as amended at 53 FR 39443, Oct. 7, 1988; Amdt. 373, 64 FR 38296, July 16, 1999; 75 FR 33437, June 11, 2010; 86 FR 44587, Aug. 13, 2021]
§ 275.14
Review processing.
(a)
General.
Each State agency shall use FNS handbooks, worksheets, and schedules in the quality control review process.
(b)
Handbooks.
The reviewer shall follow the procedures outlined in the Quality Control Review Handbook, FNS Handbook 310, to conduct quality control reviews. In addition, the sample of active and negative cases shall be selected in accordance with the sampling techniques described in the Quality Control Sampling Handbook, FNS Handbook 311.
(c)
Worksheets.
The Form FNS-380, shall be used by the reviewer to record required information from the case record, plan and conduct the field investigation, and record findings which contribute to the determination of eligibility and basis of issuance in the review of active cases. In some instances, reviewers may need to supplement Form FNS-380 with other forms. The State forms for appointments, interoffice communications, release of information, etc., should be used when appropriate.
(d)
Schedules.
Decisions reached by the reviewer in active case reviews shall be coded and recorded on the Integrated Review Worksheet, Form FNS-380-1. Such active case review findings must be substantiated by information recorded on the Integrated Review Worksheet, Form FNS-380. In negative case reviews, the review findings shall be coded and recorded on the Negative Quality Control Review
Schedule, Form FNS-245, and supplemented as necessary with other documentation substantiating the findings.
[Amdt. 260, 49 FR 6310, Feb. 17, 1984, as amended by Amdt. 262, 49 FR 50598, Dec. 31, 1984; 75 FR 33438, June 11, 2010]

# Subpart D—Data Analysis and Evaluation
§ 275.15
Data management.
(a)
Analysis.
Analysis is the process of classifying data, such as by areas of program requirements or use of error-prone profiles, to provide a basis for studying the data and determining trends including significant characteristics and their relationships.
(b)
Evaluation.
Evaluation is the process of determining the cause(s) of each deficiency, magnitude of the deficiency, and geographic extent of the deficiency, to provide the basis for planning and developing effective corrective action.
(c) Each State agency must analyze and evaluate at the State and project area levels all management information sources available to:
(1) Identify all deficiencies in program operations and systems;
(2) Identify causal factors and their relationships;
(3) Identify magnitude of each deficiency, where appropriate (This is the frequency of each deficiency occurring based on the number of program records reviewed and where applicable, the amount of loss either to the program or participants or potential participants in terms of dollars. The State agency shall include an estimate of the number of participants or potential participants affected by the existence of the deficiency, if applicable);
(4) Determine the geographic extent of each deficiency (e.g., Statewide/individual project area or management unit); and,
(5) Provide a basis for management decisions on planning, implementing, and evaluating corrective action.
(d) In the evaluation of data, situations may arise where the State agency identifies the existence of a deficiency, but after reviewing all available management information sources sufficient information is not available to make a determination of the actual causal factor(s), magnitude, or geographic extent necessary for the development of appropriate corrective action. In these situations, the State agency shall be responsible for gathering additional data necessary to make these determinations. This action may include, but is not limited to, conducting additional full or partial ME reviews in one or more project areas/management units or discussions with appropriate officials.
(e) Deficiencies identified from all management information sources must be analyzed and evaluated together to determine their causes, magnitude, and geographic extent. Causes indicated and deficiencies identified must be examined to determine if they are attributable to a single cause and can be effectively eliminated by a single action. Deficiencies and causes identified must also be compared to the results of past corrective action efforts to determine if the new problems arise from the causal factors which contributed to the occurrence of previously identified deficiencies.
(f) Data analysis and evaluation must be an ongoing process to facilitate the development of effective and prompt corrective action. The process shall also identify when deficiencies have been eliminated through corrective action efforts, and shall provide for the reevaluation of deficiencies and causes when it is determined that corrective action has not been effective.
(g)
Identification of High Error Project Areas/Counties/Local Offices.
FNS may use quality control information to determine which project areas/counties/local offices have reported payment error rates that are either significantly greater than the State agency average or greater than the national error standard of the Program. When FNS notifies a State agency that a “high error” area exists, the State agency shall ensure that corrective action is developed and reported in accordance with the provisions of § 275.17. If FNS identifies a “high error” locality which a State agency has previously identified as error-prone and taken appropriate action, no further State agency shall be required. If a State agency's corrective action plan fails to address problems in FNS-identified “high
error” areas, FNS may require a State agency to implement new or modified cost-effective procedures for the certification of households.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15909, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3409, Feb. 4, 1987; Amdt. 320, 55 FR 6240, Feb. 22, 1990]

# Subpart E—Corrective Action
§ 275.16
Corrective action planning.
(a) Corrective action planning is the process by which State agencies shall determine appropriate actions to reduce substantially or eliminate deficiencies in program operations and provide responsive service to eligible households.
(b) The State agency and project area(s)/management unit(s), as appropriate, shall implement corrective action on all identified deficiencies. Deficiencies requiring action by the State agency or the combined efforts of the State agency and the project area(s)/management unit(s) in the planning, development, and implementation of corrective action are those which:
(1) Result from a payment error rate of 6 percent or greater (actions to correct errors in individual cases, however, shall not be submitted as part of the State agency's corrective action plan);
(2) Are the causes of other errors/deficiencies detected through quality control, including error rates of 1 percent or more in negative cases (actions to correct errors in individual cases, however, shall not be submitted as part of the State agency's corrective action plan);
(3) Are identified by FNS reviews, GAO audits, contract audits, reports to FNS regarding the implementation of major changes (as discussed in § 272.15) or USDA audits or investigations at the State agency or project area level (except deficiencies in isolated cases as indicated by FNS); and,
(4) Result from 5 percent or more of the State agency's QC sample being coded “not complete” as defined in § 275.12(g)(1) of this part. This standard shall apply separately to both active and negative samples.
(5) Result in underissuances, improper denials, improper suspensions, improper termination, or improper systemic suspension of benefits to eligible households where such errors are caused by State agency rules, practices, or procedures.
(c) The State agency shall ensure that appropriate corrective action is taken on all deficiencies including each case found to be in error by quality control reviews and those deficiencies requiring corrective action only at the project area level. Moreover, when a substantial number of deficiencies are identified which require State agency level and/or project area/management unit corrective action, the State agency and/or project area/management unit shall establish an order of priority to ensure that the most serious deficiencies are addressed immediately and corrected as soon as possible. Primary factors to be considered when determining the most serious deficiencies are:
(1) Magnitude of the deficiency as defined in § 275.15(c)(3) of this part;
(2) Geographic extent of the deficiency (e.g., Statewide/project area or management unit);
(3) Anticipated results of corrective actions; and
(4) High probability of errors occurring as identified through all management evaluation sources.
(d) In planning corrective action, the State agency shall coordinate actions in the areas of data analysis, policy development, quality control, program evaluation, operations, administrative cost management, civil rights, and training to develop appropriate and effective corrective action measures.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15909, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 169, 46 FR 7263, Jan. 23, 1981; Amdt. 262, 49 FR 50598, Dec. 31, 1984; Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3409, Feb. 4, 1987; Amdt. 328, 56 FR 60052, Nov. 27, 1991; 68 FR 59523, Oct. 16, 2003; 75 FR 33438, June 11, 2010; 81 FR 2741, Jan. 19, 2016]
§ 275.17
State corrective action plan.
(a) State agencies shall prepare corrective action plans addressing those deficiencies specified in § 275.16(b) requiring action by the State agency or the combined efforts of the State agency and the project area(s)/management unit(s). This corrective action plan is an open-ended plan and shall remain in effect until all deficiencies in program
operations have been reduced substantially or eliminated. State agencies shall provide updates to their corrective action plans through regular, semiannual updates. These semiannual updates shall be received by FNS by May 1st and November 1st respectively. Such updates must contain:
(1) Any additional deficiencies identified since the previous corrective action plan update;
(2) Documentation that a deficiency has been corrected and is therefore being removed from the plan; and
(3) Any changes to planned corrective actions for previously reported deficiencies.
(b)
Content.
State corrective action plans shall contain, but not necessarily be limited to, the following, based on the most recent information available:
(1) Specific description and identification of each deficiency;
(2) Source(s) through which the deficiency was detected;
(3) Magnitude of each deficiency, if appropriate, as defined in § 275.15(c)(3) of this part;
(4) Geographic extent of the deficiency (e.g., Statewide/project area or management unit—specific project areas in which the deficiency occurs);
(5) Identification of causal factor(s) contributing to the occurrence of each deficiency;
(6) Identification of any action already completed to eliminate the deficiency;
(7) For each deficiency, an outline of actions to be taken, the expected outcome of each action, the target date for each action, and the date by which each deficiency will have been eliminated; and
(8) For each deficiency, a description of the manner in which the State agency will monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the corrective action in eliminating the deficiency.
(c) FNS will provide technical assistance in developing corrective action plans when requested by State agencies.
(d) State agencies will be held accountable for the efficient and effective operation of all areas of the program. FNS is not precluded from issuing a warning as specified in part 276 because a deficiency is included in the State agency's corrective action plan.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15909, Mar. 11, 1980, as amended by Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3409, Feb. 4, 1987]
§ 275.18
Project area/management unit corrective action plan.
(a) The State agency shall ensure that corrective action plans are prepared at the project area/management unit level, addressing those deficiencies not required to be included in the State corrective action plan. State agencies may elect to prepare these plans for or in cooperation with the project area. These project area/management unit corrective action plans shall be open-ended and shall remain in effect until all deficiencies in program operations have been reduced substantially or eliminated. Any deficiencies detected through any source not previously reported to the State agency which require incorporation into the Project Area/Management Unit Corrective Action Plan shall be submitted to the State agency within 60 days of identification. As deficiencies are reduced substantially or eliminated, the project area/management unit shall notify the State agency in writing. The project area/management unit shall be responsible for documenting why each deficiency is being removed from the Plan. The removal of any deficiency from the Plan will be subject to State agency and FNS review and validation.
(b)
Content.
Project area/management unit corrective action plans shall contain all the information necessary to enable the State agency to monitor and evaluate the corrective action properly. Also, State agencies shall establish requirements for project area/management units in planning, implementing and reporting corrective action to assist the State agency's efforts to fulfill its responsibilities for determining which deficiencies must be addressed in the State corrective action plan. States should consider requiring project area/management unit plans to include the following, based on the most recent information available:
(1) Specific description and identification of each deficiency;
(2) Source(s) through which the deficiency was detected;
(3) Magnitude of each deficiency, if appropriate, as defined in § 275.15(c)(3) of this part;
(4) Geographic extent of the deficiency (throughout the project area/management unit or only in specific offices);
(5) Identification of causal factor(s) contributing to the occurrence of each deficiency;
(6) Identification of any action already completed to eliminate the deficiency;
(7) For each deficiency, an outline of actions to be taken, the expected outcome of each action, the target date for each action, the date by which each deficiency will have been eliminated; and
(8) For each deficiency, a description of the manner in which the project area/management unit will monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of the corrective action in eliminating the deficiency.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15909, Mar. 11, 1980]
§ 275.19
Monitoring and evaluation.
(a) The State agency shall establish a system for monitoring and evaluating corrective action at the State and project area levels. Monitoring and evaluation shall be an ongoing process to determine that deficiencies are being substantially reduced or eliminated in an efficient manner and that the program provides responsive service to eligible households.
(b) The State agency shall ensure that corrective action on all deficiencies identified in the State Corrective Action Plan and Project Area/Management Unit Corrective Action Plan is implemented and achieves the anticipated results within the specified time frames. The State agency shall monitor and evaluate corrective action at the State and project levels through a combination of reports, field reviews, and examination of current data available through program management tools and other sources.
(c) In instances where the State agency and/or the project area/management unit determines that the proposed corrective action is not effective in reducing substantially or eliminating deficiencies, the State agency and/or the project area/management unit shall promptly reevaluate the deficiency, causes, and the corrective action taken, and develop and implement new corrective actions.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15909, Mar. 11, 1980]

# Subpart F—Responsibilities for Reporting on Program Performance
§ 275.20
ME review schedules.
(a) Each State agency shall submit its review schedule to the appropriate FNS regional office at least 60 days prior to the beginning of the next year's review period (the Federal fiscal year). These schedules must ensure that all project areas/management units will be reviewed within the required time limits. Each schedule shall identify the project areas/management units in each classification and list each project area to be reviewed by month or by quarter. A State agency may submit a request to use an alternate review schedule at any time. The alternate schedule shall not be effective until approved by FNS in accordance with § 275.5(b)(2).
(b) State agencies shall notify the appropriate FNS regional office of all changes in review schedules.
[Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3410, Feb. 4, 1987]
§ 275.21
Quality control review reports.
(a)
General.
Each State agency shall submit reports on the performance of quality control reviews in accordance with the requirements outlined in this section. These reports are designed to enable FNS to monitor the State agency's compliance with Program requirements relative to the Quality Control Review System. Every case selected for review during the sample month must be accounted for and reflected in the appropriate report(s).
(b)
Individual cases.
The State agency shall report the review findings on each case selected for review during the sample month. For active cases, the State agency shall thoroughly document the Quality Control Review Schedule, Form FNS-380, to ensure any subsequent case reviewers fully understand household circumstances pertaining to the QC review as well as the reasons for the individual case finding
and disposition. The State agency shall also code the findings on the Form FNS-380-1. For negative cases, the State agency shall submit a summary report, coded and documented on the Negative Quality Control Review Schedule, Form FNS-245, in enough detail to ensure subsequent case reviewers fully understand the reasons for the individual finding and disposition. The review findings shall be reported as follows:
(1) The State agency shall utilize SNAPQCS, FNS' automated, web-based QC System, to report all required QC forms, supporting evidence, and information necessary to understand the disposition and final findings for active and negative sampled cases to FNS. Upon State agency request, FNS will consider approval of any technical changes in the review results after they have been reported to FNS.
(2) The State agency shall have at least 115 days from the end of the sample month to dispose of and report the findings of all cases selected in a sample month. FNS may grant additional time as warranted upon request by a State agency for cause shown to complete and dispose of individual cases.
(3) The State agency shall supply the FNS Regional Office with individual household case records and the pertinent information contained in the individual case records, or legible copies of that material, as well as legible hard copies of individual Forms FNS-380, FNS-380-1, and FNS-245 or other FNS-approved report forms, within 10 days of receipt of a request for such information.
(4) For each case that remains pending 115 days after the end of the sample month, the State agency shall immediately submit a report that includes an explanation of why the case has not been disposed of, documentation describing the progress of the review to date, and the date by which it will be completed. If FNS extends the time frames in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, this date will be extended accordingly. If FNS determines that the report in the first sentence of this paragraph (b)(4) does not sufficiently justify the case's pending status, the case shall be considered overdue. Depending upon the number of overdue cases, FNS may find the State agency's QC system to be inefficient or ineffective and suspend and/or disallow the State agency's Federal share of administrative funds in accordance with the provisions of § 276.4.
(c)
Monthly status.
The State agency shall report in a manner directed by the regional office the monthly progress of sample selection and completion within 125 days after the end of the sample month. Each report shall reflect sampling and review activity for a given sample month. If FNS extends the time frames in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, this date will be extended accordingly.
(d)
Demonstration projects.
The State agency shall identify the monthly status of active and negative demonstration project (
i.e.,
those cases described in § 275.11(g)) in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.
[Amdt. 260, 49 FR 6310, Feb. 17, 1984, as amended by Amdt. 262, 49 FR 50598, Dec. 31, 1984; Amdt. 266, 52 FR 3410, Feb. 4, 1987; 75 FR 33438, June 11, 2010; 86 FR 44857, Aug. 13, 2021; 86 FR 49229, Sept. 2, 2021]
§ 275.22
Administrative procedure.
Reports on program performance are intended to provide the State an opportunity to determine compliance with program requirements, identify and resolve emerging problems, and assess the effectiveness of actions that have been taken to correct existing problems. States' reports enable FNS to assess the nationwide status of eligibility and basis of issuance determinations, to ensure State compliance with Federal requirements, to assist States in improving and strengthening their programs, and to develop Federal policies. Reports must be submitted in duplicate to the appropriate FNS Regional Office according to the time frames established in §§ 275.20, 275.21, and 275.22 of this part.
[Amdt. 160, 45 FR 15911, Mar. 11, 1980. Redesignated at 52 FR 3410, Feb. 4, 1987]

# Subpart G—Program Performance
§ 275.23
Determination of State agency program performance.
(a)
Determination of efficiency and effectiveness.
FNS shall determine the efficiency and effectiveness of a State's
administration of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program by measuring State compliance with the standards contained in the Food and Nutrition Act, regulations, and the State Plan of Operation and State efforts to improve program operations through corrective action. This determination shall be made based on:
(1) Reports submitted to FNS by the State;
(2) FNS reviews of State agency operations;
(3) State performance reporting systems and corrective action efforts; and
(4) Other available information such as Federal audits and investigations, civil rights reviews, administrative cost data, complaints, and any pending litigation.
(b)
State agency error rates.
FNS shall estimate each State agency's active case, payment, and negative case error rate based on the results of quality control review reports submitted in accordance with the requirements outlined in § 275.21. The determination of the correctness of the case shall be based on certification policy as set forth in part 273 of this chapter.
(1)
Demonstration projects.
FNS shall make a determination for each individual project whether the reported results of reviews of active and negative demonstration project cases shall be included or excluded from the estimate of the active case error rate, payment error rate, and negative case error rate.
(2)
Determination of payment error rates.
As specified in § 275.3(c), FNS will validate each State agency's estimated payment error rate by rereviewing the State agency's active case sample and ensuring that its sampling, estimation, and data management procedures are correct.
(i) Once the Federal case reviews have been completed and all differences with the State agency have been identified, FNS shall calculate regressed error rates using the following linear regression equations.
(A)
y
1
′ =
y
1
+
b
1
(
X
1
−
x
1
), where
y
1
′ is the average value of allotments overissued to eligible and ineligible households;
y
1
is the average value of allotments overissued to eligible and ineligible households in the rereview sample according to the Federal finding,
b
1
is the estimate of the regression coefficient regressing the Federal findings of allotments overissued to eligible and ineligible households on the corresponding State agency findings,
x
1
is the average value of allotments overissued to eligible and ineligible households in the rereview sample according to State agency findings, and
X
1
is the average value of allotments overissued to eligible and ineligible households in the full quality control sample according to State agency's findings. In stratified sample designs
Y
1
,
X
1
, and
x
1
are weighted averages and
b
1
is a combined regression coefficient in which stratum weights sum to 1.0 and are proportional to the estimated stratum caseloads subject to review.
(B)
y
2
′ =
y
2
+
b
2
(
X
2
−
x
2
, where
y
2
′ is the average value of allotments underissued to households included in the active error rate,
y
2
is the average value of allotments underissued to participating households in the rereview sample according to the Federal finding,
b
2
is the estimate of the regression coefficient regressing the Federal findings of allotments underissued to participating households on the corresponding State agency findings,
x
2
is the average value of allotments underissued to participating households in the rereview sample according to State agency findings, and
X
2
is the average value of allotments underissued to participating households in the full quality control sample according to the State agency's findings. In stratified sample designs
y
2
,
X
2
, and
x
2
are weighted averages and
b
2
is a combined regression coefficient in which stratum weights sum to 1.0 and are proportional to the estimated stratum caseloads subject to review.
(C) The regressed error rates are given by
r
1
′ =
y
1
′/
u
, yielding the regressed overpayment error rate, and
r
2
′ =
y
2
′/
u
, yielding the regressed underpayment error rate, where
u
is the average value of allotments issued to participating households in the State agency sample.
(D) After application of the adjustment provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, the adjusted regressed payment error rate shall be calculated
to yield the State agency's payment error rate. The adjusted regressed payment error rate is given by
r
1
″ +
r
2
″.
(ii) If FNS determines that a State agency has sampled incorrectly, estimated improperly, or has deficiencies in its QC data management system, FNS will correct the State agency's payment and negative case error rates based upon a correction to that aspect of the State agency's QC system which is deficient. If FNS cannot accurately correct the State agency's deficiency, FNS will assign the State agency a payment error rate or negative case error rate based upon the best information available. After consultation with the State agency, the assigned payment error rate will then be used in the liability determination. After consultation with the State agency, the assigned negative case error rate will be the official State negative case error rate for any purpose. State agencies shall have the right to appeal assessment of an error rate in this situation in accordance with the procedures of Part 283 of this chapter.
(iii) Should a State agency fail to complete 98 percent of its required sample size, FNS shall adjust the State agency's regressed error rates using the following equations:
(A)
r
1
″ =
r
1
′ + 2(1−
C
)
S
1
, where
r
1
″ is the adjusted regressed overpayment error rate,
r
1
′ is the regressed overpayment error rate computed from the formula in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section,
C
is the State agency's rate of completion of its required sample size expressed as a decimal value, and
S
1
is the standard error of the State agency sample overpayment error rate. If a State agency completes all of its required sample size, then
r
1
″ =
r
1
′.
(B)
r
2
″ =
r
2
′ + 2(1−
C
)
S
2
, where
r
2
″ is the adjusted regressed underpayment error rate,
r
2
′ is the regressed underpayment error rate computed from the formula in paragraph (b)(2)(i)(C) of this section,
C
is the State agency's rate of completion of its required sample size expressed as a decimal value, and
S
2
is the standard error of the State agency sample underpayment error rate. If a State agency completes all of its required sample size, then
r
2
″ =
r
2
′.
(c)
FNS Time frames for completing case review process, arbitration, and issuing error rates.
The case review process and the arbitration of all difference cases shall be completed by May 31 following the end of the fiscal year. FNS shall determine and announce the national average payment and negative case error rates for the fiscal year by June 30 following the end of the fiscal year. At the same time FNS shall notify all State agencies of their individual payment and negative case error rates and payment error rate liabilities, if any. FNS shall provide a copy of each State agency's notice of potential liability to its respective chief executive officer and legislature. FNS shall initiate collection action on each claim for such liabilities before the end of the fiscal year following the reporting period in which the claim arose unless an appeal relating to the claim is pending. Such appeals include administrative and judicial appeals pursuant to Section 14 of the Food and Nutrition Act. While the amount of a State's liability may be recovered through offsets to their letter of credit as identified in § 277.16(c) of this chapter, FNS shall also have the option of billing a State directly or using other claims collection mechanisms authorized under the Debt Collection Improvement Act of 1996 (Pub. L. 104-134) and the Federal Claims Collection Standards (31 CFR Parts 900-904), depending upon the amount of the State's liability. FNS is not bound by the time frames referenced in paragraph (c) of this section in cases where a State fails to submit QC data expeditiously to FNS and FNS determines that, as a result, it is unable to calculate the State's payment error rate and payment error rate liability within the prescribed time frame.
(d)
State agencies' liabilities for payment error rates.
At the end of each fiscal year, each State agency's payment error rate over the entire fiscal year will be computed and evaluated to determine whether the payment error rate goal (national performance measure) established in paragraph (d)(1) of this section has been met. Each State agency that fails to achieve its payment error rate goal during a fiscal year shall be liable as specified in the paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
(1)
National performance measure.
FNS shall announce a national performance
measure not later than June 30 after the end of the fiscal year. The national performance measure is the sum of the products of each State agency's error rate multiplied by that State agency's proportion of the total value of national allotments issued for the fiscal year using the most recent issuance data available at the time the State agency is notified of its payment error rate. Once announced, the national performance measure for a given fiscal year will not be subject to administrative or judicial appeal.
(2)
Liability.
For fiscal year 2003 and subsequent years, liability for payment shall be established whenever there is a 95 percent statistical probability that, for the second or subsequent consecutive fiscal year, a State agency's payment error rate exceeds 105 percent of the national performance measure. The amount of the liability shall be equal to the product of the value of all allotments issued by the State agency in the second (or subsequent consecutive) fiscal year; multiplied by the difference between the State agency's payment error rate and 6 percent; multiplied by 10 percent.
(3)
Right to appeal payment error rate liability.
Determination of a State agency's payment error rate or whether that payment error rate exceeds 105 percent of the national performance measure shall be subject to administrative or judicial review only if a liability amount is established for that fiscal year. Procedures for good cause appeals of excessive payment error rates are addressed in paragraph (f) of this section. The established national performance measure is not subject to administrative or judicial appeal, nor is any prior fiscal year payment error rate subject to appeal as part of the appeal of a later fiscal year's liability amount. However, State agencies may address matters related to good cause in an immediately prior fiscal year that impacted the fiscal year for which a liability amount has been established. The State agency will need to address how year 2 was impacted by the event(s) in the prior year.
(4)
Relationship to warning process and negligence.
(i) States' liability for payment error rates as determined above in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section are not subject to the warning process of § 276.4(d) of this chapter.
(ii) FNS shall not determine negligence (as described in § 276.3 of this chapter) based on the overall payment error rate for issuances to ineligible households and overissuances to eligible households in a State or political subdivision thereof. FNS may only establish a claim under § 276.3 of this chapter for dollar losses from failure to comply, due to negligence on the part of the State agency (as defined in § 276.3 of this chapter), with specific certification requirements. Thus, FNS will not use the result of States' QC reviews to determine negligence.
(iii) Whenever a State is assessed a liability amount for an excessive payment error rate, the State shall have the right to request an appeal in accordance with procedures set forth in part 283 of this chapter. While FNS may determine a State to be liable for dollar loss under the provisions of this section and the negligence provisions of § 276.3 of this chapter for the same period of time, FNS shall not bill a State for the same dollar loss under both provisions. If FNS finds a State liable for dollar loss under both the QC liability system and the negligence provisions, FNS shall adjust the billings to ensure that two claims are not made against the State for the same dollar loss.
(e)
Liability amount determinations.
(1) FNS shall provide for each State agency whose payment error rate subjects it to a liability amount the following determinations, each expressed as a percentage of the total liability amount. FNS shall:
(i) Require the State agency to invest up to 50 percent of the liability in activities to improve program administration (new investment money shall not be matched by Federal funds) and
(ii) Designate up to 50 percent of the liability as “at-risk” for repayment if a liability is established based on the State agency's payment error rate for the subsequent fiscal year, or
(iii) Choose any combination of these options.
(2) Once FNS determines the percentages in accordance with paragraphs
(e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iv) of this section, the amount assigned as at-risk is not subject to settlement negotiation between FNS and the State agency and may not be reduced unless an appeal decision revises the total dollar liability. FNS and the State agency shall settle any waiver percentage amount or new investment percentage amount before the end of the fiscal year in which the liability amount is determined. The determination of percentages for waiver, new investment, and/or at-risk amounts by the Department is not appealable. Likewise, a settlement of the waiver and new investment amounts cannot be appealed.
(f)
Good cause.
When a State agency with otherwise effective administration exceeds the tolerance level for payment errors as described in this section, the State agency may seek relief from liability claims that would otherwise be levied under this section on the basis that the State agency had good cause for not achieving the payment error rate tolerance. State agencies desiring such relief must file an appeal with the Department's Administrative Law Judge (ALJ) in accordance with the procedures established under part 283 of this chapter. Paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section describe the unusual events that are considered to have a potential for disrupting program operations and increasing error rates to an extent that relief from a resulting liability amount or increased liability amount is appropriate. The occurrence of an event(s) does not automatically result in a determination of good cause for an error rate in excess of the national performance measure. The State agency must demonstrate that the event had an adverse and uncontrollable impact on program operations during the relevant period, and the event caused an uncontrollable increase in the error rate. Good cause relief will only be considered for that portion of the error rate/liability amount attributable to the unusual event. The following are unusual events which State agencies may use as a basis for requesting good cause relief and specific information that must be submitted to justify such requests for relief:
(1)
Natural disasters and civil disorders.
Natural disasters such as those under the authority of The Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Amendments of 1988 (Pub. L. 100-707), which amended The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Pub. L. 93-288), or civil disorders that adversely affect program operations.
(i) When submitting a request for good cause relief based on this example, the State agency shall provide the following information:
(A) The nature of the disaster(s) (
e.g.,
a tornado, hurricane, earthquake, flood, etc.) or civil disorder(s) and evidence that the President has declared a disaster;
(B) The date(s) of the occurrence;
(C) The date(s) after the occurrence when program operations were affected;
(D) The geographic extent of the occurrence (
i.e.,
the county or counties where the disaster occurred);
(E) The proportion of the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program caseload whose management was affected;
(F) The reason(s) why the State agency was unable to control the effects of the disaster on program administration and errors.
